He has had many lovers; is capricious woman: one of these corrupted characters that abound in society, marking different degrees of relaxation that comes at every stage the human species.
Has had as I said, many querindangos, and finally comes to falling in love with a black brought from Cuba by a banker, a wicked usurer, a bandit in tails.
With this background, I can develop the dramatic situation, a horrible effect sublime.
Let's see: she is in her room, languidly sitting next to a veladorcillo, and think in the Apollo Jet, patent leather object of his passion.
Browse an album, and from time to time his face contracted with the sinister grimace that makes it so terribly beautiful.
Marcos, which seemed at the time top few among ancient and modern, have imagined the most subtle traces of romance.
The poet was a bit crestfallen, not because it looked better if his own or because, having by the offspring of D.
detestable Mark, I find fatal loss can limit get the most enlightened minds.
Not be amiss to say with the greatest reserve I'm here, to illustrate to my readers, that the poet had, among others, a defect that is usually be commonplace among females that hold the pen when the needle only serve ie, envy. "Then see you now - continued D.
Mark - how har I the denouement of this great event.
The next morning there was found the lady in her boudoir, and spent two pastes of soap removed the soot from his face.
His anger is immense: it is angry, has discovered the deception, and in desperation da shrieks you hear from the street.
The young, meanwhile, tries to escape, seeing the anger she adores.
Mandingo wants to kill the stranger, who is zealous, but instead of going down the stairs, he is forced to rise by the same barrel of the fireplace not be seen in certain counties that comes to the time at home.
Fate makes it difficult to climb up the canyon, having been so easy to fall, and while laboriously struggles to rise, slipped and fell into the basement, and then, without knowing how, to a drain, ending up in the gutter, where they drown like a rat.
The round will find the next day they took him in the garbage trucks to the cemetery.
As we do not have Morgue, must give effect to a good end. " Thus spoke the realist D.
Cantarranas was more nervous than ever, and the poet took a squirt of essences, to apply to the cartridge that had the nose: this unique little squirt flacon was that he had seen in all French novels.
It's true that D.
Marcos inspired deep disgust, so she called him a barrel of prose, no doubt for revenge the other, which in a critical article once called basket of nonsense.
I do not know what to do in the presence of two faults as authorized and yet so contradictory.
Appear to hesitate between my hero giving the bird bread crumbs, or sticking her head in sinks of the palace of his beloved.
I looked at the Grand Duke, and I saw him with his head down and hanging like ripe fig.
In such a critical situation I was with the manuscript in the hands, mouth open, eyes surprised, uncertain and troubled the chest Magin, when he came to me from my stupor and to cut the thread of my doubts of the fourth voice of the characters that made up the jury.
Until then had remained silent, in an old armchair, whose mane of countless holes out: was there, sphinx-like, accentuated by the unique expression of his face severe.
I think now is the chance to describe to this character, certainly more important four, and I shall do so.
IV If forty years of tireless hard work, continuous service to the art, to the letters to the youth, are enough to raise title to a man on his contemporaries, None should be more top of the vulgar crowd D.
Severiano Carranza, known between the arcades Mastodontiano Flavonio Rome.
It was almost academic, because whenever vacaba a chair is a candidate, though he never wanted to choose.
His forte was erudition gleaned in all fields: history, poetry, fine arts, in philosophy, numismatics, apparels.
I will not say anything, because everything runs in the hands of the world, famous discourse on how to combine des tees and Art in Metro Mayor, which will lift up the horns of the moon, if earlier, to the glory of Spain and glorification of himself, had not written and given to the stamping Oda never quite expensive to the invention of powder, which called this chemical Flaminea atmosphere.
This is his only work of fantasy.
The others are all learned, because he lives consecrated to the notes.
As a critic, is not matched or the same Cantarranas, although there are biographers who equate it to him, and there were some who said he excelled in many things.
Suffice it to say that Carranza had read As human feathers left, is worthy of note that every book that pass through his memory left There is a small sediment or deposit, although not larger than a drop of water.
There was no date that he did not know, nor name to ignore, or data that was unknown, no coincidence that escapes his penetration and huge memory.
It is true that this store pulled the cargo of his criticism, which had more indigestible than savory because there is no old thing that will bring up, or dig up that classical author at every step to take and bring such to the giants in the day of Corpus.
Writing was prolific: his style is composed of the most crisp and curling phrases is given imagine.
Thereby polishing his prose, which looked like a hair with cosmetic and mandolin, can serve mirror and his songs were such that they believe curled with tongs.
Never repeated a word in a single sheet of paper, for fear of redundancy and singsong.
In some occasion, having spoken in an article in ivory toothpick of a woman, was forced to repeat it by force of seeming vulgar syntax and word stick, he called the ebony dagger that object.
For this reason in her writings about buzzwords their enemies, the rage of envy, called bizarre.
Treat him pedantic was commonplace among gaceterillos evil that always bother to great men fleas as the lion.
The person of the scholar Carranza was as remarkable as his works.
It consisted of a destroncada body not very equal on two legs, arms and shoulders cansadísimos small, embellished around the building a monumental hat, under which was often seen on clear days, the head more archaeological ever.
Marcos, to care for their children if they ha, and you, young man, to learn a trade, most account you have any occupation, even if unpleasant, vile, that writing books.
Why, Is the field of letters grass pasture for all kinds of pecus, or garden frondosísimo where only the finest mills can find pleasures and amenities?
Go cooks thought, to flavor soups vulgar and not tasty, it's not so rude as to hands to prepare the delicacies served at the banquet of the gods. " Semiramis when you appear as the shadow of reproach him Nino for his tricks, as Hamlet when he hears the ghost of his father by revealing the crimes of the Sena Gertrude; as Moses when he sees the Lord in the burning bush, so we were all: silent, cold, petrified with fear.
The prayer of the man, taken by an oracle, his unusual appearance, his stern look and the echo of his shrill little voice, we instilled such fear, which had to elapse good amount of time before I take breath, and draw your flacon poet, and closed mouth the great Duke.
Finally we recovered from the terror, and Carranza, noting the good effect his words had produced, lashed back against us, and thereby took umbrage with D.
The poet was bewildered and did nothing to disguise fanning anger, while Cantarranas seemed bent on strength of its natural goodness, to be from the tremendous critical. "And for this I have called! - He said .-- The fault is who, leaving serious occupations and the delicious company of the Muses, to attend these lectures, where he made his lungs lay the with so much nonsense. " Then I, with a daring challenge that now scares me the wrath of Aristarchus, I said "But since I had the audacity to bring you here, oh man famous, I would not be allowed ask the greatest favor that could make me, helping with their lights to improve this monstrosity my bad that star comes to the world? - Yes, I will do so gladly - replied the wise man suddenly sliced smooth and mellow land .-- I am going to tell you how I develop my mind, but have to promise that I will not be interrupted by applause or other similar event.
Begin, Therefore, stating that I would place the action of my work in ancient times, picturesque times and interesting, when there was no street lighting, and yes many rounds and a large number of brackets; when the leading men opened a palabrilla carcass, and the ladies went to mantle these streets, followed by Celestine and props, when kept with seven keys honor, but if it means not to lose in a heartbeat.
I do not know how there are mills so blunt that novel with things and people in the present era, where there are no elements literary, as all learned men have tested it fully.
The devil would not occur painting adventures on a cobbled street with gas lanterns.
For God and the saints, is it nothing more ridiculous than a loving dialogue, which appears at every moment the word you made to ask what the weather, prices of meat, etc .?...
Well, I be contained my characters in the seventeenth century, and open the scene with great noise of knives and many pardieces and vote to heal, then the comings and goings of constables, and, finally, the cracked voice an old pimp who comes with his lantern to recognize the face of the dead. " We all watched, amazed at the colorful table in no time had traced that incomparable master. "The poor young man who has put you in the attic, where it is very retebién, will be contained I was a provincial gentleman, broke and with lousy star.
Has come to Madrid in search of fortune, and requests that make you captain of Thirds, which goes to the mint in Mecca, unable to get anything but contempt.
The lady in front is of the highest nobility, daughter of a huntsman of the Royal Family, or anything like that, which gives it entry in the Palace, and is well conquest of Kings, Princes and infants.
