I would die for you and Braulio you were happy.
The evil, sin that I nicknamed, will admit, I confess, and I ready to receive the deserved punishment for him.
No I go to apologize, but to explain my behavior.
I followed your advice and flirted with the Count, Count because I fell in love.
Unworthy I have been, but, according to my conscience would have been more outraged by anything other than the world does not disapprove, but applauds, attracting cunning Count, with persistence reflexive without more passion than the desire to put me, that is, to achieve a degree, fifteen thousand dollars of income a year and a brilliant position.
Be everything evil you want, but that would never have I made, and that was that, following the social wisdom, you advise me.
Poor orphan ruined a local gentleman, and sister of a clerk in the Treasury sad that I almost remains, my pride revolted at the idea of ??winning money, and consideration illustrious name in the world, negotiating with my beauty, though the marriage came as a holy then my calculations, despicable.
I repeat, then, I followed your advice to flirt, not reflection, but by instinct, not to study and caution, but blindly and making it my whole being and all my soul.
Yet, if the count had been poor like me, dark like me, needy like me, I would have said, marry me, but being who he is, I hated to tell him.
Tell, it was like saying, because I love you, give me diamonds and pearls, take me by car, please he is living in a beautiful hotel, placed a crown on my brow Countess, buy furniture beautiful, paintings and statues, keep me servants who serve me thinking; proporcióname in sum, the elegance and comfort it brings the money, then get the enjoyment and possession of my soul and this passionate love that you profess, but is restrained by and domesticated by the more severe restraint.
I did not want, nor could I tell this to the Count, this would have been necessary to tell, though tempered with rodeos and niceties of style.
Not say this because I hated to tell her, and because she loved him, I surrendered unconditionally I have left my soul and my life.
I just, honest, would have been not flirt with him not attract you, or to win her hand coldly calculating, or to miss as I've missed. - Unhappy! - Said Beatriz -
