The authority of writers had risen higher than was proper; and it was necessary impetus as the philosophy of Descartes to topple the idols.
The respect due to the great men not to scratch in worship, or the consideration to its views degenerate into blind submission.
As great men, they are still men, and manifest thus errors, omissions and defects in their work.
Summi enim sunt, homines tamen, he said Quintilian.
According to the argument, the perception is the knowledge of the thing, no affirmation or denial; the trial is the affirmation or denial, the reason is the act of understanding what to infer something else.
I think the virtue without affirming or denying anything about it, I have a perception.
Inwardly affirm that virtue is laudable, I am a trial.
From this I infer that to deserve the real praise must be virtuous, that is one reason.
The interior view of perception, called idea.
The term or word is the expression of the thing perceived.
The word America does not express idea of ??the new continent, but the same continent.
It is true that the term did not exist Without the idea, and this serves as the hub to link the word with the thing; but it is less, that when we express America, we understand the thing itself, not the idea.
So say America is a beautiful country and it is clear that this does not affirm the idea.
When I think of metal, I know that being metal is common to many things that otherwise are different, such as silver, gold, lead etc.; to think brutes, I see that something to agree the camel, eagle, snake, butterfly, and all the others, to know the living and feeling, or being animals.
When I express that it is desirable to many, saying, metal, animal, body, fair man, bad etc, the term is commonly known.
The common term is generally taken one whose significance should be to many, but as you can appropriate to be that many, or just as well be considered together, or that apply to any of them separately, they say that in the first case the term is collective, in the second distribution.
Academia is a collective common term, because it expresses the collection of academics, but not in such a way that each of these can be called academia.
Sage is distributive common term, because it applies to many, so that any individual who possesses the wisdom, can be called wise.
Singular term is one that expresses a single individual as the Pyrenees, the Black Sea, Madrid, etc.
I think the collective term should not count as a kind of common, for then the disadvantage is that the division is not well made.
We say the term is common or unique.
The community is divided into collective and distributive.
For a division is required is well done that two members opposed to one not in the other, which is verified if we take division expressed.
Indeed, the word nation is common, distributively, because it is to all nations, and collectively because it applies to a reunion.
France is a common collective because it applies to a group of men, and unique because it expresses a single nation, a true individual of the species of nations.
Then the collective term should not be among Commons, as opposed to the singular, as there are common collective nouns, and there are unique.
The common term is divided into univocal, equivocal and similar.
Is unequivocal that has for many same meaning: as a man, animal, bodily.
Misunderstanding is that it is different like a lion, which expresses an animal and a blue sign.
Similar to what is in part identical and partly different, as healthy, which applies to food that preserves health, medicine the reset, the man who has, pious, which applies to the person, to a book, to an action, to an image.
Master, says of the monarchs, and the phrase "the king my August love you "is said of those slaves are said to those who have dependents or servants, it says the owner of the room.
In many terms it is verified that involve a general idea, capable of various modifications; and competent employees without distinction it gives rise to confusion of ideas, and sterile disputes.
We use the words at every step king, monarch, sovereign, talk about what they mean, laying our respective systems.
Yet it is impossible not unwise grievously, if each question does not look exactly what these words express.
Sovereign is the sultan, the ruler is the emperor of Russia, sovereign is the King of Prussia, sovereign is the king of France, Sovereign is the Queen of England, and yet none of these cases, expresses the same sovereignty.
The definition is the explanation of the thing.
If you explain the essence is called essential, if content to make it known, without penetrating in nature, his name is descriptive.
When the thing explained is the meaning of a word is called definition of the name: definitio nominis.
Definition should not confuse the name with its etymology: for The latter is the explanation of the origin of the word often happens that the meaning is very different from usual etymology.
The etymology illustrates to discover the true meaning but not determined.
For example, the word bishop, episcopus, which served its etymology Greek means watchful, and in its Latin acceptation, superintendent, indicates some so the pastoral duties, but far from determining them in its true sense.
So this word meant among Latinos, the magistrate whose charge ran Care bread and other groceries.
Cicero writing to Atticus says, "I Vuit Pompejus enim esse Campania HAEC quem tota, et ora maritima episcopum ad quem habent et negotii summa delectus referatur. "(Lib. 7.
epist.) The qualities of a good definition, are clearly and accurately.
It will be clear, if not less to understand who does not ignore the significance of words is accurate, if explained so the thing defined, and is not add or take away.
The best rule to ensure the goodness of a definition is of course applies to the definite things, and see if he understands them all, and to them alone.
The division is the distribution of a whole into its parts.
According are these, take different names; current calling when they exist in reality and potential when there are more than possible.
The current is divided into metaphysics, physics, and comprehensive.
Metaphysics, which distributes all metaphysical parts, like the man in animal and rational physics, which distributes physical parts, like the man in body and soul integral, which distributes it in parts expressing amount, like the man in the head, feet, hands etc.
The potential is distributed by a whole in those parts which we can conceive.
Thus, considering as a whole the abstract idea of ??animal, can be divided into rational and irrational.
If the statement of the potential division belongs to the essence of the thing, is called essential, if not accidental.
Will be essential if the animal divided into rational and irrational, is accidental if you divided by their color or other similar qualities.
proceed with order, whether this is based on the nature of things, or the generation or distribution of ideas.
If I say one thing from another, I am a trial, if the statement with words, I have a proposition.
Inwardly affirm that the earth is a spheroid, behold a trial, say or write: "the Earth is a spheroid "behold the proposition.
In any trial there is relation of two ideas, but rather of the objects they represent, what same will happen in the proposition, a term that expresses what we affirm or deny, called subject, affirm or deny what is called predicate and the verb to be, I express or understatement is always in the proposition, his name is union or intercourse, because it represents link the two ideas.
So in the example above, the land is the subject, the spheroid predicate, and copulation.
If there's assertion, the proposition is called so, whether there is denial denial.
But it should noted, that for a proposition is negative, not enough that the particle does not affect any of its terms, but it must concern the verb. "The law does not require pay." "The law commanded not to pay. "The first is negative, the second affirmative sense is very different just move from place no.
The propositions are divided into universal, undefined, and unique individuals, according to that the subject is singular, indefinite, particular or universal.
Every body is serious: it proposition universal, owing to the word all.
The man is unstable, the proposition is indefinite, not express if they are all or some.
Some axioms are misleading, the proposition is particularly because the subject is restricted by the attached one.
Gonzalo de Cordoba was famous captain, the proposition is unique, by being the subject.
To be singular proposition, need not be proper name, just a word anyone who determine, as if you say this coin is false.
Propositions concerning undefined, you may wonder if the subject is taken in respect universal or particular, and give origin to this question two reasons: 1.
not being that accompanied universal or particular term, 2 º.
He notes that they use points to a sense and to other non-universal.
Indefinite proposition is equivalent to the universal in an absolute sense, if matters are belonging to the essence of things, or any of its properties to be considered necessary, is equivalent to moral universal, ie for most cases, if versa on qualities that demand it, and finally to particular, on the advice of the thing that speaking.
The Germans are thoughtful, not to say that all they are, but this is one of the characters of that nation.
The simple are those which express the relationship a single predicate to a single subject: like all the previous examples.
Compositae are those that contain more than one subject or predicate, and therefore explicitly or implicitly comprise more than one proposition.
With the classification and examples, will be better understood what is a compound proposition.
Copulative proposition is expressed by the binding of two assertions or denials.
Gold and silver are metals.
Equivalent to these two together: gold is metal, and silver is metal.
Gold is yellow, and gold is ductile.
For these propositions are true is needed what are its two parts: because the affirmation is not limited to one but extends at two o'clock.
In the same class can reduce these negative: neither pride nor greed are virtues of temperance is not harmful or the soul or the body, etc..
Choice is the proposition that two or more endpoints confirmed the existence of one.
At this time the plan will be executed or not will never run.
For the truth of these propositions, it needs no medium between the extreme limit.
A role or is it white or black: the proposition is false, because it can be of other colors.
Is the conditional proposition which states a condition thing.
For the truth of these propositions really needs to bring the first part of the second, because this is what states, but not the second brings the first, because that is dispensed.
Thus in the last example is said that the ice will the ruin of the fruits, but not if you are lost the fruits have ice because they stated that the fruits can not be lost for other reasons.
Tell little about the forms of argument.
The dialectic of thousands have been distributed classes, and pointing out numerous rules, all with great wit.
I have already indicated what I thought its usefulness.
To do little or nothing to invent, to expose a lot, and generally getting used to to them for a while, let the understanding clarity and precision is not lost easily, and are experienced in all studies.
Syllogism is the argument in comparing two terms with a third, to infer the relationship they have with each other.
Simple is imperishable, the soul is simple, then is incorruptible.
The ends are soul and incorruptible, the average is simple.
The soul is simple, then it is incorruptible.
The dilemma is an argument based on a disjunctive proposition, that all ends hurt the opponent.
Or Christianity spread with miracles or without them, if by miracle, Christianity is true, if not miracles, Christianity is true also, as it spread with a miracle that is broadcast without miracles. [16] p. 155 .-- I remembered to praise a doctrine of St.
While it is true that is in including the style of the time, it is also true that more than once the reader is surprised that in the midst of ignorance, it was still great in the thirteenth century, had a man to so vast erudition gather in a spirit so pervasive, so profound, so accurate. [17] p. 165 .-- The career of teaching should be a profession that will be finalized those who embrace it.
Unfortunately it does not, and a task of such gravity and significance serves as the adventure, and only while waiting for another better placement.
The origin of evil is for teachers, but the laws do not protect enough, not provide caregivers with the incentive and encouragement, that man needs in everything.
A single teacher good in some years can produce immense benefits to a country: he works in a Chair modest, no more than a few young witness, but these kids are renewed frequently, and to return a few years took the most important destinations of society. [18] p. 171 .-- That man's inclination to follow the authority of another, gives rise to considerations high on faith, on the principle of the authority of the Catholic Church and the origin and nature of the missing sects have disturbed and disturb the world.
As in other work deals extensively with this matter, I merely refer to what it said.
Volume 1 º. [19] p. 203 .-- I could write a great book with the title of literary and artistic morality.
The issue is as useful as fruitful.
If this work the writer to execute a certain critical and delicate and pure morality, could be of great benefit.
Abuse, every day more, that of most beautiful gifts of the soul is being done to mislead and corrupt, would increase the importance of such work.
Hopefully this will wake indication of any sitting up to it. [20] p. 209 .-- The philosophy of history, but has made some progress in recent times, however, is a science far behind.
For Catholics are in this class Study the serious disadvantage that a number of major works in this area have been written, have come out of the hands of Protestants, or skeptics, so they are found full of errors and mistakes with regard to the Church.
It is true that lately in England, France and Germany, is remaking history in a favorable direction to Catholicism, but this is a rich mine of which has not been exploited more than a small part.
Treasures abound, you just need work. [21] p. 227 .-- Figúranse some that religiousness is a sign of a fearful spirit and ability poor, and instead of disbelief is an indication of talent and magnanimity.
I I argue that the story in hand one can show that at all times and countries the most eminent men have been religious.
PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS. § I.
What is the truth. 1 II.
Different ways of knowing the truth. 2 III.
Variety of mills. 3 IV.
The perfection of the profession depends on the perfection with known objects in them. 4 V.
Everyone's interest to think well. 5 VI.
How to teach them to think well. 6 CHAPTER II.
CARE. § I.
Their need. 7 II.
Advantages and disadvantages of their care need. 8 III.
Dazed and withdrawn. 9 IV.
Interruptions. 11 II.
Instinct tells us the race that best fits us. 12 III.
Experiment to discern the unique talents of each child. 14 II.
Their rankings. 15 III.
What is the absolute or metaphysical impossibility. 16 IV.
The absolute inability and divine omnipotence. 17 V.
Idea of ??natural or physical impossibility. 18 VII.
Way to judge the natural impossibility. 19 VIII.
Disposes a difficulty about the miracles of Jesus Christ. 20 IX.
The moral failure or ordinary. 22 X.
Impossibility of common sense contained in improperly moral impossibility. 26 II.
Examples. 29 IV.
The body healthy and sick at heart. 31 V.
Explanation of this phenomenon. 33 VI.
Cranky and withdrawn. 35 II.
Coexistence and succession. 37 III.
Two rules of coexistence and succession. 39 IV.
Observations on the relationship of chance.
A rule the dialectic. 42 V.
An example. 45 VI.
Reflections on the previous example. 46 VII.
The reason of an act that seems instinctive.
LOGIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHARITY. § I.
Wisdom of the law that forbids rash judgments. 47 II.
Examination of the maxim "think wrong and miss." 48 III.
Some rules for judging the behavior of men. 56 II.
Examination and application of the first condition. 57 III.
Examination and application of the second condition. 61 IV.
A remark on the interest in cheating. 66 CHAPTER IX.
NEWSPAPERS. § I.
An illusion. 67 II.
The newspapers do not say everything about the people. 68 III.
The newspapers say it all about things. 71 CHAPTER X.
FOREIGN TRAVEL. § I.
Two very different relationships travel. 72 II.
Origin and formation of some relationships travel. 73 III.
Way of studying a country. 78 II.
Distinction between the background of the fact and circumstances.
Applications. 79 III.
Some rules for the study of history. 90 II.
Scientific prudence and observations to reach it. 91 III.
The scholars raised. 97 CHAPTER XIII
