Working hard to believe that in a painting by Velazquez and as admirable as it is daring to introduce changes or amendments, and less Mazo another painter, but keep in mind that in that time, which could send were obeyed more easily than now, especially if it was artist who had to obey.
Finally, in the first catalog that was made today Museo del Prado is called, is included the box with no. 149 and said this: Velázquez.
Portrait of the Infanta Maria Margarita of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, scene depicted frank and free brush and the first time [78].
In 1858, appeared under the no. 198, and as portrait of the Infanta Dona Maria of Austria, daughter of Philip IV, without saying whether it was Margarita or Dona Teresa.
Whatever, something that matters little, since it is not lady whom Spain or mankind the least glory be, the picture is a marvel of color and execution.
The attire of the girl who has nothing nice, is composed of large stores-infant, and close bra pink, silver lama gallons of mercury placed diagonally in the bottom half the skirt, sleeves flying afolladas gauze and red ribbons.
Her hair, which is very fair, party, with a side parting, many jewels, and, after the fashion of the time, a thick cord gold trimmings on the right arm starts and ends at the left side.
In right hand has a huge canvas on the left points and a rose.
The rich drapery crimson background serves him just give the whole aspect of luxury unusual and inappropriate a jovencilla.
It's homely face, the weakness of the body which can be seen under strong gossip and quirky form of hair and costume, the portrait should be irritating to the eye: the little woman so overloaded with chervil perjeñada and there is some great and monstrous, but Velazquez has there hands full discharge such charms of color, a rich variety of reds, ranging from the more intense the pink lipstick more subdued, has become so gauzy tulle and shining the metal, which is so air can flow, as strong as it must weigh that the often ridiculous disproportion between breast and bulging of the skirt, everything that comes as battered by the imperfection of the model and extravagance of the clothes, obscured by the splendor of nuances that delights the eye and gorgeous, loose and easy implementation of that incomprehensible and mysterious, just steps gives the painting a complete look of the real.
Married Philip IV in 1649 with Dona Mariana of Austria, much younger than he and his niece, born in 1657 Prince Felipe Prospero, who, having apparently two years, portrayed Velázquez.
He put up with bright red suit trimmed with silver, smooth flange, chiffon sleeves and apron white, which stand about waist pending a bell cords and other two toys.
Has left hand fall naturally over the body and the right hand put on a crimson velvet chair, whose seat is up a little dog lying stained white wool that support the nose on one arm of the furniture looks with extraordinary vividness.
The poor Prince, son late father and mother spent girl shows and in the low coloration of the face and the weakness of the body that was to come to stick crown.
The face and hands are made with exceptional finesse, studied so far, contrasting delicate inks and pale red with different clothes, the couch and the curtains background.
The essential, characteristic of the individual is thoroughly completed, and all the rest run with this fast, loose and easy on the eye and the hand have synthesized much and with such confidence of success, there seems to be working there anymore the need to give the impression of things.
This portrait, which is one of the boxes Velázquez best preserved and critics whose praise are satisfied, is preserved in the Imperial Museum of Vienna [79].
De los Reyes of the Middle Ages inherited a nasty habit of modern living amid buffoons who tolerate the freedoms that illustrious politicians did not consent or general Winners: No it was this vile own genuinely Spanish monarchs, but, at it seems, imported by those who came from outside.
Around the breed sad abounded Austrias of hunchbacks, dwarves, bowlegged, and almost crazy fools, who are commonly called vermin Palace.
Perhaps the company would find this ridiculous result of hereditary melancholy which made the son of Juana la Loca retire to Yuste, be confined in a cell Felipe II El Escorial and die terrified Felipe III.
The custom began in the reign of Charles I, so widespread, that not only were real clowns in the halls, but also in houses of the nobles.
The great Antonio Moro masterfully portrayed one called Perejón that were the Counts of Benavente, and the Museo del Prado will see full length and size natural, adorned with luxury and French playing cards in his hand [80].
The reign of Felipe IV are preserved papers citing maintained many of those phenomena comfortably and gift they wanted for themselves and great men who went hungry and contempt.
In consultation with the King made in 1637 on the dresses of worship that were given to certain servers palace, after proposing to fix the cost of the costumes of the apparatus, uncle who kept the hounds, the musicians, barbers and Diego Velázquez!
appointing several buffoons and men of pleasure therein, and a Pablo de Valladolid who then called Pablillo and does not look like a clown, others surely were: Gourds, protruding, Don Juan de Austria, Christopher the blind, the English Dwarf Don Antonio who is paid a schoolmaster, and Nicolas Bautista Panela and chess should be very destrozones and lost, then by proposing to give them clothing shows the appropriateness to force them to put you to not walk as far, which suggests that they were a very big pig.
It is understood that Velasquez, a joke or for study, portray a couple of them, as it had in the Primo Fraga, who is also on that relationship: but when he painted so many it's no nonsense to suppose that he would order the King.
For at least you liked it and ordered placed in a hall room Kingdoms Retiro palace, near the door you came out to take the cars.
Not all of these pictures are from the same period: the fool of Coria, the child of Vallecas, Don Sebastian Primo de Morra and belong to the mowing style: Dwarf Don Antonio and Don Juan English of Austria to last.
Hardly be found in the story as eloquent proof that so dignified art plays, and even with the ugliness bordering on the disgusting, pleasant impressions because, as this series of doodles negligible immortalized by the genius of a man.
The Primo, with its large hat and black terry suit, leafing through a folio: Morra, rather than sitting, lying on the ground at once, showing her green tights and red tabard, the fool Coria, with his severe black suit as a serious person, the child of Vallecas, almost all green and half torn, Don Antonio English, with brocade doublet and plumed hat, and Don Juan de Austria, with military trappings, they form a motley and strange company, to reviews which joking and laughing, as they lived, but thinking makes an impression deeper than many shows serious.
In the heads of those unfortunate is where you can study better far did he Velázquez in the study of expression: the first is serious and thoughtful, almost elegant, Morra has a face of evil, the fool of Coria's kind of sad idiot, the child of Vallecas stupidly cheerful Antonio English, supported in that magnificent mastiff nicer than him, like a cartoon Pride, Don Juan de Austria, before the palace jester has escaped rogue trace chapters of Guzman Alfarache or jácaras de Quevedo.
And you can not say which are better painted, because if the last period are a wonder to one who knows technique, amazed by the previous life on their bodies, ready to move, and on their faces where gestures or faces after a comic insurmountable sadness seems that bubbles unnamed must leave the belief in the soul's own shame.
Every fan of Spanish painting, have their favorite pieces in the whole of the works Velazquez: I, recognizing the increased importance of the great combinations like the Spinners and Las Meninas, I confess I am particularly fond of that gang of clowns, sad Pictures do not seem independent, but figures from the same box, same players drama that have broken their will to think for themselves, but they could meet want.
Velázquez always played beautifully real world, even as intangible and subtle, because it gave the illusion of the air we breathe, but where he managed to paint life with greater power of expression was in the minds of men that flock frustrated certainly not made in the likeness of God, that makes you want to mourn after making her laugh.
The king, who boasted of letters, did not send him to portray the poets who gave glory to reign, or Montalban, and Salas Barbadillo, and Velez de Guevara, or Red, or Moreto or Tirso, or Calderon or Lope, but their jesters, and not fantasize need to believe the painted with some sweet sympathy, were his companions, together included in payroll Palace.
The old inventory of the Alcazar and biographers speak of other portraits Velázquez jesters unaccounted for: that of Calabacillas quote, which is perhaps the appointed day Coria as the simpleton, as they remembered before it two pumpkins on the ground, that of Cardenas, the toreador, and the Velasquillo: Finally, Ponz, in listing the paintings in the time existed in the palace of Retiro, mentions "a buffoon with a grinder fun paper and then some, that appeal to Velázquez "[81].
For the hall of mirrors Alcazar painted Venus and Adonis, Psyche and Cupid, Apollo skinning a satyr and Mercury and Argos, of which only the latter was saved from the fire of 1734.
The composition of Mercury and Argos [82] is very original, appropriate for the site which was to hold on a door coupled with the Apollo skinning a satyr: the drawing of precision Unbreakable: the implementation is a demonstration of what he knew to do.
Inks, very dilute just covering the surface stain, the strokes, and are marked while creating shape and color, and setting terms vanish, shadows and distances much they look at that canvas, no way to tell exactly how this painting, and yet eyes can not hope for more truth.
Mercury and Argos that have the heroic character grandiose poetic nature and should instill superhuman has not been carefully artist in the least: on the contrary, seems to have made an effort to shrink, not only the status of mere mortals, but low and ordinary men, the guardian of Golden Fleece, has traces and own position has stayed in the most uncouth villager, the messenger of the gods is to steal without gallantry, as a vulgar rateruelo.
It's a way own personal, unique, to understand and interpret the mythology, where there is analogous to sarcasm and mockery, which may occur to an artist to express ridicule pagan an episode sacred to Christianity.
Both the disposition of the matter as for its interpretation and technique, is a picture that can never satisfy the majority of the public: the day that everyone understands, no vulgar, but instead the painters always considered as the most complete results you can get in the practice of his art.
Velazquez did not try with more courtesy and respect for the furious Mars [83], who represented sitting, naked, resting left elbow on your thigh and chin on the palm hand, while leaving the opposite arm fall naturally.
Are your clothes a wine-red robe that unfilled fund serves as the bottom, and a blue cloth tied at the waist and subject through the legs.
Shako worn on the head and his feet are a shield and a sword.
It is a soldadote of those who, when they needed to pay, became capeadores in cities or bandits in the field.
The face is vulgar, perverse eyes, the muscles stout, but nothing in his person or online feature that reveals superhuman character, even heroic.
Some biographers believe Velazquez, The Rokeby Venus, is the same box and Psyche Cupid was known for the Hall of Mirrors: others say it's a different work.
As no one disagrees, it is in regard to authenticity, in the sure conviction that this superb painting is Velazquez's hand.
It is unknown whether the event was in the Alcazar not be the same Psyche and Cupid.
Last century, the house was owned by Duke of Alba, where was Ponz, [84] belonged then Godoy whose heirs sold it and is now Best of the famous jewel Morritt Collection.
To say that there remains another naked woman painted by Velázquez, being the only known this idea because of its importance.
Unfortunately not return to Spain, because as rightly says a French writer, "every object art imported into the islands, never goes away, is condemned to life imprisonment; not return to the circulation until you get to ignore that it exists. "In the vast exhibition UK art treasures held in Manchester, the prudish British, placed table so high that almost was not possible to examine.
The figure is of natural size.
Venus is lying on her back completely naked on a bed, leaning his head on the right arm, whose hand is hidden in the hair: no see her face, neck, shoulders, dorsal body, hips, knees and legs form an undulating line of slim to none.
The entire package body, fleshy soft, highlighted by gray cloth clear about establishing separation between the white canvas meat bed and painted all light.
Second and left standing out against a red curtain, a cherub holding an ebony-framed mirror, which reflects the face of the goddess.
