Two hours night, being close to the people of the Sivisicosis tried to flee with their Muyeres and children, but the general dispatched a language, which were still in their homes, and without fear any, that would do them no harm, and they did.
Among other things, the general learned that the Indian nation is four days Maigenos way.
Parties to seek, and we were in war, but strive for peace.
The people was located on a hill and surrounded by a thick cord width everywhere, so high as a man with uplifted sword in his hand.
View your obstinacy forward, with tooth decay, people of two parts: we killed the Maigenos twelve Christians and some cavities, which served us very well, but continuing with more effort, we enter by force, and set fire Maigenos and fled: this caused the destruction of many who paid with their life because of their peers.
Eight days later, 500 Carios armed with secret and without saberle us, they were two or three leagues of the real, to find the Maigenos who fled, and gave them, they fought with such obstinacy that killed 300 cavities and large crowds of Maigenos, which were so many that ocupabon about a league.
The Carians sent to ask the general distress alerting that had surrounded the Maigenos everywhere, unable to return or go forward.
Sent then the general 150 Christians, with some horses, and 1.000 Carias, leaving the other soldiers guard the real, if I attacked Maigenos.
As soon as we spotted the Maigenos when raised their real and fled, and although we continued with what was possible haste, not we achieve: but we admired the destruction they had done the decay enemies and those who had been living back with us, to our real, very happy.
The people are in great abundance of food, so we stopped for four days on it: juntámonos later, and imagined I was fairly informed of the land, quality and fruit, appeared to all to continue the voyage, and continued walking thirteen days in , to walk 52 miles, he said those who knew the stars, we come to the nation Indians Carcokies: hence, in nine days, we went in another province, six leagues width and length, which was all covered with salt, so thick that it seemed snow white, and never apart.
We rested two days on this earth salt, questioning the way we would go, but he chose the right, and after four days in the province entered the Carcokies, and generally being four leagues of his people, sent 50 Christians and 50 Carias, to give us shelter.
We entered the village, and saw the largest crowd of Indians, who had never found so many together, and grief gave general notice to succor us then.
These are the four main cities of Peru and opulentísimas.
Well we knew they had silver vessels, but they were sugetos to Spanish did not dare to take away anything
