His memory was rich array of songs or files, tender or spicy as caste popular muse is not always deserved the epithet referred to that some of the designated.
was pastor of the few who really understood, and so was very well that friendship, and perhaps he thanked God that exists, because it was in good the poor and the church, whom Dona Ines and Don Andrew, agreed, many did present and handouts.
Almost always his talks in private conversations and sermons, he preached frequently because it was an excellent preacher, cried so much against the lack of religion against godlessness that is rife everywhere, so that the rich lose their charity and the poor resignation and patience, and in some and in other vices germinate and ferment, poor passions and the worst habits.
It was the ideal type made of the great lady, as he imagined.
Lacked even Dona Ines occasions to exercise the rare virtues of prudent dissimulation to avoid giving scandal, of the holy conformity to the will of God and benign forbearance to forgive offenses.
Knew all the locals missteps that Don Alvaro Roldan used walk into.
Often, especially at fairs, playing up the mountain and Cane, and what Worse, he was so unhappy and so awkward, almost always lost.
To console appealed a pitiful appeal: he liked to tipple and even had a joyful and gentle wine, was always great torment for a lady so at their points have at your side and as partner a drunkard.
Finally, he empecatado Don Alvaro, but was so egregious and beautiful wife, was left often carry the most villainous inclinations, and in one or other of its two magnificent caserías staying with ill-concealed some Daifa modesty, usually an outsider, who had known and with whom he sympathized, and in this show, and in the other.
As you see, Don Alvaro was far from being a model of perfection.
Father Anselm was aware their losses, helping it to make it more respectable in their eyes to the prudent and patient lady.
Even the thoughts guessed there were disseminated and commented, as the thinker does not think very openly and very inward
