It was ten: the artist was sleeping.
Al again at noon, continued the heavy sleep.
Were two: the young gentleman was rising at that moment.
And his father retired furious.
But when he painted this painter? ...
Being an artist you put over your friends, no other American boys occupation to enjoy life, pouring money loudly for all to learn your generosity.
With serene audacity, was launched to paint pictures.
He loved the beautiful painting, "distinguished" elegant, a sweetish painting as a romance and only copy the shapes of women.
Had money and a good education, his father was behind him ready to help, why not had to do what so many others who lacked the means? ...
And set about smearing a canvas, giving the title of "The Dance of the Hours: A good excuse to copy girls and select models.
Drew with frantic speed, filling the interior of the contours mass of color.
But then hesitated, remaining inactive before the painting, finally cornering waiting for better times.
The same thing happened to try several studies of feminine heads.
I could not finish anything, and this was some despair.
Then he resigned, as that tends fatigued before the obstacle and providential expected to help to save it.
The important thing was to be a painter ...
This allowed him to make cards with high aesthetic excuses to women cheerful, inviting them to his study.
Don Marcelo, to make inquiries about the work of the artist, could not contain his outrage.
The two saw each morning the first hours of light: the father to jump out of bed, the way of his son study for get between the sheets and not wake up until mid afternoon.
Desnoyers knew these works night: scandals in the restaurants of Montmartre, and fights many fights.
The champagne was in them a wine fight.
Broke and paid, but their generosity were followed almost always a battle.
No one was as quick slap in July and the card early.
His father accepted gestures of sadness the news of some friends who imagined making it flatter his vanity chivalric tale of encounters in which his eldest son always tearing the skin of the opponent.
The painter knew more of fencing in his art.
Was champion of several weapons, boxed, and even had favorite hits paladins wander along the ramparts. "Useless and dangerous as all the drones', protested the father.
But I was beating in the back of his mind an irresistible satisfaction, a pride animal, considering that is stunned formidable was his work.
For a moment he thought he had found means to take away from this existence.
Relatives Berlin visited the Desnoyers Villeblanche in his castle.
Karl von Hartrott appreciated superiority with a kindly rich collections and a bit crazy for his brother.
Were not wrong: recognizing certain cachet to the Paris house and castle.
And both insisted in his letters, that made the trip Desnoyers.
This change of environment could be modified to July.
Perhaps seeing their replication wake up on the diligence his cousins, all with a career.
In addition, the French believe in the corrupting influence Paris and the purity of the patriarchal customs of Germany.
Desnoyers soon felt a desire to flee.
Very nice, sticky kindly and visible desire to please, but continually stumbling irremediable lack touch, by a desire to make their greatness.
The characters of Hartrott friends were expressions of love to France: the compassionate love that inspires a mischievous child and weak need of protection.
And this is accompanied with all sorts of inopportune memories of wars in which the French had been defeated.
All of Germany, a monument, a railway station, a mere object of high, giving rise to comparisons glorious: "In France you do not have that." "Certainly, in America you have not seen anything similar. "Don Marcelo left, tired of so much protection.
His wife and daughter had refuse to accept that the elegance of Berlin was superior to that of Paris.
Chichi, in full sacrilegious audacity, scandalized her cousins ??by declaring that he could not bear the oficialitos corseted waist and immovable monocle, who bowed to the young with a stiff Automatic linking to their gallant a gesture of superiority.
July, under the direction of his cousins, he fell into the environment virtuoso of Berlin.
It was an unhappy, dedicated to his books, and considered to the whole family with protective gesture.
The other, second lieutenants or students Sword, showed with pride the progress of joy Germanic.
He knew it was a night restaurants imitation of Paris, but much larger.
Women that there had to be dozens here were hundreds.
The scandalous drunkenness was not an incident, but rather sought full will be indispensable to happiness.
The livers were enjoying themselves in platoons, the audience was drunk by companies, the mercenary formed regiments.
Experienced a feeling of disgust at the female subservient and timid, accustomed to the coup, and eagerly seeking to recoup the big failures and disappointments suffered in their trade.
It was impossible to hold, like its cousins, with big laughs the disillusionment of these women when their hours were lost without achieving anything but Drink plenty.
In addition, gross debauchery annoyed, loud, with advertising, a display of wealth. "This is not available in Paris - said his companion, admiring the rooms huge, with hundreds of couples and thousands of drinkers - no, not available in Paris. "is tired of such greatness beyond measure.
He thought going to a party hungry sailors, anxious to recoup a blow of all previous deprivations.
And I felt the same desire his father flee.
This trip turned Marcelo Desnoyers with a melancholy resignation.
He was not a blind patriot, and acknowledged the obvious.
but resulted from a deal irresistible.
Everyone in your home, and hopefully will never happen neighbor's envy! ...
But this last repelled immediately suspected he was optimistic businessman. "They are going to be very rich - I thought -.
Their issues go, and being rich does not feel like quarrel.
The war with four madmen who dream impossible. " The young Desnoyers renewed his Parisian existence, living always in the studio and performing from time to time in the parental home.
Dona Luisa began to speak of such a Argensola young Spanish with great wisdom, recognizing that their advice could be very useful for your child.
This was not sure if the new partner was a friend, a teacher or a servant.
The fans letters spoke of Argensola as a painter, painters only recognized him as a literary superiority.
Age of those who went to his study in winter afternoon, lured by the caress of the stove and red wines to be concealed by the mother.
Spanish thundered renewed liberally to the bottle and box of cigarettes open on the table, talking about everything with authority.
One night he was to sleep on a couch.
And after that first night, went all in the study.
Seeing as harshly as he painted it, using the same drawing childish and stupid, was tender.
Only the false artists, men "in office", the performers without thought, care about the color and other ranciedades.
Argensola was a psychological artist, a painter of souls.
The disciple felt shock and despair on hearing how easy it was to paint a soul.
On a bloodless face, sharp chin like a dagger, Spanish eyes traced almost to every ward round and struck him one stroke white point of light ...
Then, standing before the canvas, this soul classified with unfailing eloquence, attributing all sorts of conflicts and crises.
And such was his power of obsession, that Julio saw what the other is imagined to have put in the eyes of roundness buhesca.
souls of women.
To be as easy this work of engendering psychic Argensola liked to chat lying on a couch or reading the love of the stove while the friend and protector was outside.
Another advantage this fondness for reading to young Desnoyers, that would open a volume directly to the back pages or the index, meaning "an idea" as he put it.
Sometimes, in the classroom, he asked with aplomb to an author what was his best book.
And his smile implied smart guy who was a precaution to avoid wasting time with the other volumes.
Argensola read by him.
Then Dona Luisa almost shed tears when they heard that visits her son dealing with the benevolence inspired by the rich: "A little devil boy, but how well prepared !...» In return for their lessons, Argensola received the same treatment as a Greek slave who taught rhetoric to the young patricians of decadent Rome.
In the middle of an explanation his master and friend interrupted him: - Make me a shirt tails.
I guest this evening.
Other times, when the teacher felt a sense of animal welfare with a book in hand beside the stove grunt, looking through the window gray and rainy afternoon, suddenly appeared disciple - Soon ...
And Argensola, with the gesture of a dog that shakes his wool, going to continue reading uncomfortable in a nearby greasy spoon.
His influence declined from the peaks of intellectuality to intervene in the vulgarities of material life.
It was the mayor of the employer, the mediator between your money and those who forward to claim cash in hand. "Money," he said curtly to the end of the month.
The old era of regulatory hardness and did not tolerate the slightest improvement over the next month.
He was kept in solitary misery.
Three thousand francs a month, what could be done with this a decent person? ...
Desiring to reduce, shaking the fence, directly involved in the management of your home for Dona Louise could not make donations to the child.
In vain had been in contact with several loan sharks Paris, speaking of his property beyond the ocean.
These gentlemen had to hand youth the country and did not need to expose their capital in the next world.
Same failure with him when, with sudden displays of affection, wanted to convince Don Marcelo that three thousand francs a month is a pittance.
But in July cut the conversation.
What gave no monthly income was more than the legacy of his grandfather ...
And Argensola council, ventured to claim the field.
That land management confiding thought to Celedonio, the old foreman, who was now a character in his country, and whom he derisively called "my uncle." Desnoyers welcomed their rebellion coldly. "I think fair.
Since you are of age. "And then give the legacy, extreme vigilance in the household expenses, avoiding Dona Luisa around money management.
Thereafter, looked at his son as needed to beat an opponent, treated for his quick appearances Avenue Victor Hugo with glacial courtesy as well as to a stranger.
A transient wealth for some time encouraged the study.
Julio had increased spending, considered rich.
But the uncle of American letters dispelled these illusions.
First, remittances exceeded very little to the monthly amount you get from your father.
Then declined at an alarming rate.
All the calamities of the earth seemed to have down together on the field, as Celedonio.
The grasses were scarce, sometimes from lack rain, others by the floods, and cattle were dying by hundreds.
July needed higher income, and the wily half-breed sent him what he asked, but as a simple loan when booking the collection to settle scores.
Despite such assistance, the young Desnoyers suffered distress.
What he used to have a father with so many millions?
And Argensola glided like a thief by the back stairs of the mansion of the Avenue Victor Hugo.
The location of their embassies was always the kitchen, with great danger of the terrible Desnoyers get there in a their developments industrious man, surprising the intruder.
Was poorer than their servants; jewels, many jewels, but not a franc.
Was Argensola who proposed a solution worthy of experience.
The good mother to save the Monte de Piedad taking some of her jewelry.
And the lady took the advice, but only gave him jewelry medium value, suspecting that you would see more.
Late burst scruples made her at times in outright negative.
But the Spanish considered demeaning out of there without taking anything, and to lack of money, carried a basket of bottles Desnoyers rich cellar.
Every morning, Dona Luisa went to Saint-Honoree d'Eylau to pray for her son.
Appreciated this church as their own.
It was a hospitable and familiar island in the ocean unexplored Paris.
Discrete crossed usual greetings to the faithful, people from the neighborhood of the various republics of the New World.
It seemed to be closer to God and the saints in the court to hear conversations in your language.
Moreover, it was after the manner of a hall through which passed the major events of the South American colony.
One day was a wedding, with flowers, orchestra and chants.
With her next Chichi, waving to people I know, after completing to the couple.
Dona Luisa remembered the dead.
Her look of gratitude for what exists just by stroking the memorial center square, all bristling with wings, as if to rid the soil.
It was enough I heard that name in your child's mouth, to contemplate the statue with a family interest.
All I knew was that the poet had died.
That was almost safe.
But I imagined Living close friend of July, given the frequency with which he repeated his name.
All her thoughts, her conjectures, desires, converged on him and its irreducible husband.
Anxious that the two men were understood, ending a struggle that she was the only victim.
Through of South America, clean and elegant, as if they had escaped from a sheet of newspaper fashion, his eyes looked with admiration to other worst-dressed ladies, plump, with Ermine theater and antique jewelry.
The rancher's daughter dared to greet them, and have subscribed to all charities, and returned to see greeting felt a satisfaction which made her momentarily forget their troubles.
Were of those families who admired his father without knowing why, came from what they called across the sea to "the motherland" most excellent and very high for all the good Dona Chicha, and relatives of kings.
I did not know whether to shake hands or bend a knee, as he vaguely heard it used in court.
It was the glory that was agreed to in July, in her arms of light.
Was suddenly with all the honors and rewards of celebrity.
Or painting of souls nor a full rugged existence of affairs provided expensive and complicated mourning the young Desnoyers its popularity.
The glory took him by the feet.
A new pleasure had come across the seas, to human happiness.
The people were questioned in the classroom with a mysterious tone of initiates seeking recognition: "Do you know tanger ?...» Tango had taken over the world.
It was a heroic anthem humanity suddenly focused their aspirations in the harmonic swaying of the hips, measuring intelligence by the agility of the feet.
An incoherent and monotonous music of African-inspired, satisfying the artistic ideals of a society that needed no more.
A dance of Cuba introduced black bear jerky for the West Indies have won the whole earth in a few months, he turned his round, jumping from one nation to victory ...
same as the Marseillaise.
Penetrated in ceremonial cuts, crumbling traditions of modesty and etiquette, like a song of revolution: the revolution of frivolity.
The Pope had to become a teacher dance, recommending "furlana" against the "tango", because the whole Christian world, without distinction sects, was united in a common desire to shake your feet in a frenzy as tireless as that of those possessed of the Middle Ages.
Five to seven, hundreds of eyes followed him with admiration in the halls of the Fields Elysees, which cost five francs a cup of tea with the right to interfere in the sacred dance. "Has the line," said the ladies appreciate her body slim, of medium height and strong springs.
And he, with his coat bulging wrap waist and chest, the feet of women's smallness sheathed in patent leather and white canes on high heels, dancing serious, thoughtful, quiet, as a full mathematical problem, while the blue lights on the two dark curtains, tight and bright its forelock.
The women solicited to be presented to him, with the sweet hope of her friends envied seeing them in the arms of the teacher.
It opened before her most inaccessible classrooms.
The fashion had brought teachers from across the sea, hoodlums in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, proud and confused to be acclaimed the same as a famous tenor or a speaker.
But these dancers on a native vulgarity and that it did pay, triumphed Julio Desnoyers.
The incidents of his previous life were discussed by women and gallant exploits of novelistic. - You're killing - said Argensola -.
The glory of his new friend represented to him now.
Its mellow readings before the were now broken stove daily.
Can not read more than one chapter.
Man urged him famous with his orders to march into the street. "A new lesson," said the parasite.
And when alone, numerous visits, all women, some questioners and aggressive, sometimes melancholic air of neglect, came to interrupt him in his thoughtful entertainment.
One of these was terrified with his insistence to the inhabitants of the study.
Was a North American, old problems, including thirty-two and fifty-nine years, always with short skirts, which were gathered sitting indiscreet, as driven by a spring.
Desnoyers several dances and a visit to the rue de la Pompe accounted for sacred rights it acquired, and pursued the master with the desperation of a believer abandoned
