She also had a child of age Carolina.
The arms indifferent gathered around the sleeping child, began to tremble and shake it convulsively.
And then, with a deep impulse, powerful burst into tears, and pulled her to her bosom the girl again and again, as if to replace to which there had once saved.
Some tears fell on the curls of Carolina, which moved uneasily in his sleep.
and remained so quiet and lonely they seemed part of the solitary and silent home.
However, as in the latter, cheerfully lit by the rays of the sun, the appearance of loneliness and abandonment not carrying the decline, despair and neglect.
II To be news that Galba lady definitely had fled, taking the daughter her husband, was moved around Fiddletown, raised about the case differences of opinion.
The News of Dutch Flat, openly alluded to the "violent abduction" of the girl with the same boldness and severity with which he had criticized the productions of the poet.
The public sex Lady Clara, and a fraction of the opposite sex, made, however, persons of little character, adopted the view of this newspaper.
But most people do not act consequences deduced moral enough for them to know that the abductor had shaken their dainty slippers the red Fiddletown dust, mourned his loss rather than the crime.
Soon ignore Galba, the injured husband and disconsolate father, and questioned the sincerity of her grief; But save your sympathy for Colonel comic Roberto, overwhelming the man, man excellent, with unseasonable sympathy expressed in the taverns, lounges and other public no less inappropriate places for demonstrations of such genre. - Colonel, was always fickle woman - said a sympathetic friend, with affected interest and plaintive tone - and it is natural that one day the animal has escaped from her husband, but I leave you, Colonel, you really have mocked, this is what I can not finish.
And go around saying that you were hanging around the hotel all night, and walked by those corridors and up and down the stairs, and like a lost soul that wandered square, and all this in vain!
Another friend, not less generous and compassionate, again poured balm on the wounds of the disappointed lover. - Imagine that such outspoken out there claim that the lady got from you charged at her suitcase and girls from the house to the office of diligence, and that the lover who left her thanked him, giving him some money and take care the first time because he liked his treatment ... "Of course, that this will be a gross invention?
Sure, I will know I answer those juzgamundos.
Glad to have met you, runs for lying is a blessing.
But fortunately for the reputation of Lady Clara, the Chinaman of her husband, the only witness Eye of the leak, said that only went with the girl.
He added that, obeying their orders, had to stop the taking of Sacramento and seat adjusted both to San Francisco.
The truth is that the testimony of Ah-Fe was in no legal value, but nobody put blemish.
Even those who doubted the veracity pagan, recognized in this case the most disinterested indifference by the Chinese.
And yet, judging from a passage hitherto unknown of this Chronic true, were wrong from medium to medium.
About six months had elapsed since the disappearance of the beautiful heroine.
The Chinese worked one day, as usual, in the field of Galba, when two miners that his countrymen equipped with long poles passed and baskets, they called it.
Lively conversation ensued Ah Fe and his brothers Mongols, one of those conversations characteristics similar to precipitates row over its screaming, that delight and provoke the scorn of European smart, they do not understand a word of those speculations.
Carried in the hem angle the initial CT Chinese hid him in a fold of her shirt, and continued washing his dishes in the sink with a candid smile of contentment.
A few days later, Ah-Fe was presented to his master. - I do not like Fiddletown, I really sick.
Galba sent him to the devil.
Ah-Fe and retired quietly watched him determined to put implement its purpose.
However, before leaving Fiddletown she met by chance Colonel Roberto and they escaped some incoherent phrases that interested the military.
When he finished, Colonel gave him a letter and a heavy gold coin. - If I will double this brings an answer: Can you understand, Ah-Fe?
Another meeting took place between Ah Fe and another gentleman, young editor of The Avalanche, also casual interview with the same result.
However, I feel myself obliged to say that the set out, Ah-Fe broke quietly hallmark of both letters, and then trying to read upside down and sideways, finally divided them finely chopped, diced, and sold them in that provision for a trifle to a yellow brother who stumbled on her way.
Described is not for the sorrow of Colonel Roberto to discover in the white face of these squares, which came to him with the linen of the week, the account of his laundry, and to acquire the belief that the remaining pieces of the letter circulated by the same method among clients Fiddletown Chinese laundry.
However, I have the firm belief that this breach of trust served punishment found in the difficulties that accompanied the pilgrimage of Ah-Fe.
Speaking to Sacramento, was twice thrown Cow diligence below, a Caucasian civilization, but drunk as could be, who the company of a smoker opium to the quick wounded dignity.
At Hangtown, a passerby will give a simple helmet evidence of white supremacy.
In Dutch Flat stolen for reasons well known hands also unknown.
In Sacramento he was arrested on suspicion of being this or that and put it released after a severe reprimand, probably because I was not looking and thus hindered the course of the proceedings.
In San Francisco, stoned children in public schools, but carefully avoiding these temples of illustration and progress, finally reached the relative safety in Chinatowns, where abuses against him were at least enrolled in the police and face books almost always the deserved punishment.
Without loss of time managed to enter the laundry-Chy Fook as an assistant, and Friday Next he was sent with a basket of clean laundry to the various customers of the company.
It was one of those afternoons when fog, one of those days faded, gray, that challenge the Summer name to anyone, except for the exalted imagination of citizens San Francisco.
Ah-Fe climbed the long hill on California Street, swept wind did not feel temperature or make out the color on earth or in heaven; or light shade outdoors or inside buildings, only if a dye gray, drab, universal, that hung everywhere.
A feverish excitement reigned in the streets swept by the wind, and houses a profound stillness reigned.
When the Chinese had reached the top of the hill, the Mission Hill and hid his eyes and the cool breeze Tues gave him chills.
Descargose of his basket to rest.
Probably for limited intelligence and from the pagan point of view, the "climate of God", as we call it, not provided with the sweetness, gentleness and mercy that are attributed.
Perhaps the good son Sky illogically confounded the rigors of the season with their persecutors, children in schools, free instruction at this time of closure, were much more bold and daring.
So hastily went his way, and turning a corner Finally he stopped before a house and entered it resolutely.
Preceded the house in question to a petty planting of shrubs, with front terrace, above it was an ugly balcony that perhaps had not been used in life.
