Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another, and so on.
Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God, man and nature. * * * * * On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in illuminating the morning sun.
Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no majesty or beauty.
On February 3 impressions what pleasant surprises, and pest and fatigue!
First the encounter the beautiful Vapor Antioquia, which rose from Barranquilla, light, color painted alive, like a big bird, barely touching the waves of Magdalena.
And there's screams happiness, the noisy greetings among the passengers of both steam whistles gallant valves of locomotives, and teasing each other sailors, spicy and original in the extreme.
Steam Antioquia had a strong loading of senators and representatives, undoubtedly uninsured, and therefore his trip was doubly interesting.
Then, the beautiful river Carare, leading to the right, deep blue, with a vegetation fresh and gorgeous, navigable by steam, and serving as the means of direct communication between Magdalena and the peoples of the former province of Velez, ie the states Santander and Boyaca.
This river is very beautiful future, and not too late trade Granada will give you all the attention it deserves.
Carare below appears to oppose, also beautiful river, whose sands studded with gold serve of milk to a gentle stream, deep and clear.
It was there that Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada, conquistador of the New Kingdom of Granada, entered in 1536, dominating as supreme incredible difficulties and dangers, history, to be fair, you should consider this issue as the most heroic, the most extraordinary conquistador anyone has ever driven and accomplished.
If Yélez territories Relief and sent to the Magdalene its beautiful water quota of rivers and Opon Carare, both browsers and delicious, the highlands of Tunja and Pamplona contribute their wealth of Sogamoso or Colorado River, which flows near the new port of Barrancabermeja.
Here, Magdalena highly enriched with the wealth of so beautiful rivers, making grandiose proportions that make it impressive, while the beautiful islands that arise here and there, one very large (the Morales), give the landscape, beautifully lit, an incredible resemblance to the lower Danube, judging from the I've sailed.
Below the State of Antioquia Sogamoso contribute (in addition to the Honey and Nare rivers) with the romantic and beautiful river of the Scimitar, which recalls the eternal storms prevailing minerals in the hills of a ridge of the same name that separates the region of Antioquia those of Simití and Majagual.
The rowers have concerns that a thousand bizarre hidden river bed of gold dust and dark and impenetrable woods, and have many legends, making the sign of the cross on the dangerous metal seekers who, having gone to within the course of the river, have not gone back to look more in Mompos.
The inhabitants of Saint-Paul village situated at a short distance from the confluence of the Scimitar, to make responsible Mohan or Huan, terrible god of the caves and the great wells of rivers, of the misdeeds committed by the jaguars, snakes and solid blacks to the detriment of the unwary seekers gold.
HOWEVER, I must state that the Mohan such a character does not strike me as absurd as belief, if you notice that the bottom line is the Devil, but a devil poetic, highly romantic, and therefore superior, under the artistic point of view and spiritual, the mundane and vulgar devil sends us believe the Holy Mother Church
