Where fighting was duality, or religions, there is more tolerance, less fanatical, but alive instincts of liberty and fraternity the clergy have been less eager for wealth and power.
Spanish society is amazingly smart, and great talents born where want.
The vicious public education the thousands of occupational barriers, the brutal oppression weighing on the media, and intolerance religion (abject for the Roman Court) annulled the intellectual advantages that nature granted to the Spanish.
Thus the great mass of people are profoundly ignorant, in general; the middle class is at the height of his legal position, not well understood his role in a constitutional monarchy, the nobility is ignorant and superficial in their great majority, the clergy is unable to fill their high ministry in a manner worthy of the current civilization, and youth, gagged in the field of the press, and public forum and overwhelmed by the organization privileged to have the liberal professions, is condemned to the vague and nebulous controversies and speculations of German philosophy, political economy purely theoretical brochures and literature, and translations futilities petty and bad taste.
The Spanish people are one of those in the Old World are more deeply rooted feeling Personality and equality.
This is a quality that resists all, because it is in the blood and supports in topography, climate, even in the traditions of the language.
Therefore, Spain is one of the best elements of democracy in Europe.
Spain will be republican and democratic deveras long before France, Germany, England and other great nations of Europe.
The language is very rough on all classes of society.
Too earnest and free, replaces the subtleties of satire or persuasive style with the brutal eloquence of obscene interjections.
In addition, the Spanish suffer from certain shortcomings that neutralize much of its fine qualities.
Their nationality or social arrogance, which is not going on to lag behind that of the Portuguese, obfuscate them so that, taking them to the sterile quixotic and the most ridiculous exaggerations, do not let them recognize the backwardness of their country.
They believe the first people in the world, in any and every situation, despite their weakness, ignorance, habits of filth, homelessness and employment-mania, and its deplorable indifference to the common interests which is the best coat of bad governments.
That will not happen but to under friction with other nations.
Is that in Spain there has been so far, no revolution, but simply struggle: that of independence first, and then civil strife.
Germany had a grand revolution with religious reform; England two of the seventeenth century, France's philosophy and 1789.
But Spain has not experienced anything similar.
Struggles passing situations change apparent and the characters change something: the great revolutions are just ideas peoples.
Spanish has the instincts of democracy and progress, but lacks subsequent convictions, the ideas are translated later in institutions.
Napoleon unfriendly made in Spain with the invasion, the ideas of the French Revolution.
They come by one of two ways: either liberal reform, honest and determined, initiated by the Government, which is what has the strength, - or the revolution.
