I am the second keyring and yesterday was not on duty.
Will the gentleman to wait until tomorrow.
Dende gayola entered before yesterday.
cried the keychain from his position.
And word is repeated by other prisoners in the same tone of voice, came Jaruco, recognizing easily the master and slave.
Entrol to it so strong convulsive shudder, which was to grab with both hands at the gate. - Sumerced I take the blessing, bathed in tears faltered. - Why are you crying?, Leonardo asked angrily. - Wow, Leonardite child, remembering the hard time that I have given the family in my absence. - With your absence, dog?
I left home Christmas Eve was designed to assist a dance for people of color out there.
Around the city had a tragedy a mulatto.
I was wounded in the chest, I picked up an acquaintance in the street and took me to the room in which he lived.
After this misfortune befell me. - What misfortune? - The of the unjust imprisonment.
All men are exposed to a stroke of bad luck. - From bad luck, not bad head.
Is seen, Dionisio, you do not want blacks for good but for evil.
Get office, child, I was very calm, sewing shoes a shoe shop in the Rue de Manrique, when she appeared at the door the captain Tonda.
From I saw them I knew it was coming for me, and tried to slip away.
Dismounted and went to him as if to surrender.
At the door of the shop had a wheel stop and I slipped out between her and the wall of the house.
I took when I left for my job. - I guess he told you why you lit. - No word.
He just told me he had orders to take me dead or alive. - In good you've got, Dionisio.
It will be much and give thanks to God if she escaped with the skin. - Whatever you want God and the Virgin.
For them, the whole family, for yourself, Dionisio, you'd better bend the neck in Point field.
With that you'll never insulting white girls. - Me, Boy I've insulted a white girl or color?
No, Leonardite child, I have consciousness of having insulted any. - And one that was the cause of your quarrel with the mulatto to the output of the dance? - I did not insult the child.
For the bones of my mother that I did not say a bad word.
Le asked a minuet, I said she was tired and then went to dance with José Dolores Pimienta.
I complained to her the snub, he took his defense, we lock our words and we beat a the street. - If you do not let you talk hanged.
Just put one foot in the prison courtyard, is published and circulated shouted his name. - God protects you, Denis. - Child charity, another word.
I remember that I delivered at his mercy a garment belongs. - What piece of clothing?
End soon, prontito. - Had me in his pocket, hoping to give it one day, the watch Miss gave his market last year, but they took it away to enter the prison.
Must be in the hands of the Warden.
Dionisio told in as few words, how and when it came to power the clock and moved said to withdraw his young master: - Could you tell the child how is Mary Rule? - Mom brought her wit.
Why God did not want trip over it?
Leonardo night and returned home from the Commissioner and was surprised in the act of sitting at the dinner table with his mistress. - Hello!
Fermina just tell me that you had honored with his presence this humble shelter. - I can speak a word with you? - And two hundred also, Don Leonardite.
Felt not be in the station when you were at dusk.
He had to go racing the Policy Secretariat.
screamed, a chair for this gentleman. - Excuse the compliments, Leonardo said haughtily.
It is not for sitting.
Let's talk provided it is standing alone. - Why not here in front of Fermina?
I have no secrets from her.
We are inseparable. - How you caught authority to Cecilia Valdés?
I must see the truth, and they may still, despite the author and instrument of this rude and intrigue indecent.
That said, he went on his way home in high dudgeon.
The family had a visitor in the room.
No I decided to enter it ready the carriage, moved in a suit, and when asked by signs her mother to the porch railing of the reason for this precipitation: - I go to the opera, he replied briefly.
Sang Rossini opera maestro Ricardo and Zoraida, to benefit the Santa Marta, the beautiful Teatro Principal. [59] It was then the company entrepreneur Eugenio Arriaza, and director of the orchestra Don Manuel Cocco, brother of Jose, which we saw in the mill La Tinaja.
The patio or yard and the boxes were occupied by a public medium then nothing functions fan lyrics.
Leonardo came some time after the standard curtain.
Of course, he heard the overture to Tancredo, who preceded the opera that night.
Looking for a man whose place in the theater knew in advance was because, as Mayor preside over the function from the central box on the second floor.
Sitting was the pair of Madrid wife, embedded in music and song, as he kept the back, standing by the door, the page mulatto, livery rigorous cover castles and lions embroidered gold.
All this I watched through the porthole in the door of the box, closed against the corridor.
Could have called, assured of a friendly welcome input, but preferred wait on the balcony of the refreshment room which overlooked the mall Paula.
Or the opposite side, very dark mass of the ship Sovereign, nailed, so to speak, in the still waters Bay?
He insisted and gave these blots. - Almost never see El Diario. - Then look for it and read it.
The article is short.
I wrote in Palermo.
I did not put my name, because he says ill of a mayor ...
You understand me.
He went out with my initials only and have you to believe that we have come to congratulate me more than twenty friends?
Yes Pedro José Morillas hugged me and gave me the article with the clouds.
I want to hear your opinion. - Afternoon is that you can give it to you, Fernando.
My head burns, I get to shoot myself, or spreading it to someone, that readings. - Man!
You could give in such a stupid thing after your twenties and most Aprils and your experience ... - It is the passion of love which consumes me with this chest.
It is the anger, the pain, is the despair that produces the first disappointment of what are the world, men and friendship. - Come on.
You know I'm your friend. - My friend!
cried the young man with an ironic smile.
I thought you were, but I am disappointed you're my worst enemy. - What date is your disappointment? - It's disservice you did to me.
This step is not laughing. - Why, what is?
Here is the first time, since we know that I see serious y. ..
bobo. - Do not call to seriousness and silliness it touches into fury. - Stop your childish nonsense at this time.
Iota. - Then, how without the knowledge of the facts, without formation of summary gave the command in prison? - Because there who asked no such requirements. - How come such a friendship call me? - You will find there. - What crime blamed the girl for the abuse? - No one else, as I understand, that of love too. - So, you have knowingly committed an injustice, let us say it clear, an arbitrary act. - I plead guilty of this sin. - Sin say?
It's more than that.
In our laws is called a quasi offense, which still can you get it in the face.
If you have included the sad orphan who has no advocate, deceive medium to medium.
Here I am, I will put the matter in question. - Evil will, Leonardo, said the mayor with calm and dignity.
As as I'm concerned, your released would not hurt me none, bounce off the chain mail me high position of my titles of nobility and my valimiento here and in court.
For this next I'm immune.
But you, to take the way you say, (I speak as a companion and friend) not get anything but shock a little and give your father saloon, whose complaint I leaned formal written for the procedure ...
arbitrary charges me.
Your father, your good and honest father, came to my court and established complaint in every way against this girl, by seducing a minor, son of a wealthy family and decent, with her charms and chicanery.
In the discussion we had, he lamented, almost with tears in his eyes, that were made a lost player, womanizer, who neither study nor could meet you in April as he and your mother waiting for you to take the administration of the property next year, ie after marrying the beautiful and virtuous young lady Alquízar, as were committed all for the frivolous girl, whose love affairs disgrace undoubtedly a young man Count must be before long. - "So this is the epitome of the story my father told you?
Listen, or contemplated now the reverse of the medal.
But it Daddy little girl has since followed the steps, holding, dressing, shoes, celándola, dicking, caring for more and better than it ever has maintained, clothing, shoe care rounds and none of their daughters.
I do not think bad yet, but just the fact kidnap when my grandmother just died, the only person who could oppose serious obstacle to achieving of twisted desires, I suspect that my father does not harbor good intentions ...
I relieved and pleased, however, that whatever the shower of gold that he may pour the her feet will not get more than what it has achieved so far: bitter hatred.
But you, my friend, me good away from me and deliveries tied hand and foot in power of my father.
Never. - You're unfair, very unfair to your father and me.
With him because I did not accede to their entreaties, but when I'm fully convinced that they were righteous and holy intentions for you, the family and the same Valdés.
Me are unfair, because seeing your father was resolved cut in any way, no matter the cost, your clandestine relationship with the girl, I decided to lock her in the Collected for a short time, say, until you get Baccalaureate and marry as God intended and as appropriate to your class and the wealth of your family.
What then, if you think you will return ...
Leonardo was silent and thoughtful, and then said feebly: - Bye, Fernando!
This stopped him by the arm and said: - Thou shalt not go that way, as if we had fought.
Come to my stage: greet my wife and hear my side of the second act of the opera.
To alleviate there is some pain balm comparable to good music.
CHAPTER VII The biggest monster of jealousy.
CALDERON - What are you up you mess with a little boy from the suburbs?, Asked Rosa to husband still in bed .-- Di, answers, he added codeándole behind him, because he thought that is to Swedish or asleep. - I do not bring me and took me mess with anyone, Rosa, said Don Candido in his sleep. - Your own, you do.
I have said, I know for a fact. - Who told you that story? - No story is true.
You have taken from his home to a girl a few days ago ...
The author is not the case. - What is Rosa.
No I mean that you're back at it again ... - Do you see what I say?
Your son ... - Well, now check it killed my son. - Your son, I say, "continued Don Candido without getting upset, I was about to commit the greatest of escapades he has committed so far.
I interposed, because at last I'm his father, and I avoided the commission ...
You do not want to knock on it, what other recourse I can only touch her?
See what interest do you have in it. - No one, in my belief, that of preventing the commission of a real shame for a person that touches us as closely as is our son. - What shame
