God knows what we are worried that these symptoms and was eager to insinuate what Neluco wanted, since it is not anticipated to hint at, but what good would Overture while we did not hand the Priest?
and you stay here, man and alone, until you get yours, you can not take because no one is old, and you'll see what is jallarte day after day without longtime friend, who looked and flesh of your flesh and filled the whole place, although he did not see him ... "Nah, you go and, moreover, namely if getting one's own, and catch him or catch him Asao, because the flesh is weak, and Satan not sleeping, and if, for shots or TATS, we find ourselves not in the other world.
up with nails "Trabaderos" and how we could have at hand in the cellar weep holes that Chisco accumulated stocks of this species, which the diligent and poring granddaughter of giant Castañalera of us was exquisite lengthening with his hands, as scattered on the floor.
When walking the mean task bordering on the tolling of a bell, patchy and intermittent, sometimes remote, now close, as weak cry of agony, sometimes, vibrant and resounding others according to the whims of wind and stirred encased in the strait and crossroads of valley.
It was the first touch "to manage", the signal was in the church to the neighborhood for the purpose that knew him.
A little while later, the bell stopped and two men with individual arms of candles and tapers who commanded the priest, ahead.
Came emaciated ankles above, but very espelurciados and "ardiéndoles' noses and ears because, as stated, although it had stopped snowing, the north wind still blowing, colder than the snow itself.
If did not seem bad, quedaríanse there already, it's about being confident "of Jaller the Lord 'in road, if returned to take the church, there was the rocky ground with snow layer above had to many ups and downs for him without an emergency.
Willingly assent to appear as sane, and abode of men ...
amused and the "visual Pomposú" that would taking the corridors and stairs of the house with the business that made us sweat.
Continuámosla, however, with renewed energy, but stitch length, ie, thinning the flaps, because could be heard again before the touch of a sign that had been on the road as we expected, Amen to that walking on fabric or "hardware" to cover many walls.
To clothe the naked floor traffic, ran Lituca stocking, and planted it itself, fragrant laurel penquitas abundant in the crevices of the rocks in front.
And still had time to fumigate the house with rosemary and marjoram, burned by her embers of the brazier, leading Salces Pito Chisco and hand through the rooms, corridors and stairways.
Then, candles, candlesticks, candlesticks and lamps, illuminating even the most obscure and remote; my uncle's room, with six candles and, rechispeando light, and arm candles brought from the church, burning to the care of two men charged time to give fate they had; Marmitón framed in the doorway of the kitchen and looking the light cruiser, not daring to take a step toward him, Mari Pepa coming and going Everywhere, his daughter putting the finishing touches to the overall picture, without a word and pasmadota Tona, near Don Pedro Nolasco, Pito and Chisco Salces in the astragalus, each with a candle burning in hand, my uncle, his eyes half open, leaning against the pillows and prayer without end; Facia, with her best black dress and attentive to what the patient might need, along at the door of his room, standing motionless and melancholy, the church bell ringing rhythmically; almost absolute silence in the areas of the house, and I, stuck like a statue in lounge with views overlooking the room of my uncle and to cruise the bottom of the passage, watching everything, hearing everything, and prey to emotion, so complex and strange, not I could explain.
Suddenly, a voice, Tona often leaning out the door to the balcony of the kitchen shouted from the bottom of the last Carrejo: - It vienin!
Cubriéronse head then hurried women, took a candle each of the tending the two men and another dímosle Don Pedro Nolasco who had moved group, and when I was a prominent part of him, he soon arrived, all walking and almost stunning giant rolling, the balcony of the kitchen
