The lady did not budge. - Lady, get you - repeated again taking her gently by the arm.
Fr Gil, standing before her, waiting to explain.
How? "This lady was despicable slut had the misfortune of D.
The heir to the house of Montesinos was in love like crazy a young man of good family, but without money, one of those girls who are usually seen in Madrid in all theaters and all Sarah to hunt for a rich husband.
Be even with Montesinos, Joaquin Dominguez (that was his name) gave cordelejo a season, perhaps hoping that came with the same wealth and better shape, because the firstborn of Peñascosa was, indeed, the most feeble and miserable that could be.
When they did not arrive, resolviose one day to fall in love with him and showed it in a way that left no room for doubt. "All the elegant Madrid" recalled a cute blonde paid to turn first pair of theater Real, who spent the night chatting with a skinny, pale gentleman sitting in the row back, that the Comedy Theatre and the Apollo did not detract top Twins from his audience, taking him on the ride trailer del Retiro, and up in the morning when she went shopping, she looked to him, escorted by his mother.
Entirely convinced love, the gentleman asked her to marry, and obtained not without some work, because the mother Costolo many tears give that jewel, which was the joy of the house.
But she was so beautiful and her husband was so happy, frantic with love professed that he had not refused the heart and blood if one day the request after a long loving kiss, pressed, spasmodic, such as those gave him when he had to ask for a diamond rivière sociable or full suspension.
The lover Montesinos placed no obstacles in this desire, but should put them.
We needed a respectable capital to do it, watch the comforts and trappings that Joaquin intended travel.
Loan requested some of 30,000 farms went out hard and Madrid.
In Hendaye at the inn were railroad Federico Torres drinking chocolate, a half-witted son of a minister Madrid Court Accounts.
A Joaquin had always been very unfriendly, not knowing why. - Where will this puppet? - Asked softly, after his greeting coldly match.
Montesinos shrugged indifferently. - What will you fight this guy!
Pau went to see him at the station, and no longer saw him more.
In Marseille thought marriage stop four or five days, but the third, coming D. Álvaro station fix the subject of sleeping-car for the next day, to his surprise he found his wife not at home.
The surprise became all at once astonished to see the horrible mess of the room.
The big Saratoga trunk of his wife was gone.
There were different items of clothing by soil.
The servants told him that the woman had been transporting the chest after leaving He double-billing for small, he said.
Montesinos, stunned, horrified by the idea that crossed by the brain, opened with a hand convulsively Secret of the chest where they kept the money.
Understanding of once all his misfortune, fell to the ground as if struck by lightning.
It was several days between life and death.
When she regained consciousness, he telegraphed to his brother D.
Martin which immediately appeared and took him to Peñascosa.
After that first movement of repulsion, was rebuilt and said: - Serénese you a little lady, and tell me how I can promote it. - I just returned from Madrid - articulated with the lady working - and I headed home to my husband with whom I fought long ago ...
Wanted to reconcile with him ...
to conclude that separation so ugly and so outrageous ...
grabbed my arm ...
Here the woman burst into tears again and again covered her face with her handkerchief.
The priest waited to continue, but seeing that he did not, took the floor again. - I'm sorry this incident, Mrs. ...
The offenses that do not feel forgiven.
Pardon this poor servant who has done without knowing I did, and tell me what I can do in your gift.
Again and again moisten dry. - As I have said here at the inn, you're the only person who visits my husband ...
I beg, for the most sacred, and that you are his friend, to intervene to end our separation.
I want it long ago with anxiety ...
I confess that I was not good for he ... - Yes, yes, I know everything - impatiently interrupted the cleric.
The lady was highly colored. - I confess that I have offended seriously ...
It was a moment of blindness ...
I have no objection to humiliate to ask forgiveness on his knees ...
the same thing to you than anyone else.
My mission is to preach harmony between men and die for it if necessary.
Even without asking me I have the duty, my responsibility, to strive in this parish reconciliation among quarreling marriage ...
But this case is sensitive.
Apart from the extremely serious offense that you have inflicted on her husband, the scandal that accompanied it, of those who followed, all of which make it extremely difficult reconciliation apart that, again, there is another major difficulty.
And is that your husband is out of the Church Catholic.
I have no other influence on him than he can give a superficial friendship.
None of reasoning to which I could appeal as a priest has power over his mind.
On the contrary, given their ideas, it is possible that served to embravecerle more, or at least derision ... - Yes, yes - the lady interrupted shrilly, malevolent, - my husband has always been a wicked, an atheist outrageous. - Lady, is of little use to believe if you act as if no thought - said severely toilets, who had wounded the aggressive tone of the lady, so contrary to humility before.
To be turned red and dropped his eyes back to affect a great contrition.
I doubt much of the success of my speech ...
I know I also expose you to be cast as the house, but I do not care.
Keep my duty, and if you do not get anything, I will be at least the satisfaction of having fulfilled ...
He remained thoughtful for a moment, while the lady kept on him a look intense and anxious.
Then, as if speaking to himself rather than with her, continued: - The address is now home to D.
Alvaro has drawbacks.
It is necessary to take him suddenly, take the first movement of his heart that is generous.
But the moment of pronouncing the word took over the inconvenience of staying much time alone with a woman, a little embarrassed and said: - You will allow me to leave her alone while a few moments ...
Instead of being with her, sent her love to accompany her.
Only when the light was extinguished completely up again with hat in hand, prepared to leave.
The wife of D. Álvaro, so I saw this trace, rose from his chair.
He had already closed the night.
Seafarers had retired to their houses or taverns.
The toilet and wife Montesinos walked a while in silence towards the Field of fainting.
Approaching he both felt agitated, fearful.
Fr Gil insisted on his idea first entered the house and explore the spirit of D. Álvaro: afraid of a scandal.
The lady was opposed by heat, convinced beyond all doubt that her husband would refuse to receive it at all, and take precautions to avoid the pisase floor of his house.
The more embedded in the discussion were of another door opening near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly. - Good evening, Father, good night.
She was the daughter of Osuna.
At this time I deal with issues in my ministry - said Fr sternly Gil.
If you die before I, and you have a witness to some of his miracles to him canonized ...
Hasta la vista.
And when he had taken two or three steps, without turning said: - And enjoy!
Montesinos's wife looked up and stared at the P.
Gil a look of wonder and curiosity. - What is that?
The priest, red with shame and indignation, lifted his shoulders in ignorance and walked toward the mansion of Montesinos.
VI By pulling the wire greasy, the same mournful tolling, which had so impressed P.
Gil the first time I set foot in that house, was both a thrill of fear and anxiety.
He soon heard the hoarse voice of Ramiro. - Who is it? - Peace People. - Who is it? - Turned to ask. - I, Ramiro.
The door swung slowly on its hinges and appeared the silhouette of the old, dimly enlightened by the light of the lamp that burned over the lintel. - Go you, excuse - without receiving said the lady, who had hidden behind it.
Before this barbarous insult, the lady covered her face with her hands and groaned.
Before God and man this is the lawful wife of his master you.
Let me safe passage, which you do not touch on the subject rather than hear, see and be silent.
But Ramiro, agitated, convulsed, as if to fall prey to syncope, began to run before them, shouting: - Alvaro, Alvaro!
The old man did not stopped in the main, proceeded to the second, giving the same cries.
In four words he had learned Ramiro what was happening.
In the afternoon, when first wife had been unfaithful to home, had not done.
Caught with a convulsive hand arm the priest and brought him into his cabinet.
Then he closed the door carefully. - What's that woman? - Asked by futile efforts to appear calm.
Fr Gil remained silent for a moment and said after: - I dare assure you nothing.
It seems that you are sorry ...
His accent is sincere and cried with real pain in my presence.
A flash of anger came into the eyes of the gentleman.
In that rush of emotions that are stirred in spirit, anger managed to beat all others, and uttered in a tone dismissive: - I am perfectly satisfied that comes only by the quarter ...
but anyway I could care less about their repentance and sincerity ...
If you are repentant, that you have a priest for absolution.
The figure for a moment that I can forgive is a new insult is an idea that a soul can only be as miserable as theirs. - Forgiveness never degrades.
D. Álvaro thrust a long look angry.
What matters is that, since it has brought, will take you immediately this woman. - I would beg her to, but not forgive, we allow at least talk to you ...
You can keep his revelations or entrust to whom he pleases ...
For me (hear you well I'll tell you) - while she took with clenched hand wrist - for my part, now or ever will cross the floor with her ...
From time to time he drew on his face sarcastic smile and let out through the nose a slight huff accusing tension your spirit, reveals the tension whistle steam boiler. - Since it can not be - said after a while the priest softly, - you understand, D. Álvaro, that lady can not go to sleep outside the house without giving fuel to poor languages, without renewing talks should not be renewed.
Selfishness, if not for charity you must consent to his wife now sleep in this house, because I do not think that suits you shock the population.
D. Álvaro continued its hectic rides without a word, as if he had not heard the proposition the priest.
After a while he stood in front of him and staring at him, said: - Okay.
Tell him if you like, there is no objection to sleep in this house ...
but it needed little dignity to accept - he said, lowering his voice and emphasizing the syllables .-- And if you want money for the trip back, Osuna will provide it. - I thank you for this courtesy, but I'm very sad - he replied smiling P.
We understand in regard to what is dignity or indignity ... - Sorry for you, father - said the firstborn, extending his hand. - And I for you, D. Álvaro.
Left alone he continued to walk even a few moments, then stood before the cord the bell and pulled hard.
Lead it to the room, turn on all lights and tell Dolores you upload.
The servant stood still, looking at him with surprise. - And you will agree that this ... - Silence! - Said the firstborn with energy, bringing the finger to his lips .-- s immediately I command you.
The old man walked away grumbling.
At once the maiden. - Dolores, tell the cook to prepare dinner for the lady who is down, and make every what you know.
D. Álvaro glanced sideways to her and said quickly, something shortened: - Despáchate soon and show her the blue cabinet.
If you want to sleep on the other hand, can show also the fourth call of the bishop.
Again and again was only launched his nervous walk from one angle to another of the camera.
Despite the strength and calmness that was shown to reject the pleas of P.
Gil, his brain worked agitated, feverish.
That visit so unexpectedly removed the happy memories and unfortunate that they had settled to the bottom of his being, and no longer bothered him.
His life double that in those three years had been moving away from his memory like a dream the clarity of the aurora fades, suddenly appeared before his eyes, so close that touched by hand.
And before that vision was embarrassed, as if the events had just made.
After walking a few minutes long strides, started to pause often, paying heard noises coming from the first floor.
Guessed more than perceived preparations that slavery was running for the sake of that vile woman who had revealed all the blackness and all the pain of life: "Now the dining room down the lamp ...
They must be making the bed ...
Has left people, will be looking Rufino to store something ...
Look like they're blue in the cabinet ... " No longer walking.
With his ear to the keyhole, avidly collected all the rumors came from below.
And as they arrived too confusing, he concluded to open the door, advance cautiously to the handrail of the stairs and listen from there, motionless, gathering breath.
He had vaguely imagined that his wife, once alone and free, would rise to its room to talk.
I would have liked to be the joy of throwing it with some phrases disparaging you reach the bottom of the soul.
There was a moment he thought that desire was done.
Heard footsteps on the stairs, all his blood flowed to the heart quickly to leave the rails and get back into the room.
Dolores was coming up to ask a key.
When he left, returned to his espionage remained on the stairs very long time without knowing why he did that.
She heard the confused murmur of conversation and his wife Dolores.
The girl was chattering; Joaquin also had an expansive mood: the talk increasingly encouraged.
So it figured to see some happy laughter of his wife, that surprised him most indignant.
At last he noticed that he began to eat.
Dolores was and came with the dishes.
The maid stood in the dining room and continued talk.
Tired of standing, sat in one of the rungs of the ladder.
In doing felt ashamed and began to give some vague account of the emotions that seize your mind.
Waited a long time that way, feeling the confused murmur of voices, in which nothing could distinguish, or even what it was that of his wife and which is the maid.
After observed leaving the room.
He stood strongly and prepared to get into his room as soon as felt footsteps on the stairs.
But he waited in vain.
He felt the door close behind them, then noticed that opened again and the maid came and took the path of his room.
Undoubtedly helped to strip the lady and left her in bed.
With his head in his hands, his elbows on his knees, stood motionless, abstracted, only now hearing the voice of his thought and the beating of his heart.
The thought mayorazgo it was because their hatred and indignation had grown up.
Hot iron spikes pricked him by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down a choke with his forward, an unbearable heat was rising from the legs to the brain
