I'm young, time has not passed, I have before me the main events of my youth; shaking hands with old friends, in my mind was playing terrible sweet emotions of youth, burning of triumph, despite the defeat, the great joys and large penalties, associated in the memories as they are in life.
On all my feelings one dominates, which always led my actions during this eventful period 1805 and 1834.
Near the tomb, and considered the most useless of men, still do tears to my eyes, holy love of the fatherland!
Instead I I can still consecrate a word mean cursing the skeptic who denies you, and you corrupted confused philosopher with the interests of one day.
In this sense devoted my manhood and he consecrate this slaughter of my last years, putting by tutelary genius or guardian angel of my life writing, and it was my life real.
From all this say something, if you lack patience.
I think I am still seeing that as angry respectable lady with her large bonnet, her organdy skirt, her white curls and hairy mole on the side of the beard.
I cite these four heterogeneous details, because without them it can not represent my memory.
She was beautiful in old age, such as Santa Ana de Murillo, and her beauty would have been perfectly respectable, and comparison with the mother of the Virgin accurate, if my lady had been silent like a painting.
Alonso, somewhat unnerved, as usual, whenever I heard, replied: "I need to go, Paquita.
According to a letter just received from the good Churruca, the squad be combined, or leave Cádiz leading the fight with the English, or wait in the Bay, if they dare to enter.
Anyway, the thing will be sounded. " - Well, I'm glad, "said Dona Francisca -.
There are Gravina, Valdés, Cisneros, Churruca Alcalá Galiano and Alava.
But you are made an old thing, not to serve God damn thing.
Still can not move arm dislocated left you at Cape San Vicente.
My master moved his left arm with a gesture scholar and warrior, to prove that he had expeditious.
But Dona Francisca, unconvinced with flimsy argument, he continued screaming in these terms: "No, not go to the top, because there is no need for fright as you.
If you had forty years, as when you went to Tierra del Fuego and brought me these 'green collars Indian ...
Because I know that you Marcial calzonazos warmed helmets last night and this morning, speaking to battle.
Marcial and I have to fight ...
Is a ten or twelve months without seeing him, and finally, if you eat wild gentlemen, again made a misery, so sick and yellow do not know a what to do to return to their natural color ...
You go at Toulon, Brest, to Naples, here or yonder, where he wants to bribonazo the First Consul ...
Ah, if everyone did what I say, how soon would pay all together this gentleman so upset that brings the world! " My master smiled a bad picture tacked to the wall, and, awkwardly lit unknown artist, depicting the Emperor Napoleon, riding on a green horse, with the famous redingote smeared with vermilion.
No doubt the impression left on me that work of art that I saw for four years, was due to amend my thoughts on the suit Smuggler's great man, and I shall henceforth represent Cardinal Dress and riding a green horse. "This is not living - Dona Francisca continued waving his arms -.
You and those other as crazy as you, are you not satisfied after the 14 [3] D.
Alonso clenched his fists when he heard the sad memory, and did not utter an oath of marine respect for his wife. "The guilt of your stubbornness to go to the top - the lady added more and more angry - the Marcial has the rogue, the devil sailor who had drowned a hundred times, a hundred sometimes been saved to torment me.
A faith that Admiral should have made you at least that You deserved tired when you went to the issue of Africa and brought me those blue beads that, with the collars of the Indians allowed me to decorate. - Whether or not Admiral, I must go to the top, Paquita - "my love -.
I have to charge to the English some delinquent account. - Well are you to collect these accounts - "my love -: a sick man and half crippled ... - Gabriel go with me - said D.
Alonso, looking in a way that instilled value.
During the dialogue we have referred, without answering for their accuracy, they only found me in vague memories, a strong and barking cough, ringing in the next room, announced that Martial the giddy old, heard from the fiery declamation near my mistress, who had cited several times with little feedback benevolent.
Eager to take part in the conversation, for which authorized him the confidence he had in the house, opened the door and introduced himself in my master bathroom.
Before going further, I want to give it some news, as well as his noble consort for better understanding of what will happen. -III- D.
Alonso Gutiérrez de Cisniega belonged to an ancient family of the same Vejer.
Consagráronle a naval career, and since his youth, being a midshipman, he distinguished himself honorably in the English attack directed against Havana in 1748.
He was part of the expedition which left Cartagena against Algiers in 1775, and is also found in the attack of Gibraltar the Duke de Crillon in 1782.
Later embarked for the expedition to the Strait of Magellan corvette in Santa Maria de la Cabeza, who commanded Don Antonio de Cordova, also found in the glorious battles he held the Anglo-Spanish against the French front Toulon in 1793, and finally ended his glorious career in the disastrous encounter Cape St.
Since then, my master, who had risen in line with their work and long career, retired from service.
As a result of wounds received on that sad day, fell sick body, and hardest of the soul, despite the consequence of defeat.
Curábale his wife with love, though not without shouting, cursing for the navy and the sailors was in his mouth as usual as the sweet names of Jesus and Mary on the lips of a devotee.
Francisca was a great lady, exemplary, of noble origin, devout and God-fearing as all the females of that time, charitable and unobtrusive, but with the most vicious and demonic genius I ever met in my life.
Frankly, I do not feel as angry that innate temperament, but rather created by the troubles that led to the unsavory profession her husband, and it must be confessed that he did not complain without reason, for this marriage, which for fifty years could have twenty children to the world and God, had to content with only one: the charming and peerless Rosita, who will speak later.
For these and other reasons, Doña Francisca asked to heaven in his daily prayers the annihilation of all European squads.
Meanwhile, the hero was consumed in Vejer watching sadly moth-eaten and gnawed his laurels of, and pondered and pondered all the time on an important topic, namely, that if Cordova our squadron commander, had sent luff to port instead of ordering the move to starboard, the vessels Mexican, San Jose, San Nicolas and San Isidro have not fallen into the hands of the English and the English admiral Jerwis would have been defeated.
His wife, Marcial, until I myself, exceeding my powers, we said that the thing had no doubt, to see if giving us believe it tempered the ardor of their hobby alive, but neither of those: his hobby accompanied him to the grave.
Eight years after that disaster, and the news that the combined fleets would to have a decisive encounter with the English, produced in him a certain excitement that seemed rejuvenate.
He, therefore, in the flower of which was to go to the square to witness the undoubted defeat their mortal enemies, and even though his wife tried to dissuade him, as I said, could not divert him from such bizarre purpose.
To understand how passionate was his desire, suffice it to say that dared to oppose, while avoiding any dispute, the firm will of, and I must warn, that will have an idea of ??the stubbornness of my master, that he had no fear of the British or the French or the Algerians, or the wild Strait Magellan, or the sea upset, or to aquatic monsters, or the noisy storm or the sky or the earth was not afraid of anything created by God, rather than his holy women.
Réstame now to the sailor, the object of hatred more alive by Doña Francisca, but loving and loved by my love brotherly D.
Alonso, who had served.
Marcial (I never knew his last name), known among sailors Middle-man, had been boatswain in ships of war for forty years.
At the time of my story, the look of this hero of the seas was most unusual that you can imagine.
Go figure you, gentlemen, an old man, rather tall than short, with a wooden leg, left arm cut about below the elbow, an eye less, face a multitude of chirlos scrawled in all directions and disorder traced by enemy weapons of different kinds, with dark complexion and tanned like all old sailors, with a hoarse voice, hollow and lazy not resembled the sound of any inhabitant of the mainland, and may form an idea of ??this character whose memory makes me deplore the dryness of my palette, because faith that deserves to be painted by a skilled portraitist.
I can not say whether laugh or appearance commanded respect, I believe that both at the same time, and depending on how you look at him.
It can be said that his life was the story of the Spanish Navy in the latter part of the past and present principles, history in the pages of the glorious alternate actions with unfortunate miseries.
Marcial had sailed in the Conde de Regla, in the San Joaquin in the Real Carlos, in Trinidad, and other heroic and unfortunate vessels apparently defeated with honor and treachery destroyed, plunged to their old boards the power Spain's naval.
In addition to campaigns he took part with my master, the Middle-man had attended many others such as the expedition to Martinique, the action of Finisterre and before the terrible event Strait, on the night of July 12, 1801, and the battle of Cape Santa Maria, October 5, 1804.
See enough to understand that employment could be more difficult than to that other glory of a hero was to take care of kids, and in fact did Marcial other than loading, distraction and sleep on his grandson, whose task it was enough for her songs seasoned sailor with an oath, the trade itself.
But knowing that the combined fleets prepared himself for a big fight, he felt reborn dampened enthusiasm his chest, and dreamed that he was sending the crew on the quarterdeck bow of the Holy Trinity.
noticing Alonso same symptoms flare was crossed with him, and since then spent most of the day and night communicating, news well received as their own feelings, talking past events, making conjectures about the future and daydreaming, and two apprentices in intimate confidence calculate how to reach admirals.
In this trap, bringing alarmed Dona Francisca, was born the project to embark in the square to witness the next fight.
You know the opinion of my loves thousand naughty trickster said the sailor, and know that D.
The devil take me, if I run out throw the telescope at the party. " Then he added with an expression of joy: "We have fifteen ships, and ships twenty-five Frenchies.
So I like to me the functions: sending lots of wood where bullets and gunpowder Jumo much hot air in cold weather. " I forgot to say that Marcial, like most sailors, he used a vocabulary of terminachos by more pilgrims, as is customary in seafarers of all countries deface the home language to turn into a caricature.
Noting the majority of voices used by sailors, you see that are simply corruptions of the words common suited to his temperament caught and energetic, always prone to short all life functions, especially language.
Hearing them speak, it seemed at times the tongue is an organ in their way.
Marcial, as I say, became the names into verbs, and these household names, without consulting the Academy.
Also applied the vocabulary of sailing to all acts of life, assimilating the ship with the man, under a forced analogy between the parties that and members thereof.
At least they understood these words sailors, but there were other daughters of his own invention philological, it only known and throughout its value appreciated.
The action of drunk called it a thousand different ways, and among these, the most common was put on the jacket, idiom whose meaning will not find my readers if not explain that, having earned the English sailors casacones dictation without doubt because of his uniform, saying drunk put his coat on, he meant Marcial ordinary action of his enemies.
A foreign admirals called them with quirky names, and created by him and translated his own way, noting similarities sound.
A Señorito Nelson called him, a voice that showed some consideration or respect; Uncle Collingwood Cramp, a phrase that seemed to him exact translation of English to Jerwis named him as the English themselves, that is, old fox Calder Perol uncle, because he found little relation between the two voices, and following an entirely different language system, appointed to Villeneuve, head of the combined fleets, with the nickname Monsieur Cornet, name taken from a farce whose representation Marcial attended in Cadiz.
In short, these were the nonsense that came from his mouth, I'll be forced to avoid annoying explanations, to replace their usual phrases when referring to conversations he recalls.
Dona Francisca, crossing himself, and said: "Forty ships!
