After a short time consulting with his penitent, pious not only matters but also the home; was his spiritual advisor and temporary.
The devout young pervaded all their thoughts, times before made accurately in his brain. - Father, today you are in a bad mood is because it could not say Mass at the altar of the Conception as usual .-- you have dark circles, it is seen that has spent the entire night in prayer .-- I know why said later Sunday Mass: Dona Eloisa expected to arrive .-- That collar pinches you very much.
Not only had time to talk about all day in the confessional, but by afternoon were in the church, the rosary, and night too often at home of Ms Eloisa.
In addition, from time to time, for any reason pious, as a novena, a meeting of the guild, etc., she went to the rectory to inquire, always though it cost him an effort, she had a great fear of D.
Had got in his head that he looked at her evil eye, which he despised.
And perhaps he was right to guess.
This confidence came to be too excessive at times.
Obdulia be authorized from time to time some relatives who clashed, and sometimes momentarily came to disturb the clarity of his consciousness.
One day he spoke of his troubles economic.
The father gave him some money for household expenses, and as he was vice charity, giving alms to spray and pray, had contracted debts which the mortified; above all was a shopkeeper who was twenty dollars, which bothered him at all times and threatened to tell his dad.
Could not he provide for a short time this amount?
The cleric also had them, but they are asked to sponsor and handed flushed.
It only took three hours to expire.
A priest can not work like others in this case.
A priest, before his hands bloodied, was not only to be robbed, but to kill.
But also engaged in some work thinner, in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of clothing priesthood.
Ms Josefa, the housekeeper, not willingly accepted the protectorate, but As yet there was rooted deep in the house and noted the close friendship that Miss his master had not dared to protest.
Murmur contented with her when went to visit his old lady and call voyeuristic and silly.
Later he was champing will brake even worse and ended by bolt, as we shall see.
As much as the living professed admiration and took into account his advice, I felt a vague discomfort every time he saw her taking care of material care of his person.
It seemed to him that this was to lower the character of that spiritual friendship, trained and supported to improve their souls, to help on the way of perfection.
I had heard nothing from Santa Teresa to go over the middle of San Juan de la Cruz.
Fr Gil pondered this, leaning on the railing of a corridor to his room was lattice above the sea.
The crimson sun was through any veil, wrapped in a warm light wave and red the village and the bay.
The canvas of rock that stood there in front closes its mass great on the water, casting and a wide area of ??shade.
And that blackness between the priest's eyes perceive the glare of the waves, showing and off at short intervals its whiteness.
The pier was deserted, even when the time was not the return of the boats.
The quechemarines pataches and nodded gently, tired of their inaction.
A gull flying concentric circles with their wings touching the water surface.
The soft distant murmur of the waves filled the room asleep a murmur.
The small cove only lived mobile game of light that bathed the bloody clarity would slowly withdraw behind the rocks.
So absorbed was he that Ms Josefa needed to call three times from the door to get that return. - What? - A lady is downstairs asking for you.
He says he needs to talk at once. - A lady? "- Said the P.
It took a few seconds to display a beautiful young as twenty-four, blonde, face very white and delicate features, dressed elegantly pilgrim.
His dress was simple, travel, but so original and cutting with such luxury and attention to detail, was put to immediately see the high quality of the individual.
It gave off a soft scent that came to hurt his nose so he stepped into the room.
Miron with surprise, astonishment became the see that the lady moved resolutely to him, and without a word dropped to his knees at his feet sobbing. - Lady ...
For it knew the sad story of that marriage.
Dry eyes unfaithful wife.
If anything I have sinned, believe me I have suffered much in recent times ... - Lady, and can you understand if I would join a satisfaction in marriage dissolved ...
The more embedded in the discussion were of another door opening near a shadow came close, high, and approached them quickly. - Good evening, Father, good night
