His brother Henry, who enjoyed high-deserved reputation as scholar, well versed in various disciplines, was named a professor at a university, where his science and his work, would remedy the shortage of its heritage, giving to live honestly and decently, but with excessive narrowness.
But how Poldy, which was poor and helpless, too, had to leave with his brother and be of constant burdensome?
A Poldy also hurt in the soul having to abandon those places, so full for her sweet and mysterious memories.
Moreover, Poldy, who loved the solitude, I felt invincible repugnance to go live life convent, among other canons in the house of her institute.
To live alone, by class, and in Vienna, and in another city, his income was insufficient.
And finally, contrary to was more revolted against added to the family of any of his brothers or sisters and do there the sad role of host for life, Tia and companions, living in something graceful as a little ill-concealed dependence and servitude.
Horror Poldy caused to any of these plans that traced and represented its future.
Even had before him all that year that began then, and during which she and the Count Henry had already concluded with his older brother, stay in the castle, while it lasted the mourning and had just done the survey and the partitions of the very short hacienda where they still played them very little.
After that period, Poldy felt forced out of the castle, and take firm resolve to live as you wish and with independence and propriety.
Such was the position of Poldy disappointed.
Only dark clouds, presaging storm discerned, to look in all directions in the horizon of life.
Only a dim light, vague, wandering, that it might be a star, but had more traces of deceptive wisp, illuminated occasionally the dark empty space of the sky.
Also had to comply Poldy twenty-nine years.
Was at the height of her beauty, the best and most glorious moment of spirited youth, and the rich imagination of dreams and the will moved and uplifted by powerful impulses tenderness.
VII Soon the snow disappeared, they heard the song of the lark, heated and poured over the sun clearer light, ran through the forest that surrounded the castle a vital aura and fertile upholstered floor is new and tender grass, and the shady groves and hollows in the banks of streams, flowers began to bloom early, topped with shyness in the aspens, and poplars mimbrones more sheltered from north winds, the first fresh leaves
