Who says extension-all, it contradicts the terms, and yet this is reduced to the view we're talking. [46.] If a room is reduced to nothing all that it contains, it seems that the walls can not be distant.
The idea of ??distance, including a medium between objects: nothing can not be a means, is nothing.
If the delay is nothing, no distance, they will be empty words.
To say that nothing can own property, to destroy all ideas, is to affirm the possibility of being and not being at the same moment, and thus subvert the foundations of human knowledge. [47.] To say that all content is annihilating negative space, is to play with words and leave standing the same difficulty.
This negative space is something or nothing, if anything, falls are fighting opinion, if anything, the challenge remains the same. [48.] If the answer is that in spite of not getting anything between the surfaces, they nevertheless left with the ability to contain, observe that this capability is not on the surfaces same, but the distances between: otherwise arranged in any way the surfaces always retain the same capacity, which is absurd.
We therefore advance a step: need to explain what that capacity, that distance, the question is still intact. [49.] Perhaps you could replicate that wiped contained within the surfaces, not volume is destroyed that form, and the idea of ??this volume enters the building.
But I reply that the idea of ??wrapping volume away, for if it does not exist, no volume, and there is no such distance, if distance is a mere nothing. [50.] Pondering to release these difficulties so hurry, think of a specific response at first sight, but well considered, is as futile as the others.
The distance, we say, is a sheer denial of contact, the denial is pure nothing, then we have nothing with this what we want.
I repeat that this solution is as futile as the other: for if the distance is nothing but the denial of contact distances no greater or less, all are equal; since in having denial of contact, and be all you can be.
The same exists denial of contact between two surfaces that are far each one millionth of a line like a million miles.
This denial then, nothing explains the same problem continues to exist. [51.] Far from the idea of ??distance can be explained by the contact, as its opposite, On the contrary, the contact can only be explained by the distance.
If you ask what is the proximity of two surfaces, as explained by the immediacy, we say that touch because there is nothing between the two, because there is no distance.
In the idea of ??contact the relative qualities do not come to the senses, nor of the action that one contiguous bodies can exert over another, such as momentum or compression: contiguity is a negative idea, purely geometrical: it contains nothing but denial away.
Contiguity has no more no less, for all that may be, it is enough that no distance is a real denial.
Two things can be more or less distant: but can not be played more or less, with respect to a same parties.
What can be is more contact points, but no further contact between the same points. [52.] Strive but the argument for the reality of space, on the assumption that are attributed to capacity and distance.
Within that space is not over: if space is nothing, nothing left.
I ask now: in the interior of the hollow sphere is it possible the movement?
It seems certain; there is no reason, there is a movable body, there is a greater extent than the body, no distance to go.
In addition, if the movement is not possible, it would be impossible also that the area is filled with any body, after being empty, and emptying into being full.
After assuming a hollow sphere, within it there can be movement.
Now, if the content space is a pure nothing, the movement is also nothing, and therefore does not exist.
If this is nothing, no mean nothing.
I do not know what to respond to all these good reasons in that axiom: nothing has no property. [53.] However great the difficulties are refusing to give the space a reality, I do not reach that can be as serious as those which militate against anything, on the assumption one wishes to grant extension.
Those, as we shall see, lie rather in certain problems born out of our way of thinking, that based on sound reasons; when we have just proposed are based on the ideas that underlie all knowledge: in that most unquestionable proposition: nothing has no properties.
If this proposition is not admitted as incontrovertible axiom goes awry all human knowledge, including the principle of contradiction: for obvious contradiction is that nothing has any property or parties, that nothing can say anything, that nothing can move anything that the idea of ??nothing can be founded a science as geometry, that refer to nothing all calculations are made on the nature.
OPINION Descartes and Leibniz, ON THE SPACE. [54.] If space is something, what is?
As soon as you see that if the space is the same extension of bodies, where there will be no blank body.
Then a vacuum is impossible.
This result is inevitable.
So two philosophers have thought so egregious as Descartes and Leibnitz, but do not know why both wanted to point out to the universe an indefinite extension.
It is true that this sort eluded difficult to imagine the spaces beyond the limits of the universe, then that if the universe is limited, there can be nothing out of bounds, and therefore everything We can imagine is within the universe.
But this is not to circumvent the difficulties but releasing them, for a review to avoid a hard drive, nothing is in favor of strength. [55.] According to Descartes the essence of body consists in extension, and as in space extension conceived out of necessity, it follows that body, extension and space, are three things essentially identical.
The vacuum as usually conceived, is an extension or space without a body, is something contradictory as that body is to assume, therefore that extension means, and no body, therefore it is supposed to removed.
Descartes simply accept the ultimate consequences of this doctrine.
Thus, proposing the difficulty Founded in which we imagine that God could remove all matter contained in a glass, staying the same shape of the glass, answered firmly that this is impossible. "For we can, he says, correcting an opinion so false, we see that there is no necessary link between the glass and body that you full, but it is so absolutely necessary between concave glass figure, and the extension must be included in this concavity, which there is more reluctance to conceive a mountain without a valley, that such an extension without the concavity it contains, and this extension without any extended thing, because it's nothing, as has been observed many times, can not have extension.
For which reason, if we are asked What would happen if God removed the whole body is in a glass, without allowing enter another answer to the sides of this vessel would be found so close, that would play immediately.
For two bodies must touch when there is nothing between them, it would be contradiction in these two bodies were apart, ie have distance from each other, and that this distance was not anything.
Distance is a extension property that can not exist without the extension "(Princ.
p. 2. § 18). [56.] If cinemas Descartes argued that space, because it contains real distances can not be a pure nothing, its reasoning would seem conclusive, but when he adds that the space is the body, for the reason that space extension and the extension is the essence the body, seat does not prove a thing.
They do not conceive or imagine body without extension, only follows that the extension is a property of the body, without which we will not conceive, but not that is its essence.
To be sure of this, it would be necessary as we have the idea of ??extension, the body we had also to see if among them are identity.
Born from the idea that body we have is a confused idea, as conceived as a substance that is a relationship with us, and because the impressions we call sensations.
And as we have shown above, the basis of feelings is the extension, this is the only conduit through which we put ourselves in relation to the body.
When this base we need, because without it, we have no body but a general idea of ??being, or of substance, not anything that characterizes and distinguishes him from the rest.
All these things are in the order of our ideas, but we can not infer that the bodies themselves did not actually nothing more than extension. [57.] With the same reasoning is destroyed the opinion of the infinite or indefinite extension.
Descartes unwrapping his doctrine on the idea of ??extension, said: "We will know too this world, or the extended matter that makes up the universe has no limits: because where we propose to pretend they want, we can imagine further, spaces indefinitely extended, not only imagine, but we conceive to be such in fact as we imagine; of luck containing an extensive body indefinitely, because the idea of ??extension which we conceive in all space, is the true idea that we have the body "(ib.
In this passage, but the error on the essence of bodies, there is free transit of a purely ideal, or rather imaginary, to a real order.
It is true that wherever I imagine the limits of the universe as an immense dome, denying, still imagine outside the dome new wastes of space that my fantasy is submerged, but this infer that the reality is as I imagine, does not seem very tight to the rules of sound logic.
If this is as clear as Descartes supposed, it is not just imagination, but concepcion based on clear and distinct ideas, how is that many philosophers are not at all this more than a game of imagination? [58.] Leibniz says that space is "a relation, an order, not only among existing things but among the possible, as if they exist "(New Essays on the understanding human, Lib. 2, chap. 13, § 17).
Cree also that the vacuum is impossible, but not based on the reason of Descartes.
Those who take the field and the extension for the same thing, pretend that interior walls of a hollow, empty body be touched, but the space between two bodies is sufficient to prevent mutual contact. "Theophilo.
I would argue the same way: when I not support empty distinction matter of extension, and I confess that if I had a vacuum in a sphere, so it would touch the opposites.
But I think that this case does not support the divine perfection "(ib. §. 21). [59.] I think that Leibniz makes in this passage a petition of principle.
Said that the Of course if the walls would not be touched, because the space between them sufficient to prevent it; but this is precisely what has to be proved: the actual existence of this space.
This is which denies Descartes. [60.] Comparing the views of Descartes and Leibniz, one can see that both agree to deny to space a reality distinct from the bodies, but based its opinion on matters very different.
Descartes puts the essence of the body in extension, where extension is body: where there is space extension: therefore there can be no vacuum.
Leibnitz not inherently create an empty capacity absurd, and if not supported, it is because, in his opinion, repugnant to the divine perfection.
The two famous philosophers came to the same starting point very different principles: Descartes lies in metaphysical reasons, based on the essence of things, Leibniz does not rely on the absolute essence, but in its relations with the perfection divine.
The empty capacity, was not contradictory feelings of Leibnitz, but as soon as opposed to optimism. [61.] Since it is rather remarkable that three such distinguished philosophers as Aristotle, Descartes and Leibniz, have agreed to deny the existence of this capability is called space considered as being different from the bodies, and which can exist without them.
The diversity of their opinions only proves that at the bottom of the matter is a difficult thing more serious than some ideologues seem to believe that so easily explain the idea space and their generation, as if it were simple things.
OPINION OF THE SPACE THAT ATTRIBUTED TO A DIFFERENT KIND OF BODIES. [62.] By the above considerations, it seems little short of demonstrating the contradiction enclosing a space-anything.
If it is a capacity, with dimensions that can actually measure, has real property, and therefore is not a pure nothing.
We have idea of ??space; it combines a science as true, as obvious as the geometry, this idea we is also necessary to design the motion.
This idea can not match a mere nothing. "The space will be somewhat different from the same extension of bodies?
In this opinion objetársele usually holds that space must be either body or spirit if not body is spirit, which is contradictory because it is essentially composed of parts, as space can not be simple and spirit.
Also, do not know the essence of the body, not the spirit, what we claim the right to assert that there is nothing in the universe than one of these extreme nature of which is unknown to us? [63.] Reply that there is middle ground between simple and compound, and not between the other and not, and that therefore there is no medium between the body that is composed, and spirit is simple.
I agree that there is no middle ground between simple and compound, and that everything that exists is one or the other, but not everything is composed of body, spirit and everything simple.
This proposition: "Every body is made" is not identical to this: "Each compound is body. "Then there may be compounds that are not bodies.
The composition, having parties, is a property of the body, but this is not its essence, or at least we know.
Moreover, assuming that space distinct from the body, yet true reality would pose serious substance indispensable, since they are not inherent to nothing. [65.] To explain what I have said that to be a simple thing need not be spirit, observe that: "Every spirit is simple" is not the same as "everything is simple spirit." Simplicity is necessary to the spirit, but not its essence.
We conceive extension still vague, but the imagination Not really.
Also imagine the same thing referring to a time that we figured before the creation of the world: if they try on something in the imagination for the many the world, would prove also for its eternity.
And here remember that the arguments with which I have fought the space-anything, do not lie in we imagine, but that is impossible for nothing is extension, or have any property.
This capital is the reason I challenged those who claim to be possible are designed and there are properties that are attributed to space, and yet space a pure nothing.
OPINION OF THOSE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE SPACE IS the immensity of God. [67.] Overwhelmed by some philosophers such serious difficulties, unable to reconcile with the anything that actually offered us space, nor conceive any created thing, immobility, infinity, perpetuity and imagined space, have said that the space was the very immensity of God.
This at first sight seems an absurd extravagance, but but then prove the falsity of this opinion, it is necessary to do justice not only straight to the intention of those who have sustained, healthy and sought explanations that take hand, but also the reason that led to such an extent, by the way, but nothing solid, Nor is negligible. [68.] Here is how to reason in favor of this opinion.
Before God nourishing the world, there was space.
It is conceivable that there are bodies without extending space.
Before there, we think that capacity that can be placed: then the space is eternal.
No movement out of space, and in the first instant of being raised bodies, were unable to move and move.
Although not involve more than one body in the world could move, and this movement may extend to infinity.
If God annihilate the whole universe, at least one body, this body could also move in all directions, extended to infinity.
If it were then reduced to nothing the one body, the extension would stay in that movie: it could create new bodies, new worlds.
Then the space is indestructible.
An eternal, infinite, indestructible, can not be raised, then the space is uncreated.
Then it is God himself.
Then must be God as we understood with relation to the extension, then the space is the immensity of God.
The vastness is that attribute by which God is everywhere: this attribute is the relationship says to the Chapter.
Adopted this theory there is no objection to the space infinite, eternal, indestructible. [69.] This opinion is against him, which destroys the simplicity of God.
If the space is a property of God, God himself, because everything in God is God.
Then, being essentially extended space, God is also extensive.
Clarke saw the force of this argument, force also made him feel the argument Leibnitz opponent, but responds to it in a very weak.
Says that space has parts, but not separate.
