When some Spanish, especially Andalusian or Castilian, he asked for relief Salcedo it gave him what he could out of the mine in a certain number of hours.
The gift matter almost always at least the value of a bar, representing two thousand dollars.
Soon the Catalan, Galician and Basques living in the ore came into strife with the Andalusian, Spanish and Creole favored by Salcedo.
Bloody battles were with varied success, until the viceroy Don Diego de Benavides, Count of Santisteban, instructed Bishop of Arequipa, Fray Juan de Almoguera, the pacification of the mineral.
Supporters Salcedo defeated the troops of the bishop, the mayor badly wounded fighting Peredo.
In these battles, being the lead of low-Salcedo, melted silver bullets.
No will tell you not to kill luxury.
So, death occurred in Lima Santisteban, and the Royal Court took office.
The governor appointed to Laycacota it, seeing no strength to enforce its authority, handed over the command of Don Jose Salcedo, who accepted the title of chief justice.
Audience impotent and temporized pleaded with Salcedo, who, fearing new attacks by the Basques, raised and armed a fortress on the hill.
In truth, the audience was very serious then to deal with riots that the governor promoted in Chile Meneses and the tremendous and vast conspiracy of the Inca Bohorques discovered in Lima almost to bursting, and that led to the chief and his lieutenants the scaffold.
The order was completely restored in Laycacota, and all the neighbors were happy good governance and chivalry of the chief justice.
But in 1667, the Court had to recognize the new Viceroy arrived from Spain.
This was the Count de Lemos, boy of thirty-three, who, according to historians, only missing Jesuit cassock to be complete.
In about five years of command, shone little as administrator.
Their companies were limited to sending, but without success, a strong squad in pursuit of the buccaneer Morgan, who had burnt Panama, and seize on the shores of Chile Henry Clerk.
One year after its destruction by the Buccaneers (1670), the former Panama, founded in 1518, he moved to where it is today.
Two ravenous fire one in February 1737 and another in March 1756, turned into ashes two-thirds buildings, among which some had to be monumental, judging from the ruins still attract the attention of travelers.
The Viceroy Conde de Lemos was distinguished only by their devotion.
It is often seen sweeping the floor of the church of the Forsaken, playing her organ, and making the craft of singing in the solemn Sunday Mass and be given three of the gossip pickles of the nobility, which he considered such an act unworthy of a grandee of Spain.
Ordered the viceroy, under penalty of imprisonment and fine, nobody paints could cross site be pressed, they all kneel at the sound of prayers, and chose to sponsor a their children to cook the convent of San Francisco, who was a black man with a mug of Jerne and reputation of sanctity.
For each individual in those who were executed, sent to celebrate thirty masses, and consecrated by at least three hours a day to pray the Little Office and the rosary, confession and communion every morning, and attending the Jubilee celebration as much as religious or distribution he announced.
Have never seen such splendid processions in Lima as then, and Lorente, in History, brings the description of one who moved from palace to the Homeless, giving long detour, a statue of Mary that the viceroy had brought specially from Zaragoza.
Arco was at that party whose value was estimated at over two hundred thousand dollars, such was the profusion jewels and gold and silver pieces that adorned him
