Had home, despite no winery and cellar, but the rest almost as good as Don Paco.
Devoid of olive groves and vineyards, but had made some nest egg, which, as the public voice, spent twelve thousand pieces, and they grew like wildfire, because the revenue was given to very reliable people, and ten percent a year, because as a woman was afraid God consciousness very close and very charitable, I did not go through usurious.
In its various offices, Juana la Larga earned on average, and according to calculations wise, about eight reales per day, or tell yourself about three thousand each year.
And this without counting the adehalas, tips, gifts and receiving gifts often.
It is true that each and she deserved more.
No one was more calculated to lead a pigs.
Marinating with that prepared the loins before frying in butter was tasty and delicate, and dyed red butter golden bewitching sight, was delicate perfume and aroused the appetite of the person coming through half-hearted when their noses and their eyes.
Their sausage, black pudding, sausage morcones and left far behind the best in this genus is seasoned in Extremadura.
And he was so skilled hand for all that even when melt the butter drew the most crunchy snacks that are eaten pork rinds ever.
So the rich peasants and other people comfortably and tastefully vied Juana la Larga to go to their house to do the killing.
Regarding baking was nothing less, and most of the year, particularly in three solemn times, she knew not how to go to a thousand places where they called it: Before Easter Christmas, to make the sweets and delicacies and wealthy people often sybaritic then send your gift to make, for example, pastries and the famous picadillo empanadas with anchovies and tomato and onion that are taken there with the chocolate.
It was also, as anyone polvorones tortillas and sugar that were left far behind commended as Moron, donuts egg and wine, and many variety of cakes and syrups.
If Jane did not know much about other things, had failed to ensure that was a specialty wonderful for fritters, so that in the days leading up to Easter no peace was at hand or the mind, going to the homes of older brothers of the fraternities to make the fluffy flakes, the gajorros and delicious fritters, which fell apart in the mouth and with which the apostles were given away, the Nazarenes, the holy King David and all other prophets and glorious characters of the Old and New Testament contained delicious processions in which there is style.
Juana was not idle or lacked appropriate skills to use it in the station vintage.
Their syrup had no rival in the whole region, and the same can be said its excellent porridge must.
In the fall, because when given the best fruits, are castrated hives and honey is cool, Juana was used to make quince jelly and apple variety of legitimate and fluffy nougat piñonates, which were thick and gold beads linked with the fragrant honey well beaten.
Beyond this, Jane was painted alone to provide any or banquet that was Pipiripao or wanted to give a ruler of the people, and on the occasion of wedding or baptism, and to give away the deputy governor, Mr Bishop himself if he came to visit the villa.
And do not think that Joan knew just making the local dishes but also imported and added a few non-indigenous cuisine dishes strangers more or less distant countries, dishes or delicacies which stood out the yolk very famous cakes, which were only Ecija nuns, whose traditional secrecy is not clear why prodigious art or skill she had learned to seize.
For example, the balsamela chops, fried flounder and elvers inglatines with salmorejo tartar.
This was not the most admirable.
The most remarkable was that Jane, about being the wiser cook and pastry chef of the place, was also his first dressmaker.
Almost always had one or two officers who sewed for her, and she cut dresses with both art and elegance as Worth or Doucet in the French capital.
The women and girls more affluent and fond of luxury came then to Joan for their Costumes effort, when he had to wear them as a wedding, and at a fair or already in the dance it used to be in the Hall buildings on the patron saint.
Juana, finally, was not only wise and active in the arts of pleasure, but also exercised, although it was not discussed or had a title, a necessary or profession of the highest importance social.
Peritísima and agilísima was to help any woman in the harshest of Lucina trances, and many trusted and were delivered to her, because she never had any unfortunate creature, and because the mother was not very puny, six or seven days after leaving care was already in place, and often went to Mass, and if the opportunity arose danced bolero.
With all these skills and qualities, Juana's Long could not but be dear and in Villalegre, getting your severe and high society or high-life you have forgiven a slip or trip that took in his youth.
IV At the time that it will begin the action of this true story, Jane was about quite forty years of age, although still retained traces of its former beauty, who had been noticeable when she was twenty, but as time was very poor and had not discovered and showed their great skills, he found, despite their merit, boyfriend of his choice, and had to remain unmarried.
I was pulled high on the occiput, in braids, which tied then, was a bun in the shape of equilateral triangles, which played in one corner.
Ahead, collected hair, showed that forehead, straight, petite, and the temples had large curls fork held there called snails, below which was a patillita soft, not fixed against the face with psyllium or quince seeds, as do other girls, but left to float freely rather vague rings or hooks where hanging hearts
