As Palomino to write the life of Velázquez declares that it is the main thing John de Alfaro, and then at the latter says that "left in his plundering some books and papers very courtiers, among them some notes on the life of Velázquez, his teacher, "and as In addition, Fray Francisco de los Santos was not a paragon of literary integrity, was excusable that is easily believed in the authenticity of the booklet, but these considerations lose all his strength to think for delivery in the monastery of pictures that were already known, Velazquez did not need to write a critical study: it was enough time for such a list explain to the men what they received, and which knew the King who had been their orders fulfilled.
The painted by Velazquez, from the turn of the second trip to Italy, already bears the personal stamp, unmistakable, revealing the full development of his native powers, and the greatest of experience, skill and expertise he acquired over the years.
In this period of his life are two bust portraits of Philip IV, one in the National Gallery London in a black suit with gold embroidery, and Madrid [71] where the doublet, also black this orphan ornaments, without further notice on it clearly highlight the white canvas smooth and stiff the flange that separates the face.
The King's fifty years, and perhaps even pass them: the face is withered, flabby flesh, the eyes have lost their vividness: the face we saw in the great equestrian portrait appears before the aged, tired, sad, as if it will mark not only over time, but the bitter sediment in the soul had left him lost so much land and so many glories overshadowed: already in the old sad and disappointed that hearing himself called the great had to know it was a lie.
The cold blue eyes as incurable melancholy tempered by the weak, no energy to fuel the lymphatic and flabby face where the jaw typical root out feels more pronounced than ever and full lips, sexy, still very red, betray appetite which was the master of your body.
That face, comically serious, serious without Majesty is one of those pieces in which the painter, both in reality made by copying, As for leaving logically deduce the imagination, touch the limits of what can get the art.
Velázquez did more than reproduce what he saw, he was not attributable purpose unrelated to the ideas of his time, but noted with such insight, his eyes squinted so deep, that formed a portrait process.
In no time the King must have had so long before, because if you notice that some lines are surprised to suddenly hitting the first attempt, others seem corrected, found after halting trials, but resulting in a set in which are mixed knowledge and ease, the innate ability and the fruit of experience.
He has not missed, however, who cast doubt on the authenticity of this portrait: Armstrong says that he looks like a painted copy, no doubt, the study of the teacher, and whosoever you think to ask: by whom?
Neither Mazo, or Rici or Carreño, were capable of such mastery.
A Queen Mariana of Austria Velázquez painted four times.
First, in the canvas appears today in the Louvre, [72] after one that is in the Imperial Gallery of Vienna [73] and then in both of Madrid, [74] where he stands with rich black dress laced with silver, huge wig of long curls, white feather headdress, brutally imprisoned body the gossip and the left hand a white handkerchief, towering over the voluminous flared skirt and rigid.
Just between these two portraits difference that the various dimensions of the curtain that serves as background to the figure but the number 1079, seems to be made later, as if repetition of the first and executed more disengage and promptly.
The Infanta Margarita María, first fruit of the marriage of Philip IV with tiesísima lady who just mentioned, is portrayed by Velázquez in Vienna to two or three years, with rich red suit and silver [75] and six or seven in a suit very similar to has on the painting Las Meninas: [76] in the Louvre [77] of four or five, dressed in white with black lace, and in Frankfurt at six or seven of gray and black, being in all these images because we do not have the apocryphal, one of the most sympathetic Velázquez plotted.
His face is gordinfloncillo, the yellowish-blond hair, cold air washout and stopped, but it is nice, almost pretty, because it has the charm of innocence and candor, the children she triumphs in the type of the breed is so young that have not yet purchased packaging which disfigures the ladies of his lineage.
The galas are adorned with this form ugly and only tolerated by the harmonies of color and wonder of implementing squandered Velazquez to paint those tissue, tulle, ribbons, bows, jewels and feathers, rustling, shine and curl as if the moving air. [Image: LOUVRE MUSEUM The Infanta Margarita FRAME.
Braun, Clement & C ª] One of the most beautiful pictures that belong to this period of life of the teacher is the cataloged at the Museum with the number 1,084, and offers the particularity of being made head so far below the rest of the figure.
Don Pedro de Madrazo explains this double aspect of the execution, saying that the sitter is Dona Maria Teresa of Austria's daughter Felipe IV, from his first marriage, that Velázquez had painted the head before taking the second trip to Italy, according to his way then, leaving broken and that later, back, finish it in his later years, when it comes to marriage of the Infanta to Louis XIV of France. "That explains why - he says - a portrait executed in general with such freedom and sobriety so wise and so it belongs to last and best time of Velázquez, representing themselves as a child of ten years, which was already about twenty, when the great artist painted of the wonderful and unique way. " Explains Justify the above inequality, saying that the portrait is Dona Maria Teresa, but its sister, the Infanta Margarita, daughter of the second marriage of Philip IV, adding that as the whole picture is less head Velázquez, this might be repainted, that is, replaced by a different artist, now dead master, when negotiating the marriage of Doña Margarita taking thirteen.
Beruete, on grounds which are not lacking in strength as the disproportion between the chair and figure as before, he says, should be smaller, and the execution of the head, it attaches to Deck, shares the view of Justice.
