Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being seen.
I was all for it, and it all for me.
It seemed too good to Dona Francisca, when up came, smothered the endless stairs and if he felt bad, careful not to show it, abdicating in all their will and opinions.
So I thought, and if you have something else, I wash my hands. - Two real, two ...
You have said ...
But who told him the address of the new home?
Please view, back to consciousness. - Lady and Madame - Ponte said desencasquetándose hat with great difficulty -.
Caballero I am and I know how to deal with price of elegant ladies, but as of this has left the absurd species, I come to ask for explanations.
The other day was for you empresses and now ... - And now - Ponte said, trembling at the strong accent of Juliana, as wind whipped cane -.
I do not disrespect the ladies.
Obdulia is a lady, Doña Francisca another lady.
But these ladies ladies ...
I have been slandered, I have hurt my feelings more pure claiming that I made the cut to Benina ...
and that required at rogue loves to by me and me missing the loyalty owed to the gentleman from Saudi ... - If we do not have said such nonsense! - All Madrid repeats ...
Here in these rooms came the unworthy species.
They accuse me of an infamous crime: having laid eyes on an angel, white wings celica purity immaculate.
Know that I respect the angels, if Nina was mortal creature, would not have respected, because I'ma man ...
I have tasted blondes and brunettes, married, widows and maids, Spanish and Parisian, and no I have resisted, because I deserve it ...
But I have not seduced angels, nor the allure ...
The Nina is not of this world ...
Nina belongs to the sky ...
Dressed in poverty has begged to keep you and me ...
and women that do, I do not seduce, I can not seduce her, I can not woo ...
My beauty is human, and divine it; My face is splendid mortal flesh, and it's light blue ...
No, no, I have not seduced was not mine, is of God ...
And I tell you, Curra Juarez, Ronda, to you, now can not move, what you weighed in the ingratitude body ...
Yo, I am grateful I'm a boom, and flight ...
You, being ungrateful is lead, and is crushed against the ground ...
Mother and daughter distraught, screaming for help from neighbors.
Presented themselves doormen and neighbors, attracted to the uproar, and saw many people gathered, the four women went to the landing of steps to explain that this man had lost his mind, the more chips attentive and courteous person in the world, the most importunate and shameless.
Frasquito fell limp to the next plateau: there he stood, looking up, and said: "Ungrateful, ingrrr ...».
Wanted end of the word, and a violent contortion denounced the futility of their efforts.
Of His mouth did not go more than a hoarse roar, as if invisible hand strangle him.
Were all to be decomposed horribly factions, eyes popped out of the helmet, mouth approached one ear ...
distressing, and collapsed at once.
In the fall of his body shook from top to bottom all the flimsy ladder.
Subiéronle four to the house to provide relief, he did not need the unhappy.
If you fell under the hands of Zapata family would have played more stem family rule, or an island, or state, would have gone very graceful.
In the island of Dona Francisca established with a firm hand to normal a month after wielded the reins, and all went right there and no one dare not put rebullía question their irrevocable mandates.
True that to get this beautiful result used pure absolutism, the regime of terror, his genius did not admit even timid comments: His law was his holy will, his logic, the stick.
In the anemic character of the mother and the children are not coming bad this system, tested and Antonio with happy success.
Came to exercise such dominion over Dona Francisca, the poor widow would not even pray the Our Father without asking your permission to the dictator, and even warned before sighing, as so often did, watching her as if to say: "No I will carry the wrong way a little sigh. " In all was obeyed blindly by Juliana Mom politics, except one thing.
Mandábale that was not always sad, and although the slave responded with statements of compliance, it was put to see that the order was not fulfilled.
Entered, So Zapata's widow in prosperous normal existence with his head down, the droopy eyes, looking vaguely lost in the drawings of the mat, the body lounging, fond every day with the indolence, the decadent appetite, moody and surly mood, ideas black.
Fifteen days after settling in the street Dona Francisca de Orellana, who judged the bossy His power would be more effective and better governed the family would live together: general and subordinates.
Trasladose, then, and there was putting his humble furnishings, and their kids, and the mistress, for which previously made hole, throwing out the sea of ??plant pots and vases, and putting in the street to Daniela, who in fact served no more than a hindrance.
A functions Chancellor of the girl soon added, and vanity of her mother and sister.
Thus all stayed home.
But as there is no complete happiness in this naughty world, a month or so, the move, indicated in the ephemeris zapatescas by the disastrous death of Frasquito Ponte Delgado, Juliana began to suffer strange changes in your health.
Which by its lush had shown strength in comparison to the mules, was the folly of suffering as contrary to their natural perfect balance.
Nervous and gusts humbugs hysteria, disorders that Juliana had laughed more than once, attributing them to fuss women and self-perceived mimosas, which, she said, husbands cured syrup ash.
Juliana began badly for insomnia rebels got up every morning without slept a wink, a few days of insomnia began to lose their appetite, and, finally, not Sleeping added fearful and anxious fears at night, and a melancholy day black, heavy, funereal.
The worst thing for the family was that with these annoying alifafes not attenuated the absolute ruler of the tyrant, but it was getting worse.
Antonio was proposing to remove walk, walk and she sent him a hundred thousand pairs of demons.
Finally, his hysterical obsessions were condensed into one, on the idea that twins not in good health.
Worth anything extraordinary evidence of the robustness of the children.
With care around them, and lengthy and meticulous care in put conservation, resented, made them mourn.
At night we threw the bed ensuring creatures that swam in blood, their throats slit by a murderer invisible.
If coughing, was that drowning, if they ate poorly, was that they had been poisoned.
One morning he got out, with a shawl and headscarf, and went to neighborhoods Benina looking South, with whom he was to speak.
And by God did not spend a few hours to find it, because they no longer lived in Santa Casilda, but in the fifth hell, that is in Toledo road on the left of the bridge.
There he found irksome after investigations, whirling and detours for those lost villages.
He lived alone with I dwell in a house, which looked more like hut, located on the grounds that dominate the road to the south.
Almudena was improving of the disgusting skin disease, but still looked his masked face nasty scab: never left the house, and was all alone Happy Birthday to earn a living begging in San Andrés.
Juliana little surprised not to see it in looks good health, and also happy, calm the spirit, and well established in the foundation conformity with their lot. "I come to quarrel with you, Sena Benina - said sitting on a stone in front of the shack next to the trough in which the poor woman washed, at a respectful distance from the blind, echadito in the shade -.
Yes, ma'am, because you got to go pick up the leftovers in our home, and did not seem that way, nor have we seen him hair. - Well, I say, Madam Juliana - said Nina -.
Well I that blessed charity to D.
I've met in San Andres, where it says Mass ...
Yes, ma'am, D.
Romualdo, who is a saint, so you know ...
And I am sure After much thought, other than the D.
Romualdo that I invented, but one that looks like seem to him as two drops of water.
Invent a few things that come after truth, or truths, prior to truth, a guess, lies are too fat ...
But something more had to say: "I am indebted to you, Benin, because my mother arranged for political, who rule with a silk thread, I point out to you two reales a day ...
As no We have seen it anywhere, I could meet you, but I weigh, I weigh in actual consciousness both day and bring them here in fifteen pesetas, making the whole month, Sena Benina. - Well, I take it, yes indeed - said Nina joyful -, that this is nothing to sneeze ...
They come to me pesetillas such as falls from heaven, because I have a debt to the Pitusa, Midi Street Grande, and we fixed what was giving me collect, and peseta to drive revenue.
