It was red and barbipuntiagudo, with lenses that appeared to have taken root at the top of his nose.
They always called phrenologists care by a special configuration that shone through what he exquisite smell called moral.
For science were magnificent specimen of study, a treasure for the masses were simply great.
But most of his complexion table was nervous condition suffering, it did not go two minutes without him to do so many violent grimaces that respect only to such a high person did not die of laughter who observed him.
Her dress was treated lesson or home economics.
Describe how various cuts vests to always look fashionable, not feathers vulgar company.
As to his hat, just say it was a problem of longevity.
Talisman is not known what had the Duke so that not an atom of dust, not a drop of stained water never their immaculate hair.
Add to this that was always a profound mystery unchanged health Whale of an umbrella that I met him a lifetime, and what better than the Observatory could account for all the storms that have happened in twenty years.
With regard to the gloves, which had walked in Madrid for five Aprils his emaciated yellowing may ensure that domestic alchemy took much part in that miracle.
In addition, Duke had a very special way to put your hands, and to this, more than anything, should the life everlasting those items that he, using one of his favorite figures, called the buskin of hands.
Can form an idea of ??gait in mind that the boots I visited three years followed, after three lifts, and only to a system of transportation so ingenious as wise be life stages that had the who, availing ourselves of the rhetoric of the Duke, we quirotecas call the toes.
Used jewelry, many rings, always preferring one, where an emerald the size rampant half-penny, so deformed that seemed false, and it was indeed, as witness the most respected chroniclers of the house of Cantarranas have written.
Queen not the same uniformity of opinion, and yet are very different versions in regard to some string that beautify his waistcoat, as though all agree that double was there who claims to be jewelry family, and have belonged to a baron of the house, who was viceroy of Naples, where bought a Genoese by a thick handful of maravedises.
Ran, with hints of a very authoritative voice of the Duke of Cantarranas was a cheesy (and we can write the palabrilla without remorse, thanks to the leniency of the Dictionary Academy), but this only serves to prove that the shots were struck envy always at the top, the same way that hurricanes do most damage in the corpulent oaks.
But out came a time when some day, because his coat had discovered astronomy vulgar do not know what spots.
In this it resembled the sun, but, strange phenomenon, was a sun looked not only at night.
He frequented several gatherings, drinking coffee, going three times year to the theater, walking in winter and in summer the Prado in the Mountain, and retired to his home after a chat with the watchman.
The nature of his talent inclined to contemplation.
In this, it's strength confess that I lived a bit atrasadillo, but the big mills have this advantage over the common people, that is, may stay where it suits them, beating the waves revolutionary, which also carries the letters.
For him, the novels of Mad.
Were Genlis the prototype, and always believed that neither old nor modern Zanchetta had come to Mad.
de Staël in your Corina.
He did not like much, although it's held in high esteem, La Nouvelle Heloise, Rousseau, because he said his scholarly and philosophical pretensions partly attenuated pure sentimental charm of the action.
But what were pulled from their boxes Nights Young, translated by Escoiquiz, and he plunged into that ocean of sadness, identifying thereby with the character, who sometimes found him in the morning pale, exhausted and without being able to utter words that were not dreary and bleak as a dirge.
In his conversation was left to see this influence, because the hardware used often rhetorical figures their favorite authors had been deposited in the brain.
Your favorite image was the willow between plants, and quail among vertebrates.
When he saw a fig tree, called willow, poplar were all for him cypress antojábansele pigeons and chickens were not linnet or lark to him with the force of his imagination, not exchange in nightingale.
More than one I heard him name his servant Pamela, and I know that only stopped calling his laundress Clarisa Sena Clara, when she said that did not like the nicknames verifications.
Suffice it to say that his advice had the force of law and their opinions were so critical that they never appealed the August court of public opinion.
For that I quoted, together with the other three characters will describe later, to appreciate my obrilla.
This was an ill-conceived and worse novel basting, unable, therefore, of men with many that, by so many illustrious mills produced, currently elevate points in this lucky country.
After the four illustrious senators who were my audience were placed well in their chairs, I took heart of grace, coughed, look around anxiously, I breathed hard, and low voice, trembling, began this way: "Chapter One .-- Alejo was a young pretty ugly, son of honest parents, child study of healthy and very honest habits, poor solemnity, and good as an apple.
Boxed lived in his attic, and from there watched the sparrows who were to stand in the fireplace and cats that frolic through the roof.
Occasionally looked at the sky, and from time to time to the earth, view, and the stars, and cabs.
Alejo was studying law, which I was very bored and had no more distracting than look out the window of his hovel.
Yes, I'm going to describe it. "Imagine holding a four dirty walls sloping ceiling, through which water Winter slips by countless leaks.
Rags in a manner of a blue paper hanging of the walls and the bed, tucked in a corner, was parallel to the ceiling, that is, inclined by foot.
A table was not complete, held barely two dozen great books used, an inkwell and a hat.
There were two narrow consortium slippers in very poor state, with a guitar, which had fled in haste to the four strings, leaving one, that was accompanied by some streak Alejo knew from early childhood.
There alternated two and a half pairs of gloves ripped, the remains of a conquest, with a jar of shoe polish and a bottle of eau de Cologne, to which the vagaries of fate became bottle of ink, after being long oil cruet.
Of invalid hung a coat hanger, a holster militia (1854), two striped vests and a belt embodied seemed rope.
A nail holding the hat belonging to the previous generation, and kept in a trunk their dens a few pieces of clothing, in which the patches, though many and various, not were so numerous nor so picturesque as the holes are not patched. "But asomémonos to the window.
Since it is the roof opposite, with dormers, fireplaces and misifuces.
Below you can see the third floor of the house further down view, second, and finally the principal.
Alejo continually looked the other thing, containing the close.
We say what was it?
Yes, I dare. "From above, Alejo eyes devoured a big black hair, splendid, profuse, a river of hair, as my illustrious friend Cantarranas. (Upon hearing this analogy that I surrendered public tribute of admiration for the enlightened hero, he bowed and blushed modestly a crumb.) Under these hairs, Alejo admired a white arch-shaped crescent: was the front, since such a high point of view affect this particular form.
The nose beard and the tip only looming.
But what could eventually be full, magnificent, were shoulders, admirable human sculpture shows that the fabric could not hide.
Gently hair fell on his back, the color of his face looked like the same marble, and there was no Gooseneck whiter, airy and soft, and his breast like that, it seemed have come together all pleasures.
The grace of his movements was such that to our young it melted the brain always believed that saluting a passerby or to the friend opposite.
When he was not placed on the balcony, the voices of a magnificent piano led, changed into harmonies, to the Razorfen of poor student.
If not admired, I heard: that power you love that uses all the senses to consolidate their hold treacherous.
never in the long space of three years looked up at Alejo's nest, do not observe that ugly thing from so high looking at her and listened to the pure fervor of idealism. "Let us add that Alejo was shortsighted: the studio and watching this weakness had increased not allowed to distinguish three on a donkey.
Fortunately, the author of this book has a view admirable, and, therefore, can be seen from the attic of Alejo what he could not: the lady, as he was in his real form, stripped of all the charms that the fancy of had covered a myopic, the stains that dotted the pretty face clouded after their last birth, one could see (and this was to collect data that provided some girl) be that surprising that hair had intervened, God willing, that created do not know what head, and then a very skilled stylist who fixed it to the lady.
Also note that there was not as graceful as her waist from the boreal regions of Alejo seemed and the nose was tinged with a rosy light, not enough to disguise its magnitude.
As for the piano, I'd swear the lady played in three years other than a pot-pourri that began at Standard and ended in Bluebeard, extravagant piece he had composed his inability what you heard the teacher, and finally, with respect to the breast, would be able to bet ... " I stopped coming here.
Since I read it on the stains, I noticed some murmurs bad content.
Were in crescendo, till it came to that passage, an exclamation horror took my word and made me stop reading.
Cantarranas was nervous, the poet and fanned herself with rage, blind anger, and made a basilisk.
I do not know if I said that one of the four people in my audience, was a poet.
I think when the time to describe this illustrious female.
II Which passed through literate very learned and very famous all over the world, having written several volumes of poetry, and scrawled in all albums madrigals of humanity.
Fulfilling certain physiognomic mysterious law, she was blonde like all poets, and obeying the same fate, high and bony.
The adorned a very pointed and sharp nose and a mouth made to order for breathe through it, because their bodies were not breathing the easiest and most expeditious.
I do not know What were his works, always bearing the stamp of his nose, a vision that chased me in dreams several nights, and the same effect of causing me nightmares as long as two reefs little vegetation, that temple again and hung.
As the suit, betrayed, was easy to assume his body and as thin, and poor little amojamado Safos than is customary.
He once lived in a place with a journalist provincial, and there spent by husbands.
She calls Columns legs of the social order, which was nothing but graceful figure of speech, which covered his mortal aversion to sewing pants.
She did not get the points to the socks, because, shortly strong in all kinds of spellings, always had the mouth that wise maxim: do not live bread alone, maxim that he wanted to hide his complete ignorance on casseroles.
The novel was his passion: the melodrama of her husband's newspaper, published a it, but enemy to lavish praise, described as a pyramid.
I read three pages, and I confess that I found it very Catholic.
She also wrote another called eminently moral.
I did not moralizing reading it, and gave the copy to my servant, which I do not know who removed him.
Suffice to reiterate the reverence that filled me with the said lady for their competence in the art of novel.
I had said repeatedly that he wanted to instill some of his high principles, and to this end as inexorable judge was attending to the reading.
The good of the poet was shocked to see the turn that I gave to the action.
Rabidly idealistic, and was intended to demonstrate his curls and his nose could not tolerate a fiction enter fictional ladies were not the same beautiful, handsome young men who were not chivalry in person.
You certainly write to vulgar people and no finesse, not distinguished spirits.
Later returned to the attic, the Young put a note tied around his neck, and the bird carried it to the lady.
After the poet was shown in all its splendor, decorated with gallantry from style, incomparable wit, then let me run and shameful for the difference resulting from the wonderful inventiveness and the dry, barren and birth of my caletre emaciated, How had I dared to continue reading
