I'll never love anyone !...» La, beautiful young lady looked down and sighed sadly.
Do not know what to say and I was watching her.
After a short silence, during which I was dominated by the sovereign beauty the girl muttered: - Gabriela ....
And reborn in this poor suffering soul flowers of hope.
Gabriela lifted her graceful head, and his eyes fixed on me.
An image that leaves my memory suddenly appeared before my eyes ....
So, so many times I looked beautiful blond girl, the subject of my first love ....
Gabriela left the book in his hands and walked slowly to one end of the room, opened the piano, and called me, saying: - Have you heard this sonata?
At the end of the piece was Don Carlos: - Come on, buddy: a game of chess ....
No I spent a moment without thinking about it.
It was for me to light, joy, joy juvenile first suction love child illusion that I thought lost forever, and suddenly appeared before me, hope that ill-fated life drunk shook his wings into the background my heart, reanimated by the light blue eyes of the girl.
And it must be said, though no one created, but these pages make readers smile: I was not in love with Gabriel, no, my heart was Linilla, the tender orphan loving, that there, in a corner of the Sierra, lived with me in mind ....
I did not know what force Gabriela was dragging me mysterious. "Her beauty, elegance, discretion, the fraternal I love to make out?
I tried to control myself, I decided, even in exchange for Gabriela believe me rude, to flee her, and showed me several days surly and sullen.
I passed me at the desk hours of rest, pretending to extraordinary occupations, or I would I, as escaped, to wander the plain or lie on the grass under the trees of river.
Several times I caught lady to show me their drawings, and a beautiful watercolor painted on my gift: a bouquet violets put on a wine glass and took me to go to his call.
LVI A weekend I received a letter from Aunt Pepa.
It told me that the patient had suffered horrible attack, that the doctor was very alarmed and worried, and that things went wrong, badly. "I want you here, if a misfortune, to accompany me and help me.
Juana does everything.
If he were here would not be so great my concern.
Why not come, Sarmiento said that so good, that the danger is past, and, God willing, there to fear a misfortune, for now.
But I see things differently: Carmen will not last much, that is not live, and I see every day weaker and fall.
Before eating very well, but now takes a long time I take one thing, a triumph cost to accept medicines.
Consider me: I'm very heartbroken, just sleep, and live in constant anxiety.
Don Roman came to me, and also your friend Don came Quentin.
I asked if anything could be useful to me and if I needed anything.
A gave me so much anger, I realized that only by knowing the truth out and had come.
It stayed here more than three quarters of an hour, talking like a parrot.
If they return, that they will not, will stay in the room, and nothing in this life I'll leave to enter the chamber. "Do not worry or fret, if you write something serious to come.
Shoot me has offered me the truth.
Going to preach a new parent.
They say it very well. "The seven words "are going to be magnificent.
In the house of Castro Pérez are testing the 'Stabat Mater. "But none of that I'll go.
Poor Andrew comes every night, then you close your tent, and twice he was here to accompany me.
The family went to Villaverde, and only stayed the foreman on the ranch, I, and Mauritius, the groom, a very nice guy and very helpful.
Went to the city every day, early morning, to bring me news of the sick.
The danger was over, Aunt Carmen improved, and the letters I received were satisfactory.
I ran home for it, I would I wander through the garden, figuring he would find there, and I took turns to my room disconsolate and afflicted.
The piano, the drawing board, newspapers Gabriela read and plants that she cultivated me talking about the young, and alone in the room, I was pleased I remember his words, close your eyes to set in my mind the image of the girl.
And yet make sure my heart was Angelina because the voices in my dreams, Gabriela did not see me, but Linilla; to Linilla watching me sadly, as if to say: Ungrateful!
That was madness, a delusion, something like a spell that dominated me and I had.
I said to myself: Gabriela Are you in love? ...
And my heart answered no, no!
I never would have dared to whisper in their ears loving phrase, never have been able to say :--«¡ Gabriela ...
I live for you! "No, because I loved to Linilla, for she dreamed I said and fortune, when I thought it in the silence of the night, leaning on the balcony, I pondered the future.
I even happened if my wishes were realized, if one day I was given Linilla carry the foot of the altar, Gabrielle and Carlos apadrinarían our wedding.
I thought not, and if you ever came to such an idea occurred to the I took it from my mind as a thought criminal.
But I can not hide his joy that fills my mind to see Gabriela, to be by her side, talking with her on the table or in the room, and sadness that gripped my mind when I looked away from the charming Miss was evidence that was lit in my heart love irresistible. "No, - I said - no, must stifle this passion was born and it just burns me.
I I took refuge in the memory of Angelina, as in a port Savior, I repeated a thousand times as she had told me, his words more tender his most painful, the expressions that had penetrated more deeply in my heart and when I felt victorious and boasted of having triumphed in myself, the voice of Gabriela, the echo of his piano, the sound of her skirt, the smell of his clothes, anything I own did shake, and I felt weak as a child, powerless to resist a glance, the most indifferent, his blue eyes.
So - I thought - I'll save, not I can never tell that I love. "You, my dear, loving friend - I would say - you know, before anyone else, that the happiness of this young man who is and has been very unfortunate, encrypts all my dreams, my hopes!
I'm far from it, far away, long ago I do not see, and I need to hear his name, that one need know that I love, the love !...» But reaching the desired time, and my lips remained mute, and the heart wanted to jump out chest.
LVII From time to time, after office, we went for a walk along the river to the fields sugar cane, to the picturesque foothills of nearby hill, sometimes acaballo, the most on foot.
Mauricio Pepillo pushed the stroller, and Don Carlos and Doña Gabriela followed him a short distance.
The girl and I would stop here and there in search of flowers or ferns.
Once, seeing a great distance from the gentlemen, we sit at the foot of a tree, a of the most beautiful of the bank, near where the river plunges through dense reed beds.
Before we had beautiful scenery, long meadow, green Gramal, smiling hills secular trees covered by flowering vines, orchids old trunks villages and a thousand vines.
A remote village left the factory, the 'real', stables, which returned to the cattle, the chapel with its tower wrapped in a blanket of ivy; the plain right villaverdina lit for the last reflections of the sun, and deep the high mountains of the Sierra, shady, wooded, and crowned with fir and pitch pine.
Gabriela carefully watched the magnificent spectacle of the setting sun, paying rapt attention the noises of the camp, the rumors of the river, the strange humming with the insects greet the advent of night, and I, lying in the trunk of this giant tree, not take his eyes from the lovely lady.
Gabriela suddenly turned round and said to me simple frankness: - What can guess what you think? - What? - Can I offer you tell me the truth? - Yes. - Think you ....
Linilla! - In Angelina? - Yes, since we left eye does not distract you from those mountains.
Gabriela wrote in the sand with the tip of the parasol a letter, a letter, that my eyes shone like fire.
It hurt the heart I like a snake bit him.
Was not mine! - How to me? - Repeated the girl. - How you, Gabriela! - You are mistaken, Rodolfo.
Angelina is the owner of that heart.
I know, I have no doubt ...
my discover insights of women has long known.
You love. "Nothing has told you?
And then she, who remains silent and her secret hidden in the depths of the heart, speak well, and quietly, very quietly, so they say those things!
answer: - I love you! "How do you speak of you or you? - From you, Gabriela!
The lords had stopped at a bridge where the car could not pass corcovadito. - Miss, call us! - Come on.
Gabriel stood up, and before taking a step looked sad figure written in the sand.
LVIII I heard you ask for me, I dropped the pen, I rubbed my eyes and went into the corridor.
Mauritius was Villaverde returning from the correspondence. - Have you, - said the youth, respectfully removing the Jarano - there are two letters for you.
I got one at home, the other in the mail.
and I saw the sick, I think it is very relieved because I was in the room, sit-in an armchair.
I go, Don Rodolfo, I'm dripping water, and I have to unsaddle ....
I put on the table of Don Carlos the bundle of newspapers, I returned to my seat, I ended up notes started, and then I read my letters.
One was a classmate of mine who used to write from time to time, the other of Aunt Pepa saying to me "Carmen is going well.
Sarmiento comes every day, and is thrilled, because the poor thing eats and sleeps like a charm.
Now I don Crisanto has confessed that the last attack your godmother was very bad, so bad that came near to have ordered it.
The Virgin I have made the miracle I asked him wholeheartedly, and offered some bouquets.
God bless you.
Andrew says that you owe nothing, and nothing wanted to receive.
God I will always help because it is very good and very grateful.
I have taken money to tackle the clusters of the Virgin.
You put the money and I needed the job because I made a promise by the two, for you and me.
Angelina has not written.
The waiter has not come all week, and here we are with great care, fearing that the Father continues bad.
I I'm afraid to continue bad, but I am reassured by the idea that to be so have already been Sarmiento, who is the doctor there, but who knows whether, to be closer, call one of Pluviosilla.
There is there one you just received and priests say they have made very good.
What I dislike is that Angelina did not write, or even to know about health your godmother.
On Sunday I got four letters, but nothing I said to you.
If you letter send her to the boy.
I know you're very impatient. 'Say hello from us to Dona Gabriela, to Gabrielita and Don Carlos, and say we want mejorcito child is. " It gave me heart skip a beat I did not think in the P.
Herrera, or that he was ill.
Struck me Linilla hunch that not writing for any other cause, and, indeed, I thought I guilty, and I thought that Angelina guessed that Miss Gabriela stole my love.
Linilla not like me, loves me not Linilla; Linilla want to forget, - I thought.
the poor girl took my thinking, and when I met Gabriela the entrance to the room I thought it was another woman, another young woman or anyone who caused me interest or was sympathetic to me
