It would not be because she was not pretty good, actually had his rest that day ...
Bringas spent time and no returned from their astonishment, which was resolved in defiance as Pez exhausted all topics of conversation, time, heat of Madrid, the health of all, conspiracies, untouched, or per incident, which she considered most appropriate.
The brevity of the responses and the emphasis it is fanned nervous, were signs of his displeasure.
And Pez, increasingly cold, with a breeze of person than human suffering, continued talking of indifferent matters with admirable sense, without losing the compass, without saying anything announced a tentative conscience or virtue in danger.
He had become, by grace North of the air in a male specimen, the model of righteousness and temperance.
His resemblance to The Holy Patriarch Rosalia whim seized more alive than ever, but felt that beauty blonde as the perfection of the world duller.
But he lacked the staff of lilies to happen to be on the card for a penny trading cards sold on the streets.
Rosalia started to repel such restraint, and I was gathering all his disdain to devote entirely, when the idea of ??the commitments of the embarked on 9 furiously.
I was astounded at his sentence, saying: "Sin, llámote need and I speak the greatest truth in the world ...
They do not need, what a silly woman will not despise all this rabble of men? ".
Fish, a little more tender, told him that it felt something strange, sad, perhaps concerns serious.
This indication she considered it as a happy situation to say something.
Going to try If Fish was the same lively and pompous gentleman before, or whether it had changed into a hardened selfish.
The lady, also doing funny feats of reserve, said: "Things mine.
What happens to me, who are more interested than me alone? ".
Slowly my friend down from those heights of virtue that had been perched.
Bowed towards her and spoke of ingratitude plaintively romantic.
Rosalia horizons glimpsed of salvation with a weak light illuminated the darkness of that fateful day 9, and so close.
As suddenly called to the door and entered the small, could not be more of Bringas explicit or not fish, it only took her time to show one thing: "I wanted much you return.
I have to talk ...».
The necking of the children interrupted this pleasant conference, which was so under the plan the Pipaón.
But later, after returning from long paragraph Bringas and he and Fish cast on things political, Rosalia had occasion to change his friend over a La Salette word secretly, which he put the check point and left.
Rather sad that happy was the Pipaón all afternoon and night.
Her husband warned in her verbal sobriety bordering on silence, and as usual, made no effort by any correct.
In every house is always preferable to the conciseness of a woman at his loquacity, and Thiers had no great effort to alter this rule.
On the morning of day 8, Rosalie, dressed with sleek simplicity, said goodbye to her husband.
Went to Mass, as evidenced by the devotional pearl caps to take in hand ...
Her husband had to take a little surprising, he was to see the cucurbit was in danger of death. "I heard today gave the sacraments" - Brinker said with real regret.
He left after giving its provisions for lunch, on the assumption by some, and Thiers was in the hands of the barber, because since the disease was not confident enough in his view to shave himself.
At his side was Paquito of Assisi, whom the father threw a reprimand friendly for several reasons: it was the one that my child can not escape the influence Youth who exercises all expansive idea, had left the University contaminate the evil of sympathy for the so-called revolution.
Among his classmates waved the banner obscurantism, but a little thought here was in its reserves, condescension, weaknesses ...; in short, that the angel was somewhat touched the virus ... "The revolutionary virus - repeated Bringas two or three times while he shaved - and it is important that you cure the root.
And You see, you'll see which weapon if he wins this rabble.
Francisco, and was beginning to damage his spirit the curse of an evil doctrine entitled Krausist.
Bringas had heard it described as smelling a wise chaplain friend.
Some time ago, was with Paquito of Assisi a tangled gibberish of self, not me, the other and beyond, they drove each other crazy the good D.
This said, in a nutshell, if not missing his head those philosophies, we would remove from the university and put the tacky in a store.
No deviation of the morning, and tired of waiting for Rosalia, lunch.
And he locked himself in the Camon to remove the veil and change of clothing.
In the afternoon they all went out to ride with the dirty laundry christening, in correct formation, very compuestitos small, mom and dad so serious and showed up as usual.
Well, I better say never, one time, had the Pipaón of Barca had her husband by more respectable than that day ...
We watched and listened to him with some worship and will be assessed extremely inferior to him, but so inferior that very nearly not worth fixing his eyes on him.
Then, as the father and the children played the lottery, she shut himself in the Carrion, and there, sitting, arms crossed, chin on chest, surrendered to the meditations that wanted to devour their understanding as the flame devours dry edge.
XLIV "What brought face! ...
Although I pretended, I knew that he had known bad ...
This trip has me ruined ...
Girls seemed to them all what they saw in Bayonne ...
I spent the rent one year ...
But no, he will make an effort not to be me in an awkward and ridiculous situation ... (Exhaling three consecutive sighs, which were a rosary of grief.) Tomorrow we'll see.
Oh, he burst himself ridiculous before ...
Shame da name so much in front of a gentleman ...
I have in my mouth all the bitterness that mouth may feel ...».
In painful uncertainty spent the night, waking up every moment the sting of his idea Hot and sharp.
The wife could not look without envy sweet peace of conscience that lay beside him.
Sleeping Francisco was like of a porter who has been very busy during the day and closing eyes also takes away all the burdens of the spirit.
And although like the vain sophistries appease his conscience, the conscience would not let anyone fool and stirred uneasily.
At eleven o'clock I expected receive Fish.
That day was less timely than usual, and over lunch, everyone rejoice with him to wake up faded, Paquito because you read some papers ran clandestine Madrid, threatening Queen and ensuring the proximity of his fall. "If you bring me back here these disgusting - said Thiers snorting with anger - I take away from the University of tacky and I put in a store Toledo Street. " It was chirping, and soon received the role Rosalia so eagerly awaited. "Bulking bit - he thought, with the soul on a string, getting in the Carrion to open the envelope alone, because Candida was around each eye like an arrow -.
Bit bulky - repeated drawing of envelope paper -; here is not anything. " And indeed, it was only a letter, written in clean and correct letter of the Director of Finance.
The anger that pervaded the soul of seeing Pipaón that the letter did not bring it along with other papers, prevented him from reading.
In his hand was shaking The statement, written by three facets.
Each sentence she tore the guts as if the words were gaffs ... "I was much troubled, lonely, not being able to please that day ...». 'Eral impossible in every way ...». "He had found the house in a delay unfortunate, with a heavy backlog of accounts payable ...». "His situation was very distressing and other than the outside seemed ...». "He declared frankly, within the trust, all the pomp of her house was just looking ...». "Despite this, he had come presurosísimo the aid of his friend, if you happened to be in that day did not have a maturity ...».
Rosalie could not finish reading.
Anger, shame they stopped ...
Someone gave deserved slapped and her husband threw home for this honest ...
Big shame was sold, but be for nothing ...!
To achieve this, tears of anger and pain running down her cheeks.
They were the first to shed after marriage, since it had dumped when their children had any serious illness were tears of another kind.
And worst of all was that was lost ...
If at three in the afternoon there entered the house of Inquisitor, money in hand ...
The so would wait until three o'clock, until three, not a minute more.
Not to commend all the saints and all the Virgin was serenity and spirit.
It could not be more than despair ...
But when given to it, without defense, a ray of hope crossed the stormy atmosphere of a brain ...
Yes, Torres said, just days before had taken refuge at the home of ten thousand Trujillo real sister sent him to put the establishment.
XLV Choking time, the situation did not allow waiting.
Without pausing to ponder the desirability of that step, he ventured to give it.
It was twelve. "Before I discovered Bringas - said getting blanket hastily - I prefer to go through, I prefer to lower myself to ask this favor a ...».
Refugio lived on the streets of Embroiderers, facing the plaza of San Ginés, in a house good looks.
Rosalia surprised decent appearance of the ladder.
This gave great encouragement Rosalia, and well I needed the unhappy, for he was as to the slaughter, considering what happened that the degraded. "What can need! - thought to ring the bell of the second -.
And who I had to say I would drink this water.
Now if only I take a short shrift, to be greater my shame and my full punishment. " Refugio it opened the door and was surprised to see her.
From the door to the room there was only half-words, short sentences, monosyllables. "Come in here - Shelter said Mrs.
So thought our friend in the first time, but then had to rectify this trial.
Celestina's appearance was as strange as Shelter, and yet so similar to this, could not be easily tell which of the two was the lady. "I probably - thought sitting in the Bringas the first chair to be vacated - is that neither is it. " The Sanchez had her beautiful hair in disorder.
Covered his bust light blouse, so not closed, he taught part of the breast Ubérrimo.
Dragging shoes of clips put on sandals, and heels were on the floor marking tile fed a loud sound of footsteps. "I was going to throw the gown - said Refugio, after stirring in a pile of clothes was on the couch - but as you can be trusted ...». - Yes, daughter, do not bother - Bringas said of affirming the need to be nice -
