Belongs to the style of the Renaissance, the order made, and though its facade is a very remarkable work, its magnificent tower and is tastefully itself a monument.
Inside the church, consisting of three beautiful ships, is truly great for their general forms, but no details of their artistic value, as he makes paintings and sculptures, and there is no nobility in the architectural conditions.
Must excepted the roofs of the buildings are very beautiful, entirely of stone and with very good reliefs, and the vast central choir, whose stalls have delicious wood sculptures, and whose colossal two bodies are of great merit.
The view of the panorama of Malaga is superb, when viewed from the heights adjacent home to the strength of the Alcazaba, which remains half ruined, and the ruins of the ancient castle of Gibralfaro, Moorish work that was located at higher elevations and communicated with that strong.
From there you can see a sad picture of majestic beauty, if you tend the view over the Mediterranean, the distant African coast and the Spanish mountains, but smiling and happy, if only considered the city and its port and nearby valley.
The sea, so majestically around without contrast monotonous when one of these floating cities, forms admirable civilization, which is called a ship, a treasure of beauties and surprises where is the setting to a coast.
But nowhere is so beautiful and so sublime poetry in the English Channel and Straits of Gibraltar, where the waves with their constant movement, its brightness vague and elusive, the floating population and eloquent rumors seem continue in some way, rather than interrupt, the show of vitality that is manifested on earth.
This great drama of the sea, standing in spirit, but variable in form to infinity, is a supreme mystery that seduces, fascinates, overwhelms the senses and forces to meditate.
But in the narrow Mediterranean seduction is more powerful than elsewhere, by the contrast of races and civilizations that are face to face through that the Valley moving, almost always haunted by terrible storms.
Seeing their movements one imagines that each wave brings in its folds a revelation, a complaint of this world mysterious, lush, heat, power, life and barbarism called Africa ....
Just a wide moat separates the two continents sea (or semi-continents) HOWEVER moral and its distance is immense!
The port of Malaga, although small, slightly warm and very defective sandbars throwing his breast the storms of the Mediterranean, is always populated by numerous vessels of all nations, and play there all the service steamers of the Spanish coasts and Africa, and rotate between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.
The movement of ships, marine, workers and goods to the port gives an air of joy and interest that appeal to traveler, and HOWEVER do not feel the desire to remain there for many days, as in Granada or Seville.
It understands and recognizes the commercial and industrial merit of Malaga, but its population and the general mass of the people do not inspire sympathy.
In that there is, at least apparently, more rigor in Spain than in France.
Spain is the country classic ridiculous formalities and vexatious, without thereby avoid the immense scale smuggling, and stop prevaricating junior officers.
Had to leave for Cadiz, after a short stay in Malaga, HOWEVER it was necessary to endorse passports by the Government, and complete an formula in the office of Health.
It is as if to tweak a district to another would license to ask the Mayor and notice is healthy.
It was eight o'clock and steam that would lead to Cadiz, playing in Gibraltar, rocked gently towards the exit of the small cove of Malaga, pitching for their two tall red chimneys their thick columns of smoke in the breeze ripples disrupted arbolajes capricious and throwing on the yards of many merchant frigates who parked in the harbor.
The bridge was filling with steam heterogeneous population passengers on their way to different parts of the Spanish and French coasts and to Antwerp Rotterdam or Hamburg.
The captain, strong and friendly type, pur-sang French navy, he spent journal his luggage, and had ended as well as its list of passengers, he set sail.
Málaga shortly, so picturesque view from the sea, disappeared, and start navigating to Gibraltar.
The sky, pale blue, had an admirable clarity, and the sun shone in all its glory South, producing its reverberations in the movent surface waves as image of a flash fire and fascinating.
The Mediterranean was calm, and a breeze delicious warm their little waves rippled, as if millions of sprites were combing and the vast gently curling hair of the sleeping giant.
The fishing boats roamed scattered, looking from afar like seagulls wandering, barely touching the transparent foam and blue the waves produced game.
The passengers were divided into groups on the bridge steam, happy and talkative, like everyone else in a steamer when not suffering the dizziness, playing chess or dominoes, told stories of travel, or talked with interest events in Italy, where the war had begun.
