Since that time lacked a time his protector, his wife, his young friend his relative, his beloved mother, and to more despair, remorse quedole Ever After that in the confusion had forgotten to put in the hand of the dying candle soul, prepared so early for that same case.
The duration of the disease Josefa Alarcon, was delivering medical Cecilia, always without saying who came word, different amounts of money, the same as it received with one hand and the other went to Jose Dolores Pimienta, effectively created the Butler and cashier.
He ran, in effect for that short time (very short for those who longed be repeated occasions to approach pay Cecilia and every day new services) all expenses that caused the sick, and dead, adjusted to the known beadle Barroso preparations for the funeral.
Being very close the house of Avocado Street to receiving visitors who come to offer his condolences to Cecilia, and to celebrate the funeral, provided Pepper's body was moved to the living room where he and his sister lived in Pump Street, where body was present at ten o'clock at night until three pm the following day.
No catafalque was erected, dressed in the habit dead Mercedarian straw color, belting the usual black belt of the Order of Mercy, and tucked into his box lined with black cloth, was placed in a litter common among large wax candles and silver candlesticks.
The teacher Uribe, with his officers and the many friends and Pepper, watched over all night and when the litter burial led to shoulder, taking turns in groups of four to The cemetery, located in the small suburb of San Lazaro, the end of this road name.
The only incident that somehow marró the solemnity of the act, was that in a few words will refer.
The funeral home was far from the cemetery about half a league, and the shortest path not driving through the streets of the population, but by winding paths, shaded luxurious trees from houses and gardens, which then occupied the area throughout the vast area today Monserrate titled.
Where stands the modern church which gives its name, suddenly joined the funeral procession, seeking to be confused with it, a stranger and poor black degustation, which looked tired a long run.
After he appeared to just another horse in military uniform, jacket cloth, with two gold epaulets and cavalry saber.
He was young and brave gesture.
No beating in tiny, swooped upon the fugitive, and, pointing his weapon at the chest, cried: - Date, Malanga, or I'll kill you. - Tonda!
Caught thus Malanga between the tip of the sword and the litter that was the deceased had no choice but to surrender to the mercy of the captor, who, without dismounting, he tied side by side threw him forward, and saluting the military with air gun, told the mourners: - Gentlemen, I hope I waive the hard time.
He had command of His Excellency the Captain General, to catch this rogue, living or dead, and I've met.
The first stop for the funeral procession made a big gate that faces the blue sea Atlantic House of Charity, so that the Charity Children of both sexes sing one for the soul of the deceased, by paying a gold coin, as alms.
The second stop was in front of the gate of the cemetery, under the graceful arch of input to the chaplain hiciese coffin sprinkling holy water, before consigning the tomb.
When running this final act and always sad, companions in attitude reverently, they remained standing and uncovered, forming groups around the pit.
José Dolores Pimienta, Uribe and some others threw a handful of earth on the coffin which was in life and Alcon Josefa Alarcon, no less distinguished for her beauty than for their Unfortunately, his ardent love of mother and religious practices of his last years and the first who acted as chief mourner, to thank his friends and fire, could not avoid to be a dry eye, perhaps because he came to mind at that moment the box of his adored Cecilia, transfixed in pain and fainting in the arms of Nemesia.
CHAPTER III What is life?
DE ESPRONCEDA In mid-January the field again Gamboa family: the servants by sea, the masters by land.
Leonardo arrived a few days later.
The first thing Dona Rosa in the city was giving leave or paper to Mary Rule seek accommodation or master.
The role (and is called par excellence in Cuba) in question, signed by Don Candido, prayed more or less as follows: "I give my slave role María Regla so that within ten days of the accommodation or find love in the city.
It Creole rational, intelligent and agile, healthy, robust, no disease has ever experienced, has no blemish known, it knows plain sewing, washing and ironing understand, care for children and the sick.
It paper gives because she asked.
No more masters have known that he was born and which now sold.
Havana, etc. " Released the subject, Dona Rosa judged of great importance, took care of runaway black.
we are the same dianche.
It said he died of a stab, y. ..
Because not having risen summary of the fact that I know of, or arrested the perpetrator, nor buried the dead, I assumed, well-founded assumption seems to me that the stab was mere rumor, a hoax, perhaps spread it to disorient Dionisio and follow him around the track.
I tell you, my lady Dona Rosa, who know a lot of these black a lot ... - I remain aware, "said the lady in her indignation.
Then he added: Then it must be displayed that black. - Accurate, said Don Meliton. - Dead or alive has to be somewhere, he said Dona Rosa. - That I say, "said Butler. - Nothing says you worthwhile, "said Rosa bothered.
How is it that has not occurred put a avisito in the Journal? - Well yes I have thought, Dona Rosa, said the man, happy to be vindicated.
It occurred to me more than once, many.
Yes, ma'am, I have been occurred. - Then, why did not put on the ground? - Then there is the difficulty of garlic, my lady Dona Rosa.
I do not know how to write these notices.
Natural thing, in my town had no newspapers. - The easiest thing in the world.
All as we read every day in the Journal under the heading or it's called, of ...
Runaway slaves. - Ya, ya, I think it said all that, Dona Rosa.
Word is cute, but cójase pen and paper please ...
Declare without shame, my lady, who gives me card on the pretext of writing for newspapers.
Sure, I was not born to hack, and not born to married, the saying goes, do not fool women. - Very little water drowns you, Don Meliton.
Dare you to repeat what I just said? - I think so.
It is on this street, past the gates of Rosario, a hall house with two windows mirror, where before they played lottery tickets ...
Almost never shaved, always laughs with their lips, not to his face ...
Well, it tells you that as I said to Denis, he knows how to write ads on runaway slaves.
By a miracle walking on two feet.
Around it the press, he sent the lady in a wheel of hire, road Cerro, to inquire whether he had been led to the deposition of black Dionisio Maroons had established the Consulate of Agriculture and Commerce of Havana and Isla de Cuba, next the elegant site playground for the Count of Fernandina.
There was not the fugitive, for the simple reason that they referred only to the general deposit of those blacks rural farms, elevations in the mountains, was caught living with dogs, and that ignorance or malice, suddenly could not figure out the name of their rightful owners.
As fruitless inquiries began to spread despair in the mind of Rosa, where came to his house a black military dress with the utmost courtesy to ask for a hearing a few minutes.
I measured it from top to bottom with a questioning look and said: - Tonda? - Very humble servant of the lady, "he said in an arc of her slender body. - What is available?
Rosa would be asked. - Is not the lady a warning about a black fled? ... - Yes. - What do you call the dark?
excuse the lady ... - Dionisio. - Dionisio Jaruco? - No, Gamboa, he is my slave.
Well, as Jaruco Creole is not surprising that seeks go through that name. - The same as I suspected.
In court dance that gave black people out there the Two days before Christmas Eve, I met a black that Jaruco Dionisio said.
I fear resist.
He's handsome check. - Do not be sorry for that lady.
I'm going to bring moored alongside. - My royalty is safe. - I do not take the money, it takes me only that they who should pay that.
Mary left early for home rule in the streets of San Ignacio, called the gate the best-looking, he sent the paper to the lady, and sitting in the doorway, while resting came the response, invariably reduced the housekeeper had many servants and did not need any rent.
You had to denigrate people of color from serving another person the master, that kind of idiosyncrasy Rule Mary had no suspicion but not after many disappointments and deceptions similar to that just mentioned.
Not really entertained her intention or expectation of tenant or master, both the highly repugnant, estimating either end as the greatest misfortune that could ensue.
If it had been women able to show the face at first sight the emotions of the spirit, the more myopic would have seen how red with embarrassment each time he drew the role of breast to give the servant came to open the door.
His intention, hope, more vehement desire of his soul to seek the return to Havana Dionisio was looking for to join him if he was alive, or killing if he had died.
So, far from feeling it, experiencing a sort of secret delight whenever the returned accompanied by a paper not dry and decisive.
But the time was that she had been granted on short, fixed, and had taken several days in vain formalities, if fulfilled, and it showed landlord nor master, what would his wife, a woman of character so strong and bitter with his slaves?
Taking language, early one morning went to market in the Plaza Vieja, one of two that existed within the walls of the city.
Was that a swarm of animals and so diverse, people of all colors and conditions, which prevailed black; enclosure narrow tired, unkempt, damp and dark, circumscribed by four rows of houses, perhaps the most affected population, all, or most, of two bodies, with broad low high-ceilinged portals, which supported wooden balconies.
At the foot of one of the pillars of those relied Maria de Regla and spent a long time looking in brooding silence and stirred the crowded market square.
Everything was new for it.
In the center stood a stone fountain consists of a bowl and four dolphins intermittently discharging muddy water jets and thick, however, anxious collected barrels black water carriers to sell the city at the rate of average real silver one.
Radios that were based center or trails, nothing straight by the way, in several directions positions marked by pleasure, even with the floor, in appearance without order or ranking no, because next to one that sold vegetables or vegetables, was another of live birds, or fruit, or hunting, or edible roots, or cage birds, or vegetables, or river fish and seafood, still in the basket or pot pot fisherman, or fresh meat served in ordinary tables mounted on their heads in barrels or inserts scissors, and all breathing moisture strewn leaves, peels of fruits and green corn, feathers and mud without a roof or an awning, not a decent face, and black farmers, ill-clothed ones, almost naked others whiffs of various scents everywhere, a shrill and unpleasant gibberish, and above the blue sky seen through a skylight, which appeared one or two Flying cloudscape, imitating, and transparent gauze, sometimes invisible wings of angels.
They entered the square and out of her black and black, these with the purpose of providing Daily house of their masters, to procure those with the wholesale price of meat, vegetables or fruits that resold at retail within the city or its neighborhoods outside: this traffic, by the way that, quite lucrative in many cases.
There was something about the new dress Mary wore Prussian Rule, in the way of bringing the silk handkerchief that was watching the morbid half of Bayajá shoulders and that was covered raisins; in black shiny face and bare arms and turned, announcing health and strength, in the general appearance of an outsider, in sadness or shyness that his face and attitude showed, there was something, say, in all this, which could not fail to attract attention, even indifferent people and very busy with her own chores.
But all, any curious, compassionate or naturally any observer, and entering the square, and leaving it, he cast a glance through the former nurse, and followed long.
His attitude seems contemplative (in any way his suit) was suspect at first view that the disease afflicted a stranger, or, being too novice or short-tempered, not just reach out and ask for alms for the love of God to the passer.
Any of these reasons was enough to cool off compassion and curiosity in the classroom of people coming to the market.
