Often find leaning trees on the water, and which segments have arrived at angles falling take root, and natural caves formed a delightful appearance.
In the spring almost no tree that does not contain a nest made of neatly sum [1], and very often present some bags fully covered slopes of the branches.
The course, entirely flat and even, is covered with black mulch, topsoil very fertile, which has not been used yet, in spite of being efficacious in agriculture.
On the second day of sailing is found on the right bank of a small hill of sandstone of a former geologic age, past the hill, still populated plain always wooded.
Although the river is narrow, the riverbed, which everywhere is well boxed, is deep enough to lend at all times to the navigation of large boats, ships or steam.
Its first manned banks, starting from Trinidad, of colorful Mambu, populating go little by little of various trees, which somehow disappear the fifth day to near the confluence of Huacaria.
This river, known among the inhabitants Moxos under the name of Black River, the color of its waters, a large lake low located between the Ascension and Trinity Guarayos, and then runs parallel to the current San-Miguel, removed by some leagues from each other.
The Huacaria receive in transit, that is one of degree and a half, more or less, a myriad of streams that descend from the east.
The traveler who comes to put your plant on virgin soil almost entirely, try a satisfacion that will never have the idea that they have not left the inhabited places.
Animals jungle, Agen still the fear that should inspire the presence of man, far to get in unless you see for the first time, seem rather out to meet him as attracted by curiosity, so in those places, wherever he goes the traveler, discovers the wandering herds of wild boar, deer, large animals, to two troops of monkeys of various species [1], walking happy frolicking in the trees, and stop for a moment full of admiration, to jump and make grimaces and then more strange and ludicrous contortions, while in all forests constantly resounds the din of birds of various sizes and colors.
As the road ahead, the slopes of the San-Miguel are decreasing elevation, and forests on both banks, as it had in the beginning of one to two miles wide, going closer and closer until only the edges to trim the river, finishing Finally, on the right bank at a point where it opens a spacious plain and totally drowned: this place is the Puerto del Carmen, distant seven leagues from the mission, which in Dry time is on horseback, through the gap between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel; but in the rainy season this road crossing is primarily a marsh by canoe, Throw in a league until a boscage which extends parallel to the river San-Miguel.
Departing from this boscage, it enters another that is bathed three leagues wide, and which goes on horseback, although in some Parages usually get the water to animal encounters: the ends dipped in the river of San-Francisco, which is necessary pass in canoe at once through a meadow, then a forest, beyond which there a farm for raising horses.
The rest of the way from this point to the mission Carmen is the town of palm trees and other plants carondais.
Yuracares Moxos Road to the Chapare river.
From the port of Loreto was first walking a mile, crossing in a canoe leading to the river bathed Mamore, whose slopes, very high in dry weather, are trimmed spacious forest.
At the end of the first day is high on a sandbar, or if you want in the forests of the bank.
The next day, the Mamore shown less wide but much more boxed: a few hours gear is reached at the confluence of the rivers Sara [1], which is simply, as I have had the chance to check it, a continuation of the rivers Grande and Piray together, which have their headwaters in the departments of Chuquisaca, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.
When traveling to Santa-Cruz de la Sierra, Sara takes the river, but heading for Cochabamba to continue forever by the Mamore which is much more plentiful, and still preserves above the confluence, the width majestic and pristine waves.
The river runs Sara Meanwhile rogizas constantly being murky waters.
In the middle of the third day we reach the confluence of the Rio Chapare, thus leaving The Mamore is followed by the new trend, which is much narrower, but its banks, in Instead of being trimmed of those modern boscages growing on terromonteros are populated forests as old as the world.
The riverbed of Chapare, firmer than that of Mamore is too deep and fairly well boxed, its waters are always kept clear, and take the dark green hue of the trees that adorn so many.
On the banks left side shows then the mouth of a river which the Indians have given the name Santa Rosa: it is believed that this river, whose gentle stream has a black sheen, lose one lagoon which is located six miles from that point on a great plain, where they lived, to the arrival of the Jesuits, Moxos tribes with which it has formed the Mission San Xavier.
On the fourth day's journey, the jungles of the Chapare banks will increasingly high up but, being composed entirely of ancient trees, until just now coming to discover the small part of heaven for the deep furrow along the river in the middle of that perennial sea of ??greenery.
From time to time distracting the attention of the traveler, who travels amazed by this stunning solitude, the sharp cries of monkeys of various species and the confused clamor of the multitude of birds of varied plumage, however, transit this place is usually very uncomfortable, rarely stops raining it in abundance.
Cowhide leather, which form the awnings under which the travelers take shelter, get so corrupted to the continuous action of moisture and air so hot that and constantly locked up, exhaling a bad odor unbearable, almost the same is true corned beef (the only provision of mouth that takes in these expeditions) that is altered to be unusable.
In the space that runs on the fifth day, there are two species of palms [1], unknown in Moxos.
In the afternoon, begin to appear in the vagueness of the horizon the peaks of the Cordillera, which soon disappear behind the huge forests, after having comforted the poor traveler changing the monotony of the landscaping.
On the seventh day, the uniform looks great about this place, among whom are still vogando slowly, embellishes more and more as they come on the road, and vegetation appears much more varied, meanwhile, scarcely down from time to time some rays sun by the dense clouds that overcast the air constantly, often download torrents of rain, a circumstance which, combined with the excessive heat of the area, determined this wonderful activity that develops all the plants, full of vigor and freshness.
At the same time the woods holds the beautiful foliage of a large number of palms new and different species, which are distinguished the palm of vinte vineyard and fishing.
The river meanwhile appears more narrow, and its banks are warning of some other plants, as the rods and the smooth, whitish whose leaves stand out against the dark background of the dark boscage.
At night the eighth day of sailing, and are noted on the first beach pebbles often rejoice in this fact the Indians moxeños extremity, not only because she is a harbinger of the proximity of the land of the Yuracares, but also by the novelty because they view an object entirely unknown to them, because as already I said, not in the province of Moxos the smallest flint, for which reason being pebbles a real find, collect, either to make fire, either by mere curiosity, with the same importance would pick up stones.
Whenever a new object hurts our senses, a satisfaction point experiments, an inexplicable happy: thus natural ecstasy Moxos is contemplating the rocks, as an inhabitant of the Mountains are encouraged at the sight of the beautiful trees, feels like a joy unknown Cruceño in the presence of rocks.
At the same time widen the beaches, the mountains seem closer and closer, and the banks are manifested entirely covered, so soon vejucos tinged with yellow and purple flowers and as soon countless palm trees, vanilla and other aromatic plants such trees as soon as strangers, whose tops, fully stripped of foliage, contain only the most showy purplish flowers.
All places where it travels in the day, offered to the admiration of the traveler a great set wonders.
Meanwhile, only the next morning is a sight of confluence of the rivers Coni and San-Mateo, whose reunion is formed Chapare River: the flow of this is fast at this point and carries stone from some volume.
The San-Mateo river runs noisily over a rocky bed and between magnificent boscages, but to go to Yuracares rides the Coni river is less significant and mostly shallow.
Steamers of all sizes can navigate without hindrance by the Chapare, just the mouth of two rivers that give origin.
When you enter into the navigation of those rivers, and direct traffic trade of these regions to Europe this point, which is sheltered from the floods, may serve advantageously for the establishment of a port, where the fruits will be shipped from from the mountains to the northeast of Cochabamba and Valle Grande.
The rise in the rio Coni is quite laborious, because we must fight against a current sometimes very fast, and save some rapids often covered with pebbles in the meantime the spectacle presented by the banks is the same, impressive at the same time smiling.
Occasionally also heard at the distance the roar of the tiger .
