The more easily they made a killing, the more difficult it was that they crawled forward.
The Corporal and Elisha tried to impose order, and when the bride and groom reached the car, outside the church was an angry mob, shouting and kicking.
It was like a riot, overcome by it's own fatigue.
The last absurd cries were: "You fucked the most ...
there is no decency here ...
Mockery, that was how they mostly swiped, like toads and snakes coming from their mouths, arousing the spirits of all the group against the Corporal and Elisha.
Finally, the police intervened, threatening to arrest them if they did not quieten down, and this sounded like words from God.
When retiring together, the blind Moroccan and Benina, lamenting their ill-fortune, ended up, as before, at the Plaza del Progreso, and they sat down on the pedestal of the statue to deliberate about the difficulties and anguishes of that day.
Benina did not know what Saint to place trust in any more; the alms of the day had yet to begin, because it was unavoidable to pay some deudillas in the establishments of the road de la Ruda, in order to maintain the credit and power to hustle money some more days.
Almudena said that he was in absolute inability to favour it; the most he could do was give the dogs in the morning and at night, so he could take the rest of the day, asking in his customary position, Duke of Dawn street, next to the quarter of the Civil Guard.
He rejected the old woman's generosity, because he also needed to live and to feed himself, in which he replaced the Moroccan who had a coffee with bread crumbs, in the Cross of the Sign, he had enough to get by until the night.
Not wishing to accept the offer, the question made Benina swear on the King of Baixo Terra, showing a confidence and faith that was easily explained by the great necessity that it was.
The mysterious stranger looks for his proselytes in the kingdom of despair, inhabited by the souls that find consolation nowhere. “Right now"--the poor woman said--, "I want to buy the things.
Today it is Friday, and tomorrow Saturday we do the test. --Gather your things, without speaking… --Clearly, without saying a word.
The blind person answered yes, repeating the essential rules and conditions for the effectiveness of the spell, and Benina tried to fix it everything to her memor
