We went two and toured the gallery, without finding any person, and the strange case of the man who seemed to be coughed throughout the trip.
Tired of searching, we returned to the room, and crossing the threshold, the mysterious cough suffering character, so that increased clearly hear that he was drowning, that horrible cough degenerated into snoring in rattle, and suddenly we heard meowing, screaming horribly in all imaginable dissonances, a large number of cats.
I could have sworn that there was a hundred of these animals around us.
Let it out into the corridor with security phosphorescent eyes to see the shadows of the arcade, but nothing was visible.
Tightened the horrible confusion, I heard something was falling, and looking back, I saw Paulino kneeling knees in the middle of the room, arms crossed, and drawn in the greatest terror his face, exclaimed in awe: - Jesus!
But at that moment broke again and Paulino horrible meow could only exclaim, in a tone of terror: - Boy, is the old master! - Come, come here!
The rest of the night Antonio and I passed without a word, in separate seats of room, smoking cigarettes and seized our minds a thousand guesses, until the open window we saw the stars fade and draw the clear sky the long-awaited dawn.
As should be expected, with the light of day increased my desire to clarify the strange event, and harassment to my friend a thousand questions, which he excused himself to answer, saying everything was a mystery to him.
But despite this, I realized that I knew something did not want to communicate, and therefore I urged him that, at last, a dilapidated Manager required keys, and said laconically: - Me.
We went through the entire corridor, smiling with the morning light and the scent of the plants there had, went down stairs, traveled corridors, and finally, Antonio opened a small door that, by turning on its hinges, blew out a strong smell of old paper and chamois.
Immediately I realized it was the file of the house.
In fact, he found himself filled that dome camera bundles, folios and books stacked on several shelves and carefully arranged, as could be gathered by clear numbers and signs each bore.
He paused a moment, and toured with the view that ancient array of paper and parchment.
to appear before him, a horrible position, and, if found guilty, suffer the consequent penalty. - What would Mal Herrera Goya in the Inquisition!
I exclaimed, to finish reading the document. - It appeared, said Antonio.
This Herrera Goya, it seems, was a rare entity, especially for its time.
Used to experiment with weed, insect collecting, and was up half a hundred cats who followed him everywhere.
Do not fail to cause unpleasant surprise this point, which immediately acquainted with the mystery we wanted to clarify. - I understand your shock, "continued Antonio.
And you should know that according to tradition among the people of this estate, Herrera Goya - Old Master, as they call it - greatly abused his strange entourage, nay, tormented at every moment.
And say when he died was because all the cats jumped him, digging her nails into his neck and tearing throat in rags, almost, after suffering horrible, lifeless in a pool of his own blood.
Refirióme then how the Holy Office of the Inquisition forbade Herrera bury in a sacred place and how the bloody corpse was buried in the garden, where he scored his bury what I had mistaken for a seat.
The sun about to disappear, cast light upon the earth warm and reddish, and the heat coming through the open window seemed to spread throughout the room.
The columns of smoke from our cigarettes light rose up together in clouds that were nesting in the coffered wooden ceiling, and damask that covered the walls took on a richer tint than usual.
The conversation began to languish, and there came a time when both were silent, as if they obey some mysterious command.
I had some pride in that room, that putting together he possessed more courage and deep affection, and was not the first time since my chair looked all over the furniture and paintings that adorned.
Rafael also liked that collection and often praised, so I was not surprised to see it go to the hearing this motley collection of objects.
Across from where we sat, hung the wall a portrait bust of my mother, dressed in the fashion of the Second Empire.
Despite light which at times grew fainter, the portrait stood out very well, and was accentuated on his face the ineffable sweetness that the painter had managed to faithfully reproduce.
Suddenly I felt a rush of melancholy as and I looked at the portrait.
I shuddered at the sight, and I noticed that my friend suffered the same printing.
We looked at both, and he stands and said very softly: - She's crying!
I nodded, and my partner to step softly, left the room and shut the door after him carefully.
Then I seized with great anxiety, I went and saw the portrait is encouraged.
A cloud of sadness clouded my mother's face, and tears welled in her eyes fell more abundantly.
The way you have to travel is rough and difficult, and great suffering will be yours.
That's why I feel so great pity for you.
Never make anyone share in your troubles, or your best friend always save them for you.
The shadows of the night broke almost immediately and soon I was wrapped in thick darkness.
Finally, after a short time is not turned on the light and opened the door.
Rafael was in the gallery, in the hollow of a window, and to me, seemed to wake from a dream. - Rafael ...!
I cried, but he interrupted me, saying: - Do not tell me no, no, not me I'm your best friend!
And silently enter the room again.
With artificial light, all things presented its usual appearance, and the portrait of my mother Inaf sweetness of her face.
Below him, on a table, was my last sonnet, I took to read it to Rafael, and I found it was wet and smudged.
CHESS PLAYERS A ROBERTO MONTENEGRO.
I Anxieties, india tarasca purebred, was a teacher in the difficult art of caring and entertaining children.
If our house was visited by an illness, Angus was always at the bedside, and when it came to wipe away tears, the result some prank of boys, the kind word soon gave us comfort.
But the science of caring nanny was more apparent when we were happy.
Inventing games new, truly bizarre gestures, thanks to all classical features, or storytelling never imagined, made us very pleasant and the evening hours, arrival time, could drive gently into the world of dreams.
Another special gift of Sorrows was the prompt response that led to the many pilgrims who used to ask questions the little people.
Such was the spontaneity of the response and so great aplomb with which the did, never put into question by her proposed solution to any problem that was presented to our children's brains.
The memories of my childhood are closely linked to the Hacienda de San Isidro Labrador where he resided most of the year.
The farm, near Mexico City, was owned of the Society of Jesus from the earliest times of the Colony, and when the famous religious were expelled from Spanish dominions, for the reasons that Charles III had see fit to "in real breast," was purchased by my ancestor.
Understandably, then, the house of the Hacienda had more character monastery farm field, and my father following the example of their elders, always wanted to retain the austere aspect which initially had.
The rooms, all vaulted and very high; the endless cloisters with semicircular arches, the walls, thick as a medieval castle, and mainly fast throughout the region of natural wonders - they bore, as the only galas, large maguey and one or eucalyptus in the middle of fields of maize and barley - were of the Treasury San Isidro Labrador a place that many repugnant, but others, in contrast, attracted by their very nakedness and severity
