They rolled the barrels of the last harvest, and the soldiers filled in red spray metal bucket pending his waist.
Then the wine was bottled out to light in order of date, instantly lost in the river of men that passed and happened.
Desnoyers watched with pride the effects of his munificence.
The smile reappeared on the faces fierce, the French joke jumping from row to row, the groups initiated away a song.
Then he saw in the town square of several officers who gave a short break to his horses before returning to the column.
With contracted brow and dark eyes, talked about this recall inexplicable to them.
And yet, still retreating, obedient to an order strict and severe. "We do not understand say ...-- -.
We do not understand. "Orderly and methodical Tide dragged to these men who wanted to fight and had to retire.
All had the same cruel question: 'do not understand. "And the question became even more painful the incessant march, a march that lasted day and night with only short breaks, alarmed the leaders of the body at all hours for fear of being cut and separated from the rest of the army. "One more effort, children mine.
Desnoyers saw only one of them.
Other and others made the same back at the same hour, comprising one-half the width of France.
All came back with the same obedience discouraged and undoubtedly the same people repeating that officials "do not understand ...
We do not understand. " Don Marcelo suddenly experienced the sadness and bewilderment of these soldiers.
I saw immediately what everyone could see: the invaded territory without the Germans found a tenacious resistance, whole departments, cities, towns, crowds remained in the hands of the enemy army in the rear of a receding endlessly.
The troops showed energy and discipline, but what it could be used if they withdrew almost without fighting, unable, by a severe order, to defend the land? "Just as in 70, he thought.
Externally there was more order, but the result was going to be the same.
As an echo that respond negatively to his sorrow, he heard the voice of a soldier talking a peasant - We left, but it is harder to jump over the Boches.
Joffre's grandfather was the go back into the pocket at the time and site of your choice.
Desnoyers was revived at the name of general.
Maybe this soldier, who remained intact their faith through the endless marches and demoralizing, I sensed the truth better than reasoners officials and scholars.
The rest of the day was spent making gifts to the last groups of the column.
In order of dates still spreading the thousands of bottles stored in the basement of the castle.
As the night were bottles covered with dust for many years which gave the men who seemed weak.
As the column marched was offering saddest aspect of fatigue and wear.
Passed behind, dragging with disappointment the raw feet inside your shoes.
Some were spared this torturous confinement and marched barefoot, with heavy boots hanging from a shoulder leaving blood stains the ground.
But all overwhelmed by a mortal fatigue, preserved their weapons and equipment, thinking the enemy was near.
Desnoyers was the generosity of many of them stunned.
