Now, suddenly, at least he could think, Count committed the absurdity of taking up absently from his chair, yawn and go to play solitaire to a corner of the table.
And after saying blushed again. - That is, González! - Remembering his sister said. - Well, well, it would be a contemporary of the great race of painters of the seventeenth century - said Paco not disturbed by the laughter of the guests, who are frightened of innocence these poor women. - "So you made the cut for you, girl? - Continued picking up two fingers affectionately Nuncita beard .-- I think you you should have have been very little bullfighter, right, Carmela? - It was a bit tempted to laugh. - Carmela, by God, these guys will think I've been a flirt! - Cried in anguish Nina. - Do not believe the truth, girl - Paco said .-- Do not you remember you have given ear to a church attorney named Don Max, and then it went in your house talking with Lieutenant Paniagua from the balcony?
Nuncita smiled with tenderness the memory of those times, and said with downcast eyes with graceful timidity - D.
Max came home every day, but never required me to love. - What love and what pumpkins! - Paco .-- Say you said that who I really liked was the lieutenant and completed sooner. - "So have you been in love with a soldier? - Asked Emilita graceful volubility, while running a provocative look Nunez have you .-- Well, good bad taste.
The retired suddenly became serious and he's whiskers bristled with terror at this out of his daughter, but was relieved immediately by observing that the captain, rather than be offended, was paid with a loving smile and I missed a joke like everyone else. - It's not her alone that has had such bad taste - with clear intention expressed Carmelita very happy to have found that stroke of genius. - And who was the lieutenant? ...
Christopher conceal the laughter with a cough flow.
Manuel Antonio and laughed Pollastre blatantly. - Paniagua was very remarkable man - Paco .-- He had continued the decision that feels so good the military.
The same day he arrived he saw Nuncia morning on the balcony.
The truth was that Paco, the girl who, after much entreaty, had shown the letters retained by Paniagua, he had memorized and recited highly original document everywhere to the delight of his friends. - It's called a resolute man.
She became the distracted, but thanking lot Paco the bottom of his heart the cape, while the retired stroked his mustache with a trembling hand Nunez fearing that angry, but happy at the same time in the hope that these cape appropriate will be taken out of its lethargy.
Tired of talking, the proposed Pollastre play a little to the garments.
It's a game where men of criteria if caught something.
Fernanda consented to sit Garnet at his side.
Paco Winks, who had struck, had made him ill effects.
It was a creature very proud, but which was rooted sense of justice.
I could not bear to deceive anyone in his presence, even if the more insignificant and contemptible.
Could said that the feeling of dignity, it was so delicate and crisp, made her feel the wounds in other more vividly.
Although hated Garnet, bothered her to be mortified in his presence, especially if it was for his sake, without prejudice, of course, that she gives to each moment snubs huge, but understand, not he was right, that the disdain of the woman he loves, if they cause pain, do not sting as teasing.
The Indian, who was so honored, was beside himself with joy, and began to desire excessive vulgarity that characterized him at lavish thousand attentions.
Fernanda were received with serious face, but not disgust.
And wine, of course, that the "three times, yes and thrice no," the "please everyone the present, "" a favor and disfavor, "and so on., etc.
Society is thus recreated had recreated their parents and grandparents, and what they thought they recreate their children.
Paco Gómez playing with a dismissive condescension, as a man who was ahead of their time making a thousand blunders and mistakes that proved the distraction that characterizes superior beings.
No man was ever more knowledgeable in those subjects or that are treated with more depth.
His lucid intelligence had penetrated all the secrets of the game and knew how to draw garments of each party possible to extract all the juice, as circumstances demanded.
For example, when a young lady had to content him, was instantly deaf.
The girl was forced to lean more and more, until his lips brushed crimson captain's ear.
If there was bound to play the role of the corner of the Puerta del Sol and, therefore, to suffer that pegasen posters in the face, to sit down against her, etc., etc., would not let the deep Núñez the dam while not pasease hands all regions of the body.
But when gave more clear evidence of his prodigious talents and vast knowledge that had been acquire knowledge in that field, was to propose that the young lady whom I had guessed the pockets are obliged to kiss.
Such security were all that nothing would get, who did not hesitate in accepting the proposition.
Err, actually, when you empty the mind Carmelita pocket, missed with Fernanda, Maria Josefa, with Micaela, and look what a devil!
was to ascertain precisely Emilita.
Scissors, a tissue, a thimble and three sweets.
The girl cried out clapping his hands, all nervous: Trap, trap!
The girl protested more loudly against this hypothesis unseemly, was stirred to a degree incomprehensible and, rising hastily, ran to the opposite end of the room, far from the captain, as if it were to take by force what law will share.
There he became part of it (women) and who sided with him (Almost all men).
Armos in the room a zipizape as hell.
Everyone talked, laughed, screamed unfinished understood.
But that was more shouting and gesticulating, as is easy to understand, the person concerned.
However, Don Cristobal, seeing what had traces not to conclude, and wanting to leave but the formality of their offspring, intervened in the dispute majestic as a god extending the right hand to calm the raging waves. - Emilita - spoke firmly, - game is game.
Give this gentleman a kiss.
Note that said "Captain," or even "this gentleman officer." Lips still repugnant civilians make way for a purely military watchword. - But Dad! - The youngest daughter said, as red as a poppy. - Let !...-- uttered with the right hand extended and more peremptory attitude that could take god never retired.
Emilita, confused and embarrassed, her cheeks turned into two coals hesitantly approached the heroic captain of Pontevedra, rich in all kinds of tricks, and he touched with the crimson lips yellowish land of his cheeks.
But lo and behold, it was made just jumped Micaela made a basilisk, the most irascible of the four mermaids swimming in the depths of the abode of Retired: - What impudence! ...
No wonder Nunez, because men what are you?
I'm surprised you, Emilita ...
I think a little more modesty and shame do not come evil ...
But how you have to have if you have an obligation to wear it are the first to push the bad! ...
That bloody attack against the author of his days left pale and nailed it down.
There was a moment of awkward silence.
However, everyone rushed to defend and protest Emilita of perfect purity and innocence of such games.
The argument most often repeated, and that everyone seemed invincible, was that not having malice, that was worthless, because what is important in these matters is intended.
The kiss "has been given with the intention? - Said one of the more dialectical Pollastre .-- No?
Núñez nodded gravely, and looking a bit piqued sideways at her future sister.
But it did not give demonstrations so evident and persisted to ask, with increasing violence and higher voices, a little embarrassed for her sister migajitas a minor meaning for your father.
But since no one showed up after with these things on hand to meet his vows, had no other choice but to go down the pitch, until at last his angry protests were gradually transforming murmur and menacing as that of distant thunder.
But he was suspended for tonight's game pieces.
Nuncita, who almost always departed the big ideas, proposed to be played to fool.
No one knows why, but it is true that this game had special attractions for the youngest of the young ladies of Mere.
Paco Gomez took the deck and took the three jacks, but knowing Nuncita weak and willing, as his temperament, mortify a little, made a the remaining signal, and then was heard saying to some of the guests.
Result of this was that the loggerhead was almost always placed in the hands of the girl, and there are traffic jams, no that despite all their efforts got rid of it.
This, despite his natural quiet, it was gradually getting impatient.
The gathering and she laughed too, but more lip with the heart.
Finally, in a moment of anger rolled out letters and stated that he did not play more.
Anger made her stammer out of his mouth devoid of teeth strange noises. - Hum! - Nuncita grunted, twisting his nose with face of care. - Girl, I'm not mad! - Shouted his sister. - I do not want, I will not! - Untamed creature repeated firmly.
At the same time he rose from his chair and shuffling took refuge in the cabinet.
But his sister immediately following the most severe and authoritarian attitude that can no imagine, willing to correct that principle of rebellion, which eventually could bring dire consequences.
They heard rumors of a dispute, projecting his voice rough, irritated, Carmelita; then that voice was softening, making persuasive, reasoning, rebuke with smoothness.
Also reached the ears of the guests the echo of a sob.
Finally, After some time he appeared again Carmelita, shuffled even more than her sister, with eyes shining with regal authority and gesture should be to those who need beings to make laws which Providence has entrusted to them.
He sat down again to the table and, without dare raise his eyes to his older sister, who looked even a certain toughness, humbly took the letters and began to play.
However, the game does not last long .
