I can not, no ...
My conscience revolts ... - Let the riots, that we are here troops.
Or you take away the pesetilla, or me anger, as God is my father.
In this case, I can not give it, because I have not ...
But do not be lilac, D.
Bottle or is made of honey, which the Lizard of Bernarda eat it alive, if not charged forty.
For a customer like you, of the aristocracy, not denied housing because they need a pose, three nights, four nights ...
Frasquito Plántese good, with a hundred thousand pairs, and will Bernarda how bends the ears ...
to pour sleep peacefully on the bed. " O Ponte was not convinced, or convinced of how good it would be for him the possession of the peseta he hated the physical act of reaching out and receiving alms.
Strengthened his argument Benina saying: "And since the child is so shy, and does not dare to her employer, even giving account of the singing, I will speak to Bernard, I would say that does not fight, nor rush ...
Come on, take what you give, and no more cold blood me, Mr.
Ponte made no move to return money, or throw.
He remained standing and silent, watched as the vision Benina vanishes in a flash of light, and keeping in his left hand the peseta, with the right took out his handkerchief and wiped his eyes, he cried horribly.
Cried irritation senile eye, and also of joy, admiration and gratitude.
Benina still took over an hour to reach the Imperial Street, passed because before that of The Ruda to do their shopping.
These had to be on credit, because he had concluded money.
Ended up in his house after two hours is certainly not untimely: other days had come later, but this is the angry lady.
Depended on being right or wrong received from the streak of humor that Doña Paca picked up at the time of entry.
His genius was sudden eruptions, sometimes determined by any setback small, sometimes by mysteries of the body difficult to appreciate.
This is that before of Benin through the door, threw the Dona Francisca dash: "Do you think they are these hours to come?
I have to talk to D.
Romualdo, to tell me when to salt your home ...
I do not ask explanations, neither need, nor I, you know that believe anything you say, liar, tangled '.
Aware of the nature of the lady knew that the worst Benina system against outbursts of anger was contradicting explanations to give, open up and defend themselves.
Doña Paca not admit reasoning, and thoughtful they were.
The more logical and fair were the clarification the contrary, she sulked more.
Not infrequently Benina, innocent, had to file guilty of the offenses alleged against the lady, because doing so would calm down soon. "See how I have right? - Continued the lady, who when put in such a state, was of the more unbearable than you can imagine -.
Then it is true what I say, I am always aware ...
It is what I thought: you have not gone home Obdulia, and that's the path.
God knows where you've been ping.
I've lost count of those who have come for the shops peppers, amounts that have not already paid your disorder ...
Because the truth, I do not know where You put you the money ...
Romualdo, that D.
Carlos Trujillo, entertained the sea of ??time that had gone after the Calle de la Cabeza ... "God knows, God knows what you've done, correntona, and what sites you've been ...
I have not taken more than a glass of wine that gave me Mr.
Kind, as the plants you too silent ...
Do not think you fool me, hypocrite ...
You shut up, then it is true.
No, if even I deny not convince me, because when I tell you one thing, it's because I know ...
Well I'm telling you what happens to me is my damn habit of not keeping accounts.
No one will PASA of that folly.
To each his own theme, the folly of my relative is to fix everything with numbers ...
Looks like you were hearing. - And after crush with that gibberish of debit and credit, has given you a handout for me ...
I see him as he opened the drawers wants and does not want to take the taleguito in having the bills, hiding to avoid being you could see, I see him rubbing the pouch, store carefully, I see you turn the key ...
And very dirty off-hook with a crap.
The lady, carefully watched, pale, and said after a brief pause: "It's true: I've run a lot.
Forty, no, but even so stingy and mean it man, there will be dropped from twenty-five dollars.
Less than that will not admit it, Nina, I can not admit. - Madam, you are delusional - said the other firmly planted in reality -.
Carlos has not given me anything, which is called nothing.
I have worsening account, and I am not to take tantrums ...
Understood, Nina, understood.
Come on, woman, confess, do not try to add to infamy deception. - What, ma'am? - Well, you've had a bad temptation ...
For twenty-five drives that you gave to me D.
Carlos, you have given to this Frasquito Ponte to pay their debts, and go to lunch, catering, and buy shirts, ointment, and a stick again ...
You see, you see, bribonaza, how everything you guessed it, and me not worth your concealment.
If I know more than you.
Now you have been given to protect the deli Tenorio, and I want more than me, and he now serves me no, and you feel sorry for him and me, how much you want, damned me. " Mrs.
broke to mourn, and Benin and answer felt like such impertinence giving lashes like a crafty child, seeing the compassion tears.
I assure you I do not care what you did, because the money Trujillete I had to take ...
I'd rather die of hunger or stain my hands with him ...
Give, give it to whoever you want, ingratona, and leave me alone, let me die I missed you and around the world. - Neither you nor I will die so soon, because we still give a lot of war - he said maid, preparing with great care to feed. - We'll see what crap you bring me today ...
But, daughter, do not you ashamed to bring to your loved these filthy scraps? ...
In short, what we in the world than to suffer?
Dame soon these comistrajos ...
And know that not happened, and not very fresh. - Eat what you give without grumbling, that putting so many objections to the food that God da, is offended and aggrieved. - Well, my dear, whatever you want.
Eat what you have, and give thanks to God.
But like You too, I'm sorry to see you so busy, desviviéndote for others, and forgotten yourself and your body relief.
If miracles are true, why is not the case one for us, that it We deserved what we got? - Who says it does not happen, we do not have this outcome? - Said Benin, in whose mind emerged suddenly, with strong relief and extraordinary plasticity, the spell Almudena had taught him to seek and obtain all the goods of the earth.
XX Thereby took possession of his mind the idea and images expressed by the blind African that point was to tell her mistress the wonderful method of plotting and to bring the King baixo terra.
But fearing that the secret would be less effective the more you disclose, contúvose in his loquacity, and only said it could be that of the overnight tuck them through the gates of fortune.
At bedtime with Doña Paca, for sleeping in the same room, thought everything was a potato Almudena, and take it more seriously of nonsense.
For what that's me, I'm out to try, and tomorrow, with the first money I take, buy the lamp of clay, without speaking.
The story is that I do not know how to treat an item without talk ...
escape me After a brief sleep, woke up believing strongly in the parlor next had a Seret large basket or very large, very large, filled with diamonds, Rubilar, pearls and sapphires ...
In the dark room could see nothing, but that those riches were there was no doubt.
He took the box of matches ready to light, to recreate your eyes on the treasure, but not wake Doña Paca, whose sleep was very light, left to morning the examination of so many wonders ...
After a while, soon to laugh at his enthusiasm, saying: "Well, I'm not little purple! ...
At dawn, awoke to the barking of two white big dog came out from under the bed, felt the doorbell, he fell to the ground and ran in his shirt open, secure calling a gentleman of the King assistant or a long beard and dressed in green ...
But there was nobody; there was no living thing on the door.
Arreglose to leave, having breakfast the lady, and taking the first scan to home, and at seven and left with his basket on his arm and Imperial Street.
As he had no cent or where he came, he went to San Sebastian, thinking down the road in D.
Romualdo and his family, since both speak of those gentlemen, and both comment and describe them had come to believe in its existence. "I'm gill Go! - They said -.
I to this invention D.
Romualdo, and now it seems to me that is a person EFET and can help me.
There is no D.
The bride was the niece of a minister pleniputenciano, and the groom ...
Benina took his place, and was released with two cents who gave a lady.
Its companions tried to sing it for what he had called D.
Carlos, but only answered with evasions and half-words.
At last thing the funeral was not subdivided further, and if the bodorrio were run something else, went so pobretería other quadrants, and there was such a din and confusion, which took about five, and others stayed in albis.
Seeing out the bride, so dolled up, and Ladies and gentlemen of his company, fell upon them like a cloud of locusts, and the sponsor I squeezed his coat, and he even muss his hat.
Labour cost the good lord shake the terrible plague, and had no choice but to throw a handful of pennies in the yard.
The more agile made a killing, the most awkward crawled avail.
The Caporale and Elisha trying to impose order, and when the bride and groom and all the support they got in the car was near the church miserable mob, grunting and kicking.
It was like a riot, defeated by his own fatigue.
here there is no decency ...
Mockery, that was the most they swipe, missed toads and snakes of his mouth, attracting the minds of all the crew against Caporale and Elisha.
Finally, Police intervened, threatening to pick you up if not silent, and this was like the word of God.
The intruders made off, the house got into the passage.
Benina took all Day campaign, including funeral and wedding, 22 cents, and Almudena, 17.
Casiano and Elisha were said to have taken peseta and a half each.
When he retired Moroccan together blind and Benin, lamenting his evil shadow, ended, as before, to the Plaza del Progreso, and sat at the foot of the statue to deliberate about the challenges and drowning that day.
He no longer knew which saint entrusted Benina: with the alms of the day did not have to start because Eral forced to pay some deudillas establishments in the Rue de la Rue, to sustain the credit and power trick few more days.
Almudena said to him that he was in absolute inability to promote it; the most he could do was give the dogs in the morning and at night so take could the rest of the day, asking in its usual place, street of the Duke of Alba, along the Civil Guard barracks.
He rejected the old woman's generosity, for he too needed live and feed, to which said the Moroccan coffee with a bread crumb on the Cross Rastro, had enough to pull up the night.
Loath to accept the offer, raised Benina avert the issue of the King of baixo terra, showing trust and faith that easily be explained by the great need it was.
The mysterious stranger and seeks his proselytes in the realm of despair, inhabited by the souls who find solace anywhere. "Right now - said the poor woman - I want to buy things.
Today is Friday, and Saturday morning do the test. - Compressed you things, let alone ... - Of course, without saying a word.
The blind man answered yes, saying the rules and conditions necessary for effective spell, and tried to fix Benina everything in your memory. "I know - he said at last - that'll be all day in the fountain of the Duke of Alba -.
If I forget something, I'll be asking you, as I teach prayer.
Something was fishing the unhappy, and had caught something else, if not look like a fucking there chilli that enjoined to take her to the basement of the prevention of America, if not Long cool wind.
Ocupose then buy the gadgets for the spell, company sick cumbersome, because everything had to be made by signs, and went home thinking it would be great difficulty making the devilish sorcery there but found out the lady.
Against this had not recourse but to include that D.
Romualdo had been very ill, and leave velarle night, going home Almudena ...
But the presence of Petra could be an obstacle: the danger that a witness preclude incredulous thing, added the serious drawback that, if successful happy, the drunks would appropriate all or part of treasures donated by the King ...
Certainly better than precious stones, which would bring him everything in common, or in bundles of bank notes, secured with a rubber band, as she had seen in the exchange houses.
was not having to go loose pejiguera the silverware to propose the sale of many pearls, sapphires and diamonds ...
Finally, it bring as give them the win: it was a matter of cavil or require many perendengues.
Dona Paca found in an ill temper, because it had seemed at home in the morning, a clerk Store and insulted Tell them brutal and vulgar expressions.
The poor lady was crying and hair pulling, pleading with his faithful friend plowing the land in search of the few drives that were needed to tirárselos to face the beast of a shopkeeper and racked Benina brains to find the solution to the terrible conflict. "Woman, by compassion, runs, invents something - I said the lady, a sea of ??tears -.
