It is a sea half flooded grass bounded by the ocean itself.
The banks of the river are extremely low, so that in times of increasing spill produced a comprehensive flood plains literally being turned into a continuation of the sea.
When we there the land was discovered and populated yegüerizos numerous herds.
For around the horizon were many bands of wild ducks, pelicans and other pink acuátiles killed in the marshes, surrounded by cows, sheep and ponies, while these grazing lazily or gathered in large numbers to defend the burning sun, which to ferment the backwaters and the vast plains scorched completely devoid trees.
Did not seem very avantajadas these calves, the vaccine has no growth remarkable, and the horse is very inferior to his reputation.
He noted that there is exaggeration in what is usually said of the Andalusian horses, both in Seville and Cordoba Granada.
The Guadalquivir, an average width of 130 meters between nearby Seville and San-Lucar has usually shallow, the channel, variable due to heavy floods of sand clay to navigation imposes many difficulties for some months, and around him precautions are required and a special form of the vessels to avoid groundings.
Throughout the journey you will find many marine boats, anchored or underway, that up or down to the trailer or taking advantage of the tides and winds.
Thus, the Guadalquivir is a commercial aspect that prepares the traveler to the economic movement of Seville, very lively and significantly.
After several hours of sailing, when we were approaching to Seville, topography began to be different, picturesque landscapes happening to the sad monotony of the coast.
The banks of the river were more steep, the river much narrower, and instead of grass the low marsh in sight had many orchards and crops of wheat happy and vegetables long lines of poplars and willows in again and margin, more or less extensive forests, a delightful freshness and vigor, and steep ravines raised on which stand graciously to Seville some neighboring towns.
At last we passed the foot of the parks splendid Duke of Montpensier, and we poke, to turn a corner (above the groves, numerous launches and steamers and the picturesque buildings of the port), the domes tower called the Gold and Silver, glowing and poetic, overlooking the river as monumental two jewels designed to alert the traveler that Seville is the wealthy and gentle metropolis of the country where deep scars left its Moorish domination, without erasing the Roman.
The weighted beauty of Seville and the vast plain that surrounds it, I strongly wish to the occasion to contemplate it in its entirety.
Your situation and suggest configuration naturally climbing the tower of the Giralda, above all, to admire the whole picture to view bird.
Once settled in the beautiful hotel "London" (one of the many fine and well has served the city) went through the splendid square of the Infanta Isabel, from the which we saw the huge mass of the famous tower, visible from almost every street in Seville.
A few hundred meters from the square we find the impressive cathedral and the tower is located backwards and form a separate building but connected by later buildings.
Nothing greater than this monument of glowing dome, which shines in the sun as a huge jewel suspended in the ether.
Looking at her it feels full of admiration for the great simplicity that she wanted to give the Eastern or Moorish genius.
That air archangel bronze golden crowns the dome and turns like a weather vane, is in blue do not know what causes to scale the height to sink the gaze alternately in the sky and the sea of ??houses glowing and wonderful countryside around them.
The tower, perfectly square at its Moorish until very considerable height, was completed long after conquest, and unfortunately a completely different style.
Thus, until the region of Bell is the Arab civilization, finishing his work the fine architecture of the Renaissance.
The total lifting of the Giralda is 364 feet, being at the same highest form there in Spain.
Then, for very narrow staircases hand, can be dangerous ascension to the bronze figure is named Giralda.
The show is viewed from there is of supreme beauty, but still wonderful (Except the sea view) than that of Valencia.
On one side are the mountains far vaguely Sierra de Ronda ending chain of the Sierra-Nevada.
The other plains lower Guadalquivir, stretching to the horizon in the direction of the ocean.
To the north are more or less the Córdoba Mountains, spurs of the Sierra Morena Finally, tending view to east in the direction of the high Andalusia, are plain to be beautiful are raising degrees even lost in the undulating hills and mountains that turn through the center of the basin of the Guadalquivir to Jaén.
The horizon is immense and admirably beautiful.
Picking up the look in a small circle, is all over the opulent plain gorgeous for cultivation, careful, their large populations, their graceful cottages, their swarms small flocks, country homes, orchards and gardens, and its labyrinth of trees and in groups more or less extensive, and in rows or streets glittering with vegetables, where orange alternate with vineyards, olive groves, endless fields sown with vegetables cereals, etc..
And amid the vast plains will slow snail Guadalquivir as a gray ribbon, with the most graceful twists and turns.
Localities more or less considerable, but all look industrious and homogenous, multiply in all directions.
There are on, with the aid of glasses or no it (in the direction of the road Ecija and Cordoba), the towns of Alcala de Guadaira and Mairena, and then the hills (full of people too) who dominate the town of Carmona, enough people.
On the other hand (to Jeremy) Utrera and Oran, and to the right of the Guadalquivir among other populations, San-Lucar la Mayor, Encarnacion and Alcalá-of-river.
The province of Seville, the sixth in Spain in order of population, has 463.486 inhabitants.
Specifying the view over the city, the scene is so curious and beautiful.
