The wounded descended from the cars leaning on sticks and crutches will inspire a sense of sorry humiliating for them.
He remembered his youth winner in love, which had many successes achieved before the war.
Turned head to follow her, but immediately had to withdraw its hint.
A shot from close range ...
The captain, meanwhile, was known to him.
The sergeant left, and the whole family, after this period of realities, had to return to the caresses deceptive illusion and hope, waiting for the arrival of letters, making guesses about the silence of the absent, sending package after package with all that the trade offered to the military: useful things and absurd.
The mother became very discouraged.
July's trip had been used to make felt more intensely their absence.
Seeing, hearing the tales of death that the father liked to repeat, was given more aware of the dangers that surrounded her son.
The fatality funeral seemed to warn her forebodings. - I'll kill - said her husband -.
When going out shaking with emotion at the invalid soldiers.
The convalescent look strong, next to return to the front, he still inspired more pity.
He remembered a trip to San Sebastian with her husband, a bullfight he had done screaming indignation and pity, pity on the plight of the poor horses.
Remained with the entrails hanging and in the pens were subjected to a quick cure to get back out on the sand inflamed by false energy.
Men evoked newly healed in it the image of the poor beasts.
Desnoyers was angry listening to his wife. - But if no one in July to kill him! ...
It's my son.
I've spent in my youth by terrible hazards.
I was also wounded in the wars of this world, and yet here I am full of years.
The events were responsible for strengthening their blind faith.
Misfortune rained down around the family, saddening to their relatives, and not one touched the intrepid sergeant, who insisted in his exploits with a heroic abandon musketeer.
Doña Luisa received a letter from Germany.
Her sister wrote from Berlin, using South American Consulate in Switzerland.
His letter, written a month earlier contained only funeral news and words of despair.
Captain Otto was dead.
Also killed one of his brothers children.
This, at least, offered comfort to the mother having fallen into a domain for theirs.
She never discovered his remains, mingled with hundreds of corpses ignore Where ever consumed this body out of her womb ...
A third son was wounded in Poland.
His two daughters had lost their fiancés, and despair with his silent pain.
Von Hartrott was presiding patriotic societies and made plans of aggrandizement on the next victory, but he had aged greatly in recent months.
The misfortunes of the family raged the ferocity of Professor Julius von Hartrott.
Calculated for a book he was writing, hundreds of billions that Germany should be required after his triumph and parts of Europe needed to do yours ...
His enemies are to blame for everything ... " Don Marcelo was silent in the presence of his wife.
Elena pitied for their misfortune, from ignore the political statements of the letter.
It also touched to see how he cried Dona Luisa his nephew Otto.
It had been her godmother and godfather Desnoyers.
It was true; Don Marcelo had forgotten.
He saw in imagination the quiet life of the stay, games of the urchins blonde, he stroked the back of the grandfather, before I was born in July.
For several years he had devoted his nephews all your love, bewildered by the delay of their own child.
Good faith was shaken at the thought of Karl despair.
The war was war, and others had sought.
France must defend itself, and the more enemies dropped, more ...
The only thing that should be of interest to him was in July.
And his faith in the destiny of the son did experience a brutal joy, a loving parent satisfaction to ferocity. - In that no one kills him ...
One evening, returning to Victor Avenue Hugo found Dona Luisa with terror aspect of her hands to her head. - The girl, Marcelo ...
No crying, just a slight sheen of pearl shook their eyes, rounded spasm. - I want to see! - Said hoarsely -.
His wife was telling the sad news.
René was wounded, seriously wounded.
A shell had exploded on the battery, killing many of their peers.
The officer had been taken from a pile of corpses was missing hand, was wounded in the legs, trunk, head. - I want to see! - Chichi repeated.
And Don Marcelo had to make great efforts for his daughter to desist from this obstinacy pain that drove her to require an immediate trip to the front, knocking down barriers, to reach the injured side.
René was managing to be transferred to a hospital Paris.
The great man inspired pity to Desnoyers.
Made efforts to retain his stoic calmness from father to the old style, reminded his glorious ancestors and to all the heroic figures of the Roman Republic.
But these illusions he suddenly collapsed, and his friend surprised him crying more than once.
The silence of Chichi inspired him even more sympathy.
No crying, her pain was no tears, no fainting.
The greenish pallor of her face, the brightness of fever in their eyes, a stiffness that made him walk like a robot, were the only signs of emotion
