Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land, and if not you cut the noses and ears.
I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears and my nose, and after a year I rescued.
Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable in the earth, I determined to see no more than my household gods: I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most pleasant condition of human life.
End of the voyages of castigating. * * * * * MICROMEGAS, Philosophical history. * * * * * CHAPTER ONE.
Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.
There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest.
Micromegas was his name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four thousand five steps geometric calipers.
Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen, and calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth.
Well, nothing is more common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.
It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors, whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and some have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed, according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking the years, fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical.
Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects a very small insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding regular, and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises.
The mufti of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious, ill-sounding, rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to see if the substantial form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails.
Micromegas Defendiose salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two hundred and twenty years which had lasted the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read, and was banished court time the author for eight years.
Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip.
He composed a few tenths very funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say.
Those who are used to walking in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of mud, do not understand other styles than ours.
Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch.
Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham, curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.].
I do not say why that has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.
After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see new things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes.
Truth is that Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height.
Riose to top of them with their servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous, since there from six thousand feet height.
Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely gave account of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets girls and big load.
Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.
HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is very diverse nature.
Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers ....
Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening.
Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ......
If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler.
Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe.
Nothing more than seventy-two, he said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our five moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored.
Well what I think, he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that other beings much more perfect.
I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior to us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than real needs, and more needs satisfaction.
Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but I have not been told of this country.
Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish facts. ?
Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn.
The same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness of life.
Must is that it is universal pension of nature.
As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous in this figure do world.
Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive than yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and revive differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of metamorphosis, it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same.
I have been in countries where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained, but are everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature, which with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless profusion.
So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the gift of thinking and desire.
If you speak of the properties without the quale we could not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred, to wit the extension, impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc..
Without doubt, replied the walker, which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate room, and in all things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in all proportions.
Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino, and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven colors.
The strip our flesh, he said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors.
In all quanta have examined, I have not found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet is a face that no differs from all others.
After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not penetrate, and so on.
The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to Saturn.
Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and did not know many things, and having discoursed for space of an entire solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey together philosophical.
Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew, it came to make bitter complaints.
This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired with the boy through his body.
exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years, when I had just given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime abandoned by traveling with a giant another world!
less wandering is that you our five moons, and less changeable our annulled.
This is just, I want anymore.
Philosopher embraced her, weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with a dude.
They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon.
A comet passing close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments.
Just had walked a hundred and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter.
Alighted on this planet, where they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have given to the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop of ...
allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize such an illustrious prelate.
Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred million miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than our globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons, but I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be possible to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun.
Anyway, they seemed to our travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable inn, and went forward as do two Quando walkers encounter poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the next village.
But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long period without finding hostel.
After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very mean thing to people who had come from Jupiter.
However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it.
They went into the comet's tail, and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore to the north shore of the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.
That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.
Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south.
Each step ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other leg stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse the comparison, a captain of the guards of the king of Prussia.
As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth is that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one day, but we to repair something that is easier to turn on its exe to anchor foot.
They returned after the etab first place, having seen the raft, almost imperceptible to them, they call the Mediterranean, and another pool boy with big name around our den Oceano; the dwarf gave him water to half a leg, and barely had wet the other heels.
Were and came up and abaxo, making quanto could be determined whether or not it was inhabited this Balloon baxaronse, acostaronse, tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate their eyes and hands with the petty things that go dragging Baxo here, who had no more slight feeling for where they might fall under suspicion of us and our brothers the other inhabitants of this globe.
The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living on earth, and his first reason was that there had been none.
Micromegas he said, may not have common sense people, but after it is presumed that this has been done without any purpose.
You say that you all here appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn.
Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute, if the heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose these, that they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred pounds, and fifty the most petite.
Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished, microscopes were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and was applied to one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and five hundred feet.
At first they saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that was required.
After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb, she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our globe.
Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined then that it was just for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement came to an atom so mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will.
Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined the animal patiently, bag of consideration that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy.
Inclinabanse for our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a microscope, package distinguish other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating.
We know that by that time returned from the polar circle, a flock of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had hitherto thought.
They brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the coast of Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue, but you never know in this world there is to vnder rope.
I I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything, effort on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.
Experience and reasoning of both walkers.
Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching and shrinking fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana the ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle.
Lo here a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense animal in the palm of the hand.
The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed caught by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine, toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius: Finally both were busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip nailed him a foot in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had become something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect anything at first, as its microscope barely enough to distinguish a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous as a man
