We'll come to the cat, which is hidden.
I noticed that the poor woman was in those moments under the double torture of events they declared, and the fear of what might reach the wrong opinion I had formed of it; inspirábame deep compassion and to relieve a little of both torments I spoke with: - First, from words to action there is always some distance, and more if the facts are the magnitude of it that scares you, so that threats come tonight these bandits to rob my uncle, he met ...
if not come here tonight to pay off all your debts into a single game, I have everything I need to know to force, by the fact that it brings, to abandon this region callandito mouth and good walking where no one will see, and leave you in peace santa every day of your life.
So I must not whine or fret, as you groan and anxiety.
Let, then, all at my expense, obey me as I have, starting with arranged the headdress and clothing, after a little brighter for the dark colored clouds of face; now should return to their regular chores that used to Remango; attend my uncle as always, and take good care of Tona no doubt start with an apology that in these and other storm days, you were deceiving his candor.
So now is you are absolved of all sin as far as I'm concerned, and encouragement, and to fulfill the penance the just impose.
This gave two slaps on the back, I got that desperate anguish before cut them into copious tears and calm, sat up at last with some panache, tried, and not consented to it, kiss my hands, and after promising that he would use all breaths to the left of yours and that I had borrowed, to obey my commands, addressed at the door.
But I do not know why he suddenly saw the light of the room, which was launched, with that drag force always a time did, to read the weather in sky, one of the paneled door utility.
I approached me the other paneled, and then she cried: - Oh, Don Marcelo! ...
and Ayi, and toas parties; miri cielu encenizau esi and escuru; miri aqueyas above of aya black specks, which are spent face Boutros here! ...
And with that he left the observatory without waiting for my answer, and almost beating out of cabinet palms and with a grace unknown in a long time she did.
vowing not fail because the intimations, then pondered a while about the events that could occur that night, and the outline of a plan head, I left my room and went to my uncle.
XXVI At that moment came Neluco.
I had not seen the patient more than a minute after jump out of bed, nothing had answered my questions because he dozed, and the low light then cleared a little the darkness of the bedroom, I had hit anything either in appearance, but look again and better light, and I found something very different.
Was much more anxious than in the evening, more bluish color, the glassy-eyed, and, However, very troubled by coughing and restless in bed.
Neluco looked, that he was pressing, and read in his face grim confirmation of my diagnosis.
Suddenly, he said, his voice soft words and syllables almost not reach more than their breath: - Today I did not like pinch, guys.
We looked at the doctor and me, and said this: - Why did you say? - Because I feel worse than the worst day I have seen. - Apprehensions of you, - said I, say he is encouraged. - That has to be soon - replied the patient.
Neluco, meanwhile, continue to press, sometimes in a doll, now on the other, pulled the ear to his chest above the heart, and he discovered and felt his legs below the knee caused him Several questions later, and finally, it was a long time leaning against the bed and looking intently, his head something fall, as if not knowing what to say or what was flowing in view of the phenomena he observed.
I was in front of Neluco, leaning against the bed as well; and the bedroom door, arms crossed and feet, and two statues of Melancholy and curiosity, Facia and daughter waiting for orders.
Neither first rung of the ladder had to profane with his foot the infamous.
Lest it be overwhelmed my uncle in the crash, would have fooled me before with a lie either: I would have said, for example, who had seen the night before the wolf around the house on that side, and thought to kill him in the wee hours of the immediate if returned.
Chisco galls and Pito Salces me were well known, and there was no warning what most people do not give room to the preacher.
We bastábamos the three for that company for the time: the rest, ie collecting the spoils of battle, the charred bodies and jigote facts, and justice would duly notified.
But with the new look of things, ignored by the bandits, with a house full of women, and death, with their train of tears and ceremonies and accessories pathetic rule over them, what shocks and what scandals and desecration and sacrilege which would not produce a battle in the astragalus, a shot dry, their respective oaths and screams and bloodied bodies and throbbing!
Finally, if not managed the conflict of snow, had to make me and have the rope Tarumba and gray woman resigned to his recent troubles.
For one thing, and this calmed me something concerns, there were many hours ahead, it would be what was taking courses and how carried the suggested time, and what was up in the morning the aggravation of my uncle.
I was well supplied with arms and ammunition; Chisco too, and me living at home, and to Chorcos, and take care to tell me in time for him to stay to ensure the pretext the serious condition of Mr.
Still yet will weigh and would measure both plans if the case came in due time, and opt for the better.
