Gallardo he fought, killed, was flipped by a bull, without injury, and had the audience in continuous trouble with their audacity, that most of the time were lucky, causing colossal howls of enthusiasm.
Still lacked a lot to learn, but it had heart and good will, which is important. - Above all, it really comes to kill and not leaving the field of truth.
Good friends of diestrus Men swarmed girls drunk with enthusiasm, with hysterical contortions watery eyes, mouth dripping, running in mid-afternoon the lexicon of loving words used only at night.
One threw her shawl into the arena, another, being more, he added blouse and corset, another arrived to take off her skirt, and spectators agarrábanlas laughing so as not to throw the sand or stay in their shirts.
In a proud pavoneábase contrabarrera Encarnacion's husband, sister of diestrus, a saddler to open shop, sensible man, enemy of idleness, he had married cigarette smitten with their thanks, but with the express condition of not trying to 'bag' of his brother.
Gallardo, offended by the gesture evil brother, had not dared set foot in his store, located outside the Macarena, or the ceremonial apearle you when from time to time you was at home of Mrs.
And now, from his seat, waved to the right, calling Juaniyo, it's your, strutting satisfied when the bullfighter, attracted by much shouting, finally notice him, answering with a flick of his sword. - It's my crib - said the saddler, that you admired those who were with him -.
Always I thought this guy would be somethin 'in er bullfighting.
The crowd rushed Juanillo, as if to devour enthusiasm with their expansions.
Thank you brother was there to impose order, cover with your body and drive up the rental car, which sat next to the bullfighter.
When they reached the hut in the neighborhood of Fair went after the coach a large group, as a popular manifestation, cheering that people were leaving the gates.
The news of the victory had come there before the matador, and neighbors ran to see close and shake his hand.
And Incarnation did not need more, knowing that her husband, by distant and confused readings, considered this historical figure as the set of all greatness, and just add its name to dare mighty events.
The poor woman was showing in his eyes a look of amazement and doubt.
But suddenly fell on him, as if it lasted all the past, as if his troubles and tantrums were a dream, as if confessing a shameful error.
The leather welcomed these purposes greatness movements claim to the absorbed wife, who still had not left surprised by this radical change.
Yes, Encarnación: what would this boy if he persisted ...
