Then paused, as if those words cost him great effort.
The devilish dream was still upset.
Then she arranged the blanket with angry jerks, we never find on your taste.
In Alboraya Square, entering and leaving the church, Rosetta, raising just your eyes scanned the door of the butcher, where people crowded around the table sales.
As she passed a second time, was as delighted with a leg of lamb in the right hand without giving it to her paunchy employer, who was waiting in vain, and which, dropping a wad round, was threatened with the knife.
Sitting at the gate of his barracks, surprise several times haunting thought the paths somewhat distant, or hiding in the Canaro to her.
The spinner wanted which soon came on Monday to go to the factory and move to the horrible road back together by Tonet.
Even closer to the city than in the other day, was met by Rosetta. - Bona nit!
But after the usual salutation not stopped.
He seemed timid progress much during the rest day.
He was glad see her good ... (Smile Rosetta and a "greasy" murmured softly.) "Had fun much on Sunday? ... (Pause) He had been pretty bad.
No doubt the usual ...
seemed that something was missing ....
no, the road no, what he liked was to accompany ...
So it seemed to be biting nervously Rosetta language to punish for his audacity, and pinched in the armpits for having gone so far.
The girl did not answer; continued their march with the swagger unscathed from the spinners, basket in left hip and right arm slicing the air with a swinging pendulum.
He thought of his dream.
He figured to be in delirium, seeing extravagances, and several times turned his head to perceive in the dark thinking dog that licked his hands and had Tonet's face, remember that even made him laugh.
But no, what I had to hand was a good able to defend fellow, rather shy and cramped, yes, head down, as if the words I still had to say it had slipped to the chest and there were poking.
If her father found out, what disgust !...» - Per what? ... "Per what? - Asked the girl.
And the younger, more and more sad, more cramped, as a convicted criminal who hears the accusation, nothing answered.
Marching in step with the girl, but separated from it, stumbled on the wayside.
But near the hut and when they went to separate, Tonet had a timid start.
Spoke with the same violence had stopped, and as if they had spent many minutes answer to the question of the girl - Per what? ...
Perqu'et vullc [12]. [12] - Why? ...
He said it closer to her to throw her breath in his face, gleaming eyes as if you leave them the whole truth, and after that, sorry again, fearful, appalled by his words, began to run as a child.
She also loved him and all night, even in dreams, was heard, whispered by a thousand voices with their ears, the same phrase: "Perqu'et vullc." Tonet not wait to the next night.
At dawn he saw Rosetta on the road, almost hidden behind the trunk of a mulberry tree, watching with anxiety as a child who is afraid of reprimand and repentant, ready to flee at the first sign of displeasure.
But the spinner smiled, blushing, and there was no more.
Everything was spoken, not returned to say that they wanted, but it was something agreed in the engagement, Tonet and did not miss a single time to accompany her on her way.
The roaring of courage bellied butcher with the sudden change of his servant, once so diligently and now always inventing excuses to spend hours and hours in the garden, especially at dusk.
But the selfishness of his happiness, Tonet was concerned both tacos and threats of his master, as the spinner of his feared father, to whom he was usually even more afraid that I respect.
Rosetta always had a nest in her bedroom, he said he had met on the road.
Her boyfriend could not be with empty hands, and explored all the Canar and orchard trees gift to the spinner wheels of straw and twigs, in whose bottom a few urchins, with the pink skin covered with fine hair and bare butt, chirped desperately opening up a huge bill never satiated with crumbs.
Rosetta kept the gift in his room, as if the same person as her boyfriend, and cried when their brothers, the little people who had the cabin per nest in force to admire the birds, eventually wring his neck.
Tonet sometimes appeared with a lump in the belly: the strip full of lupins and peanuts Copa purchased house, and slowly going the way they ate and ate, looking at one in each other's eyes, smiling like fools without knowing why, sometimes sitting on a bank not realizing it.
They were two little real or least in a week had left the tavern with so many gifts.
When they married - ever have to be - and would keep the money.
The thing would be there at ten or twelve years, there was no hurry, all engagements of the garden and lasted one season.
The marriage was to return to Rosetta to reality.
And speaking of the future beating calmly smiling like a strong girl accustomed to the paternal authority, rigid, imposing and honradota, manifested to blows and sticks.
Their relations were innocent.
Never appeared among them the sharp desire, the audacity of meat.
Marched through the almost deserted road in the twilight of dusk, and the same loneliness looked away from his thinking unclean all purposes.
Once touched unintentionally Tonet Rosetta waist, as if he ruborizóse the girl.
They were both very far from believing in their daily encounters could come up with something would not speak and look.
It was the first love, the expansion of youth just wake up, who is content to see, to talk and laugh, without a shadow of desire.
The spinner, who in his dreadful night had so desired the arrival of spring, was developed with concern the long, luminous twilight.
Now he met with her boyfriend in broad daylight, and never missing in the way the factory partners or women of the neighborhood, that seeing them together smiling mischievously guessed everything.
The factory started teasing by their enemies, who asked him ironically when married, and called her the nickname "Pastor", by having an affair with the nephew of old Tomba.
Any day was the news to his father.
And then when Batiste was the day of his sentence in the Court Waters, saw her on the road accompanied by Tonet.
But nothing happened.
The happy event of irrigation saved the girl.
Her father, contented have delivered their crop, limitóse to look several times with a frown.
Then the voice said slowly, a high rate and accent imperative that in future take care to return one of the factory, otherwise it would know who he was.
As the days were longer, there were many people on the road.
But this separation could not last for the couple impatient, and a Sunday Later, Rosetta, idle, tired of walking outside the door of his cabin and thinking she saw Tonet on all paths passing through the remote, grabbed a jug painted in green, and told his mother he was going to bring water from the fountain of the Queen.
The mother let her go.
had no friends, and to the youth there to give his own.
The source of the Queen was the pride of all that part of the garden, ordered water wells and liquid and muddy crimson running down the drains.
Was compared to an abandoned farmhouse, and was "what is old and of great merit" in the words of the wisest of the garden: the work of the Moors, as Pimento monuments of the time the apostles were baptized crooks in the world, as stated in majesty oracle Uncle Tomba.
In the evening walked along the road, fringed with poplar silver foliage restless groups girls still wearing her pitcher and right on the head, remembering with its rhythmic step and svelte figure to the Greek canephori
