Needs modern trade forced the monopolists of one of the first wines of the world to intervene in these intrigues and combinations, which were with the cognac's main export of the house.
At the bottom of the cellar was the fourth shipment of references, "the library house, "as Montenegro.
A shelf units with glass doors kept aligned in compact rows thousands and thousands of small bottles, carefully covered, each with its label in the States has a date.
This agglomeration of the bottle was like history business of the house.
Each bottle bore the sign of a consignment, the reference of a liquid constructed in accordance with the wishes of the consumer.
To repeat the consignment was not the customer rather than remember the date, and the manager of the references sought the sample, developing new liquid.
The shipping warehouse contained four thousand different wines to boot combinations.
In a room dark, no other light than a berth sealed with a red glass was the camera obscura.
There the technical review, the light beam through the glass of wine newly opened barrel.
According to the references or the letter sent from the desktop, combined with the new wine various liquids and then marked with clarion on the faces of the number of barrels jars that had to be extracted from each to form the mixture.
The cast aside, guys went sturdy, body shirt, sleeves rolled up and the wide black belt snugly to the kidneys, going from side to side with metal jars, wine racked to barrel combination new shipment.
Montenegro had known since childhood to winemaker shipping.
It was used more old home.
He had glimpsed as a child the first Dupont, founder of the establishment.
The second had been treated as a partner, and the current chief, Dupont Young had had on their arms and joined the familiarity of paternal confidence he inspired fear Don Pablo with his imperious character of the owner to old style.
It was an old man who seemed swollen by the atmosphere of the winery.
Your skin, furrowed by wrinkles, had the brightness of eternal moisture, as if the wine vanished penetrated by all pores and runs off the edge of his mustache in tears.
Isolated in his cellar, bound to silence by the long confinement in the dark room, I felt itching to talk when there was any desktop, especially Montenegro, that, as he could be a son of the house. - What about your father? - Fermín asked .-- Whenever in the vineyard, huh? ...
There is better than this damp cave.
For sure I will live longer.
And look at the role offered Montenegro, made a face of disgust. - Another job out! - Ironically exclaimed .-- Wine combined for shipping! ...
We used the first home of the world, unique, our wines and our country's screeds.
Montenegro knew the quirks of the old.
The master did not differ from Fermin in over half a dozen years, also had seen him as a boy running through the vineyard in the late times Don Paul, but now was the head of the family, the head of the house, and he understood the authority to use old, grim and indisputable as God, with shouts and outbursts of anger, just sensed the slightest disobedience. - Stay - briefly ordered Montenegro, - I have to talk.
And he turned back to continue talking to strangers of his treasure of wines.
Fermin, forcing him to silent and shrunk as a servant in idle for between the barrels, he looked at Don Pablo.
He was still young, it had reached forty, but his body disfigured obesity despite the active life you rider drove his enthusiasms.
The arms seemed short to get some rest on the bulging curved contour of your body.
His youth revelábase only chubby face, full lips and projections on which the virility had drawn only a slight mustache.
The curly hair on the forehead forming a loop tight, a Monet that often took his meaty hand.
Was usually, kind and peaceful, but enough to be disobeyed or disappointed believed to redden it face, his voice reedy piping tone of anger.
The concept was the authority, the habit of sending from his youth seeing the front of the wineries the death of his father, made him a despotic with subordinates and his own family.
Fermín feared without hate.
He saw a sick person, "a degenerate", capable of the greatest extravagance by religious exaltation.
For Dupont, the master it was by divine right, as the former kings.
God wanted me there were rich and poor, and those below should obey the above, because they ordered a social hierarchy of celestial origin.
It was not stingy in matters of money, rather, was generous in compensation for services, although his generosity had a lot of fickle and intermittent, looking more in terms of people sympathetic that on its merits.
They watched over the interests of the house and he was not just a simple sinner, were just receiving their inspirations
