In case of attack submarine, transport carrying guns could come off the line and help patrol armed vessels, giving face to the enemy.
The others should continue its way quietly without worrying about the assault.
If the ship that was ahead or astern was torpedoed had to stop to give assistance.
The torpedo and "chaluteros" be responsible for to save the shipwrecked, whether it was possible.
The duty of transportation was always going forward, blind and deaf, without leaving the training, without stopping, to drive to the port terminal the fortune he had in his heart.
This march in convoys, imposed by the submarine warfare, was a throwback to the life of the seas.
Ferragut recalled the fleets to sail from other centuries, escorted by ships line, following its course through ceaseless battles, the voyages of the galleons remote of the Indies, leaving Sevilla to arrive in flocks to the shores of the New World.
The double row of black helmets with plumes of smoke moved gently in the days bonanza.
When the day was gray, foaming sea, the sky low and hazy atmosphere are spread and reared like a herd of lambs dark and frightened.
The guardians of convoy, three small boats in full swing, they were the mastiffs guards these cattle ocean, preceding it to scan the horizon, leaving behind him or marching to their sides in order to keep training.
Its lightness and speed made them give prodigious leaps over the waves.
A ribbon of smoke curled to continue its double fireplaces.
His bow, when it was hidden, expelling foam falls, rising to show the beginning of the keel.
At night they sailed all the Halls: A simple lantern to bow to notice marching front and a rear to indicate the path to the next.
Suddenly, the boat had to turn the machine back and ask for direction, seeing that grew larger in the dark silhouette of the vessel.
A few minutes of carelessness, and entered by the stern with a deadly espolonazo.
Al amenguar the march, the captain looked irked back, fearing to turn collide with it still in line.
The escort the convoy pulled and pulled, going from side to side with agile developments.
The enemy had fled, as wolves howl before the watchful dogs.
At other times it was a false alarm, and wounded with guns, steel whip water in the desert.
There was an annoying enemy that storm that disrupts the convoys, more frightening than torpedoes.
The fog was thick and white as albumin, which fell on the ships, making them sail into blind in broad daylight, filling unnecessary space siren roars, leaving see the water that sustained no other boats nearby, which could leave a time to another of the blurry atmosphere, announcing his appearance with a shock and a big crunch, mortal.
So the sailors had to march for days, and when they finally got rid of this shroud, breathing with the satisfaction of waking up from a nightmare, another wall Cinderella and nebulous advancing on the water, wrapping them back into night.
The brave men and serene vowed to see the bar closing endless horizon haze.
Such trips were not like Ferragut.
Irritated him straight up like a soldier, having to adapt to the speed of ships negligible.
Will be even more enraged obliged to obey the commander of the convoy, which was often an old sailor character authoritarian.
Because of this, one of the arrivals to Marseilles to the maritime authorities said their determination not to sail more so.
Were good for masters fearful, unable to leave port if they did not in sight an escort of destroyers, whose crews, the slightest incident, intended to lay the boats into the water, taking refuge on the coast.
He felt safer going alone, trusting to his skill, no other help than his deep knowledge of the routes of the Mediterranean.
He owned the ship, and feared losing their cooperation when scarce both the means of transport.
In addition, the Mare Nostrum, for its speed, deserved to be employed addition, special services and prompt.
It was in Marseille a few weeks waiting for a shipment of shells, and stroll as always the Mediterranean capital.
The afternoons were spent on the terrace of a cafe in the Cannebière.
The Von Kramer remember sometimes arose in his memory. "Do you have shot ?...» wanted know, but its findings were not very successful.
Councils of war avoided the publicity for their acts of justice.
A dealer friend of Ferragut Marseille remembered that, some months before, had been executed a German spy caught in the harbor.
Three lines in the newspapers just realizing his death.
It was said an official ...
And Marseille went on to talk of war news, while Ulysses thought the run could be none other than Von Kramer.
On the same afternoon he met.
Marched down the Rue Saint-Ferreol, looking storefronts, the cries of various drivers of cars and cars that do not succeeded at passing their vehicles on the narrow, crowded road caught his eye.
Saw in a carriage to a blonde woman with her back to him, accompanied by two naval officers English.
Freya immediately thought ...
His hat, his suit, all he could distinguish of person, not remembered at all to the other.
And yet, when he left the car, no he came to see the face of this unknown, the image of the adventurous persisted in his memory.
Still irritated him the suspicion that this was like a rest the old love, which made him see Freya throughout blond woman.
At nine o'clock the next day, when the captain dressed in his cabin for go ashore, Toni opened the door.
His gesture was gloomy and shy at the same time, as if to give bad news. - That is there - he said laconically.
Let's see if that witch still leaves us a few weeks, like last time.
He apologized, as if she had a foul in the service.
The vessel was attached to the dock by a walkway and all he could enter.
The pilot was an enemy of these moorings, which left free passage to the curious and importunate.
When he realized the visit, lady was already in the deck near the cameras.
That the two men grab and put in the dock, even by main force.
But Toni hesitated, not daring to enforce such orders, and the impetuous Ferragut launched outside the cabin for himself what he had commanded.
As he passed the hall, someone came at the same time by the side of the deck.
Was Caragol trying to block the way to a woman, but she, mocking their short-sighted eyes, was slipping little by little from his body and the wooden partition.
To see the captain, Freya ran towards him extending her arms. - You! - Joyful voice said -.
Knew you were here, in spite of these men claimed Otherwise ...
Caragol turned his eyes toward the spot where he guessed the presence of the second, as if imploring forgiveness.
Toni, meanwhile, seemed embarrassed by this woman who looked hostile.
The two disappeared.
Ferragut could not figure out how the leak was, but he was glad it.
He feared that the new arrival in his presence allude to things of the past.
He had thought to recognize back the day before, and now I was sure I would have gone on with indifference at her head.
In fact, Was the same two officers who accompanied the British? ...
He seemed much higher than another, with a thinness that made clear his skin, giving it a sickly transparency.
The nose was prominent and sharp, his eyes sunken in circles shining blackish their watersheds.
Freya spoke with a shyness servant.
Yes, it was she who had known the day before long before he turned, forming immediately in order to come in search of him.
I ask this more painfully than in Barcelona. - How you doing here? ...
She understood the captain's astonishment at finding in enemy territory, the concern felt by him to see a spy on his ship.
He looked around to be convinced that they were alone, and spoke softly.
The doctor had sent to France to "work" in the ports.
He alone could reveal the secret.
But she did not seem disposed to do his bidding.
Instead of leaving, he fell with disappointment in one of the couches of the camera. - I came - he said - to beg you to save me.
I'm going to die; I guess my end is near if you do not me a helping hand, I feel the vengeance of the mine ...
Fear, indeed, reflected in her eyes, remembering the last months of his life Barcelona. - The doctor is my enemy ...
She protected me so much at one time, leaving me as something old that must be abolished.
I have the certainty that I have condemned in the top ...
He shuddered, remembering the anger of the doctor when, at the back of one of his trips, learned of the death of his faithful Karl.
Captain Ferragut was for her a kind of demon invulnerable and victorious, it escapes all dangers, killing the servers good cause.
First, Von Kramer, now, Karl ...
Like I needed someone to vent his anger, Freya had taken responsibility for all the misfortunes.
For she knew the captain and had mixed in the affairs of "service".
The desire for revenge made her smile at the awesome lady with a fierce expression.
Precise orders had been given against him. "As to !...» accomplices Freya are undoubtedly among these accomplices, for daring Ferragut to defend recalling the tragic death of her son for not doing choir those who wanted to exterminate them.
Weeks later, the angry doctor had been kind and smiling, as in another time. "My dear, it is to give you a tour of France.
We need an agent we are aware of movement from ports of exit and entry of ships to our submersible know where to wait.
But their attempts to resist were never carried out.
Lacked will: the "service" had become an automaton. - And here I am suspecting that maybe marched to death, but to fulfill the orders that receipt, striving to be enjoyable and thus delay the fulfillment of his revenge ...
I'm like a condemned man who knows he is going to die and try to be necessary to take a few month sentence. - How did you come in France? - Asked him, ignoring his accent painful.
In his office is easily changed nationality.
It was now public of a Republic of America.
The doctor had given him the necessary papers to crossing the border. - But here - he continued - I have more secure than in a prison.
I have been given the means to enter, and they alone can make me leave.
I am completely in their power.
The terror had suggested at times desperate resolutions.
Wanted to complain to itself, to appear before the French authorities telling his story, letting them know the secrets of that era possessed.
But he was afraid of his past: there were many evils I have been doing against this country.
Perhaps the spare his life taking into account the spontaneity of his act, but the prison, the prison with his hair cut, dressed in rough serge, condemned to silence, perhaps suffering hunger and cold, he inspired a repulsion invincible ...
No: before death.
He continued his life of espionage, a blind eye to the future, living in the moment This, avoiding thinking, considering happy when I saw a few days ahead security.
Ferragut encounter with Marseille on a street had revived, giving new hope. - Get me out of here, keep me with you.
In your ship in the world I can live forgotten, as if dead ...
And if you dislike my presence, take me away from France, let me in a distant country.
Wanted out of this isolation in enemy territory having to obey their superiors, like a caged animal that receives punctures through the bars.
The fear had presentiment of his approaching death. - I do not want to die, Ulises! ...
I love my body, I am the first my love, and I am terrified to think that I can be shot.
Went through their eyes a reflection phosphoric teeth chattering collided with terror. - Do not want to die - repeated -.
There are times when I guess I follow and surround me ...
Such Once I have known and await the moment of surprise in the middle of work ...
He paused, as if calculating all the crimes of his former life. - The doctor - he went - with patriotic enthusiasm, which inflames to continue their jobs.
I lack your faith: I am German and I am disgusted to be a spy ...
I feel ashamed considering my current life, I think every night in the outcome of my abominable works; employment calculation can give to my listings and my reports, I see ships torpedoed ...
She had risen gradually from the couch, and would seek protection Ferragut towards him arms outstretched, while humble and caressing, by a desire for seduction which prevailed over all his actions. - Let! - Shouted the ocean -.
He felt the same anger that had made him end his interview brutal Barcelona.
Was irritated the tenacity of this adventure, which, after tragic influence in his life, wanted engage it again.
But a cold feeling of restraint and compassion made him speak with some kindness.
If he needed money to flee, he would give it without any haggling.
Could set the figure, the captain was ready to satisfy all your desires, but nothing to live together.
Naples vile sick love had paid with their misfortune ...
Apart from this, I was not sure he really say now ...
He extended his powerful paws to her seeing that refused to obey.
Would raise soil with rough stretch, to take as a slight burden off camera, off the ship, throwing away the same as if it were a regret.
But an invincible repugnance inspired this body abundant temptations: he was afraid his contact, wanted to escape the power of his flesh surprises ...
In addition, he was not going to mistreat at every meeting, as a professional scoundrel who mix love and bumps.
Remembered sadly its violence in Barcelona.
And as Freya, instead of leaving, he dropped back on the couch with a discouragement seemed to defy his anger, was he who fled to end the interview.
Entered his cabin, slamming the door shut.
This flight took her to it its inertia.
He wanted to follow a young panther jump, but his hands struck the obstacle just immobilized, while still sounding inside keys and locks.
In vain he cried as if she gave an order, exasperated at not seeing obeyed.
His anger was stirred powerless against the unyielding strength of wood.
All his life seemed to concentrate on her tears and her voice pleading.
Run your fingers through the door, feeling the moldings, sliding on the painted surfaces, as if you fumble a crack, a hole, which allowed him to reach the man I was on the other side.
Instinctively bent his knees, hitting the mouth to the opening of the lock. - Owner mine! - A voice murmured beggar -.
I think to death if you do not save me.
Ferragut heard, and to escape her moan was away to the back of the cabin.
Toni arrived, sticking his face into the arena to get angry complaints of his captain. "Why what had been left alone with this woman? ...
He commanded. " The pilot walked away with a bewildered air, scratching his beard the same as if just received difficult to execute a warrant. - Save me, my love - still moaning imploring whisper -.
Think Only in Naples ...
in which met in Pompeii ...
Remember happiness he alone, of the times I swore never to leave ...
Ferragut heard footsteps on the other side of the door.
But the appeal again to resume a few moments, concentrated, persistent, attentive only his desire to flout the new obstacles that came to stand between her and the captain. - Whether you hate me? ...
Remember the happiness you say, you yourself swore you'd never been so fortunate.
You do not know what I can to make you sweet existence ...
He tried to help him up, separating the mouth of the lock, but was repelled with Freya easily to the strong ocean.
It seemed lacking in strength, no courage to repeat his tough action.
It was fearful the beauty of this woman was still shaken by the contact of firm that just touch curves during the short fight.
Her virtue had been sleepy the torment of a resurrection without object. "Ah, no! ...
The door remained motionless behind her did not seem to be any living being. - Goodbye - continued quietly, his throat swelling with sobs -.
I do not see ...
Maybe someday cry thinking you could save.
Someone had stepped in to start your rebel Freya immobility.
Was Caragol requested by imploring eyes of the pilot.
His big hands helps her up, without her repeated protests that he had repeated Toni.
A little encouragement and do not cry ...
Swollen right hand locked in her two hands, and passing the other arm around her waist, the directing was little by little to the departure lounge. - Believe in God - he said -.
Other men there that are free, and you can communicate with them without falling in mortal sin.
Freya was not listening.
Had a remedy for pain of this woman beautiful, that desperation had become more interesting. - Come on, lady ...
Freya sat in the kitchen, no know with certainty where he was.
He saw through her tears to this old obese, goodness priests, going from one side to another to collect bottles and mixing liquids, stirring spoon in a glass with a merry jingle. - Drink without fear ...
There is anger that resists to this medicine.
Still crying, while savoring mouth a thick sweetness.
Her tears were falling in the brew that slid between his lips
