* * * * * No, but having spent three days in Toledo, which are sufficient for a traveler who is not artist, I could barely pick up fast printing.
Toledo is interesting for its social type and their merit monumental, but the first I cared more than the second, more especially as suffer from complete ignorance in architecture, painting and sculpture.
As I can hardly make judgments, failing to copy what others (art ugly I'm less versed even in fine arts), and will indicate only the emotions felt.
The there only draws attention to the economic is the famous weapons factory, situated at the right bank of the Tagus, to the west of the isthmus that I have described.
I found it impossible to visit, because in those days it was closed because of Easter, which the Spanish people and its analogs celebrated with idleness.
HOWEVER I knew that the weapons were Toledo the very same conditions as those of ancient times.
Centuries have passed over without The makers have been given by notified today as manufacturing procedures are the same as now four years, unless the products have improved significantly.
Modern civilization has not reached until the railway station at the foot of Toledo.
In Toledo's monumental everything is interesting and curious all have a special type not found in any other Spanish city with the same energy, even in Valencia, Sevilla, Cordoba and Granada.
Wherever they are alternating the Gothic and Moorish and some of the Renaissance, such promiscuity resulting from the most striking contrasts .-- Me dwell on the most remarkable monuments nomas, which are the jewels of the city where he ran Quevedo's childhood and the remains of the hanged favorite Don Alvaro de Luna, the poet Mariana Moreto and historian.
The cathedral is, without doubt, one of the most magnificent Catholic churches in Europe.
Everything is there huge, stern and grim, as the most typical Gothic cathedrals.
If the external forms and almost the whole of the building belong to the magnificent architecture, there are many details However, as a famous Mozarabic chapel, under the Moorish style, having Cathedral been subject to successive cambiamientos.
Its splendid floor tiles blue and white marble, its five ships daring held by eighty-four columns colossal twenty-three chapels curds and rich gold ornaments, three large rosettes and seven hundred forty-seven circular or ogival windows covered with exquisite glass colorfully painted to fire a thousand ornaments of columns and arches seventy-two of the ships, superior lightness, the magnificence of the choir stalls, whose low reliefs are admirable, the splendor of the treasures or jewels belonging to the temple, the deep echoes of the organs, repeated in a thousand breasts of stone, the dark solemn enclosure, the paint beautiful paintings that adorn the dark walls, and tingling the crowd of pious and curious, circulating as atoms under the great mass: all that makes the Cathedral of Toledo, Maundy Thursday, an astounding monument, places, captivates and makes mute ....
There he understands the power of faith, which not only inspire the artists of the Middle Ages but give them to their villages, workers Herculean strength to lift those mountains carved common granite and stone, studded charms that reveal all the tenacity patient a belief and the vagaries of superstition.
There is also the force comprises propaganda that Catholicism has had in the past, through the powerful fascination exerted on the masses by the majesty of the temples and the sovereign pomp of the cult [2].
I compared the immense wealth locked in the "Treasury" of the cathedral, with the deep misery of the lower classes of Toledo, a city that grows in isolation, without industry, trade, agriculture and important, and sadly told me: "What good would the Virgin of the Cathedral if, in imitation of Isabel the Catholic, not to discover a world but to resurrect Toledo devote their valuable jewelry great for a railroad to communicate to the imperial ruin with all peoples of the magnificent Tagus Valley! "In every cathedral in Spain, excluding values ??more than the estate, can go a railroad, but there is no risk of anything coming out, without thereby missing entries.
Fourteen without suppressed convents of friars, nuns and twenty, Toledo has also twenty churches of the cathedral parish, nine public and six Mozarabic chapel.
After the cathedral, the most notable as monuments are: San Juan-de-los-Reyes, Christ-of-the-light, Transit and Santa María la white, - the last two ancient synagogues.
It is interesting to note that Toledo had during the domination Moorish six churches, called Mozarabic, where Christians worship publicly maintained them, with the express consent of the Moros.
It seems that those barbarous infidels were friends of the wickedness of modern philosophy called for religious tolerance.
The Inquisition Spanish later paid them to the Moors that tolerance in very good money ....
The kings of Spain had the pious custom of celebrating military triumphs erection of churches, now they were the Saracens, now in the Portuguese or other enemies.
In Toro victory obtained against Portugal, owes its existence to the beautiful church San Juan-de-los-Reyes, a florid Gothic delicious, commissioned in 1476 by Fernando and Isabella, as it should be the triumph of Don Alfonso VI, the conqueror of Toledo in the late XI, the importance of curious chapel called Christ-of-the-light, where they performed the first mass after the Saracens defeated there.
Call attention in foreign Kings Church a multitude of shackles, chains and other instruments in prison, slopes of the walls to remember the martyrs of Spain, for all those irons are Granada were applied to prisoners who were held by the Moors.
If the church, a nave, forming a Latin cross, is very elegant and beautiful ornaments, the faculty is no less interesting, in spite of its debris, from a terrible fire in 1809.
Curiously a huge piece of excellent mosaic that lies almost abandoned in the vestibule.
In the upper floor was struck by a museum painting paintings, begun in 1840, made than 730 tables and set exactly in the cell of the famous Cardinal Jiménez de Cisneros, first novice of the convent founded there.
Christ-of-the-light is a curious miniature church, whose merit lies not only in the origin and seniority but also on their unique proportions.
Measures that toy mosque baptized about 18 feet long on 14 or 15 wide, with proportionate height, and is Byzantine-Arab style, with trends in some detail the transition from first to funny second period of Saracen art.
Six little ships crossed in opposite directions threes, and supported by four granite columns, very rough, which lie horseshoe-shaped arches, constitute the roof, which is divided into nine domes almost microscopic all different, but similar in style.
If you could start and transporting their foundations that toy of Moorish architecture, could be in the best museum of antiquities like a jewel of inestimable value.
The church now called Santa Maria la Blanca, abandoned and deserted, was an elegant synagogue built towards the end of XI century by the Jews of Toledo, corresponding to the time of transition or second period of the Moorish style, and has interior decorations and forms a delicious treat.
These buildings, which were entirely unknown to me (if not in photo) my eyes were endless charm, and made me conjure up a thousand memories of the history of Oriental peoples, defended in the years of my youth.
How not to think me on the vicissitudes of humanity to abandon this ancient sanctuary of a race that persecuted for eighteen centuries by all peoples in vast and heinous gang has regenerate the world in the nineteenth century, with the power of their enormous capital and industrial activity and commercial town on the European banks, railways, warehouses and factories!
The Israelites have retaliated by chasing people, giving them the progress and prosperity and organizing credit ....
No less curious, though very different proportions, is the other synagogue, now called Church Traffic built in the middle of the fourteenth century.
Don Pedro the Cruel was not much, according to seems, with the rich Jews, and allowed his famous and favorite treasurer, Samuel Levi, erection of this beautiful sanctuary of the Israelite religion.
His only holds a beautiful ship coffered ceiling, the walls are a rich stucco, adorned with beautiful mosaic tiles, and carved with the most gorgeous arabesques of the third period of Moorish architecture, completely Andalusia.
Synagogue that resembles many of its details to a splendid hall the Alhambra or the Alcazar of Seville.
Enough of churches for the patient reader.
About Don Pedro the Cruel, is notable for its historical interest and its grim proportions the house or palace that dwell in Toledo Wild crowned.
It is a report building and heavy, which gives the idea of ??dungeons and causes certain thrill to the traveler who knows something the old stories of old Spain.
Apart from the rubble of the Alcázar admirable, are interesting in Toledo some of their doors monuments, which give access to the city roads in shell, supported by great embankments, the magnificent bridge of Alcantara, a single arc and all of granite and school military was building façade convent and chapel, cloisters and staircase can admire the traveler a multitude of interesting art objects.
For the rest Toledo is entirely a huge and complicated monument.
Here everything is funny and unique attention and all foreign forces to stop at every step.
Restored care, incendiáronlo his turn in 1810 the invading French troops, leaving small to a sublime debris.
That is impressive and grand as a mountain naked, indestructible granite and brick hard.
To wander in the midst of these colossal masses, for those big stone steps on many vaults of unprecedented strength and singular audacity, and in the dark depths of the vast underground (which once harbored entire infantry regiments and cavalry), one feels possessed of a deep respect for the genius of the architects, and acquires, questioning the echoes of these formidable works, the whole idea of ??a civilization terrible, founded on force and artificial antagonism, from whose womb was born, for a of these wonders of the divine mystery of progress, the new civilization that has its only principle of freedom and justice.
The Alcazar is a 200 square feet per side, which has four different facades, magnificent, that despite some general harmony correspond to different styles of architecture dominate the Renaissance.
One of the facades, the oldest, is Gothic in its general character, although its details later, is of the Renaissance.
Four massive towers, at the corners, frame the building, giving different aspects according to the side where it provides.
It consists of three parts or floors, excluding the basement, which is on one side.
The interior is sumptuously snatching, in spite of its ruinous state.
The Super Cellars palace-fortress that could contain thousands of soldiers, prisoners and horses, food, and ammunition and weapons on a large scale, in short, a whole small army garrison or strong, can withstand long siege.
A huge subway leading from the bottom of this artificial mountain to the very distant margin the Tagus, to a great depth, to give drink to the horses, take water river, etc.., etc.
This was great about the system architecture of old Spain, which has left everywhere the most superb monuments. * * * * * Nothing more interesting than the spectacle of the plazas and streets of Toledo during the procession Holy Thursday.
Of course it chose for the passage of Christ and the Virgin streets less impossible, the ecclesiastical and popular support has to go through the most large cracks to find a way out for those possessed outstanding and air passages free.
Everyone is close, rubs, put in the press and choke, resulting from confusion and distress the most striking contrasts in the thousand groups that move among those gorges.
The sumptuous luxury of the great lady from Madrid or Toledo, covered in velvet, of rich lace and jewels, there has to rub against the RAID layer of cloth and peeled time light brown and grimy after a yellow inscrutable, which is the ornament Toledo indispensable, - worker, treating or beggar, and the manchego and all inhabitants of Castile.
In Toledo absolutely missing in the lower classes these colorful costumes, colors Live and whimsical cuts, which are in Valencia, Seville and other cities less impregnated Castilian applications.
In Toledo everything is sad, and a man of some comfort, as artisan and the Pauper, all have an air of antiquity, sorrow, ruin and misery The dark makes the eyes of travelers.
When I wandered through the long and complicated tumult of the procession, carried away in all directions by a yellowish layer wave blankets and black, seemed to me to attend a carnival of death.
Over my head, at one and On the other hand, saw the low balconies full of women and children, looking to crush the pedestrians falling like huge clusters, while the appearance of the streets and mobility of shadowy groups had no resemblance to know what the tiny waves and rock groups black within a reef, waving wildly in a storm day.
The bands of beggars swarm and travel there everywhere, besieging the country without truce.
Surrendered to fight with the masses movent in the procession, I sat on a bench stone in the shade of some trees in the main square, called Oven Biscuits.
Cayéronme point in sheaf closed, seven or eight guys hungry, the closest, asking each one an orange, or a little kid, as they call beggars copper coins called farthing.
Alejáronse happy to receive some coins, and I thought his release quietly eating my oranges.
But in brief attacked again in greater numbers, to contest the bark that I threw to the ground; and I had to get in except that no halt between prepubertal maelstrom of beggars.
They are not enough coins and oranges, because in a moment swallowed all bark like pieces of bread!
That scene affected me deeply, especially since I knew that this example of misery was no exception.
Toledo, however much they do not come out of poverty.
It is a rubble will not resurrection but to under extraordinary efforts.
Being the mother church the country (where the canons are very happy) and having a great school and a military garrison wonderful sights and a total lack of industry, Toledo is a set of four main revealed in four different dresses: the cassock of the priest, the uniform of turns yellow and red military, odd overseas elegant avocado, and layer ratty beggar's sickening.
Founded with a military target, according to the ideas of another civilization, - to be a strength - the isolation is the condition of Toledo.
You can not have industry because no water to move machines, but having no tanks or tanks, nor has elements for trade and agriculture, for its exceptional position.
Toledo, then, will remain sublime ruin, a great curiosity and nothing more: the museum of old Spain, guarded by clerics, soldiers and beggars! ...
Toledo offered me the occasion to test my stomach and check the reputation (usurped legitimate one and another) of the pot and wine rotten Valdepeñas.
During the three days I spent in the imperial Toledo, so beautifully sung by Zorrilla, I was forced to resign the flesh, receiving the law from the situation.
But as there was no fish, no eggs, no milk, is at the discretion of the cooked chickpeas and other iniquities of Spanish cuisine, neutralizing something my misfortune with good shots of an exquisite Valdepeñas.
This, HOWEVER, had the audacity of subírseme at the head, without ceremony, forcing me to multiply the brews coffee.
Finally had mercy on me and sent me the hostess serving pot .-- "A Spanish stew!
I said with transportation, let this be better than the Cathedral and the Alcazar. " !
In Toledo, the illusion is over, the pot legitimate completed his mission on Spanish soil, now belongs to history as the former greatness of the people conqueror of the New World.
Today there are the glories of the ignoble but chickpea stew cooked, capable of indigestible an elephant, the vile and shameless pork sausage, which has lost its importance since the Moors and Jews have accepted the wickedness of the kitchen and Christian cellar.
Disappointed and hungry, I had to devote all my worship in Toledo Dining Valencia oranges to rich and bold Valdepeñas.
Despite some unpleasant impressions, Toledo had pleased me much by his teaching social, no less than its monuments.
Had been able to compare the old Spain represented in Toledo, with Spain and progressive regenerated revealed in Barcelona and Madrid - the first based on the isolation, motionless, sluggish, too much prayer leader, miserable and begging: the second looking for progress in freedom and movement, carefree, tolerant and thinking seriously about the future.
I said goodbye to Toledo as the one just visited a grave and out of the cemetery to long strides back to look back from time to time, mixed feelings of sadness and hope .... * * * * * CHAPTER V. * * * * * LA MANCHA.
Two traveling companions aspects of the country .-- .-- .-- Memories of Don Quixote of La Mancha populations - The Sierra Morena.
