This observation is important to prevent one of the most fatal errors of our time that is to look at the universe as the result of a mysterious force that deployed with a spontaneous movement, but necessary and ongoing, is breeding and raising beings on a perennial species transformation.
Thus, the greater perfection of the body the power plant would produce animals, and these, perfecting, would become sensitive; And as progress would go in the order of sensation, is close to the region intelligence, which could finally be achieved.
With this system has no small analogy thinking that makes a feeling transformed: with him is erased the dividing line between intelligent beings and unintelligent, the feelings of the oyster could go refined to become an intelligence superior to that of Bossuet or Leibnitz, the development of the faculties of man statue, would be an emblem of the development of the universe. [4.] It has been noted that this talk about the sensitive faculty itself apart its relations with external objects, and therefore understand the word feeling, all conditions of the senses, and are currently produced, and remembered, and imagined ie all conditions in the whole extension of the scale, since there is awareness direct them, or are present when the experience, until it reaches limit on the commencement of actual intelligence.
Just know it is a modification of our being, and we can not explain it.
All words are insufficient to give an idea of ??a sensation to those who do not experience, the hearing would be born blind As been said and written by philosophers about the light and colors, unable to imagine what which are the colors and light.
In this there is no other teaching experience, so that if we suppose a man an alteration of meaning that it constantly seems yellow green, and yellow green, not your mistake will never in spite of continuous treatment with other men; and never come to suspect that his whole life has been using the two words green and yellow, taking them in a different sense than the others gave them. [6.] By analogy, and even by natural inclination, we believe that the brutes are not mere machines, and they have feelings too.
The vast scale on which are distributed the irrational states that the power of feeling is spread through the universe with an amazing profusion, and very different degrees.
Our experience is limited to the globe we inhabit: the limits of the sensitive life are the same as those of our experience?
This is a hypothesis destitute of foundation, but being so limited our means of observation, we walk with restraint by finding an edge to the region of life. [7.] Commonly used by faculty to feel that in a matter of a very inferior order; so in effect, when compared with the intellectual faculties, but this does not mean that considered in itself, is a remarkable phenomenon, able to amaze and confound those who meditate about it.
It is insensitive, but not experience it, there is nothing in it but himself, the sensible experience it is, and is it something more than himself, all As he feels, all that is represented in it.
The insensitive, even surrounded by beings, is in complete isolation, loneliness, the sensible, even alone, may be in a world of representations infinite variety. [8.] The idea of ??self is somewhat applicable to every sentient being, it is not conceived feeling, without a permanent, experienced the transient, ie without being one, in the midst of multiplicity.
Every sentient being, if he were capable of reflection, could his own way I mean, I, for verifying that all is oneself to be experiencing the variety sensations
