Half the city knew seeing me on the stage, and there was even journalists, such as worse an epidemic (you dispense), found out my life, presenting in print to me and my family, like we're freaks, and saying with admiration that we facade decent people.
The world coming down on us, the misfortune was blowing everywhere, this quiet home We had built collapsed by its four corners.
Almost I cry when I see them on the bench.
Others are those who have wronged me.
If the world became in one person, if all the strangers who had robbed me of mine with contempt and his hatred had a single neck and handed it to me, oh, how would tighten! ...
He was not the same be shy, paunchy and whining.
In her eyes sparkled red spots and splashes of blood, his mustache bristling, and his stature seemed older, as if the sleeping beast within him, on waking, had given a tremendous growth spurt the enclosure.
In the silence of the jail resounded increasingly clear the painful hum coming from the Black Hole: "Pa. ..
in heaven ... " Don Nicomedes was not listening.
He paced furiously around the room, touching the floor with their steps that served as shelter for the victim.
Discouraged and sat silent for a long time, until his thoughts, his desire protest forced him to speak. - Look you, sir, I know I'm a bad man and that people should despise.
But what irritates me is the lack of logic.
If what I am doing is a crime, to abolish the penalty reventaré death and hunger in a corner like a dog.
But if you need to kill for tranquility of the good, then why is he hates me?
The prosecutor asked the head of would be nothing without me wrong, I obey, all wheels are the same machine, and living God!
we deserve equal respect, because I'm an official ...
thirty years of service.
The ogre Across the Pacific area was known that devil carter, ruffling the streets with angry shouting and smacking his whip.
Pepe the road to merit daily, according to some neighbors, they cut the tongue and mouth filling with burning lead, as in the best times of the Inquisition.
Nothing left in peace, human or divine.
He knew by heart all venerable names calendar, only for the sake of lacking, and so angry with their cattle and raised the whip, it was not holy, they were cornered in one of the squares of the month who is not with the dirtiest profane expressions.
Finally, a horror!
And most objectionable was that, as they face off with their stubborn animals, spurred by blasphemy better than lashes The neighborhood kids came to hear him with perverse attention, basking before inexhaustible fertility of the teacher.
The neighbors, harassed at all hours, endless string of curses, did not know how to get rid of them.
Went to the main floor, an old miser, who had rented the garage to find Pepe best tenant. - If you do not - answer -.
Consider it a road, and that for this job not require tests of civility.
It has bad language, yes, but it is very formal man delayed payment without a single day.
A little charity, gentlemen.
Is gold, some glass to gather strength, but nothing to be like others, who spend the day in front of the stakes counter in the tavern.
Is not a penny of what you earn, and that we do not have family, what would you most like.
But the poor woman could not convince anyone of the goodness of Pepe.
In the prison had improved.
He was wiry, square, hairy like a beast, the copper side, with rough ridges and deep furrows, bloodshot eyes and nose crushed, gritty, blue-veined, with bristle tufts sticking out like tentacles a hedgehog inside your skull take the place of the brain.
A gave no respect.
Reverend was the males that helped him earn a living, and when breaks or sat in the garage door, spelled out painfully with a loud voice that was heard even on the top floors, their favorite newspapers, the papers more abominable that were published in Madrid, and some ladies watched from above with same fear that if machines were explosive.
This man, who longed to disasters and who dreamed big, but very fat, lived irony in the Pacific area.
The slightest question of his wife with the servants put him beside himself, and opening the bag threats promised up to slaughter all the inhabitants and set fire to the house, four drops that fell into his yard from the galleries were sufficient to infect come out of his big mouth the sad procession of saints desecrated, accompanied by horrifying prophecies the day when things were straight and the poor go up above it in their place applicable.
But their hatred is only limited to the elderly, those who feared him, because if a boy passing through the neighborhood around it, acogíale with a smile like the yawn of the ogre and extending its hand calloused caress intended.
As proposed will not leave anyone alone in the house, even got the poor Loca a stray cat predation exerted in all rooms, but whose forays tolerated neighbors because she was not living rat.
Bohemia that bore white and silky fur, and required to have an address for peace of their children, chose the patio of the ogre, perhaps mocking the terrible character.
From time to time he would get angry, and if he was angry indeed, boom!
from kick off were the Mad and her cubs to crash into the wall opposite.
There was people in Madrid and work was scarce.
If this was so, would have to eat with chips to their reverend, except to cast hand in their poultry, which was the name given to the Mad and their offspring.
And who makes a charity, he started to lash so furious animal, which left him overwhelmed in a corner, moaning in pain.
I could not look anywhere without feeling irritated eyes; burnt earth, wind burned, as if all of Madrid was in flames and the dust was fire; paralizábanse tongue and throat, and flies, heat crazy, flitting the lips of the road or hit the panting snout of the animals for freshness.
In winter a lot to hide, for the laborer members have awkward and not know where your hands so that you fall from scaffolding or caught under the wheels of the car.
Insurance not bothered both having fun on the beaches of fashion.
When he reached the storage of goods, he stopped a moment to rest.
He took off his cap, Then he took the sweat with his hands, and watched as the shadow all the way just crossing.
And I thought with dread in the back, uphill, panting, Lead the sun overhead and non-stop herding the animals, overwhelmed by heat.
There was great the distance from there to your house, but if you were told that in the garage waiting for him Nuncio it was not going.
And lifted the lid of the great esparto carrycot attached to the shafts of the cart, looking for his provision string.
But his hand encountered a few things that were removed and silky feel while faint scratches on his calloused skin.
The thick fingers were prey, and came to light, caught by the neck, a white puppy with legs extended, tail curled up by the tremors of fear and throwing her sad Nau Nau, as he begs for mercy.
La Loca, not content to turn your backyard into corral, took possession of the car and got the offspring in the cot to keep it safe from the sun.
And in his large hands covering the five kittens, tossed in a heap at his feet.
Would crush kicked, he swore, this vote and beyond!
Going to make an omelet cats.
And as he dropped his oaths, the band took out the handkerchief of grass, it grew, he put on that pile of fur and meows, and tying the four corners walked with the package, leaving the car.
Was launched at full speed that way of fire, enduring the sun with his head down, panting chest and fell to the slope that minutes earlier did not want to go, even if mandated by the Nuncio.
Something terrible is afoot.
The voluptuousness of evil was undoubtedly what gave him strength.
Such After looking up high, very high, so from the crest of a cutting load crush their cats.
But he went to his house and received him at the door to the Crazy antics of joy, sniffing the swollen tissue, which quivered with palpitation of life. - Toma, loss - said panting from the heat and fatigue of the race -, here's your rogues.
By this time passes, I forgive you, because you're an animal and do not know how you spend Pepe the road.
And no more words can say without the interposition of oaths, the ogre was turned back running for his car, again downhill, that sun casting demons against enemy of the poor.
But although the heat was increasing, it seemed the poor ogre that something had cooled inside.
The abandoned boat Beach was Torresalinas, with its many boats in dry place for meeting all seafaring people.
The children, lying on his stomach, were playing in the shadow carteta craft, and the old, smoking their clay pipes brought from Algiers, spoke of fishing or the great expeditions were made in the past to Gibraltar and African coast, rather than the devil you happen to invent what they call the Tabacalera.
The light boats, with their white bellies and blue and mast graceful sloping formed a row to the edge of the beach where the waves fell apart and a thin sheet burnished the ground water if it were glass, behind the bituminized belly on the sand were the black boats of the Ox, the couples who waited to jump into the winter sea, its tail sweeping nets, and ultimately, the lutes in repair, grandparents, Men swarmed with which the shipwrights, smeared the edges with hot tar to again re-start their arduous and monotonous sailing for the Mediterranean: sometimes to the Balearics with salt, others to the coast of Algiers with the orchard fruits Levantine and many with melons and potatoes for the Red Army in Gibraltar.
In the course of a year, the beach changed from neighbors and repaired lutes were made to sea ??and fishing boats were armed and placed in the water, just a abandoned boat and without masts remained embedded in the sand, sad, lonely, no other company of the policeman who sat in its shade.
The sun had melted his painting, the boards are cracked and cracked with dryness, and sand blown by the wind, had invaded its cover.
But its thin profile, their flanks collected and the elegance of its construction gave away a boat light, bold, made for crazy racing down on the dangers of the sea.
I had the sad beauty of these old horses, spirited horses were neglected and weak and fall on the sand the bullring.
The stern was smooth and the sides or a sign of affiliation number name and registration, an unknown being who was dying among those other boats, proud their pompous names, such as die in the world some, without tearing up the mystery of his life.
But the stranger side of the boat was only apparent.
Everyone knew in Torresalinas, and did not speak it without smiling and winking, as if they remembered something that excited malicious glee.
Has made at least twenty trips from Oran to these shores, and always with the While belly full of bales.
The bizarre and strange name Socarrao admired me something, and this he perceived the fisherman. - They are nicknames, sir, here we have nicknames, like the men that the boats
