There are things that are above family ties.
I was about to leave, but Lazarus, trembling with astonishment, stopped him and said with great trepidation: - But, sir, do not you leave me, tell me about you.
I want to think the same way.
Nevertheless, the old man commanded respect and veneration, and to see their alleged ideas, subordination felt that impulse so natural to give a young impressionable temperament. - If you are one of those - Elías, - back to your people and not talk about me, do not say that I have seen, do not think I exist, and it is true: for you have died. - But you let me explain ... - What are you going to say? - I think ...
You understand that I have my ideas ...
I have read and I have convictions yes, sir, I am deeply convinced .... - You poor child, what do you know? ...
Each word was sinking deeper Lazarus. - Is it possible - said with sorrow, - you can boot me my beliefs, I have fed with so much love and give me life?
No, you can not: and if in the end, with the force of his talent, could do this, I beg you not to and leave me.
That separates us that pit you say: if I am in error ...
But I'm not, I know I'm not ... - Dreamer, a fanatic, vain ...
because that's just vanity, vanity of Satan - Elijah said sternly; and then added more strongly: - But I'll get you out of this misery.
You're wrong, that Spain is the point of acknowledging his error.
Soon you will see the King recover their sacred privileges, which only God can take away from death. - Oh, sir!
If so, I would deny our lineage, and if Spain were left outrage thus be worthy of a better fate. - Worthy of better luck, - Elias said the most horrible expression that his face could abominable worth annihilate and disappear from the earth if I did. - No, I can not believe even if you tell me.
When I do not believe in freedom, I will not believe nothing, and I will be the most despicable of men.
I believe in the freedom that is in my nature for the particular acts manifest in my life.
I, a citizen of this nation, I have the right to make laws that are to abide, I have the right to meet with my brothers to choose a legislature. - To give law and force you to meet them there a holy man, anointed by God. - No: I and my siblings to anoint.
He is King because we want.
If not, no.
But make it good, what sworn. - There are oaths - Coletilla said soberly, - compliance with which is a crime.
The poise with which he uttered those words were emptied again, and plunged more. - And all these heroes - he dared to say the prisoner after thinking all these heroes .--, sanctified by history, living memory of the good and will always be proud of mankind, all those who have lived for freedom, who have died for it, martyrs dishonored on his last day by the hand of the executioner, but later lifted for humanity ...
Sorry for the ramblings of all, but not surprising that, given the violence away from one end, is played in the violence another, paying centuries crimes with the crime of a day. - I do not talk anymore - said Coletilla calm and mournful voice: - I know you're one of those, of those whom I have no words harsh enough to be qualified.
Your God is a spirit blind debauchery, the rule of your conduct is scandalous.
Suppose you were a remarkable man among your kind, the more blind to the blind, the craziest of the crazy, what would you do, what is your aim? - I have no aspirations bastards, I do not thrive in the shade of a tyrant who pay the adulation money but I do not aspire to the gratitude of mankind, to the glory. - Gloria that way?
The glory is not achieved but by the way of loyalty, serving God and the King.
There is no glory that God gives in Paradise, which is simulated shadowing and imperfect worship at the altar giving the human race to God's elect.
Furthermore, the glory on earth is to be submissive and obedient subject, not yelling streets and squares.
The glory is to fulfill the duty. - Well, I keep trying to emancipate my duty to my brethren of an odious tyranny, saying and proven to be free and equal before God and the law. - The first duty is to obey what I command law. - Blindly? - Blindly. - I obey the law is that law which have been made that can do it, elected by me and my brothers, chosen by all. - A touch You do not examine the law, but obey. - What if I send an outrage? - Do not send it. - What if I send it? - You say you do not send it.
And if God let your King will send something contrary to justice, do it, God will punish him and he will reward you in the afterlife.
The martyrdom of duty is great and sublime.
Lazarus sank lower. - Notes - Elías, - the spectacle of that nation.
A few heartless laws give on behalf of a principle absurd, contrary to nature.
He swore, but in the depths of his soul hates.
Could not be otherwise.
He is a prisoner, prisoner of his subjects who play with him.
The King is obliged to represent the most horrible farce.
But he will get rid of this horrible guardianship as Europe, if necessary, is combining forces to save Spain.
Spain already has saved Europe. - No, I can not believe - said Lazarus - such iniquity.
This invasion would be more hateful that of 1808, and also better punished. - Do not believe it: the King is restored to his throne.
Spain will stand against this absurd system, and Fernando will be our beloved King. - Is it possible? - Lazarus said in dismay, and then sank further. - As possible, it will not be long before you see it.
Now they will know the tune of souls.
All of those charlatans you have filled the head of blunders flee ashamed, going to hide their shame in a foreign land.
Then men covered in glory right heart, the loyal and patriotic struggle against a rampant mob, fight for the right, by God and by the King will live forever in everyone's memory, and their names will come as an emblem of justice and honesty.
The words of his uncle was so impressed that he had not encouragement than to say timidly: - Are these all? - Nothing.
Do not expect anything out of it.
The whirlwind of the blind mob drags you: go with him.
No I say more.
Someday you will remember me. - No - Lazarus said stopping him - I want you to advise me and guide me ....
although I have enough strength of conviction .... - Strength of conviction? - Said the fan, stopping and looking at his nephew with contempt. - Yes - he said - and I can not lose, I will not lose them. - Well, follow that road.
Away from me do not expect nothing but disgrace, darkness.
I I leave you to your fate.
Make me realize that you do not know.
I came just to meet you.
No go. - Well, goodbye - Elijah said decisively. - Goodbye - Lazarus anxiously repeated.
The young man did not dare stop.
He did not believe he was leaving until he saw off, and felt that the jailer closed the door.
Then he had impulses to call; screamed, it was not heard, cried tears of despair smote with their hands door and lock, and at last yielded to fatigue and mental disorder, fell again in that lethargy and painful lost him to pull out just before the arrival of his uncle.
CHAPTER XIX # # The Abbe.
The next day, the house of the three ruins contained in its narrow capacity six persons: three Porrenos, Clara and two visits.
Clara and the devout were locked into the inner room, destined to ascetic practices.
The saint, mental prayer ended, he had sat on a stool and putting a great book on his knees, was reading with his head bowed to one side, arched eyebrows, low eyelids, and hands clasped in a gesture very humble.
Clara was at his side, and as no should arrive at its weak nature, to that high degree of perfection, sewed as a sinner, a woman unhappy purge by inflammation of divine love.
The devout are not possible further expansion to refer to his neighbor the joys and visions that night had had.
Then began a review of doctrine, and made several moral and theological questions, to which he simply replied Clara, acting on what little he knew positively at your good sense suggested.
But the fact is that Dona Paulita always seemed wrong those of his disciple.
Scolded her, she explained with drawings and phrases Scholastics not common, and, finally, he called ignorant and heretical, causing great distress and shock.
I forgot a part of my prayer.
Already seen, I distracted you with errors, daughter.
You must think differently and discard these ideas ....
But I forgot to say praying ...
Don Elias last night told us everything that heartless youth has Indeed, and I had a hard time.
Clara was a moment unable to utter a word.
we must have compassion for the criminals who make mistakes.
Not that I believe I, as Origen, that even the devil has to be saved.
But we sympathize and love to sinners, even if they are of the most hardened and rebellious. - But what has he done? - Clara repeated, making a great effort to hide his embarrassment. - I do not know point by point, but they are horrible things ....
Let's see, sister, if you will soon learn that I've said about efficacious grace. - But is imprisoned? - Added more fear .-- Clara Inmate, yes, and not let go so soon.
But are you unaltered ...
Already, he has compassion, and it is natural.
Compassion to fellow human beings is one of the virtues that are most recommended Tertullian.
But since: is the effect of compassion.
Clara dropped head and continued sewing.
Such was his grief, did not point to right, spikes the fingers many times, and the stitching came out so bad that soon became necessary to break it apart and sew again.
In the room were Maria de la Paz, Salome, and before of them, standing respectfully, Elijah Orejón and former Abbe Don Gil Carrascosa.
Nothing we have spoken so far of this unique friendship with the venerable character old.
Carrascosa, as the Abbe intrusive Porreno frequented the house, what same as others in the higher hierarchy.
We even heard from people of all truth the intruder and bold man had had a leading part in the mysterious relationships Salome with that young soldier, who was sent to Peru after the breakup of the lady the Duke of beardless X. ...
Carrascosa was a man of much mischief and socaliña, subtle as air, capable of weaving in within the working families most tangles, came and went quietly preparing color parties, arranging processions, and was, in short, a rogue third party.
So we call for not a different name a little coarse, someone promptly applied and retained among many fairly.
The friendship of the three old was stopped with misfortune, and only occasionally the visited, reminding them of times past with an eloquence and warmth that did not like Dona Paz.
The day we found here had been with Elijah, and for something special was no doubt, because her dress was the most chosen and washed her face was more than usual.
The sharp folds of the best of his three jackets were swaying to the rhythm of the legs in the back of the body, the nerve had received a double ration of ointment, and tie augmented with new folds, forming a white canopy, beneath a breast endive beard.
When the abbe put this suit, had ruled since the last ratio of their peculiar elegance.
Tagline was leaving and after having greeted the ladies.
Did not come but to ratify a adjusted treaty lately with Paz.
We know that the ladies had the second floor the house just filled with family furniture that had not wanted to get rid of.
The apartment was very small and sloping, communicating with the main stairs interior.
The ladies had proposed to Elijah that was to live in this place, eating with them as host, and the good old man came this arrangement as a mold, because it produced savings, and also brought him into close contact with his former love, who had always as appreciation.
That day came to give the definitive answer: there was the price disputes.
When he left the Abbe Coletilla prepared to take the word did a thousand faces, taking to the surface of his face through his repertoire of smiles.
We will not be indiscreet to say, anticipating a positive affirmation of the Don Gil, who was to invite the three ladies for a religious festival.
We also dare to tell, with all reservations imaginable that this was not a pretext to conceal other purposes.
When you began to speak, the first thing he did was ask for Dona Paulita, and Clara, using some discreet reticence.
Then he said: - Well, I came to say to you if you want to honor with their presence the role that the Brotherhood Passion and Death held tomorrow at the Church of Wonders.
I am the secretary of the Guild, and thanks to me has arranged the party.
I assure you that it will most brilliant which has been in court. - It will never like we did the year 98 Girls de Loreto, when he moved the Virgen de los Dolores del Olivar oratory - Salome said. - It was not 98, but the 3, I remember how it was yesterday - said Paz. - You say that was the 98 - insisted the other. - I'm sure that was the year 3 - Peace said, - when the first wine of the French war. - May 98, Peace - said Salome - 98.
Twenty-five years ago. - Jesus, woman, I assure you that was the year 3, I remember it well.
I was then ...
fifteen years. - Ladies, is not relevant date - said Carrascosa, cutting this dangerous issue.
And then continued: - Thanks to the request that I direct, has been reduced two thousand and some real.
We have mass with orchestra chapel and preach to us the Father Lorenzo de Soto, who is a speaker worth a Peru. - Oh!
you name it I - Salome said, and putting away the face before she open hand in the guise of screen: - is a perverted priest, contaminated with the ideas of day.
After the Liberals made him vicar gives Astorga, is in the hands of the devil.
Then, the friendship of the King has elevated to very high positions, and to prove their merit, suffice it to say that it was he who discovered the conspiracy of Porlier.
After 20 has been enemy of the Constitution, which is worthy of praise, because otherwise they would have lost his sinecure.
But none of this is irrelevant, but preaches morning and this afternoon we Complete in singing the treble of Avila and Father Melchor, Franciscan Segovia.
More want them to stand on its houses not out to see all the iniquities committed by men. - I can assure you - said the abbe, smiling devilishly ironic - they have not complained, or complain about the ride.
Best of the procession is the motorcade that we organized.
There go the men just to see the girls, and girls who make virgins who will only see them, and at least they think is in the saints and God.
These are things in France, Don Gil.
Before used here is not like immorality, and day which will actually come in such outrageous behavior.
The nasal timbre of the voice of Doña Paulita, who was in the adjoining room resounded in logging, bringing the opinion of the holy, not because they stopped praying attention As he said in the room. - Ah, - said, raising his voice to be heard by Mr.
Anyway, the procession is arranged, and we have to go out.
We have been looking for young, and we've found some, but we still need five.
They are very beautiful that I have now. - Mr Don Gil, by God - Salome cried in the tone of an honest lady who rebukes boldly of her beau. - Ladies, what's so special?
If God has made them beautiful, what we should go do?
He stopped and cut. - Have you come here! - Peace said opening her eyes. - Have you come here! - Murmured Salome with a sudden change of color.
The two ruins looked quick glance That was terrible.
A hidden observer and intelligent may have noticed that at the mutual beam launched by the two were examined, the despised, changing as an expression of resentment that each threw for another.
But Carrascosa, although it was a good observer, he failed to notice the brief glow of that look fleeting as a flash, the two gulfs that open opposite each other, they looked a moment, showing all its horror.
Do not believe why aunt and niece did not want But no: they loved each other, if possible put it this way, they loved each other as two people can love fussing together.
A deep sigh and distant admiration announced Dona Paulita. - Yes, I have come here to see if you agree ...-- continued the abbe.
The altarpiece in the person of peace to times of his face, beet color, and Salome's eyes looked to the sky, do not know if a natural movement or by a calculated combination of gestures. - That there is nothing particular, ladies, nothing special on the contrary .... - Mr Don Gil! - Salome said a similar thing to flush. - Mr Don Gil! - Peace cried all the majesty of nature collected in a single gesture.
He who had been shot and clerks saw that he was misunderstood. - I shall rectify - exclaimed. - To rectify, as they say in Parliament - Salome said in a sudden burst of kindness and inexplicable that he could not contain; rare kindness in her that was no doubt a sign of great turmoil.
The good mood was ruined the second incident. - I mean - "continued the abbe, after coughing two or three times - that came to see if they consented you that this girl ...
A Salomé he went into a cough, do not know whether caused by natural causes or by need to hide and no offer to the contemplation of Don Gil triangular wrinkles and the purple color that appeared on his face when he heard that proposition.
Maria de la Paz rubbed one eye as if stung.
Donna's voice was heard that said a Latin Paulita incomprehensible. - That girl - continued Carrascosa, - called ...
I do not remember his name
