The first day one from Puerto Cabello post an amnesty decree, thus confirming the authority Paez of civil and military chief at the beginning of the revolution had been given by councils municipal.
But man proposes and God disposes.
In a manner as public and was recognized by the illustrious esplicita Liberator as supreme chief of the state and invested with the broadest powers.
On 24 of the month, this man, the subject of so many ongoing attacks, doubly enhanced for them, for their acts of selflessness and heroic perseverance in the order which had proposed since the beginning of the bell of independence, this man, worthy of a people not better, but more enlightened, began to legislate on important matters, suppressing Vice-Presidency and the Council of State giving a new and more appropriate to the needs around him.
Arrived at such a high degree the hatred of political opponents, who conspire against him, dominated by the criminal to snatch the remote object with life at the same time, surnamed tyrant of the country, the September 25 armed attacked the palace in Bogota when at midnight, after killing the guards and managed to penetrate into the room del Libertador, fortunately could this save throwing himself into the street from a window that lack of foresight on the part of the attackers had run out of custody at all.
A Once free, he could then his usual activity and energy to take the necessary measures; and having been arrested the conspirators, all paid with their lives for their reckless business unless the General Santander, also complicated the plot and who the last sentence was commuted by Council of Government in exile with deprivation of employment.
In this way, and the convocation of a Congress in Bogota for the January 2, 1830, the which would come invested with the constitutional character, closed its doors in 1828, year full of discontent with the excitement of the matches in which public opinion was divided the country, the more formidable that stood in the heart of strong men and seasoned to the vagaries of war.
Easy to understand is that in spite of such energetic measures would not have stopped the evil, and so was in effect.
He kept silent and slowly simmering in the minds of the discontented in the year 1829, and become more deeply entrenched since the weight of power is not allowed to leave to the surface, but as the appointed time for the installation of Congress approaches, Bolivar published a manifesto in which authorized people so that they could freely express its opinion, and through the press, and by another one of those permitted by law.
At a reunion caused by the general chief of police, it was Arismendi, attended by several Notable residents of Caracas in order to deal with requests that should be raised to Congress.
Paez A circular letter also encouraged them to voice their opinions with full openness and freedom.
So we agreed to request civil superior authority of the province should be convened the village at a general meeting, pleading that was served, he immediately ordered the call.
This Assembly, legally constituted in the capital on November 26, resolved: "ignore the authority of the Liberator, Venezuela separate Bogota government, will see of the former departments of that, by inviting them to a constituent body recognize, defend them and publicly manifest that the separation of that government tried Venezuelans, all of which are recorded. "Finally, they decided" that General Paez take charge of command of the departments as it will verify the installation of new Congress. " No less agitation prevailed among the people of Granada.
On January 2, 1830, made on commission school several members of Congress of Colombia in Bogota, were beginning their work, and 4 agreed on the desirability of making Bolivar person installs Congress to show people a good harmony in which their representatives were the father of his country, calling him to combine the most successful means of averting the calamities that threatened the country.
Bolivar She went to the appeal, and on November 20, five days after his arrival in Bogota, left installed Congress formally renouncing to the presidency that he had conferred, but his resignation was rejected, demanding that until the Constitution was enacted and appointed senior officials in political order to clip the wings of anarchy retain its authority, the only means Congress considered those skilled in threatening circumstances.
Indeed, the April 29 issue the Code remained political and appointed as President and Vice-President, for the first charge Joaquin Mosquera and the second General Domingo Caicedo, came to an end the dictatorship.
Twelve days after Congress closed sessions that Legislative Assembly, which was the season of the collected on behalf and on behalf of Colombia.
The Liberator of South America, reduced to a mere condition of citizenship, 8 May went to Cartagena in order to move to Europe, and the leave of the constituent wounded to the heart of his noble heart of a patriot, not by separation of the high office that until there had been exercised, which so many times as the present give up fair and dignity, nor hurt in his ambition, since only retired "rich honors and glory; "utter these remarkable words: I blush at the thought, but independently is the only good that we won at the expense of everyone else.
In Venezuela, meanwhile, dated January 13, General Paez expedia two decrees, one which created for the release of an interim government three Ministers of State whose duties were to carry on, War and Navy, General Soublette; in Interior, Justice and Police, Dr.
Miguel Pena, in Finance and Foreign Affairs, the Graduate Diego Bautista Urbanski, and the other concerning the way in which the elections should precede the Constituent Congress, which consist of at least two-thirds, was to meet in Valencia on the 30th of April.
Installed this on May 8, his first act was a confirmation that the executive Paez was invested until further resolution of Congress, whose tasks were completed on 22 September, sanctioning a key code by declaring: "the government Venezuela is and always will be republican, popular, representative, accountable and choice, " dividing the supreme authority in judicial, legislative and executive, with a fourth power exclusively designed to understand at the municipal level.
This was adopted as a middle between centralism and federalism.
The executive branch was headed by a judge with the title of President of the Republic, and therefore this position as the Vice-President, ceased after four years in office, not being re-elected, but after passing through at least one constitutional term.
Four ministers responsible would be elected by the President's exercise of his ministry.
The legislative branch would consist of a Congress popular, divided into two chambers, one of Deputies and the Senate representatives, elected also for only four years.
This was the final outcome I can see Bolivar, the man whose efforts were enough to win independence for his country, and which were powerless to maintain integrity of Colombia.
From now on, pursued by the idea of ??inevitable ruin the nation at the cost of their blood and most of his fortune had been dragged out of nothing mortally wounded in her tender and constant affection to their beloved homeland, December 17, at one o'clock in the afternoon and the 47 years of age, expired on the fifth of San Pedro, located within walking away from Santa Marta, directing the expression of his ultimate sacrifice for the peoples of Colombia in these memorable words: If my death contributes to cease and the parties union has set in, I calm down the pit. ?
His remains lie in the Caracas metropolitan Holy Church from the December 17, 1842, after having been just twelve years between the Granada.
Jose Antonio Paez was President of the Republic of Venezuela when Congress passed the Transfer of the precious ashes Father of the Nation.
