I still figured that his wife would use this occasion to go up to visit.
A lively spite, which would not notice him cruelly biting the bowels.
Hot iron spikes pricked him by back, his hands trembled as if you were asked to calm down a choke with his forward, an unbearable heat was rising from the legs to the brain.
The darkness is thickening, wrapped him in a warm atmosphere, suffocating, as if he were in a basement.
There a moment he thought he could not move, the members refused to obey numb at will.
He made an effort, however, as if to break a cloth to hold him, and stood up.
The light from the lamp burning on the table will hurt so that was about to fall obfuscated.
Apagola a breath, he fumbled the window and opened wide.
A gust of wind and water living struck him and penetrated his face roaring the room, sending out the papers on the table.
D. Álvaro air inhaled with delight cold and wet, looked out the window and gave her burning forehead to the inclement rain.
Thousand Needles rain put out his cheeks and turned the bathed in tears completely.
For some minutes he enjoyed with delight of that cold, desirable that penetrate into the brain and calm the chaotic activity.
The night was dark.
Despite the thick canopy of clouds, moonlight and scattered managed to squeak through a weak and sad clarity.
Only when a cloud black thicker and she walked past downloading his load of water, light is almost completely extinguished.
The waves crashed against the rocks that serve as a bulwark to the Field of fainting.
The wind whistled through the cracks tower of the church.
The mournful music of the raging elements calmed down a little hidalgo fever.
Comforted by this drink, breathe freely, it was believed his own master.
One moment of pleasure compensate the torture he had experienced.
He removed a bit of the window and wiped his face with his handkerchief.
He felt he was powerless to fight with that appetite for revenge.
His entire philosophy ruthless, indifferent, had gone under.
The world ceased to be a pure representation, it became undeniable reality, life took on the absolute value that has to all be finite.
Was forced, in spite of reason, to meet animal instincts screaming in the background of our being.
In vain, to calm down, it was said all those emotions that were worth anything or meant in the eternal course of things, that within a very short time everything would be smoke in vain represented the imbecility of human beings fighting and suffering in the holocaust of a force that made fun of him.
All your thoughts crashed into a powerful desire, irrational, he dominated.
The brute, as ever, was more than the philosopher.
He fumbled out, and leaning on the walls came up the stairs.
Lowering the first step, his boots squeaked in the silence of the house.
Sentosa and emptied them.
Then slid down without making a sound.
Without stumbling on the perfect knowledge of the house, walked through the corridors until you reach the blue cabinet door.
At that moment the great clock in the dining room gave a bell.
He did not know what time belonged average.
Undoubtedly Joaquina was already asleep.
Then the door slid into the chamber exhaust was in the hallway and returned the ear.
After a moment he heard the same breathing and serene.
A shudder ran live all over his body to perceive it.
He felt a knot in throat, but a knot of fire: the heart wanted to jump on the chest, placed his hands on him to turn off the sound of the heartbeat.
Using every possible precaution, lifted the latch on the door and pushed.
Then he went to the door of the cabinet.
He walked around the room on tiptoe, holding their breath, reached the bedroom and lifted the curtains.
Went a step further and hit the bed, put his hand on it and slid to the head.
He felt the pressure of his wife's body to swell with breathing.
He pulled his face towards the place where he must be the head of the lady and said very softly: - Joaquina Joaquina.
Mira - said in a trembling voice, - I know you've come to make friends ...
The lady did not respond.
Tucked against the wall, heard his breathing still longing for shock. - I made superhuman efforts to forget - continued with the same voice trembling off by emotion - but they were useless ...
You're stuck with iron and fire in my chest ...
You have been my first, my only love in this world ...
but even were to make me a thousand times more, will not be erased from my soul, that heady moments that I owe you ...
Is not that already happened? ...
We begin to love again, like that you later in my arms for the first time in a street tree in the gardens Aranjuez ...
The same silence from Joaquin. - Answer me ...
No, my precious ...
I love you, I adore ...
At the same time, extending his hands, ran with his wife, grabbed her and took her lips with enthusiasm.
If you knew what happiness causes me hear your voice!
I just never now, And ever!
Let me be a happy night ... - No, Álvaro, not now - gossip again tomorrow .-- unfaithful wife ...
Let me, I am very tired ...
Let me see you tomorrow ... - Do not bother.
But now I am very nervous ...
Tomorrow is another day, and I promise to be yours ...
Here's my hand ...
He felt an uneasiness strange, some leeway made his legs falter.
His mouth was dry, her cheeks were burning.
I was already alone.
The sea breeze cooled it a bit.
Just going to put the couple at the table when she arrived.
They were accompanied by P.
Norberto, which meant that he had calluses. - What stifled come, child! - Dona Eloisa said. - Do not you know ...?
I come home alone from Ms Trinidad ...
But do me the favor of sending a message to dad.
Solita at eight in the evening - said D.
Martin jokingly. - Oh, if you knew what was coming hectic! ...
Martin penthouse barracks humor.
The girl blushed to the ears
