Count, at length, the dangers of falling into the hands of enemies, not less of God than of Spanish, shipwrecked on rocks, running aground on the sand, the contrariety of winds, storms in the water and air, it would never end, it seemed that all hell had touched the gun and left the pit to prevent every possible effort to the successful achievement this journey, and God, whose judgments, as David said, are a bottomless pit, let no be accomplished with an undertaking as required of many towns and cities.
The first contrast they had was the perfidy of the Payaguá, who entertained with good words and show signs of burning desire to be Christians, tried to surprise treacherously, take away the lives, and they and the Christian Indians that led, and by setting fire to the ship, steal and take advantage of the iron nails, but frustrated his wicked secret plan by notice some less inhuman between them, and yet had dared to go out in the open against them in their canoes very slight body of two hundred Indians, who, as we shall see below, finally managed to catch them off guard and kill treacherously.
Later, Guaycurús, valiant people, but sworn enemies of Christ's name and Spanish, at all times and places, for much of the road space, day and night I played the passage with the weapons and were always on the lookout to see if they could give upon them and seize the boat and catch or kill or passengers, and once, to not have, by God's mercy, suddenly a wind up leading the ship to another place, infallibly have fallen into their hands, resulting in a trap hundreds of these Guaycurús, that hidden in the water down her throat, waiting to give them, to which the ship to put an bowline to pass a narrow entrance, which have lowered the flood, it was very difficult riding.
Finally got rid of its ongoing raids at the expense of a rich present of knives, wedges iron and a few yards of linen, which the people of the Guarani sending of alms to the Christianity of the Chiquitos.
Finally, the winds, always contrary, forced them to walk by dint of rowing, and a times the ship aground on the sand, they were obliged to refloat, to walk away, transporting cargo to the shore, and others, giving on the rocks, made them walk in continuous fright and shock.
And so, sailing to all parts of the river in continual drive, without rest or respite, spent about seven months to mid August, but did not suffer the heart to overzealous P.
Arce frustrate this journey and many hardships as they had happened the past years took a decision that could only excuse for his reckless ardientísimo zeal for souls, their trust in God and the love he had to these missions, as the first Apostle of them, and was that left the boat and picked twelve Indians, the brave and fervent in faith, undertook travel by land with strong encouragement to seek the Chiquitos Reductions, even if in danger of falling into the hands of the barbarians who took his life, or to starve and thirst for those deserts and unknown lands.
What I suffered in that way for two months, how many fatigues, many jobs and penalties, not to speak with my words, I will here part of the relationship did five of his fellow Indians on this trip.
Say, then, and in their relationship: Father picking up his cross, broke ground Mamore, with four Indians, giving order to the others that are not from there.
A few days later we received a note of hers, which he told us we followed the other eight, and after a few days away, a smoke we saw in the distance, we knew where we were, and arrived, we were welcomed with open arms but we did not have all day to reach the mouth.
Seeing the anguish and work of the Father, we went back four to the ship, and taking some food, returned to seek the Father with all haste, We found a just, because others, not having what to eat, had gone to a rabbit fencing with fire.
With so many jobs and lack of food and drink had been such that only her skin on bone.
It was amazing the joy you had when you saw us, hugging, bathing their tears in his eyes.
We continued the trip, walking a day by a very thick forest, and such was the thicket they did not know where we were.
Being the Father in this anguish, not knowing what to do or where to turn, told us: - Children, who were tired of the work, turn the boat.
They replied all with one accord, which were prepared to follow him wherever he went; that day we had no other water to drink but a swamp of terrible smell.
We walked to the shore of the Paraguay River, where having hunted a deer, we were afflicted the lack of water, but digging one of our colleagues a well, by great providence of God, to two fathoms discovered a vein of water.
We spent the night here, and entering the following day in a thick wood, we were obliged lead the way with great fatigue and sweat to get out of him to open campaign.
Then judged P.
Joseph already eaten and we were tired of so much trouble and penalties, so we turned to say: - He who wishes to become, turn in good time, I am determined to go forward and to fulfill the will of God and my superiors.
One or more years in these forests walk if God wants me to stay alive until the desired doneness.
If you find infidels we will stand between them and teach them God's law.
Such verve and such encouragement was the P.
Joseph, afflicted with hunger, thirst, fatigue, and of nudity (because they're sleeping next to the fire burned his poor cassock) caused no small wonder that, being so lacking in strength, was barely standing, not doubt lead Later, much to his expense, a business so difficult and almost desperate.
Encouraged by his breath and spirit, we entered a thick forest, where the holy man, from by shrubs and trees, armed with spines harsh everywhere, let those rags of his robe that had escaped the fire, falling at every step without being able to lift, with that was necessary to shake his hand.
In this way, with great fatigue, we reached a river where some fish recovered fished, where we stopped shortly before had been an army of infidels.
It was admirable patience and serenity of mind in these sets, without showing the slightest feeling when I had nothing to eat, spending time absorbed in God, and every morning, before set out, knelt a long distance.
We found some wild fruit that only made us eat the extreme necessity.
Some browsers that were discovered before a smoke in the distance, that we all great joy.
In early October, we stopped at the edge of a river, where we could make good with fish and turtles that are at a lagoon.
We continued on and we totally missed the food and drink, and we had nothing to give to the Father but some palmettos, who first served us food, but after experiencing evil purposes, causing great pain to the Father of the stomach, and inflammation of the bowels fierce with thirst ardientísima.
In this condition he ran both the forces and consumed so believing it to be already reached the end of his life, begged us to lead him on the banks of a river, and leaving us there we returned to Paraguay.
Hallámonos in great distress, not only why we said, because his face was as over corpse of living body and wanting comfort, could not utter a word because they have been swollen tongue.
We, those most hurt to the loss of life of the Father as our own, said resolutely he wanted to stay in all jobs, and even their lives if necessary.
Recobróse a little, and giving encouragement to the nature of the force of spirit, he set out falling and rising at every step, and the fourth day, finding a bit of wild honey, it Father present to slake the thirst.
Being one of us in a tree, he saw a cloud of smoke toward the west, which had done Indian Christian P.
Zea back from the shores of the Paraguay river, as we discovered later; and walking over there, we wanted to take the Father in a hammock, because he feared much few steps if he would fall dead on his feet, but he refused saying he wanted to have with us until the last moment of his life.
The next day was Friday, we did not find anything to eat, and Saturday, by God's providence, we took some hunting and a turtle for the Father.
At last it pleased God to comfort, uncovering the desired path as the Chiquitos.
Amazing was the joy that was the holy man, not ceasing to give thanks, and encourage one to tears in the eyes to see us do the same, intoned the Litany of Our Lady, and coming soon after the place where the day before had said Mass P.
Juan Bautista de Zea, we gathered together at all, and more tears than words, he thanked us many jobs as we passed it, and that his life would remember us.
This comfort became worth recognizing that lost their holy Christ and searched all parts could not be found, and all that night they hit the eyes at the loss of their Lord, who had given so much encouragement and strength to those anxieties, until the desired doneness.
The next day we had water supplies and fish, and we encounter with two Christians who had The portable altar P.
Zea, we headed there.
What were the greetings and happiness of these two apostolic missionaries to be together after so many hardships, we can not explain, because the more they talked with her eyes and sighs with the language.
So far the relationship of the Indians.
Just arrived Arce to San Rafael, when not taking a break to recover, by P.
advice Superior, set off towards the lagoon Mamore, whose path, though more short, it was like the past.
Arrived there was the possible measures to find the P.
Blende and the boat, but was in vain, because this, after having waited a long time, it was obligated to violence from their peers.
At this time received a letter from P.
Vice-Provincial in which he warned that waiting for him, because wanted to embark.
Arce was stopped in San Rafael Reverence, that he would in a canoe to the Payaguá, who have already won for his encouragement and affection, promised to lead him to Asuncion, where in April the following year, again to take you.
Arce, to make a few canoes and drive them to P.
Vice-Provincial to the Assumption, through many dangers and enemies.
But God Our Lord accepted the wishes of P.
Vice-Provincial for reward, but not execution, because he had fallen into the hands of those barbarians who had him at his own discretion pieces.
Just had walked thirty-three or thirty-four leagues, when loaded so rain and found as deep swamps that could not go ahead, but obvious danger to be drowned there, and some said they brought the Guarani P.
CHAPTER XVII Are killed by the Parent Payaguá Maple and Bartholomew Joseph Blende and gives a brief account of his virtues.
After the P.
Arce Father departed from the ground to find Blende Missions the Chiquitos, he waited two months in that place, resolved not to take away from first news of his partner, but two who were with the Spanish P.
Blende, one, pilot and the other captain of the people, disgusted long before the P.
Arce because they were prohibited the purchase of slaves, began to upset such a long detention, and with real or apparent reasons, made the request to P.
Blende for a return.
At first he refused resolutely, exhorting them to suffer those hardships and work for the love of God, but not ceasing words, laments, complaints and even threats also to leave only at the discretion of so many barbarians who live along the coast, we was necessary to indulge them.
Understood in this resolution by Quatí, chief of the Payaguá, they went after them, so he and their vassals, with the intention of living in the Guarani Reductions, and become Christians; but recognizing that among his people were still some, whose leader was a Christian apostate Ambrosio, who were obstinate in their freedom to live, and were the relatives of Demon and wizards, decided to depart from them and go ahead with their mob in their canoes, which are very slight.
He also persuaded others of his nation, bordering with the city of Asunción to continue resolution, and all together, happy and contented continued the journey.
In this state was the conversion of these souls so lost and all happy hoped event if the common enemy would not have marred attempts by those perfidious apostates.
Alegre, therefore, the holy man, and happy with the profit that he thought he had achieved, given background at sunset, near a ravine, called task, where those traitors will came to visit, giving fake tokens of love and repentance.
The Father who wanted nothing, received them with affection that he loved the good of their souls, and tried, with all industries apostolic zeal, confirm those good intentions.
The Payaguá to better disguise their treachery, begged him to carry his rabble on the boat they would follow in their canoes.
A fresh wind rose and the boat moved forward both to the canoes of his lightning-fast, that just three days we were able to reach, being continually suspicious Barbarians that they were allayed your attempts, and not exposed to risk losing the set, is put everyone on the boat, with the pretext that the Father would give them some food.
The first who entered was a young man named Cotaga, son of a great sorcerer, which had Father great affection, and he will win always sat beside her.
This, then, came and stood next to the Father, as usual, another stood next to a Spanish who ruled the helm, and looking towards an ax or hatchet, which was nearby, they sat on it concealed, and making signs to each other, which hid the ax fell her hand with great skill, and throwing the driver, at one stroke cut off his head.
At the same time Cotaga fell on the parents not to take place, to defend themselves and another with a mighty blow split his head through and saw him still beating, I downloaded more furiously the second, then the other traitors rushed to the converts, and soon gave cruel death, and an Indian named Francisco Guarayo, helping to mass to the Father they killed him released.
After jumping for joy at this ugly treason, they cut all the heads and put the bodies lying on the shore of an island where the river putting Amid all the happy to P.
Blende, set fire to the boat to remove the nails of iron and sacred ornaments and other jewelry designed for the new church of Chiquitos, after the mockery and scorn, the pieces made, each taking the party to quota so wicked and sacrilegious plundering booty.
Were not satisfied with these enemies of God and His law with such horrible treason before making them more encouragement, instigation of the devil and the witches, were prevented to last act of the tragedy with the death of P.
Arce to fend off if those who rebuked them their bestial behavior, and prevent its along the nation embrace the holy faith, by which were made to search out where he had to pass the Father.
This, then, having failed to find the boat, having made his best one small boat, boarded it with thirteen newcomers, his most faithful companions in many risks and dangers, at the beginning of December.
Walked prosperously for many days, until he came to this island which lay stretched beach cadavers, and noted that a recently dead bodies, the Indians jumped on land and acknowledged that they were his companions.
What a feeling of comfort and tears caused the martyred holy man to see his companion, and secondly what would pain of having lost, it is easier to explain discourse; embraced him, tears of holy Banyoles envy, and would have gladly taken it, to have been able to do the boat.
Did not know that God wanted to give soon, with such a crown, the reward of many jobs and hardships suffered by increasing their glory and the good of souls.
Viewing the carnage neophytes, they said: - Father, turn around, because they are bitter Payaguá us and kill us, as have done with others. - That's not - 'Father - because we are now very distant, God is with us, because love that we have been on the road.
They wanted, at least the Indians prevent weapons, and our Guarani their muskets.
Even this allowed, saying he wanted to die for Christ, and encouraged them with words of fire to sacrifice their lives to God, saying: - If our work and sweat has not been sufficient to lead to the desired end is company, he makes up at least with the blood work they could do more pleasing to God or more profitable to themselves, to lose their lives in witness to the faith they professed; that did not lose that crown offered to them and that many were looking for without having lucky to find it, and that would soon eternally happy in heaven, with only Goodwill offer their heads to the clubs of Payaguá.
For this reason those good Christians were encouraged to ignore their temporal life and imitate the example and courage of the holy missionary.
They went a little farther, when he suddenly fell into the snares of those wicked, leaving them with alacrity to meet him, clung to the first set and took the boat ashore, the first that came in it was that damned Indian Cotaga, who came to P.
This happened just before you kill them, according to the computation which is then made, for which the next day ordered his subjects them to say Mass for your intention, and was forced discover the cause by the countenance was pale and colorless.
But God did not want to die all, that we had the joyous news of luck these two operators apostles some, therefore, left with life, rather than condemned to perpetual slavery.
The killers carried the body of P.
Arce to the other side of the river, and gave him Guaycurús to those who had also added fuel to the fire, and taken part in this cruel crime.
They took the corpse of the holy martyr and raved against him with great inhumanity, wounding him with their spears, and only wanted more bloodied when there was nothing to mistreat and hurt.
That apostate Ambrose, who had been the main cause of this wickedness, then sent some of his accomplices to warn of what happened to people going to our mission of the Guarani to enlist in the number of the faithful.
Quatí barely knew, the principal chief of all, the most fervent in the desire to receive holy baptism, when leaving himself with grief, went around to all his subjects to avenge the deaths of the Padres.
Offenders, seeing that they could not escape the fury of that brave chief, called on their behalf to the Guaycurús, but even so the Quatí undertook with great value, and to the first attack killed more than a few of the accomplices, the other, unable to resist, they entered fleeing through the woods, and for a long time dared not leave them, for which all days this chief was in the least ill to face with such an enormous crime, telling them to do what purpose life had been taken to the Fathers that made them so good and so fond of?
they could go to the Mamalucos and would see if they were treated better.
Let the traitors in their flight altar ornaments and other sacred ornaments, which, although desecrated and shattered the Quatí collected and restored, it still maintained its great desire to be Christian, but he finally vanished for having some of their chiefs nation bordering the Assumption, broken the peace with the Spanish.
It has been well particular providence God has had to give notice of all these events.
There was already a little less than two years was not known to these two Apostolic operators, so we were on so afflicted and bereaved.
Some believe that, looking unable to return to Asuncion, had been hospitalized for the country to preach in it the holy law of God, and was the basis for this lawsuit insatiable zeal on both sides, then to wherever they would give them opportunity to preach, were even at the cost large sweat and work, others ran better than had been killed by the Payaguá, or at least made slaves.
And I've seen written letter of the Assumption of April 30, 1717, written after death penalty that was given to the Payaguá said, was said by the way he ran in that city who had died only P.
Arce, and P.
Blende I had the same Payaguá captive with some of his Indians, and that the Spanish rider had sold to the Guaycurús.
God wanted to order some comfort from news of the arrival of these two very happy Missionaries the position of bliss, a glorious death.
Were thus eyewitnesses of what happened, four Christians, companions of P.
Arce, whose names were: Joseph Mazzabis, Poquibiqui Jacinto, Pablo and Pedro Melchor Tubal Guarayo, who having been slaves of the Payaguá, were rescued by the Padres in the first trip, and this had brought him the Father of that language interpreters.
These slaves were now the second time Payaguá
