Twenty minutes, c'est fait.
Barro and wooden houses, nothing.
And here I am you, as we hear, set in a bar-room table of my hotel, with a cocktail pro forma, ahead, studying for six consecutive hours, the sailors played pool and the many patrons of the counter.
One of them, a merchant captain Yankee came to a slightly stippled and absorbed half a glass of a drink that had to go around burnt sugar edges to avoid contact of the lips.
For four hours, Yankee came regularly every twenty minutes and a dose of identical engorged proportions.
At four in the afternoon fell drunk dead, two sailors dragged him into a corner and stood there.
In one corner of the room, taking at most a space five feet square, a young Swiss had set up his window and watch your table.
I had it before me, during half hour rubbed with a cloth a clock spring, then dropped his head in his hands, that at the end of the day was observed (not one customer had come!) saw him run two tears streaming down her cheeks.
More than once I had the urge to go and talk to the poor watchmaker; but in my turn, I was so nervous and irritable, which I finally bother me to the unhappy before him.
Those who have not traveled or have done only in major European centers can not exact realization of a state of mind as one in which I was.
The spirit forms the chimera that it is impossible to leave it, that martyrdom will be prolonged indefinitely.
At every moment, and take courage, it is necessary to take his wallet (I never care as there), said that there are ways to go at any time, the vapors expect and finally, that if one is in the center, is a book and premeditated act of will.
At last night came, and when I remember, I declare that I feel a great satisfaction for having referred to this table and unique.
I have said that Columbus is composed almost entirely in one street, but I forgot to mention that over the same runs a Recoba kind of entries to protect against frequent rain.
I walked under her to drop the first shadows and I noticed that in front of every hotel, every bar-room, every door, a man pulled a small folding table, was installed before she lit a lamp, arranged in a semicircle a few dozen art piastres silver, and began to beat thundered a huge horn dice provided.
Ship moored to the shore, once gave seven, began dating a cloud of sailors and officers, foremen, etc., soon blocked the road, forming compact groups before each table.
As if a blow had driven the mud and formed with the female body, sprang from the ground in an instant hundreds of black, mulatto, quadroon livid, barefoot mostly, drunken, filthy, in turn, attracted by the fascination of the game, crowded around the tables, gnashed their teeth when they were down and jumped to the sailors shaky, asking, in a language other than English or French, or Spanish, or anything known one of these real coins to the Americans call a dime.
The bar-rooms were full, no sound was hoarse and guttural voice of Black people in Jamaica, blasphemous eternal sailor speak English and some foul Cadiz.
Out and the first table threw a coin, then another and, once exhausted, he entered the neighbor, the gleaming blades and effort was only possible to separate.
One was rolling in the mud two or three drunken women dancing to an organ in which an Italian face on Mars, played a wild cancan.
Sweltering heat and unbearable atmosphere, such as noise, curses, sarcasm, the eternal fight with the banker who was quicker as parishioners saw more point ...
and I reclined in my column, wondering what he was doing between that world, modern and very real Sabbath to convince me I was not dreaming.
He who pays a small tax has the right to establish their outdoor table, and what mat!
Come to my room, suffocating, without being able to strip out of disgust to bed, I sat in a chair and I called to account.
Had resolved to spend ten days in the Isthmus and that day was almost held my ticket in the City of Para, who came to New York in the period indicated.
There same, in all seriousness, I imposed an oath to leave Columbus, renouncing Panama, channel, the whole world, the first ship that will sail, no matter to where.
How I Spent that night, what say?
At dawn I was standing, I put in the field and knew that two days left for New York after the steam Alene, company Atlas.
I took my ticket on the spot and I carry my luggage on board, congratulating me on having enough time to go to a forthcoming Channel stations and to see with my own eyes the progress of work and the future of the company.
I paid my account of the infamous mulatto, and when I came on board, vapor in a small and uncomfortable, I thought solemnly entered paradise.
A glance at the geographical map of the land has given birth in the minds of men the idea of ??correcting certain vagaries of nature at the time of the geological formation the world.
The Isthmus of Corinth, the Suez and Panama, have been successively in time and space, of concern to all those who sought ways to increase the welfare of mankind.
The Greeks, with their religious beliefs that impelled the personification of all items considered a sacrilege to attempt to change aspects of the known world, and Aeschylus Xerxes attributed the disaster to divine retribution, by the haughty manner in which the Persian monarch treated the Hellespont.
The Romans, some browsers even fixed their gaze on the Isthmus of Suez, for his legions were accustomed to go the whole earth with his step-martial.
Was necessary commercial development wondrous world of the West, so that dream of opening new shipping routes and economical to become a reality.
The old land that led to the East, was abandoned when Basque Gama rounded the Cape of Storms, and in turn the route of the famous Portuguese gave way to that outlined so wonderfully modern wit personified in the "Great French", as it's called M.
What commands respect in the work of this man, not the concept of idea, which ran many years ago in the intellectual field.
The Isthmus of Panama is one of those geographical points, such as Constantinople, are called the importance of all time.
Central point of two continents, a must for European trade with five or six American nations, it is natural to have dialed the attention of the big punch.
The Americans, built the railroad that passes through and establishing the lowest rates leonine known on earth [28], believed unnecessary the excavation of the canal, which, worthy sons of the English, never looked with favor.
Lesseps's perseverance triumphed once again, and the new route received his elementary stroke [29].
Since then, the approach, by cheapness of transportation, of all the lands washed by the Pacific from the Bering Strait to Chile itself, with the major European centers.
Magellan's route will be abandoned by the same identical result to that of the Basque left Gama, and the commercial importance the strait has been on the verge of starting the war in the far south of America, will have disappeared completely.
Even in the day, the whole trade of Peru and the movement of passengers, is made by Panama despite the inconveniences and delays of transshipment and the enormity of the rail freight Isthmian.
Chileans tend to prefer them that way, they avoid the rough seas of the South and tired of this monotonous navigation, while the northern route has calm seas and frequent stops to lighten the heaviness of the trip.
After opening the canal, rare will therefore be the vessel to search for the Strait of Magellan into the Pacific.
For Chileans, and perhaps for Peruvians, just one path to lead fight against via Panama, is the rail that attaches to Buenos Aires to Chile.
That will be the required path of most Americans of the Pacific, in transit to Europe, because it will be shorter, faster and more enjoyable.
Now, will the channel, with the sanctioned budget and time specified in M.
It is not here, and M.
de Lesseps begins to understand and, in a work like that of Suez.
Missing Khedive, missing hundreds of thousands of fellahs, who died in the task, as their ancestors now forty centuries in the construction of the pyramids that are still on the sands, monuments of these senseless slaughters human.
The passenger is now crossing the Suez Canal, yawning at the monotonous landscape of sand and telegraph poles, never thinks about - and does well, because there is no reason to stir the blood in a retrospective sentimentality - in the bodies were left lying along these aggregate piers.
Were fellahs, slaves without a voice or right, and nobody talked about them.
But in Panama there is no fellahs Khedive and sanitation conditions are still lower than those of Suez.
Just know the name of some points along the route of the Isthmus names coming from the conquest, such as "Kill Christians", to realize the fun climate of those locations.
Do not seek official statistics, they hide these things, no doubt not to disturb the digestion of European shareholders.
Look for them in the crosses of cemeteries in mass graves filled, and train yourselves an idea of ??the number of casualties in this small army workers, noting that many engineers, with the main head, people all which served as their personal hygiene condom, have been among the first to fall under the fever of the Isthmus.
Has stopped and the flow of Europeans, and a moment thought of the Chinese.
But as they are more skilled than strengths, and how, despite the Chinese, are deadly, I think has withdrawn the project.
There is also an economic reason, in all these great companies: money from the laborers, in their three-quarters re-enters the box through numerous canteens and supplies of all kinds down on the ground.
The Chinese do not consume anything, which certainly does not make very sympathetic to the company.
Finally, it has seized from the natives, that is, those who are accustomed to the climate, could be longer, and he has hired a large number of Panamanians, Samaria, Cartagena, costarriquenses, looking for recruits to the West Indies next.
But all those people without needs, used to live one day with a banana, is neither strong nor industrious, nor subject to military discipline essential for companies of that magnitude.
Lacking men, M.
de Lesseps appealed to the construction industry contracted in the United enormous excavation machines, which had iron teeth to replace the arm human.
Work is necessary to see these monsters to know how far power mechanics.
The motor construction engineer was fixed to the endless movement pulleys Universal Exhibition in Philadelphia, said that if I had a point outside the world place your machine, pull out the Earth from its orbit.
But there is no machine that can combat the torrential rains that occur in Panama almost without interruption for nine months.
Open a trench at any point line, dug up three to four meters deep, has a shower, it fills and collapses laboriously extracted into the ground a moment before.
It is useless to think of exhausted, because five minutes later be full again.
Without a doubt, because it is a work impossible and the resources today by human industry are endless.
But in view of the difficulties I have pointed and that I am allowed to believe were not taken into view in raising the general guidelines of the work, I think it is legitimate, according to all the people who have visited the work impartial observer, that the channel is not open to universal trade within 10 years and after having consumed more than twice the budgeted amount (six hundred million francs).
But I do not see M.
The difficulties are raised by the United States to the Canal Company Panama, the fiery debates that this matter originated in Washington and Congress the idea, cherished moment, to protect all the power of the great nation, the project practice rival canal through Nicaragua.
The strength and toughness M.
de Lesseps succeeded once again against the new problem, but the United States far from the maturity, the issue was revived in the form diplomatic, playing the role in the memorable debate at the time of writing, not yet exhausted, M.
Blaine, whose rapid passage through the Union Government has made a mark so deep, and the reputation, after the fall, has been torn apart so ruthlessly by their opponents.
For these, M.
Blaine has been nothing but a political adventurer and impure, that has sought to vary the flow of international life for a century had led without tripping the ship of the Union.
Pacific affairs, the inexcusable cheating people in agony he stretches his arms in desperation to a false promise, the mysteries of the Peruvian Guano Company, the shameful recantation of Messrs.
It seems, however, that if a study abroad fair a little the American people now find that it is possible that the time trial on M.
Blaine is not corroborated public opinion within ten years.
Patriotic dreams and ambitions aside, deep view about the future, the other, and in the middle, pondering, always serious, narrow interests, quick and easy profit, have determined the initiation of the propaganda that M.
Blaine echoed in the Government.
A compact nation of over fifty million souls, with elements wealth, wit, culture, equal to at least the first nations of Europe, can not should not, say, indifferent to the European policy.
For the moment, the issues all of America should be his sole spring, exerting legitimate hegemony that entitles its importance.
From Cape Horn to the limits Canada should not be another influence that the United States, or hear other voice that rises in Washington.
This is the fundamental idea that life will soon serve as a party labarum, headed no doubt see even M.
Blaine, despite the sound of his fall.
And such is the influence exerts on the collective spirit, that she should be the last resurgence of the doctrine Monroe, which currently holds M.
Frelinghysen with equal perseverance than its predecessor.
The debate started between Lord and M.
Grenwille Blaine continues in the day, without showing up now likely to either party subsides.
No historiaré the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, known to all that these issues are interest, remember only that it was a compromise, a modus vivendi rather than allow extended English and American influences in the West Indies and the coasts of Central America in a parallel manner that does not lead to conflict.
But if Americans were comfortable the treaty when it was insignificant factories tiny islets, not tried the same thing about the future Panama Canal and reported cleverly the treaty, claiming the exclusive guarantee of free navigation and neutrality Isthmus, for themselves.
The British, of course, rejected the complaint and proposed, instead of that guarantee exclusive, all the powers of Europe, together with States Together.
That is the question; volumes of notes have been changed, but still see a step positive.
Meanwhile, what is the view of Colombia, that after all, taking the territorial sovereignty and the direct jurisdiction, it seems to me that you can claim a right to be heard?
Since then, is worth remembering that Colombia has had more than once that bring serious complaints against the inroads of the United States on the Atlantic coasts of the Isthmus.
Sometimes it's needed shout very loudly to be heard in Europe, and only then, Americans have quit the dam that peremptorily, with the right of the lion, had taken over, jumping on the treaty Clayton-Bulwer himself.
But a Colombian minister, on his way to Europe, because even in Washington was accredited, had the idea of ??signing with the American Office, a protocol, which Colombia declared satisfied and prefer the security of the United States exclusively.
This convention was formally disapproved in Bogota, but Colombia, including, to my mind However, their convenience, are épingle du jeu strip, and left face to face England and the Union, stating, moreover, through the voice of the press and word of their Speakers at the Congress, its undoubted sympathy for the guarantee attached, proposed by England.
At bottom, the Monroe Doctrine is nothing but an opinion, a desideratum, the longing of a people that formula and their general interests.
But then to turn that opinion at first public law, there is much distance.
In addition to the principles of law, not only In our century, but at all times, have had very weakly in solution questions of fact, Americans can not even claim that the Monroe Doctrine is supported by the universal consensus.
of the fable, but, like the Americans never showed the claw, or if the issue of Mexico, or when the bombardment of Valparaiso, where bullets spent most of Spanish ships carrying the flag of stars, no longer believes in it scarecrow.
England replied that, having indisputable interest in the Pacific, and being the Canal Panama a route to India, it is natural to want to take part in the warranty.
Then claim I, too, answered the United States in the security of the Suez Canal.
The England smiles ...
Surely the intention of M.
Blaine, when he called the American Congress, which was to meet in Washington in November 1882, under the pretext of seeking the means to avert war among the American nations (sic) was just lay on the table the question of guarantee the Isthmus, and perhaps, to the perseverance of England, not giving up, propose, rather than its exclusive warranty, of all the states comprising the two Americas.
But since the question first, referring to Colombia, come into my box, and touches on the other hand, not a current interest, but the steady march of politics American, I do not enter inappropriate ideas here that a comprehensive study to suggest me as healthier and more convenient for everyone.
