That reminds us: he will not believe what has happened.
The idea that marrying would feel unhappy, it was his torment. "Luis asked me if I love him: I do not know how to prove it. "I think that both doubt, one of my happiness, the other of my love.
I have finally been persuaded of the truth to Louis.
He had said, on the trip, that this book was written my memories of the day I left school, and had promised to give to read them.
His desire was to know whether he was talking about, what said of himself, what views had inspired me.
When we returned from the trip, did not return to ask for the book, and the other day, he spoke of it myself, I replied that I did not want read my diary.
The reason they gave me did not seem good: it said that I had trusted the role was not to be very clear.
The truth is that he still afraid to discover that I had not seemed quite young, I was pleased recently.
Then I begged him to sit listen to me, and started reading.
The last lines, prior to our marriage, read: "The Count's younger than Dad, is forty-four years.
I do not know if I like it or I dislike. "I know I have explained as best I could.
The truth is that I found it quite natural, and although There was a time when I noticed that Luis had two older than I, later reflected that age of men as there are no women.
What matters is not age, are the qualities of the soul, and Luis goodness I had this test: who is a friend of Dad.
All he had heard two years of intimacy showed me that their way of nodding was delicate, fine, fine, that his intelligence was high and selective, their culture was wide and deep. "And now I understand that the issue is another.
Luis did not fear therefore not sufficiently Young, as unpleasant as a person, face. "Well, if I considered stupid sometimes my habit of writing notes and, instead, on other occasions, I have approved today, I think that was actually have written a fortune, because I was able, through them, to convince Louis of what thought of him at that time.
He was so good with the gun in his hand and shining eyes flashing like a sword; was so strong and agile, which seemed to be truly a highlight of one of those novels Walter Scott that I like both.
Accurately thought even then that one day we could come together as we are now; but I noticed, yes, our names were on the same piece of cardboard, it was he who had joined, I had called His Grace, and I felt my heart pounding, with great force ... "Ah!
Little has failed to tell me, but I have not said, in part because he was in one of those times of doubt, in part because I thought it would be better to write in this book, where he will read it someday.
Since I do not believe, do not deserve to say anything: better entrust it to these pages, which are designed to disabuse.
Married the girl in those conditions, with a man who could be her father, was not expected to give up happiness to burning, and get in the best case scenario, bliss quiet, sooner or later feel disturbed by the idea of ??a greater good? ...
Confessions of destroying the suspected dead.
Ferpierre felt that if the narrator not have been happy if he saw that he was mistaken when she married the Count d'Arda, I would sincerely confessed completely, but once I felt something had recognized I could not write, and certainly would not have declared roundly his deceit, may believe that, rather than guard it would have preferred not to write anything, the silence would have been then more eloquent.
But far from silent, far from referring to his disappointment, he insisted on both demonstrations of affection for the naive and passionate couple, the judge could not doubt his sincerity.
On the other hand, was really amazing the love of a girl of twenty years by a man over forty?
Ferpierre, explaining it was not so much into account the moral qualities the husband, as the physical conditions among the papers found at the home of the deceased had seen some photographs of relatives and friends, two of which, according to Julia's statement Pico, was the Count: the figure of the man was beautiful, strong and noble, and was so expression, the love of the young wife was justified.
And pages and pages not spoke only of him, concerned, proud, all the evidence of love that gave her husband, transcribed his words love, was glad to see that he believed in his love, knowing that his father was sure of his happiness.
A Ferpierre he could hear the cry of the desperate plea from the head that the dying father, exhaled loving daughter's chest.
But in vain: on the next page had a lock of gray hair, bound by means of two cuts in the sheet, and the margin a date: June 3, 1886.
After the book was full of reminders of death: Countess confided to pages his dearest memories of daughter with a pain so sharp, but at the same time comforted by Christian hope, which seemed certain paragraphs we still talk about his living father, and the beginning of the book.
Killing by failing to live was a vile; but in other cases, the voluntary death was not for him to be condemned.
Often discussed this problem, and he showed me the world just to whom honor is subtracted from the death servitude, shame, dishonor, to whom, to kill, save or help their peers.
Killing to be punished - was also said - is an act of justice ... " Ferpierre uncertainty about the meaning of these words was short: the thought the narrator was explaining page by page.
Countess believed that her husband had not died by accident but deliberately, that by finding a tremendous death under the wheels of a train he had sought. "People who were present said, and still say, they did not understand how no had heard the screams all throwing, nor seen his desperate gestures.
A those who suffered from dizziness in the last year, would be the explanation of what happened, if I did not know ... "We seize a mortal sadness.
When asked the reason for this, I looked so painfully as if afraid to lose at once.
One day, far away and when I first spoke of their single life, had so much disdain in his words!
And the conviction of his deviation by order of the error, guilt, comforted him so much! ... "But goodness, it was severe, almost unrelenting for deviations of the passions.
The ruin of a friend who had left his family seemed deserved, and not his death in loneliness and poverty as inclined to be lenient with him ... "I realized what was happening, but did not speak.
I was afraid, afraid even to think. "I am not sincere, do not say everything ..." And Ferpierre, seeing that on the following pages not talk about the drama, was stopped after more to ponder what I had read.
The last words: "I am not sincere, do not say everything ..." meant " perhaps not accusing her husband because she does not, for his part, he was clean of sin?
Even if the judge with little experience thought impossible, even though there already anticipated the day when the quiet affection of a husband too old not sufficient to wife too young, the idea that the Countess would have fallen repugnant.
Had taken Ferpierre such affection for the deceased person to read your story, looked so noble and pure, felt on every page of this confession so naive sincerity, that the sense naturally the reluctance appeared justified. "I was afraid of thinking.
I am not sincere, I do not say everything ... "Do not think, at the time of writing these words, the betrayal husband whom she had devoted all her love, betrayal of those who had doubted his unworthy of possessing it believing love, who had promised to dedicate her life to deserve it to preserve it, was it a serious fault, and her undeserved punishment?
If you also disturbing about it had acted seductions, and had learned to tame them and away, it which in the opinion of the world would have been more excusable to receive them, was it not natural to judge severely weak man?
The details of the drama Ferpierre escaped, but it's rebuilt with imagination.
Mystery in the mystery, but it should remain impenetrable, as the seal of death had closed and the lips of the two authors the drama.
The tantalizing, if still living, was the only one that had been made clear, but in truth not matter and that the Count, succumbing to guilt against his will, he wanted to punish with death, and prevented a worse punishment, as would have been to see the drop in life wife who had taught the way of evil, or even thinking about all this, his death would have been by chance.
Continued with redoubled curiosity Ferpierre reading of reports, looking for what was most urgent.
After the quick allusions to the catastrophe, the magistrate found no more than descriptions countries.
The young widow took her mourning from place to place, on the Rhine, the Netherlands, Scotland, and only in the latter reports were dated.
It seemed that just as the experience had been a premature maturity, his thinking and his style had been strengthened equal proportions: some landscapes were painted with sober touches, but vigorously, the Images were crisp and clear.
Here and there among the descriptions, he sketches in pen and pencil, views of landscapes, reproductions of types, the hand of the artist was both time graceful and strong.
Here and there appeared some moral judgments unrelated apparent with the neighboring notes, and showed that behind the calm exterior a concern secret tormented author.
Were gradually coming into play other things: some pages are not read more than disquisitions about the problems of life. "The biggest injustice in the world: one is commendable that the proposed repair. "There are two kinds of laws, of nature and the soul, and often the ideal law is to operate against the printing materials.
At one time, this surprised me; not now.
Get rid of the laws of nature is the highest needs and the most noble efforts: the credit is to overcome the difficulties. "Not many times, but always, there is opposition between the two kinds of laws, and in this life can not suppress it, because nothing would exist without the effort.
This is the greatest test. "Those who say it's silly to preach the equality of men because they are naturally unequal, do not know they say a moral heresy.
You might as well say it's silly to preach sacrifice because selfishness is a law of nature.
If love is ourselves our first real need to suppress and postpone love for others should be the first ideal necessity.
Men are different from birth, and this suggests unpleasant truth the idea of ??equalization.
These are ideas that seem simple, but he describes them of rare. " The increased attention of the judge at that point.
The narrator seemed to answer the question Ferpierre became mentally since the subject of reports varied from one page to another and abstract speculations passed most intimate confessions. "No, I had not yet experienced such an embarrassment.
This anxiety, this fever, I was unknown. "I once read that love is one, and I thought the writer was lying or mistaken, because I did not think there is more than a way to love.
No: the writer was right.
The effect then does not resemble the turmoil of today: Luis, who had more experience than me, I knew and not content with what I gave him.
I doubted my love because I saw no impetuous and vehement.
So, too, my father doubted my happiness. "I doubt I too now? "The clouds move over the tops of the mountains, taking strange shapes, interwoven as tapes, stretch as veils: one side of the lake has disappeared behind them, the waters no longer have any limit, as a gulf opened up a mysterious ocean.
I still hear her voice.
The flame spreads of one soul to another, as one face to another.
I seems to be no more than a month ago I started living.
The reason admonishes, the heart remembers.
Would not have wanted to laugh when he heard the story of an act heroic.
Life, he says. "The greater the pity that I had to hear him laugh at himself.
When she laughs with that fake laugh, I think it would have torn something in his voice, his heart ... "If it is true that our feelings live one by one and if we deny ourselves the who have died, feeling that he is alive needs to believe eternal.
Here is the error.
The happiness I felt for days seemed indestructible.
But in the back pages there was more order in the confessions. "Life is more difficult than I thought." This reflection was all that was written on a page, and farther, still another question: "So is it presumption to believe that one is right?" After a few phrases of dark. "By no means, but like to wait ... "It is not weakness, it is not surprising: I've thought through, trust me smile, I see the finish line ... "Now I am lost for words ..." Under a date: "June 18, 1890" was written: "Before God, forever." And Ferpierre was to clarify the meaning of those words, relating so to reconstruct the intimate story.
What was the candle plant was confirmed: the idea of ??doing good to the sick soul appeared Zakunine dominant in the thinking of the Countess, with its softness and sweetness, the law of attraction between opposites, would hold the impetuous force, the rebel's indomitable ardor as sets out the gross wealth which can extract a pure value.
It was true that something simpler, love alone, sufficient to explain the close relationship that had formed between the two, and she gave an eloquent proof of his love when he confessed that included the doubts of her husband and his father about his happiness in the past
