His life was a murky river, monotonous, without brilliance or beauty, gliding silently as Júcar in winter.
Al review their existence, summarized in a nutshell.
He had married, Remedios was his wife, Matias his father.
He was rich, fully available to a large fortune, sending despotically on the tough father of his wife, the most fervent fans.
His mother, as if efforts to intermarry with the wealth they had exhausted the strength of his character, had fallen in a senile marasmus bordering on idiocy, with no signs of life that staying in the church until the doors closed goodbye, and the rosary, continually whispered the corners of the house, screaming and running away from the games of his grandchildren.
Don Andres had died, leaving her disappearance arbitrator and the party's absolute master Raphael.
Birth their three children, the diseases of childhood, with rabid tooth points pain, constipation requiring the mother to spend the night awake and stupid pranks of his brother - the brother of Remedios who feared him more than his father, influenced respect that infused his majestic person - were the only events that had altered a little the monotony of their existence.
Every year acquired new properties, felt the thrill of pride watching from the mountain of San Salvador - that hermitage ay!
of tenacious memory - large pieces of land here and there, surrounded by green walls, on which the orange extendíanse in the correct rows.
Everything was his, the sweetness of the possession, drunkenness property subíansele to the head.
Upon entering the old house, rejuvenated and transformed, experiencing the same printing of wealth and power.
The old cabinet where his mother kept the money was in the same site, but no longer hidden quantities slowly amassed at the expense of sacrifice and deprivation to boost mortgages and delete creditors.
No longer came to him on tiptoe, feeling the shadow now open following the harvest and his hands shaking with happiness lost the wads of cash handed over by his father in exchange for oranges, and thought with relish what this kept in banks and some day come to power.
The desire for wealth, land delirium had seized him as a delightful passion, honestly the only life could be monotonous, always the same, marking the night hour by hour what would make the next day.
In the passion for wealth was some double infection.
Eight years of sleeping together, in chaste contact from head to foot, confusing the sweat of their bodies and breathing their lungs, had finally infiltrate in Rafael a lot of hobbies and passions of his wife.
The kid who ran scary meek and persecuted by him, and looked at him with sad eyes in his days of absence, was a woman with all the firmness imperious and dominant superiority females of the southern countries.
Cleaning and saving the character it took of intolerable tyranny.
Scolded her husband if her feet moved with the slightest lump of mud from the street to the hall, and stirred the house by going head to all domestic discovered in the kitchen just a few drops of oil poured out of the vessel or a piece of bread left in a corner. - A pearl for the house: do not I tell you? - Murmured the father satisfied.
His virtue was intolerable.
Rafael had wanted to love in the first days of their marriage.
Wanted to forget, was the same passionate and playful outbursts of those days chased her through the orchards.
But she, after the first fever of love, their curiosity satisfied a maid at the mystery of marriage, opposed forth a severe cold and passivity caresses of her husband.
There was a woman who found it was a coldly resigned female the duties of procreation.
On this she had her "own particular ideas and" as her husband back in the courts.
The men want a lot of women was not good, that to surrender to the touch with tremors of passion and abandonment of insanity, was typical of the bad, the losses.
The good wife had to resign to have children ...
and nothing else, what would it were not filth, sin and abomination.
Was aware of people who knew what they were saying.
And proud of that under rigid and rough as spelled, her husband was offered a coldness that seemed to prick, with no other desire to launch new children to the world that perpetuate the name of Brull and be proud grandfather Matias, who saw in them a staff of characters destined for great things over.
Rafael lived enveloped in that same environment warm and mild household honest, one afternoon, walking through Valencia, don Andrés showed him smiling as if he hopes to turn away madness.
His father commissioned the guns of correspondents England, on the block had every year a new horse, taking care the same Don Matías to buy the best that was in the fairs of Andalusia.
Hunt, galloped by district roads, distributing justice in the courtyard of the house like his father, his three small, intimidated by his long trip to Madrid and more familiar with grandparents with him, crestfallen colocábanse around his knees, silently waiting for the kiss paternal everything around him was within reach of his desire, however, was not happy.
Occasionally arose in the memory of the adventure of youth.
Rafael felt isolated from those events throughout life.
Leonora's face had vanished little by little in his memory to be lost.
Just remember green eyes, her hair shining like a golden helmet.
For some time aunt had died, that Dona Pepita, simple and devout, leaving her estate to the Salvation the soul.
The garden and the blue house was now his father, who had moved to his home all the best, furniture and ornaments bought by Leonora at the time of isolation, while Rafael was in Madrid and she dreamed of staying there forever.
Rafael avoided with great care back to the blue house.
Feared cause some susceptibility of his wife.
Was heavy enough at times her silence, her strange wisdom never allowed him to make the slightest allusion to the past, while in his cold eyes and in the integrity with which abhorred the follies of love guessed that the memory tenacious adventure that everyone had wanted to hide and that deeply disturbed the preparations for your marriage.
Spanish newspapers talk some things out, and only twice found in them the name of Leonora war, to realize their artistic triumphs.
Had sung in Paris, as a French artist, amazing purity of his accent, he had an opera premiered in Rome a young teacher, prepared by the editorial claim as a great event.
The work was like much, but the artist had been acclaimed by the public, mad and tearful before your pathetic desperation in the final act, to mourn a lost love.
Then nothing, no news, was eclipsed, driven, no doubt, love, dominated by vehemently that it was preferred to follow the man as a slave.
And Rafael, to think about it, I felt jealous, as if he had any right over the woman, forgetting the cruelty with which he had said goodbye.
Included Leonora had been for him the only passion, love happens only once in the life hand.
And he, rather than capture him, he had scared forever by an act villain with a farewell cruel, whose memory was ashamed.
Coronado's orange orchards, the love had gone before him, singing the anthem of youth mad, unscrupulous and ambitious, with an invitation to go on his trail, and he had answered with a stone on his back.
That mysterious, smiling and playful occurred only once on the road.
We had to close my eyes and keep clinging to the hand of woman offered.
If you were a virgin, well, if Leonora was a woman, well, had to settle for blindly, and he stopped as he, who was down was lost, looked around a endless night, and never went back to pass before his eyes the love laughing crowned with flowers, singing that song is heard only once in life.
All efforts were in vain to get out of the monomania of its existence, rejuvenate aging of mind shaking.
It sadly convinced that it was impossible to repeat adventure.
For two months he was the lover of Cora, a popular girl Fornos mezzanines, a Galician tall, slender and strong (oh, like the other!) who had spent some months in Paris and to return there with his hair dyed blond, collecting the dress with the same grace it is to do the trottoir on the boulevards, mixed with sweet words in conversation French, mon cher calling everyone and giving it to read in the organization dinner, glowed like a great courtesan among her friends, with no more fanfare than the unfortunate flamenco and shameless word brutal grace.
But he soon tired of those relationships.
Cora's upper lip, sweating under the dust Rice, always covered with a spray of health, he disliked like the snout of a beautiful vitality rude beast, its cloying chatter, always turning over fashion, troubles money or the absurdities of her friends, ended up causing nausea.
Cost him little money and no such relationship, and he alarmed in their meanness of the rich, he thought with regret in the future of their children as if it is damaged, as would face substantially increased costs Remedies that so inexpensive, so ready to defend the penny, without further wastage that the new garment for the virgin or the loud party with full orchestra and forests of candles.
Severed relations with the Galician Boulevard, feeling a sweet relief to not have compare their memories of youth with that passion which ended mercenary outbursts of love with the submission of any bills to be paid in the morning next.
Ended the shameful alliance that Rafael would be ashamed, just as his party occupied power back and returned him to sit in the seats right near the bank ministerial as the former congressman.
It was time to work, to see if a good could push their way.
He was appointed to the Committee on Budgets and took upon himself the obligation to answer a number of amendments tabled by the opposition to budget Grace and Justice.
The minister was his friend: a respectable, solemn marquis who had been absolutist and tired of Plato, as he said, finally acknowledging the liberal regime while retaining their old ideas.
He shook the boy's trembling on the eve of exams.
Studying at the library that had said on the subject countless generations of deputies in a century of parliamentarism.
His friends Conference Room, all those defeated and fallen, the bohemian parliamentary I loved him in return ballots to the stands, animábale prophesying a victory.
And not approached him and said: "When I was governor ..." drunk themselves with the splendor of their glory dead, no longer asked him what he thought Don Francisco this or that, to take deductions crazy answers.
He advised, according to indications dábanle what they had said or thought that to discuss the budget in times of González Bravo, and ended by murmuring with a smile that caused shivers: - There shall see, that you stay well.
And anyone herd of grumpy than waiting for a record never arrived, they ran like old horses to the smell of gunpowder, to crowd into two bodies near the presidency, just was assembled in the living room row with campanillazos could not imagine that the young MP many nights interrupted his reading with the temptation to throw against the wall thicknesses volumes of the session, and chills just thinking with intense pleasure as it would have been running the world behind green eyes whose golden light seemed to see tremble between the lines of prose amazacotada parliament.
II - Agenda: Continued discussion of the budget of ecclesiastical duties.
In the chamber marked a movement of flight, the same panic that disbands armies and dissolves the crowds.
They got the most determined to escape and they were still in Flight entire groups, at times clearing the seats.
It was day of mixed emotions: a discussion between the head the government and a former colleague who was now in opposition, an old antagonism Compadres, which came to light the secrets of intimacy, all the old tricks together to hold onto power.
And the silent audience that delighted in this boxing, Members who filled the seats, the two masses to be squeezed on both sides of the president, undertook the flight to see over the incident, sabiéndoles a little of both hours of allusions and sharp memories.
The speaker's name was going to talk about church obligations, contained a little that flight, had the effect of a great historical record released in the middle of a dispersion.
Some members returned to their seats, watching the banks most extreme left where red peeked back after a great white head, which shone glasses light similar to that of a gently ironic smile.
It was so small, so weak in body, still seemed to be seated.
The full force of his life had been concentrated on the head, huge, noble lines, pink at the top, between the white tufts pushed back.
His pale face had that transparency Wax healthy and vigorous old age, which added new glory silver beards, bright, bright as that art always gives the Almighty.
Waiting with folded arms to cease the rumor buzzing hive in revolt the lounge and had transposed the last fugitives exit doors
