And this could be achieved as soon as the vast majority of human The immense army of misery, it knew its strength, refusing to hold for longer the work of the tradition! ...
The group of the idea, leaving the clean bowl of gazpacho and came to sit on the ground around Salvatierra.
The snuff was their only pleasure, and had to calculate the duration of poor pack throughout the week.
Manolo had Trebujena pannier out of your ass a tonelillo of brandy and served drinks in the center of a circle.
Came to him, eagerly sick, the old farmhands of stout parchment face and beard, his eyes shining in the comfort of alcohol.
Young drew the strip coins copper, after long hesitation, and drinking, mentally justifying the extraordinary costs with the absurd idea that the next day did not work.
Some girls, of loose gestures, move cautiously, with passage of cats, to be confused with groups of the boys, shrieking when they offered them a drink after numerous tweaks and rubs brutal desire.
Listened to Juanon Salvatierra, a former comrade who worked on the plantation had the trip to Jerez, only to see him when he arrived the prison.
It was a huge man, stalwart, with high cheekbones, square jaw and fiery, the tough and wiry hair invading the forehead and deep eyes that, at times, glowed with the green glow of the cats.
He had been a gardener, but his reputation as unruly and quarrelsome, he had to devote to work of the villages, finding only Matanzuela occupation, thanks to Rafael, who protected him for being a friend of his godfather.
Juanon inspired respect to all Gañanía.
It was an impulsive, without relapse of despair: a strong will to be imposed on partners.
Sentences spoken slowly and Salvatierra, looking at the same time people with a pout superiority, accompanied by frequent spitting on the floor. - This has changed a lot, Fernando.
We paatrás and the rich are more owners than ever.
Salvatierra Tuteaba to use companion and spoke with contempt for working people.
The young people and saw there: believing happy with a drink and no more thought than to endorse to colleagues.
There was nothing to look at the coolness with which they had witnessed the arrival of Salvatierra.
If still the urge strikes, was by the noise and clutter that they brought.
Of the former, there were still many faithful to the idea, but timid spirits, fearful, hunched in fear that they instill known the rich. - We suffered a lot, Fernando.
And speaking of the reign of terror which reduced to silence all around the countryside.
The rich city, hated by the servants of the field, watched over them with a cruel and relentless gesture to hide fear of them had.
Poníanse Lords on guard at the slightest disturbance.
To sustain its injustices and traditional servitude, required the state of war, pretend that lived between hazards, complaining of government because they are not protected enough.
If the laborers asked to be given them to eat like humans, they smoke dejasen a cigarette more hours of sun scorching summer, they would increase the two real a few cents, everyone was shouting from above reminding La Mano Negra, stating that would rise.
We drew on the evening of closure, to hit him in the dark solitude of the country.
The questions of men uniform butts that were accompanied by crunching their bones, that is crazy beating exacerbated with your negatives.
Even in the body bore the scars of these gifts of the rich and Jerez.
I could have died without that he answers like their tormentors.
Company knew to defend the lives of day laborers and resist the abuse of masters, he was part of them, but the Black Hand, the terrific partnership with daggers and vendettas, not knowing a word.
As proof of his fictional existence, there was only one death, a murder in a vulgar country of wine and blood, and the killing a few workers were killed by garrote vile, and hundreds of unhappy as he lived in prison suffering torments that some cost them existence.
But since then the masters had to lift a scarecrow as a flag, La Mano Negra, and did not intend the poor in the countryside the slightest movement towards their welfare, that raised the specter gloomy dripping blood.
For the slightest lack a man were beaten in field, the laborer was a suspicion against which everything was legal.
The excesses of zeal authority is appreciated and rewarded, and who dared to protest he imposed silence the memory of La Mano Negra.
Chastened young people with this sample, men had fear, and the rich back in the city, with the imagination fortified wine from their cellars, still adding caps to his ghost, hanging ornaments new terror, enlarging so that the very people who had been born speaking of him as horribly Legendary happened in ancient times.
Juanon stopped, and his companions remained terrified by the specter of imagination South, which appeared black rags covering their entire field of Jerez.
The Gañanía, after dinner, he had recovered the calm of the night.
Many men slept lying on their mats with a weary snoring, breathing at ground fumes smothering the embers of dung.
In the background, women, sitting on the floor with skirts puffed up like mushrooms, contábanse recounted stories or miraculous cures occurred in the mountains of the miracle of the virgin.
A elevábase bass motion in a low voice above the murmur of conversations.
Roma were which continued its extraordinary food.
Capers aunt had taken from under their skirts a bottle of wine to celebrate their good fortune in the city.
The offspring came to sip on the cast, but the sight of wine was enough to spread the joy.
Capers with eyes on her mother, who was the eldest of his admiration, sang together with muted clapping that beat all the family.
The gypsy whined "their grief and penalties "with that false sentimentality of popular song, adding that" to hear a bird had fallen from thousands feeling the feathers, "and the old and its people cheered and praised his grace as enthusiastically as if they praise themselves.
Capers cut short the song to speak to his mother, with the inconsistency of the gypsy Whimsical jumping from one thought to another. - Mare, and what we are unlucky pobresitos gypsies!
The porridge are all kings, alcardes, Juesas and general and are not ná canis. - Caya, Malange!
Nor is carselero dengún gypsy and executioner ...
And resumed singing and clapping with renewed vigor.
A farmhand offered a glass of brandy to Juanon, which rejected its paw. - That's what we lost - sententiously said .-- The Cursed drinking.
And supported by the gestures of approval Maestrico, who had kept his writing accoutrements to join the group, outlawed Juanon intoxication.
I forgot those people miserable especially when drinking.
If men came to feel sometime, would not the rich more than open the doors of their cellars to beat.
And broke the respectful silence imposed by the presence of Salvatierra, spoke many a time, to express their pain and anger.
Previously, to plow the land, for every ten plows had a man stand, which occupied the site his retirement a time to get rid of waste gazpacho.
Now, to save this alternate, given five cents a mite, on condition not to leave the team but the stomach was the most cruel torment appeals, and this we called them a sad irony, "selling the ...
site more ignoble of the body.
Every year more farms coming to the women of the mountains.
Females were submissive, the weakness female made them fear the aerator and struggled in his work.
The Manijero, recruiters, coming down the mountain in front of their bands driven by hunger.
Described in the villages the Jerez countryside as a place of abundance, and families trust the daughters Manijero just entered puberty, thinking, with a heartless greed in the real that would bring collected after the working season.
The aerator of Matanzuela and some of the circle, who were Manijero protested.
Men of which have not slept Gañanía habíanse clustered around Salvatierra. - We are Mandaa - Aerator said .-- What we JACER, poor us?
That the masters, which are sent to us.
They could fix everything, only to remember some of the poor; to be charitable, very charitable.
The charity was selfishness masquerading as virtue, the sacrifice of a small part of handout superfluous whim.
And the revolutionary inflamed the talk: he left her smiling coldly; brillábanle the blue eyes behind the glasses, the fire of rebellion.
The charity had done nothing to dignify man.
Nineteenth centuries led to reign; was sung by poets such as divine inspiration, the happy extolled as the greatest virtues, and the world was like the day she first appeared with doctrine of Christ.
The experience was long enough to appreciate its usefulness.
It was the most impotent and anemic virtues.
Had words of love for the slave, but did not break his chains, gave a loaf to slave modern, but the child did not dare criticism against the social organization that was condemned to misery for the rest of his life.
The charity, supporting the needy for a moment to take forces, was so virtuous as the peasant who feeds birds in his yard and keeps it primed, to devouring time.
It was the rebellion, protest desperate, he had broken the bonds of the old servant, which would emancipate the employee modern, flattered with all kinds of rights ideals, except the right bread.
Salvatierra, in the exaltation of his mind, he wanted to squeeze all the ghosts with which had terrified and entertained for centuries to the needy, not to hinder the happy calm of the privileged.
Social justice could only save men, and Justice was not in heaven, lived on earth.
Over a thousand years had resigned themselves pariahs, with thought put into the sky, hoping in an eternal compensation.
Although the sky existed, the unfortunate would refuse to enter it as a place of injustice and gets the same privilege where you spend your life suffering, he who lives in wealth distracting their boredom with the voluptuousness of the charity.
Les Miserables could not expect anything from above.
Above their heads there was only one infinite insensitive to human despair: another world that ignored the miserable lives of millions of worms on this area dishonored by selfishness and violence.
Standing and moving the horde of misery, not God but the rebellion, lighting the way the red star, the eternal hell of religions, indispensable guide for all the great movements of humanity! ...
The group of laborers listened in silence to the revolutionary.
Many followed his opening words eyes wide as if to absorb the view.
Trebujena Juanon and nodding their head movements.
They had read so confused Salvatierra said, but they moved it's mouth as a vibrant music of passion.
The old Zarandillo not afraid to break the atmosphere of enthusiasm, speaking with his sense practical. - Too it is fine, Don Fernando.
But the poor need to live pa land and the land is Masters.
Salvatierra stood proudly.
The land belonged to those who worked it.
The unfair distribution of wealth, increasing poverty with increasing civilization; the powerful taking advantage of all the mechanical inventions, designed to suppress body work and only served to make it heavier and brutalizing; all evil of humanity come from the appropriation of land by a few thousand men they sow not yet collected, while millions of people make abortion down their treasures of life suffering a hunger for centuries.
Salvatierra's voice echoed in the silence of the Gañanía as a battle cry. - The world is beginning to awaken from their dream of thousands of years, protests have been stolen in its infancy.
The land is yours: no one has created and belongs to everyone.
If it exists some improvement, your work is of black hands, who are your titles.
Man is born with the right to breathe air, the sun heats it, and should take possession land that sustains him.
Cultivate the soil for another pick the harvest belong to you but you, miserable, debased by thousands of years of bondage, doubt of your right hand forward fearing lest you believe thieves.
Which captures a piece of land, by excluding others, which delivers it to the human beasts to do so occur while he remains idle, that's the really robs his fellows.
IV The two mastiffs that guarded at night around the tower Marchamalo ceased to doze under the arcades of the house of wineries, with the body in a circle, supporting in the tail ferocious jaws.
Irguiéronse both at the same time, sniffed the space and balance after a certain hesitation, roared, throwing down with a vineyard that was overwhelming urge to jump land between their legs.
They were animals almost wild, fiery eyes and red mouth bristling with teeth that gave cold.
The two jumped on a man who walked bent by between strains outside the slope on the straight path leading from the road to the tower
