Orchestras have been killed in payment for the good they were going to do, and he sent some Inca Tupac captains to punish people, but, as I knew, gathered many of the barbarians who killed and those who were defeated, that the Inca was feeling, but, having large business in his hands, and agree in person back to Cuzco, he was not to own dalles punishment for what they had done.
In Quito how well it was new to what he had been sent and how much care had his delegates to impose such people into his service, and how well they were treated and them how they were happy and did what was commanded them, and many landlords I came every day and brought him great ambassadors present, and his court was full of major and palaces of pots and vessels of gold and silver and other great riches .-- In the morning he ate, and from noon to be a bit late, heard in public, accompanied by his guardian, whom he wanted to talk.
After spending the time to be drinking at night, that turned out to dinner with fire wood, because they did not use tallow or wax, but had tired of the one or the other.
In Quito left by the captain general and chief steward to a orejon elderly, who all have I was very knowledgeable and hard and gentle presence, whom they called Chalco Mayta, and he gave license so he could walk on a platform and served with gold and other freedoms he had a lot.
Ordered him on all things that each moon do him messenger to bring him particular notice of all things to pass over, and the state of the earth, and fertility della, and the growth of the livestock, over all what we ordinarily notice, which was the poor who had, who were killed in one year and he was born, and what has been eScript in the back knew that without it he himself kings in Cuzco, and having so great way from Quito to Cuzco, which is more than going from Seville to Rome, by far, was so used as is the way to Seville Triana, that I can not more expensive.
Dias had the grand Inca Tupac had notice of the fertility of Los Llanos and the beautiful valleys than they had, and how much they felt the lords of them, and determined to send them messengers with gifts and presents for the principal, asking that they had for a friend and companion, Quél wanted to be like him in the suit when passing over the valleys, not war if they wanted to give them peace, and that up to them from their wives and clothes and take him their own, and other things in this.
And all along the coast had flown and how much new you ladies were Tupac Inca Yupanqui, and how it was not cruel or vicious or to harm but to the brooding and wanted to stand against him: and they praised the custom and religion of the Cuzco, the apricots had male saints, believing that the Incas were the children of the sun, or that they had a deity.
And considering these things and others, identified many without seeing their flags, taking with him friendship, and so sent him to say with own ambassadors, to which sent many presents to the king himself, and begged wanted come the valleys to be Dell Server and Holger to see their freshness, and praising the Inca such a will, again speaking to the governor of Quito what he had done, left that city to rule the Yuncas.
As Tupac Inca king resolved to go in the valleys of Los Llanos, to attract to its service and obedience the inhabitants of them, down to what Tumbez and was honorably receive me by natural whom showed much love Tupac Inca, and then put the suit wore T hose for more content, and praises the war leading to will not take him as Lord and and have promised to the estimate as to his own children.
They hear happy with their good words and manner with which he treated them, gave honest obedience to conditions, and allowed be including governors and make buildings because, without it that some Indians say, others had passed by Tupac Inca made seat while in the land, reigned until Huayna Capac, but if we look at these sayings of the Indians, never conclude nothing.
Leaving the valley, walked the Inca king by most of the coast, going by the way real big and beautiful as what of today seems to have been, and was served everywhere and going to present to serve him, though in some places, they say they gave war but was not party to be without his subjects.
In this valley was a few days drinking and giving them pleasure, rejoiced to see their freshness.
Made by his command large building houses and temples.
Chimo in the valley say they had a fierce war with the Lord of that valley, and taking their battle, was in little being disrupted all the Inca point, but, whichever their own, won the field and defeated the enemy, whom Tupac Inca, with his mercy, spared, commanding, to those who were living in planting their land would understand, and should not take up arms again to himself or others.
He was Chimo to represent him, and most of these valleys were the tributes to Cajamarca, and they are working for metal working, many of them were taken to Cuzco and to the heads of provinces, tilled where silver and gold jewelry, vases and vessels, but it was more ordered them.
Chimo passed on the Inca, and Parmunquilla [187] ordered a fortress we see today, although very worn and broken up.
These Yuncas are given, and the lords, vicious and friends rejoicing, went to shoulders of his subjects, had many women, were rich in gold and silver and precious clothing and livestock.
In those days, servíanse with pomp in front of them were crooks and decision-makers, in their houses had gatekeepers, used in many religions.
Dell, will be offered to the Inca and others took up arms against him, but at last he was by the sovereign lord of it all and monarch.
No freedoms and seized their old habits, use of theirs So that degree of force or they were to save.
Indians were skilled as they impose that the king wanted them to know, and learn the common language had great care.
They stood mitimaes, and roads, clinics, each moderately taxed valley that tribute to that their land could, without going to look to the Agency, hobiese, watched over them to justice, more fulfilled what they promised, if not, the damage was his and the Inca earned their entire income.
Lordship is not shot no natural lord but sacáronse of men of the valleys many, getting to the each other, and to bring other parties to the trades that this has been.
Inca God to walk in the other valleys in the best order he could, without allowing no harm was done in the towns or in the fields of land do they passed, and the had many provisions in natural deposits and quarters that the roads were facts.
And with this order, the Inca walked until he reached the valley of Pachacamac, which was the temple as old and devout Yuncas very desired to see him as he arrived at that valley, say only wish there was the temple of the sun, more like that was so honored and taken by the natives, did not dare, and that it should be contented with house and large sun virgins and priests, for that would make sacrifices according to his religion.
Many Indians say that he himself spoke with the devil Inca was the idol of Pachacamac, and he heard it was the maker of the world and other nonsense that I do not do not agree; and the Inca begged to let him know what service would be more honest and happy, and responded he sacrificed a lot of human and sheep blood.
For the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines, or with which they were in the temple of the sun, then sent them to kill to them, and to punish them equally
