Each step was reason to engage the attention of his enthusiastic friend, and telling the festoons of bonuses pending or white bells of all the bushes on the banks of reeds, and Guines of reeds, which compared with the egrets of countless martial warriors herding, gently rocked by the gentle breeze of the morning prayer groups that Tomeguin low rumble, like a trailing wind and large crowds, followed by some distance the direction of travelers, brushing with the herbs and then disappeared between the logs of reeds or savanna lively late flight, which came with a crash in the thicket and lighting with great difficulty on the first leaf of cane it faced in its heedless leakage, or the elusive white heron made his way through the branches of coastal oak and with the long neck retreated to the back and feet still dangling in his flight course the stream, or the flock of parrots riots covering the wild orange and only they looked when they clung to the golden fruit to extract the seed, or the hawk, in Finally, Cuba eagle, which gave sharp cries and screams as she hovered above more affected palms, between earth and sky.
Finally, after ten o'clock in the morning, travelers crossed the reeds of wit Valvanera, in view of their large factories.
Two miles later came to town Join bankruptcy.
Here are divided into two the way they had, one that twisted the west and was the Back Down the road, and the other, the narrow, which served as input to refineries sugar, already established in this region of the coast.
In passes through the town several people recognized and greeted with friendly respect for Leonardo Gamboa.
Below the country presented itself as rough, uneven and hilly as the previous route, but The tree was more lush and lusty, almost primitive, and noisy streams lined ground and clean running water to be lost at the bottom of the bay of Mariel, or in the open sea North.
After half an hour's walk below the forest, where no sunlight penetrated, were seen in a sugar cane fields on the steep slope of a hill, bounded by a fence Paperback made of segments, which kept horizontal strips of wood or stakes fork kneeling on the ground and tied together at intervals, for safety, with a vine that, when green, is quite flexible and elastic, known in the Tour Down with the name colorado vulgar, Bauchinis heterophylla.
After that, continuing short, rough parallel to this close, at which time they won travelers the height of the hill, were offered the full extent and greatness of cane fields and there in the middle of the table, the group changed its factories, crowning other more plain and hill wider base.
That was the genius of a barrel, and Leonardo Gamboa, who served as guide, he showed his friends with a sense of pride.
To It had every reason, not only by the dollar value representing the estate, and social considerations are kept to their owners, but also for the beautiful picture and picturesque of the whole, provided a good distance, effectively concealing spots and spots inherent in almost all the works, human and divine.
The road where passengers were boarding up there was called to the Beach because it served the transportation of sugars to the town of Mariel, from which were shipped and led in schooners to market in La Habana.
Crossed the hill by its height and had established talanquera it no less a rustic fence, it was reduced to a few yards in the rough, tucked their heads into the holes of two parallel rails.
Leaning against the fence, and in his meeting with the talanquera, stood a cabin or hut of the ground rod or gabled, so droopy that the roof was composed of whole leaves of the palm outstretched side or sides, with the tips resting on the ground.
Leonardo came forward to see why he was not in his job and opened the black watchman the talanquera.
To this end, he planted his horse before the only entrance to the hut, and tilting the body, tried to register the interior.
I will open and not lose the marriage so. - You will not do so, Leonardo replied angrily.
I do not agree. - Well, his voice suggested Isabel Argentina and sweet.
Leocadio, Get down. - No, no, Isabella, Leonardo said, more and more angry.
If the watchman opens talanquera alive, that for that and for more I have been there.
His watch and added immediately: - They have already struck twelve, at which time the black loose to eat.
If we had arrived here a little earlier, we would have heard the bell of the mill.
The mountains around were the only ones who gave back the echo of their voices shaking continued, deep, sinister, and then started to bark a bulldog puppy in the hut.
There is the watchman, he thought the young man, and does not sleep for the trouble of opening the talanquera.
I will go out kicking, added high, taking a punch in the pommel.
Dismounted without delay and went into the hut, keeping the horse by the bridle.
Too bad these words rang in my ears those oaths of Elizabeth modest, even when not to embarrass your friend or irritate more against the poor slave, was saved from represent the absurdity and even the risk of their final purpose, if it was hidden on purpose to have hidden a fellow in the hut or any other cause.
Fortunately, none of that happened.
At that moment the ladies from the carriage, and coachman Meneses horse heard the sound of branches in the nearby forest, agitated by a person or animal made his way with some difficulty, and then appeared on the shore a shabby old black, a woolen cap on his head, a long stick in his hand knotted, which served as support perhaps not kiss the ground with his forehead, as his body made an arch by age, for the work or the inveterate habit of living in houses with low ceilings.
He perceived travelers out of the woods just because time stopped for a party to indecisive should take, and in the tall grass releasing something that glittered in the sun's rays, and seemed bottle or other container of the sort, then continued walking right into the carriage by the opposite the hut.
This fortuitous circumstance saved the first match of the wrath of his master, who, as soon left the hut, he recognized from a distance and fell on him gallop.
But while mounted his horse and saved the distance that separated him from his attempted victim had time to unconsciously it is put under the ladies.
It is likely that the unfortunate slave had no news that people were expected at the mill, or come them came by guiding his young master.
The scare of the ladies was great.
Rosa made an exclamation of horror, Dona Juana repeated: - Jesus!
and Isabel medium was incorporated into the seat, pulled out of the carriage arm and said more angry than frightened - not kill him, Leonardo! - Thank Vds.
it that are ahead, "said Leonardo, otherwise I think he killed.
Seemed to be the watchman man over sixty years of age.
He's graying at least head, and even the little beard that covered his upper lip, a sure sign of aging in people of his race.
A disproportionately long arms and bony, twitching fingers linked, as if with leprosy, eyes sullen boys and sad, sadder than ever, when talanquera after open, glanced at the ladies of chitin and appeared to beg protect him from the wrath of his master.
After the first moment of irritation and blindness, realized he had been too passionate and quite rude in front of women who, besides being under its protection, would enjoy their hospitality at the mill.
The horse had been more generous than he since, being able to not hit the slave when he found him lying in his path.
Had Gamboa ashamed of his behavior, but very proud to recognize his fault and amend it with openness demanded by the case, merely to refer the main features of life watchman, of course, slandering of way. - Not included DVDs, said that the Taita Cayman is as it seems, an old helpless and meek or loyal and humble slave.
must know that the nickname has not it have been smoke with straw is the most cunning, evil, cunning trimmed there, nor so ignorant does not practice certain arts, which give important consideration among his people.
Passes witch and become invisible when it suits or is in danger.
Build idols charms have magical properties in certain cases.
Nobody would see, hear or understand, and yet, day and night no one and nothing escapes him, and know, like the alligator, play possum to better secure the dam.
The youth has been spent on the mountain fled and his repeated escapes runaway has visited all of Cuzco and made friends with Maroons most famous Vuelta Abajo.
It is now too old for such jogging, and considered to have been one of the founders of La Tinaja, the only that survives of the first poles knocked down here, Mom had him put the watchman, and keeps him in that position against the wishes of employees who know their history and bad habits.
When you want or should not beaten the dog guard or finer.
Can said to be free: raising chickens, fat every year one or two pigs to sell, and money buried somewhere, and has a mare, which may turn at night to the boundaries of the property.
But as I say, is very cunning and evil and I'd bet any thing that was not far from the hut and its position without any intentional object and failed to look.
For the cane is seen with his fellow wits, for the mount only with Maroons or the bartenders of the people to change snuff sugar, brandy or other anything like that. - That must be, Leonardo, Rosa began by saying, as I thought it brought a ...
The aunt and sister, plus she advised, would not let her finish the sentence, and no one else spoke in the rest of the road.
As cautioned under the porch, to its elevations and breadth, was more exposed to the ravages of wind and the effects nasty solar reflection in the vast and desolate batey.
From the top of the steps of the portico was recorded from one extreme to another the boiler house front, the more drain on the right, but only on the side of the drawers to dry sugar, the barracks of blacks or the stockade that enclosed its rustic rooms; In short, most of which comprised the vast population of wit, the fields of cane to the west, the straw roofs of the houses of pasture, and beyond that a huge palm, a bend of the river and then altered and primitive jungle, which was like the dark background this varied table setting.
Cosa noon on December 24, 1830, sprawled in comfortable chairs of cowhide they were the masters of ingenuity in red cowhide easy chairs, were the masters The Tinaja wit, along with several others, sheltered from solar reflection, after canvas curtains.
Almost all the men, Don Candido Valdez, pastor of Bankruptcy Axe Captain of the party and the doctor smoking snuff, Dona Rosa, the wife of the captain before, women's and sister's mayoral ladies paddock and Gamboa, ate some candy canes land, others, orange guava China and Peru, etc., the products they stay wit.
Roamed around our famous of Havana: Tirso, Aponte, Dolores, along with another black who had come by sea, and two or three more of the endowment of wit, Creole and that they had better look for domestic service, making all useful.
In the ladies Gamboa, Carmen and Adela not heated seat, biting a piece of guava or orange and then undertook long walks, linked hands, from one extreme to another the porch, with obvious signs of impatience at the delay, in his view, the friendly Alquízar.
Adela in particular, every time he touched the corner of the south, stood a song canvas curtain and cast an anxious glance across the front master guardarraya until interception on the road from the beach.
Finally, shortly after one o'clock in the afternoon, was heard in the distance sound of carriage wheels and the sudden departure of several horses; and Adela, seeing nothing yet, said cheerfully: - There they are!
A little more than reached the foot of the steps of the portico ladies Ilincheta in his carriage, which, along with their passengers, horses and riders came covered with red dust of the earth.
Useless would stop and describe point about the various scenes of the meeting of both families in the midst of the solitude of the Vuelta Abajo.
More than one reason was so that at least some of those present, that mirasen moment as a real event worthy of note.
It happens also that young people, and also Sometimes older people, when they meet at a field site with the intention to pass only few days in open and friendly society, far from the places where they have been accustomed to living and have fun, feel strongly attracted, if friends are and express it more, if relatives are persuaded that closer ties together, if lovers, ah, love seems eternal the joy of loving, heavenly.
Women narrowed sharply between the arms.
Adela cried with joy when tightening among his Elizabeth, for whom he had an extraordinary passion.
For it was the most modest and loving women
