Back to Lift the pale semicircle of the moon poked his upper horn on the sleeping waters.
A streak of light ran strongly on them causing them to swell.
The star collected her ray divine gallantly, in the serene light of the goddess who started to rise slowly and majestically, dwarfing the diamonds of all sizes around wore hers.
Stood in the middle of a bright and splendid atmosphere, drawing on her its graceful contours and scattering by the atmosphere soothing influence.
And the ocean that docile it comes and goes steadily since the beginning of the world, pure flame was kindled, shook his broad bosom inflamed, and threw rocks at the waters of Santa Maria and huge layers of mercury that rose above others removed and merged with them.
Sublime silence reigned, a gathering of inexpressible softness in that scene as old and so new at the same time.
Nature seemed to stay the course to hear the eternal harmony of heaven.
The waves gently caressing without daring to interrupt the August games serenity noisy night.
Gonzalo, despite deep concern that the conversation with his uncle left him, he felt the fascination of that sea, that sky, that moon, and his agitation was becoming in blue.
The harsh words of the old sailor had awakened conscience lashes.
Reborn with more fury than before the fight between the angel and the devil.
Once it was about to expire.
The boy imagined occur the next day at home Belinchón talk Dona Paula and rogarla not to say anything to Cecilia and hasten the marriage.
But at the moment was offered to mind the image of Venturita, and thought it would be impossible to live next it, without suffering horrible torments.
Then, as almost always happens in these struggles, came the period of transactions .-- "Nothing, it's best - he said - is to flee, leaving again France or England, not marry one or another.
A deadly grief he fell into thinking about this, as if and the decision was taken, and to leave she had to say: - "We'll see, we'll see ...
Now it is very difficult, almost impossible, to turn ...
The mother already knows ...
Don Rosendo also ...
and Cecilia at this time just in case ... " The angel loosened her arms, weary, fell off his hands and finally surrendered.
If not with the body, Gonzalo could see through the eyes of his white spirit image flashing through serene and sink into the sparkling waters.
And wept seized with strange sadness.
This kind of struggle is never made in the human soul without tearing it somewhere.
To achieve this needed step on the heart of a Young innocent, violating an oath, as a traitor.
The words of his uncle still vibrating his ears: - "The man who broke his word can not help you God." And indeed, he deemed unworthy of aid.
A feeling cruel, indefinite, unfortunately, death, sadness, pierced his chest, and observed strong and rapid vision ugliness of life without virtue and tranquility, as the knight of the legend, embracing a beautiful young lady, to swing the light wind strength saw her transformed into old, naked and stinking.
Staring at them was distracted their undulating movement.
Gonzalo heard for the first time in his life, the eloquent voice Nature invites you to sit in the maternal womb, the sweet voice of irresistible attraction The unfortunate hear in my sleep, and that drives them many times to bring the cold barrel of a gun to his temple.
His happy temperament blood rebelled against this appeal.
The life, which boiled exuberant nature of an athlete, he indignantly rejected shooting thoughts of death.
An insignificant event, the appearance of a green light in confines of the horizon, was enough to divert his mind from those sad thoughts .-- "A ship that wants to come - he said .-- What time is it? (He took out his watch.) Half past ten already!
If were a little earlier, I would.
Let's see if it's that people in the cafe and want to play a few sheets. " He took a great cigar of the pouch, lit it, and sucking sensuously, the was closer, little by little, the cafe of the Navy.
Almost at the same time spent at home in Belinchón a sad scene.
All that day, had been Dona Paula in bed, complaining of an intense tightness in the left side, which made it difficult much to breathe.
He did not like to call the doctor, for that invincible antipathy, and even terror that has the populace to science.
Instead he used on tips how absurd remedies mujerucas advised him many who came daily to your home to get the rooms with vicious and hyperbolic flattery.
So that did not stop the friction of sheep tallow, gardener cups, the substance of chicken, etc., etc.
Finally, in spite of this formidable therapy, the good lady has improved enough to obscure: even wanted to get up, but Cecilia stopped him and Pablito.
Both of them had accompanied her to spend time sitting bedside.
Cecilia In particular moment just broke more than necessary to prepare the ointments and teas.
Pablito made frequent trips to the runners, where, by strange coincidence, almost always encountered Nieves and made to pay tolls.
Sometimes suppressed their laughter came to the room of the sick, and she smiled benevolence telling Cecilia: - How foolish!
No guess, of course, that his beloved son could do nothing but play hide and seek.
As I was running free and unfettered his chest, head cargábasele care tell your daughter that as sad news that it had been in bed.
He kept guide long and melancholy eyes, sighing at the same time with pain signals.
Venturita candle lit the lamp, and then went away.
Paul, seeing her mother better, and having no occasion to exercise their rights in the halls manor the house was a walk for coffee.
They were mother and daughter in the bedroom, the first in bed, quiet and, the second sitting near her.
After long time of silence, during which the lady gave Belinchón thousand rounds in his head to find an entry that naturally leads to the confidence that was required to do. - Have sewn today much the girls? - Asked. - Do not know ...
I've barely been there - said Cecilia. - I suppose that if we continue to work well, we will end too soon. - Could be.
Dona Paula did not know how to proceed, and was silent.
After a few minutes took the thread again. - Throughout the month of August will be completed by the team ...
And I think it take even some months to marry. - Do some months? ... - I think ...
I think Gonzalo not want the ceremony to be so soon - the lady said trembling voice. - You have said it? - Yes, I said it ...
I say, no, tell me, no ...
but I guess for certain things ...
by some indirect words ....
Dona Paula was stunned and suffocated.
Fortunately, Cecilia could not see color well on their cheeks. - Would like to know what words were those - the young woman said firmly. - Do not ask me, the daughter of my soul - said the lady, bursting into sobs.
Cecilia was heavily pale, and let his mother kiss the hand with effusion had hers.
Speech. - A horrible thing, my soul ...
I tell you I wish I was dead ...
Cecilia did not reply. - Tell me, by God, who does not want!
Cecilia remained silent.
After a few moments said, trying in vain to give a secure voice inflection: - Gonzalo resignation to marry me, right?
At the same time Doña Paula was silent and hid her tearful face in his hands.
Under the apparent resignation of daughter sensed a deep pain, which made efforts to hide. - What can we do, Mom!
The penalty can it cause at this point, however great, can not be compared to that which would knowing that my husband did not love me.
The penalty would then be increased to death whereas now they may disappear or at least calm down ...
Maybe after he leaves, not seeing much time you'll gradually forgetting ... - It's ...
not going away - he uttered a confused lady. - If you are going, patience ...
Gonzalo is in love your sister.
Cecilia grew even paler, to give in pale, and was silent.
Her mother came to kiss the hand with effusion.
Then brought to him and covered him with kisses face. - Forgive me is torturing you this way ...
As much as you suffer, I suffer even more ...
Yesterday afternoon, your sister came to tell me ..
Imagine the shock and pain I will have received ...
My first impulse was to drown, it is impossible that she does not have the Most of the blame ...
I gave evidence that they were already long in relationships, taught me letters ...
Then, the lack of Gonzalo these days, did everything believable.
As I conviction of treason, I told him that was irrelevant, that is, that I could not agree hiciese anyone mockery of my daughter, and would no more Gonzalo foot in this house throughout his life how this infamous villain and he was like her ...
Everything came to me mouth.
This morning I heard a horrible thing yet ...
I knew your sister has arrived where I can not want to say.
There is no choice but to marry them, and the soon ...
You know why I have given this oppression that nearly killed me, and more worth it were so! ...
The same thing your father that I are caught, have their arms tied.
If not were the case, before agreeing to this marriage, I would first pieces ...
Cecilia did not reply.
Hands folded in her lap, and head down to the chest, looked down with astonished eyes.
Neither the broken speech and vehement of his mother, or the sobs that followed, managed to make her change in attitude.
It remained for a long time, still and white as a statue.
desprendióse rolling, leaving groove on her cheeks wet withered and fell like a drop of fire on his hand, which was left burning without moving.
An angel picked and took it to God to account for it should ask who is responsible.
A new and clear light dawned on Sarrió, after so much darkness.
By the mercy and grace singularity of God, found himself provided the beautiful villa, when least expected, an organ in the press, was even weekly or 'weekly', he said its illustrious founder.
Graves obstacles, dangerous pitfalls opposed the construction of the undertaking.
Everyone knew defeat and avoid the perseverance and genius of that extraordinary man take charge.
The first difficulty overcome was that of money.
Fifty shares were created a thousand real each, for the support of the newspaper, of which Don Rosendo's Friends only took nine, Don Rudesindo five, two and Don Pedro Feliciano Miranda, despite its large income, two all.
As for the others, Alvaro Peña, Don Rufo, Navarro, etc., The apologized to his lack of resources, and they were right.
He remained with the forty-one other, Don Rosendo.
Singular greatness of mind which caused great impression at all.
Lancia despatched emissaries seeking press.
After a few days had the fortune to discover ruined a printer for some years, broken and rusted screw press which had refused buy one and lay covered with dust in a dark basement.
When Don Rosendo was to examine with her owner, could not but feel friendly emotion.
As the barbarism and ignorance prevail in most of our districts, they, who alone have the force to banish, remained here still, lacking a hand and start pushing them of his heart the secrets of science and politics. " Very nearly the kiss and embrace her tenderly.
The printer, being in so benevolent mood about them, not to be outdone, and declared love to the bones of their instruments.
Consent for any money in getting rid of those old colleagues who had helped him to earn their bread (and wine too, as was said by the people).
Their Excellencies sang with such fire and enthusiasm, like their parents and his brothers and they should be the breath of life that encouraged him and made an important addition printed statement that, if not soon, better and cleaner than all known presses until.
According to these ends, Don Rosendo strove, however, convince that would alienate even for not losing their very remarkable qualities.
But showed the more eloquent dealer, appeared more tender and fond of the printer.
Finally, it was agreed that it is not clear from these garments, so dear to his heart, because it had no courage to carry it out, and moved with them to Sarrió, which would establish definitely.
Would entail some typesetters who could teach other young people the village, and all the necessary items to mount the print.
Folgueras, that was his name The printer broke, remained as owner and ruler of her.
Charged by Chuck's new somewhat regular, twice as large, according to our calculations, what they charge in the best Madrid printers.
Not much if you consider the merit of the etching press and the pure professed to love them.
The title was one of the best points was the dashing Don wit and invention Rosendo.
Sarrió Intitulólo Lighthouse, highly expressive and sonorous name, and scope unique nothing else because its founder intended to enlighten the people and give splendor.
Madrid secretly commissioned an engraving for the head of the newspaper.
Arriving a few days then caused spasms of joy, both among shareholders and between all those who had fortunate to see him.
It represented a sea port, Sarrió apparently in the late night, judging by the black ink of the sky and sea.
On the left rose a high mountain overlooking it entirely ideal, and she saw a gentleman who kept distant resemblance to Don Rosendo, directing the fires of a huge flashlight on the villa.
Near him percibíanse few other heads of characters.
Shareholders in good faith believed were his effigies, and were deeply grateful to the artist.
Was designated as a local printing store gift Rudesindo, paying rent, course.
The wording was used in the same place a magazine, for which there to perform some work.
Montosa the end of printing, but not many and unforeseen expenses.
Folgueras, who claimed to be equipped with everything you need, I had nothing, and it became necessary to instruct Madrid foundries and missing pieces to the press, build Galerina, buy tables, etc., etc.
Don Rosendo worked as a black man, seized up in the smallest details.
His organizational talent is revealed in this time better than ever.
Was appointed editor in chief Sinforoso Suarez, with a monthly salary of twenty-hard, and administrator to the first child of Don Rufo.
He had telegraphed to Madrid asking for a remittance, and did not quite get.
Belinchón's impatience was great.
Some, sometimes saying he was arrested in Lancia Lancia telegram to claim it.
Others which had not happened in Valladolid: Valladolid telegram.
Others who had not left Madrid: telegram to Madrid.
Don Rosendo vowed this time not more responsible role to Madrid and yes it would bring in Belgium.
But what was reason for dislike trocóse in intense pleasure, as always happens, when after they took a few bales had arrived Lancia, and that she hoped the car had to bring them to their destination.
As the newspaper was already made for days, They proceeded immediately to the roll, which was to be substantial.
Don Rosendo intended to spread it widely throughout the province, sent to all of Spain and to make Him known in foreign nations.
Both that and their partners attended forward to the act of operating.
Never tired of admiring its complicated shoot, the unique precision of its movements, and the astonishing speed with which the newspaper printed, they do not come down from two hundred copies left entirely completed at a time.
His illustrious founder, unable to suppress the fire that devoured newspaper, emptied to the presence of all of his coat, and began to find energy to handle the flywheel, until the sweat flowed in abundance from his high forehead.
Example given of enthusiasm and love for the civilization that we take pleasure in referring to education of new generations.
Finally came Sarrió Lighthouse large size, because its founder did not want to be spared paper, and fairly well printed.
The only blur that appeared was the engraving of the head, to the point that most of the audience was convinced that the individual who had Flashlight in hand, he wanted to represent a black man instead of a respectable person already mentioned.
Contained a feature article printed in large type the twelve, called Our purposes.
Although he was signed by The Editors, was due solely to the pen Don Rosendo.
Faro purposes "to appear on the stage of the press", were mainly defend, "high shield and pierced his visor," the moral and material interests Sarrio combat ignorance "in all its forms" and the fiery battles of the press, fight tirelessly for the triumph of the reforms that the progress of time required.
If our voice managed to wake the village of Sarrió from their long slumber and stagnation, and we could succeed look soon see the dawn of an era of self-study work and the reform movement who aspire to start, that is the best prize that will our efforts and sacrifices. " The language could not be more noble and patriotic.
And, as always, ran to modesty couples with authority and eloquence. "Do not entertain the claim - he said - to be the leaders in this great battle of thought which will soon commence within the precincts of Sarrió.
Only hope to fight as dark soldiers, and that we are given a place in the forefront.
They will fight as good, and if at last fall due, we will involved in the sacred banner of progress. " This military allegory, caused great impression among the residents, and contributed not a little The enthusiastic reception that the newspaper obtained.
Finally, the article was so elegant the words, so full of heavy sentences, the style so arranged, that the public did not who is worthy, but his glorious director.
Inserted after a lengthy newspaper article Sinforoso on women.
There were two columns closed poetic prose, adorned with all the flowers of rhetoric, which was sung the sweet influence of this half of humankind.
Conjugal love is the only base.
Everything is holy, everything is beautiful, everything is happy in the intimate bond that unites young couple
