The day had come above and in the town had no more knowledge than the doctor ***, resident there so only from a few years earlier.
At the point of leaving the village we came another hunter on a slope planted with vines that limits the horizon of Villanueva in the east.
Walking rather slowly as he walks, accompanied by two beautiful dogs shows, one Epagneul wool fawn and one black hair braque traveled around the vineyard of his master.
Ordinarily - as I learned then - were the only fellow who admitted when expeditions carried out almost daily, in which the game was merely a pretext for enjoy other pleasures: the outdoor living and especially to meet the need of being alone. - Behold the Lord Sunday that game - said the doctor, recognizing the distance to its neighbor.
The hunter that Villanueva described in similar developments around us, given by the wind blowing from the east and the wants, quite secure and known hunting.
Throughout the day we had him in sight, and though separated by several hundred meters, we could follow the same path that he could follow him as ours.
Field was flat, calm environment, and the noise reached so far in this season year, even after having lost sight, we kept hearing each firing of shotgun and even the echo of your voice when setting their dogs or name.
Between us only half a shotgun when my dog ??moved a partridge.
He was my left and the piece flew toward him. - There you go, sir - I cried.
In the brief time it took to throw the gun at his face I could see that we looked at assess whether the doctor and I were close enough to shoot, and only after convincing piece was lost if he did not throw aimed and fired.
The bird fell as if struck and bounced with a thud on the dry earth of the vineyard.
Added some phrases to force me and I accepted the gift of Mr.
He was still young man in appearance, although he had already served forty years, enough high, dark complexion, physiognomy pleasant, serious word and walk slowly, with some sloppiness, and around certain severity elegant appearance.
She wore her blouse and wore leggings style peasant hunters.
The two wide collars and dog had them each a sheet of silver with a monogram.
Shook the doctor's hand politely and left us almost immediately to go, he said, to meet with harvesters that afternoon it finished the task of collection.
It was early October.
Only a few minutes left before the sun reached the horizon; launched its splendor, drawing lines and shadow light dilated on the plain sad dotted with vineyards and wetlands, with no trees, just rolling, pushing away in distance by a distance over the sea.
One or two people white, with its churches roof and steeples Saxons stood out minor bumps in the ground and some farms, small, isolated, surrounded by stunted groves and huge stacks of hay encouraged just one monotonous landscape which would have seemed quaint complete destitution without the unique beauty that lent the weather, time and season.
Only the Villanueva opposite and in a fold of the plain had some form numerous trees to how small park around a dwelling of a certain appearance.
The converted flamenco style, tall, narrow windows dotted with rare irregular and lined Acute towers with slate roof.
Around the house were grouped other modern construction, local farmhouse and various farm-all very modest.
Two children whose voices came to us and a young woman which only saw the dress of light material and a red mantle advanced towards the hunter.
The children were funny signs revealing their joy, running as fast as its little legs permitting: the mother was moving more slowly and with a shaking hand corner of her purple mantle.
He encouraged group of bright colors stood there a moment in the green trail, standing in the middle the quiet countryside illuminated by the evening fire, and wrapped the entire placidity the day just.
Then the family started for Trembles and posthumous setting sun was escorted to his home to happy marriage.
All I can tell you is that I know so many Those responsible for it as people in the community.
The night following that day of camp was so beautiful and so wonderfully clear that not appear if we were still in summer.
I remember especially because I keep it certain impressions of those that are set at all sensitive points in memory However lack of gravity the facts that motivate them.
The moon was a brilliant moon and the chalky path of Villanueva and the white houses were lit as if it were full noon, with hints of sweeter but with equal precision.
As they passed the gates just heard the buzz of conversation neighbors who were dining with family and behind closed windows.
Away in distance, where the residents did not sleep, and a narrow beam of light filtered through the locks or out of the chocks and flickered like a red line through the cold whiteness of the night.
Only wineries were open for ventilation, and an end to the other village smell to crushed grapes, warm exhalation of mixed fermented wine to smell of stables and houses.
In the field no longer perceive any noise other than the cry of the rooster to sleep and woke up singing the first night by announcing that it would be wet.
Thrush - Birds in passing that migrated from north to south - through the air above the village and called constantly as night commuters.
Between eight and nine a kind of joyful sound vibrated at the bottom of the plain bark at a time making all dogs from neighboring farms: was sour and are cadenced of the bagpipes playing a quadrille. - You dance at Mr.
The doctor, who felt the way that emotion, he began to look the rare stars that live moonlight was not enough to eclipse and lost astronomical treatises, the only dream that such a spirit could afford.
The dance was organized in front of the farm gate on a Mall in form in was surrounded by tall trees and grassy wet as if rain.
The moon lit the makeshift dance so well that no other lights were needed.
There was nothing dancers who employed laborers in the harvest and one or two local young people to who had caught the sound of the bagpipes.
I would not know that if the musician who played biniou doeth with art, but at least played with such vigor, pulled the instrument sounds so widely extended, so penetrating and tearing the air with such acrimony sound and becalmed at night, not because I was amazed that we had reached such a noise from so far away: within half mile radius to be heard, and the girls were flat, undoubtedly contradanzas dream in their beds.
Young people had removed their tops; the girls had changed their remangádose caps and aprons, all retained positions clogs - the bots that they say - no doubt to afford more poise and better mark beat of the leaps of pantomime called bourrée crude.
Meanwhile, in the yard passed and repassed the farm servants, with a light hand, from kitchen to dining room and when the music stopped playing for breath, heard the rustle of press squeezed the grapes.
Two or three scattered lamps illuminated the extensive local as much as needed nothing but the wide space occupied by bulky machines.
At the time was cutting the treuillée: that is, the grapes are piled up and squeezed and stretched as can be drawn from it by further pressure machine that still contained the juice.
The wort weak jet noise source was driven with little in stone vessels, and a long leather tube, like a fire hose, I took the battery and led him to the bottom Winery where the sweet taste of crushed grapes became wine smell in whose proximity was very hot.
Domingo was among the laborers engaged in the task of pressing and holding a lamp lit Hand in whose light we find him in that gloom.
Kept his hunting dress no one would have distinguished the workers if they do not call him "sir Nostromo." - Do not apologize you - he told the doctor that called excuse for the time and the time chosen for our visit - because otherwise I would have every reason to apologize to my time.
And I think well - so ease and finesse so we did the honors of the press, - which had no more hassle than the difficulty of procuring a comfortable seat on that site.
Domingo He led us down an avenue that surrounded the garden, whose boundaries are confused vaguely trees in the park, and then by a broad terrace covering the whole front of the house.
Passing a lighted room, whose window was open the warm atmosphere of the night, I saw the young wife sat embroidering about two twin beds.
We parted at the gate.
The full moon lit up the courtyard where movement did not reach the farm.
The dogs were tired after a day of hunting with chain around his neck, slept in front of their respective niches, lying full length on sand.
In groups of lilacs removíanse the birds as if the splendid clarity I do believe the night was light.
Nothing was heard of the dance interrupted by dinner Trembles in the house and surroundings, all rested and in the greatest silence, and this relieved absolute absence of noise accompanying print at biniou.
This new interview - the first is true, which gave me entry into the castle of Trembles - not offered nothing memorable, and she would not talk, unless it fulfills me say two words with respect to the family of Mr.
It consisted of three people whose silhouettes fugitive had already seen from afar in the middle of the vineyards: a brunette girl called Mercy, a child blond, thin, growing too fast and already promised to bring the feudal middle name and peasant Juan de Bray, with more distinction than force.
As the mother was a wife and mother in the highest sense of the two words: no midwife, no young girl, a few years, but with maturity and dignity that optimally supported well understood in the sense its dual role, beautiful eyes in a face uncertain; lots of sweetness in his expression mixed with some grim, perhaps due to the constant isolation, size and gentle ways elegant.
That year, our relations were not far away: one or two hunting parties to which I invited Mr de Bray, received and returned a few visits they made me a better understanding the ways of the castle, but I opened the avenues discreet friendship.
Come November, left, then, Villanueva without having penetrated the intimacy of the "happy marriage" so we decided to designate the doctor and me to the happy Castilian Trembles.
II The absence causes unique effects.
The absence unites and disengaged, both on and away, remembering and forgetting it, relaxes certain very strong links, sometimes stretched to the breaking: there is indestructible recognized partnerships in which causes irreparable damage: indifference accumulates promises worlds of eternal remembrance.
And at the same time, an imperceptible germ, a link unnoticed a "good-bye, sir," I should not have any scope up with a trifle, knitting I do not know how, one of those frames so vigorous about which two male friendships can survive very well throughout the rest of your life, because such bonds are everlasting life.
The chains formed in this way, unbeknownst to us, with the pure substance and more lively of our feelings, that mysterious are working as an intangible ray of light going from one to another without being disturbed or diverted the distance or time: the fortified time and distance can extend them indefinitely without breaking.
The nostalgia is not in such cases the movement a little rude of those invisible threads knotted in the depths of the heart and soul, which makes them suffer extreme stress.
Passes year: the separation was without saying "au revoir": An unexpected reunion: and friendship during that time has made us such progress that all barriers have fallen, all precautions have disappeared.
This long interval of twelve months, much living space and neglect, has not had a single day useless: and the twelve months of silence have identified a need mutual confidence with the right to rely even more surprising.
A year ago he had gone right for the first time when I came back to him Villanueva attracted a doctor's letter, in which I said: "In the neighborhood are talking about you and fall is superb, you come from. "I arrived without making me wait, and when a night of harvest, after warm a day of glorious sunshine, amid the same old sounds, walked through, without warning, Trembles thresholds, saw the union of which I spoke was formed and the ingenious absence had operated without us and for us.
I could not say so, so the intuition I had done things to live long among them: both of them suspected had resembled the usual.
Soon I met the servants: the two dogs did not bark when she arrived at court: the small Clemencia, and John got used to me and certainly was not the last experience the pleasing effect of the inevitable return and statement of the facts that are repeated.
Later I was called by my name and without removing at all precede the formula the word sir, but too often forgotten.
It happened after the "Lord de Bray "- I usually say Mr de Bray - disagreed with the tone of our conversations, and every one of us noticed it as a note tune that hurts the ear.
Nothing really seemed to have changed in Trembles, or places or ourselves, and we appearance - so it was so identical to before, things, time, station and even small incidents of life - day by day to celebrate the anniversary of a friendship that had no data.
The harvest was done and ended like the previous years, with the same parties, same dances to the beat of the same cleat operated by the same musician.
Then the bagpipes left by the wayside, deserted vineyards, wineries closed, the house returned to his quiet routine.
For a month arms rested and vegetable fields were covered: it was the month of rest species rural vacation that lasts from October to November - after the last collection to planting - which summarizes the good days, which brings, as a weakening of the season, heat late precursors of the first cold.
Finally, one morning came the plows, but nothing less like the vintage sound of the sad and silent monologue of farmer driving work oxen and the eternal gesture of the sower spreading the grain on the ground plowed.
Trembles was a beautiful property, which Sunday drew much of his fortune and that made him rich.
The exploited by himself with help from his wife, who - according to Bray claimed - had all the spirit of the numbers and management that he was missing.
As auxiliary secondary - much less importance and action almost like her in the complicated mechanism of a farm - had an old server, over the range of the servants, that was acting as steward and steward.
The man - whose name will appear more later in this story - it was called Andrew, and as a native son and almost child the house was about their love and tenderness so Privanza.
The remaining staff - rather large - was delivered in multiple units of the castle and farm.
Many times it seemed empty, except for the corral, where a crowd stirring constantly chickens, the large garden, where farm girls collected the grass, and terrace exposed at noon in which Madame de Bray and his sons were in the shadow of vines, becoming less compact by the rapid fall of dry branches.
