"Hello." For them it was as if she had to leave the sun hours before did not count.
His son Ulysses was bored in the dark and nearly deserted church, following the monotonous incidents of a sung mass.
The sun's rays slanting golden jets coming from the top lighting spirals of dust, flies and moths, made him think nostalgically of the green spots of the orchard, the white spots of the villages, black plumes pass, with fumes and the triple row of convexities blue foam topped that came to rid with rhythmic rumble on the beach bronze color.
When left to shine embroidered layers of the three priests of the altar and appeared another priest in the pulpit, black and white, Ulysses turned his sight to a side chapel.
The sermon he posed for a half hour of imaginative efforts populated drowsiness.
The first thing your eyes looking in the chapel of Santa Barbara was stuck in an ark high wall, a painted wooden tomb, without ornament that this inscription: Here Dona Constanza lies Augusta, Empress of Greece.
The name of Greece had the power to excite the imagination of the child.
Also his godfather, Labarta lawyer, poet laureate, could not repeat the name without a fervent contraction passing over his beard between channels and a new light in his eyes.
One day, after Mass, Don Esteban had told her story quickly.
She was the daughter Frederick II of Swabia, a Hohenstaufen, emperor of Germany, but estimated at over the crown of Sicily.
He had been in the palaces of Palermo - real ruzafa their Oriental gardens - an existence of pagan and sage, surrounded by poets and scientists (Jews, Muslims and Christians) of Bayadere, alchemists and ferocious Saracens guards.
Legislators and jurists of ancient Rome, writing at the same time the first verses in Italian.
His life was a continuous battle with the Popes, who launched excommunication against him on excommunication.
For peace was crossed and marched to the conquest of Jerusalem.
But Saladin, another philosopher of the same class, he would quickly agreed with his colleague Christian.
The possession of a small town surrounded by wastelands and a non-empty grave worth of men was slaughtered for centuries.
The Saracen king betrayed him Jerusalem gracefully, and the Pope again excommunicated Frederick for having conquered Holy Land without bloodshed. - It was a great man - muttered Don Esteban -.
She said shyly, feeling his enthusiasm for that remote epoch force him to make this concession to an enemy of the Church.
He shuddered at the thought of the book blasphemous, nobody had seen, but whose paternity attributed Rome the emperor Sicilian especially that of the three impostors, in which Federico measured by the same yardstick to Moses, Jesus and Muhammad.
This writer was crowned the earliest period of history: the first in full thirteenth century had dared to appeal the trial of public opinion in their manifestos against Rome.
Her daughter had married a Byzantine emperor, John Dukas Vatatzes, the famous "Vatacio" when he was fifty and she fourteen.
It was a natural daughter, standing then, as most of their offspring: a product of his harem free, which mingled beauties Saracen and Italian marquis.
And the poor girl, married to "Vatacio the Heretic" by a parent needed alliances, had lived many years in the East with all the pomp of a basilisa wrapped in stiff embroidered vestments depicting scenes of the holy books, causeway purple boots worn in the soles golden eagles, ultimate symbol of majesty Rome.
Had prevailed at Nicaea first refuge of the Greek emperors while Constantinople was held by the Crusaders, who founded a dynasty America, then, when dead Vatacio, the bold Michael Palaeologus reconquered Constantinople, the imperial widow looked requested this adventurous victorious.
For several years resisted his claims, obtaining at last that his brother Manfred, the new king of Sicily, was returned to his homeland.
Frederick had dead Manfredo facing the troops and to the cross pontifical French had Popes offering up rude Charles of Anjou the crown of Sicily.
The poor Empress Greek arrived in time to receive the news of the death of his brother in battle and follow the flight of his sister and his nephews.
All shelter in Lucera dei Pagani, castle defended by the Saracens in the service of Frederick, the only faithful to his memory.
The castle fell into the hands of the warriors of the Church, and the wife of Manfredo was conducted to a prison where his life was extinguished shortly thereafter.
Darkness swallowed the last remains of the cursed family in Rome.
Death hovered around the basilisa.
All perished: his brother Manfred, his brother and poetic Encio unfortunate hero of many songs.
His nephew, the chivalrous Coradin was going to die later in the executioner's ax while trying to defend their rights.
As the Eastern Empress posed no danger to Anjou dynasty, the winner let her follow his destiny alone and helpless, like a Princess of Shakespeare.
Widow of Emperor John Dukas, was the lordship of three major villages of Anatolia, with an income of three thousand besants of fine gold.
But this income away, never came.
And almost alms embarked on a boat that was heading to the scented shores of the Gulf of Valencia.
His niece Constance, daughter of Manfred, was married to the Infante Don Pedro of Aragon, son Don Jaime.
The Valencia basilisa settled in newly conquered.
His nephew's future Pedro III, speaking on the government's old age by his father, offered states; but tired of a life of adventure, preferring to enter the convent of Santa Barbara.
Federico glorious last representative, she and her niece Constance passed to Peter III the rights to Sicily, and severe and persistent the Aragonese monarch claimed years later, seizing the island after the famous Sicilian Vespers.
The poor lived empress until the next century in the poverty of a newly founded monastery, recalling the adventures its sad fate, seeing in imagination the palace next to the gold mosaics Lake Nicaea, the gardens where Vatacio wanted to die under a tent of purple, massive walls of Constantinople, the domes of Hagia Sophia, with its hieratic theories Basilian saints and crowned.
Of all his travels and splendid fortunes had retained only a stone, only luggage that accompanied the jump on the beach in Valencia.
It was a fragment of a rock Nicodemia which flowed miraculous water for the baptism of Santa Barbara.
The notary showed his son the sacred boulder embedded on a pool of holy water.
In the same chapel was the tomb of another princess, daughter of basileus Theodore Lascaris, who had come to meet his aunt in the distant exile.
Ulysses, while admiring the historical knowledge of his father, welcomed them with some ingratitude. - My sponsor me explain this better ...
When I looked at the Chapel of Santa Barbara during the Mass, his eyes avoided the funereal chest.
Repugnance inspired him to think of the bones to dust.
That Dona Constanza did not exist.
The one that interested him was the other, which was a little beyond, painted in a small square.
Doña Constanza had leprosy - a disease that in those days did not forgive to the empresses - and Santa Barbara miraculously cured his devotion.
To perpetuate this event, there was Santa Barbara in the table, dressed with a wide skirt and lantern sleeves slashed, the same as a fifteenth century lady, and his feet the peasant costume with basilisa Valencia and heavy jewelry.
Esteban said in vain that this picture was painted centuries later the death of the empress.
It had been Dona Constanza, as appeared on the canvas, fair-haired and big eyes black, nice weekend, a little full of meat, as befits a woman accustomed to drag royal robes and accessed only by devotion to disguise as a peasant.
The image of the Empress thought filled her child.
At night, when I felt fear in bed, struck by the enormity of the room that served as his bedroom, it is sufficient to sovereign memory of Byzantium to immediately forget their concerns and the thousand noises strange the old building. "Doña Constanza !...» fell asleep hugging the pillow, as if this was the head of the basilisa.
Her eyes were closed the eyes of the royal black Mrs., and maternal love.
All women, the approach to it, taking some of that other who slept six centuries on top of a wall.
When her mother, Dona Cristina sweet and pale, left for a moment their work and gave a kiss, he saw something in her smile of the Empress.
When Visanteta, a servant of the garden, brown eyes blackberry and burning skin, thin strip or helped him to wake him to bring to school, Ulises tended arms around her with sudden enthusiasm, as if drunk on perfume and modest vigorous animal that breathed the girl. "Visanteta! ...
So should smell the empresses so it should be the touch of her skin.
Mysterious and incomprehensible tremors through your body as light vapors, as weak slime bubbles sleeping on the bottom of all children and goes back to the surface fermentation of youth.
His father guessed a part of this imaginative life to see their games and readings. - Ah, comedian! ...
He said this with an ambiguous smile in just entering his contempt for the ideals useless and his respect for artists, a similar respect to the veneration felt by the mad Arab, seeing in his dementia a gift from God.
To guide the passions of her son had set up a church in one of the rooms useless the mansion.
The Ulysses classmates came in the afternoon free, attracted twice by the charm of "playing to the priests' and by the generous meal prepared Cristina Dona to make happy to all the parish clergy.
The ceremony started by the furious ringing of bells mounted on a classroom door.
Customers of the notary, sitting on the ground floor waiting for the papers they had just scribbling scribes haste, raised his head in amazement.
The metallic clatter that shook the building, which seemed full of quiet corners, and moved the street why only now and then a carriage passed.
While some lit candles and unfolded the sacred altar linens with exquisite lace, designed by Dona Cristina, the son and his closest friends to it were of the view the faithful, covering himself with dawns and golden vestments, placing caps on their heads funny.
So far everything was going perfectly.
Belted out the three officiating next to the pyramid lights, and the choir of the faithful responded from the back of the room shaking with impatience.
They had done a lot of chaplains those on the altar.
This was the treaty.
But the clergy resisted the dispossession with the pride and majesty of acquired rights, and pulled the impious hands holy garments, profaning up ripping.
Screams, kicks, pictures and candles on the floor, scandal and abomination, as if he had been born the Antichrist.
The wisdom of putting Ulysses end to the fighting. "If we were to play the porch ?...» The porch was the vast attic of the mansion.
And like a flock of birds flew up the stairs, on a multicolored tile steps rings under chipped paint showing the red brick paste.
Valencian potters eighteenth century were decorated with Berber and Christian galleys, birds from nearby Albufera, wig white hunters who offered flowers at a farmer, fruit of all kinds and spirited riding horses and riders half his body to houses and trees barely reached the knees of the horse.
The vocal group was spread on the top floor as the most horrendous invasions in history.
Never had returned empty-handed when he was called out of town the confidence of wealthy peasants, unable to believe that no other legal science be yours.
It was the time that the antique dealers had not discovered even the rich Valencia, where people dressed in silk popular for centuries, and furniture, clothing and pots seemed imbued with the light of the sun always the same, blue atmosphere always calm.
Don Esteban, who felt obliged to be antique in his capacity as individuals of several companies regional home was filling with the remains of past peoples acquired or that spontaneously offered her customers.
There was already wall space for pictures, no space in their rooms for furniture.
Thus new acquisitions taking the road the porch, provisionally, pending final installation.
Years later, when to leave the profession could build a medieval castle - all that medieval possible - on the shores of the Marina, near the village where he was born, put each object in a place worthy of its importance.
What the notary was leaving in the first floor rooms appeared mysteriously in the attic, as if he had left legs.
Cristina and her servants, forced to live in constant battle with dust and cobwebs of a building that was crumbling little little, felt a fierce hatred against the old things.
Above were not possible disputes and battles of the boys because of lack of costumes.
They had more to sink your hands on any of the bunkers that throbbed with a dull crackling woodworm, whose iron, lace and lace, wood unpins.
Some brandished sprats pearl cuffs or long sword, then wrapped in layers of crimson silk obscured by time.
Others threw in brocade bedspreads venerable shoulders, skirts a peasant with thick gold flowers, farthingales of rich fabric that crackled like paper.
And stirring heaps dull-colored rags that seem burlap.
In various spots of the fabric you guessed legs, arms, heads, metallic-green foliage.
Don Esteban had found these broken pieces and by farmers to cover jars oil used as blankets or mules to work.
Tapestries were copied pieces of cardboard of Titian and Rubens.
The notary kept only for historical respect.
Tapestry then lacked merit, as all things that abound.
Valencia had closets in their stores dozens of pieces of the same class, and upon reaching the feast of Corpus covered fences them bare ground in the streets followed by the procession.
This book influenced the rest of his life.
Many times, being a man, found his image lurks at the bottom of their actions and desires.
In fact, I had only read some excerpts.
For him the prints were interesting, more worthy of their admiration for all boxes the attic.
With the tip of his sword drawn in the ground line, like Pizarro on the island of Gallo to their peers discouraged, ready to abandon the conquest. "May all good Castilian pass this line ... "And the good Castilian - a dozen urchins with long layers and brands, whose grip they came to the mouth - came to rally around the leader, imitating the heroic gestures of the conqueror.
Then came the battle cry: "Sus, to Indians! " It was agreed that the Indians had fled: for that were wrapped in a piece modestly tapestry and carried on the head rooster feathers.
But fleeing traitor and be on vargueños, tables and chairs, pyramids, they started to shoot volumes against their persecutors.
Books venerable golden skin with soft, white folios of parchment, opened the fall on the ground, breaking his ribs, scattering a shower of pages printed or handwritten of yellowing prints, as if we release the blood and guts, tired of living.
The scandal of these wars of conquest brought the intervention of Dona Cristina.
Did not want to support more devils screaming preferred the adventures of the attic to the mystical delights of the abandoned chapel.
The Indians were the most worthy of execration.
To compensate for the humility their role with new splendor, had finally put his scissors sinners in tapestries whole, cut several vestments so they fall over the chest-head hero or goddess.
Ulysses, to be without partners, found a new charm to life in the attic.
Silence timber popping town and animals running around invisible, unexplained drop a picture or a few books stacked, made him taste a sense of fear and mystery night under the sun streams coming through the skylights.
Troubled him beings real, the unwelcome noises wake of a beautiful dream.
The loft was a world several centuries, which belonged entirely and folded them all fantasies.
Tucked away in a box without a lid, he did swing, imitating the roaring mouth of the storm.
It was a caravel, a galleon, a ship, as he had seen in old books, candles lions and painted crucifixes, a castle in the stern and a figurehead carved in the forward, sinking into the waves to reappear dripping.
The hood, pushing force, approached the coast to pick a carved chest, the Gulf triangular Two comfortable, the soft beach bales of cloth.
Came to his memory unnecessarily fragments of conversation between his godfather and father, as which everything was known on the surface of the earth
