Although this is my sister, I do exception.
Rafael remembered the end of his last interview.
but at that moment he was capable of murder.
The girl, tired of his pleas, afraid of their curses, finally slamming the window.
Montenegro hear him thinking. - Will you have another boyfriend? - Said .-- Did he love someone? - No, it does not - Rafael was quick to respond as if it's any consolation conviction .-- The same thought at first and I was already busted in Jerez and then in prison.
When I remove my Mariquilla for Lu, killed him.
that no one takes it from me, that it is what goes ...
He spends his nights lying between the strains, with the shotgun next, ready to stick a coaching inn highlands in the womb to the first who approached gate ...
But I have not seen more than the dogs.
And meanwhile, the farm of walks Matanzuela desgobernao, although the lack Cursed I do with this strike.
I'm never there: the poor Zarandillo load it too, if he knew the master, I said goodbye.
Only I have eyes and ears to zeal to your sister and know that there is engagement, not love anybody.
I'm almost to tell you that I still have some law, look you if I'm dumb! ...
I'm more innocent than the child Jesus and the lamb that takes into Lao.
Since I have relations with your sister, do not look for a maid.
Toas seem ugly and Mariquilla knows.
Last night I talked to her, when I asked him to forgive me, not knowing why, and asked if he had offended at something, the poor girl wept as Malaena.
Your sister knows that I have not fartao as much as this nail.
The strapping young man groaned as he said this, while his friend, who had finished eating, thoughtful support his forehead in one hand. - Well, son - Fermín muttered .-- do not understand this hieroglyph.
Increased the noise in the room of revelry, and a woman's voice, sharp as a tremor metal reached the two friends.
When I wanted more ...
Rafael could not hear more.
Popular poetry clawed his naive soul with sadness.
Broke to mourn with cries of children, as if the song was his story as if it had been made after being fired him from that gate, where was the happiness of his life. - Do you hear, Fermin? - Sighing .-- That said, I am.
It happens that the pobresito of the couplet.
Absorbed in his thoughts, no longer heard the noise of the fun, feminine voice that was singing songs. - Fermin - suddenly said the overseer .-- You're the only thing that could occur to fix everything.
This is why he had waited out the desktop.
He knew his great influence on family.
Maria de la Luz respected him more than his father, and became languages ??of their wisdom.
Education in England, and the praise of the foreman, who saw his son intelligence almost as big as his teacher, influenced the girl, eating in your brotherly kindness a great deal of admiration.
Rafael did not dare to speak the godfather: he was afraid.
But Fermin was waiting around, and trusted him. - What you tell him to do, that will ...
Ferminillo, do not forsake me, protect me.
You are my employer, I would like to get in and go on an altar candles and pray to a litany.
Fermin darling me: do not leave me, save me.
Soft rock that, in heart, catch me, because otherwise I and I fall to prison or the madhouse.
Montenegro exaggerations mocked the whimpering of his friend. - Okay, man, do what you can, but do not weep, nor let go of those prayers, you look like Don Pablo, my principal, when spoken of God.
Mariquita see: I'll tell him you: I'll tell the very indina what they deserve.
On the desktop we are very busy in the year-end settlement.
English accounts give me too busy.
One more night of no sleep, to mourn misfortune, of cruel uncertainty, not knowing whether to expect anything.
Daba desire with the rod tip to that young man, like an overgrown child and angry. - No, Fermin, and I ask you Sallu.
Do something for me, see at once and you will draw a soul with grief.
Nothing you say on the desktop: the gentlemen you want, you spoil your child.
And he besieged with pleas burning, with caressing words, to be at once sighted with his sister.
Montenegro yielded, overcome by anxiety fine fellow.
That would Marchamalo same evening, lie the head of the desk saying that her father was ill.
Don Ramon was good and would turn a blind eye.
The impatient Rafael then told that they were shorter than the evening of January and the need take advantage of the time.
Leaving Rafael, went directly to the street, fearing that the master could see him with his eyes red.
Fermín poked his head into the room of revelry, and after accepting a glass of Dupont fled from it, trying to catch him by the lapels, for her to stay.
Before the afternoon was Marchamalo Fermin.
Rafael took him on the rump of his horse.
His impatience made him twitch his heels, spurring the animal. - Are you going to pop it, great! - Shouted Montenegro, sticking his chest to the back of the rider .-- That weigh much both! ...
They stopped at the tavern on the road near the vineyard. - Do you want to wait? - Said the overseer .-- I will gladly wait here until the day of Judgement.
I felt impatient to know the resolution of the girl.
But Fermin did not want wait for him.
Planned to spend the night in the vineyard.
He continued the march on foot, while Raphael was announced to voices that would come to fetch the next day.
The old appreciated the visit, but without discarding had expressed concern that the arrival of his son. - I thought, to see that something bad happened in Jerez, but still nothing happens, will happen soon.
Yo, from here, I know everything, never missing a friend of the other wineries that brings me blow what they think the strikers.
Furthermore, in the tavern repeat what they hear on carriers ranches.
And the foreman told his son of a meeting that the workers were to be held on Next on the plains of Caulin.
Nobody knew who gave the orders, but the call had circulated by word of mouth through the countryside and the mountains, and would join thousands of men, coming up to the limits of the province of Malaga, all the wages they earned in the Jerez countryside. - A true revolution, son.
Come in all this a stranger, a boy called the Madrid, speaking of killing the rich and share the treasures of the city.
People seems crazy, everyone thinks that tomorrow will succeed and that was just misery.
The Madrid uses the name of Salvatierra, as works by his orders, and many say, as if have seen, that Don Fernando is hidden in Jerez and presented at the time of revolution.
Fermín shook his head in disbelief.
Salvatierra had written some days before without state intentions to return to Jerez.
Doubted that was true travel.
It would be an alarm over the many invented of the desperation of the hungry.
Amounted to an attempt madness invasion City troops being there. - I see you, Father, how are met in Caulin, everything is reduced to shouting and threats, and at meetings in the ranch.
And Don Fernando, do not pass you off.
I have the conviction you are in Madrid.
It is not so foolish as to go to engage in crazy like this. - I myself believe, son, but about what might happen tomorrow seeks you mix with those crazy, if you enter the city.
Fermín looked around, eyes searching for her sister.
Finally Mary left the house Light, smiling at his Fermín, welcoming his visit with exclamations of joyful surprise.
Not to talk to Rafael, I could not guess sadness those who had cut his loves.
It was more than an hour without being able to speak alone with his sister.
In the stares Fermin seemed to guess the girl some of his thoughts.
It aims to show impassive but his face, as soon paled with the transparency of the wax, as flushed with a rush of blood.
His keen eye of a peasant were recognized from above.
They were friends, and wanted They know what they were talking on the ranches of the meeting the next day.
When left alone the two brothers, their eyes met in the middle of an awkward silence. - I have to talk, Mariquita - at last the boy said with determination. - Then start anytime, Fermín - she answered .-- I guessed quiet accent to see that something was coming. - No, not here.
Father could return, and what we have to talk takes time and quiet.
Let's take a walk.
And the two set off down the hill, down the slope opposite the highway.
Down and between strains on the back of the tower, going to a limiting line cacti the great vineyard on this side.
Maria de la Luz tried to stop several times not wanting to go that far.
Wished to speak regarding prior to exit from its agonizing uncertainty.
But the brother was reluctant to start the conversation pisasen while the land under the supervision of his father.
They stopped at the fence of prickly pears, along with a wide gap revealed a copudo olive grove after which the sun descending branches.
Fermin had his sister to sit on the bank, and planting himself before her, said sweet smile to encourage her to trust: - Let's see, Loquillo: you tell me why you broke with Rafael, why did you fired like a dog, causing her such pain that the poor seems to be dying.
Maria de la Luz seemed to take a joke issue, but was pale and his smile was the tension a sad face. - Because I love him, because I cansao him, ea!
Fermin spoke like a rebellious child.
Could not hide that still loved Rafael.
But she was insensitive to caressing and persuasive tone of his brother. - There is nothing of that - said firmly, craning his chest as if to rise .-- All are your own inventions.
For much less them advantage of some the heart of a stab ...
Shout: repeats that do what you please: I think in that unhappy, while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually a shame, crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez
