Such is its enormity.
Our Lord wants to fulfill this prophecy as soon as possible.
CHAPTER XXII Latest news from the Missions of Chiquitos and Chiriguanos.
Having referred to the destruction of two villages that existed between the Chiriguaná, be well now take account of how the Jesuits returned years later to that nation.
Stood the P.
Provincial Vice Luis de la Roca year 1715, visiting the College of Tarija, the way to the Missions of the Chiquitos, when messengers came to that town some Chiriguaná peoples of the Parents were asked to their lands to preach our holy faith and minister to the holy baptism.
Extrañóse this sudden change, when there was so experienced the obstinacy of these Indians and how they were always given his old vices, a cause which had risen had more than sixteen years of his conversion, do not expect them the least fruit.
But it was later revealed the cause of this new resolution.
It was therefore necessary, that a Christian of the same nation, having from the faith and religion Christian died, just judgments of God, persistent in his apostasy.
This, by divine permission, appeared in spite of hell, to many Chiriguaná, telling how to have forsaken the Christian religion, was condemned to burn in eternal flames.
Made remarkable upheaval in the Barbarians this vision and encouraged them to which they were now to ask Tarija preachers of the Gospel.
He noted, therefore, for that conversion to P.
Paul Restivo, who was then a school principal Salta, and very proficient in the language that speaks Guaraní nation, and its companion P.
Francisco Guevara who was in the college of Tarija.
Two parents went there, and at the cost of great works that sought to establish a reduction called the Immaculate Conception, for the favor and patronage of this powerful lady Chiriguaná waiving the devil, enlisted in the banner of Christ.
Lográronse some infants, whom he named, but the devil is opposed to these happy early with all its machinery and effort.
Infernal ministers Apareciéronseles horrendous and horrific forms, to whose views fell Indians ground fainted.
These, encouraging trust in God, then sent them hiciesen many wooden crosses, which made put in their houses, squares, streets and hills, worshiping them humbly barbarians.
To see hell as healthy signal withdrew after them, and later deposed the Indians all fear without experiencing the slightest danger
