Cordoba is almost entirely Moorish.
Perhaps chose the wrong time or day to satisfy our curiosity.
With the small factory or workshop agglomerations of workers are very small, article worked is often more accurate and art, morality wins, the craftsman or worker has an interest in the work and work at home, and their welfare is greater and perhaps less exposure to trade shocks affecting large-scale manufacturing.
In addition, the worker more independence and dignity is working on his own or on a reduced scale.
Economists in general (perhaps quite forgetting the interests of moral address in preference to those of wealth) have led to exaggerated enthusiasm for manufacturing.
The economics of production, which lowers the price of products and ultimately serve the same workers, has made them ignore certain interests moral (purity, dignity and independence of the worker) that are seriously committed large factories.
I do not intend here to examine economic and moral issue so important; but I will note the observation made about the population of workers in Europe.
In major cities in Spain and in Switzerland, in Lyon and others in Europe, whose more valuable products are the result of the production in detail, I noticed more independence and welfare, more dignity and sense of personality in the workers' strictly in the cities manufacturing where large clusters of machines (human and iron) tend to replace the collective strength to the force production or limited to small individual groups of workers.
Others are perhaps the predominant causes, but the fact is patent, and truth is that in Spain, where the vast factory is very rare (except a few cities Catalan), the notion of personality is deep and comprehensive peace in the village.
Sevilla, as I said, is a city artist and artistic excellence, and its industries reveal strongly.
There is a street where many shops are not and workshops Sculpture (mostly in plaster), painting, jewelry and silverware, and all sorts of curios.
There is very considerable value made by weapons, tools and everything which corresponds to the hardware, musical instruments (especially the elegant and bandolas guitars and fine), lots of fabrics and artifacts of silk and wool, hats, etc., etc.
The production of fine china is considerable, and noting the fur enough tanned, which mimic the beautiful Moroccan morocco and leather.
Sevilla, and agricultural center Low Andalucia, makes strong exports of oil and wines and great values ??centralizes in grains and fruits of all kinds.
It is beyond the agricultural, industrial and commercial that can reach Spain, and particularly the provinces of Andalusia, the day in that country renounce the inept regime of selfishness (which results in prohibitions and monopolies), and acceptance of free trade with all regions of the world. * * * * * We did not have much time to do a thorough study of Sevilla.
But impressions collected within a few days enough to make us sympathize strongly with the mother Andalusian so poetic and original, so picturesque at all.
It is interesting also as a center intellectual life and welfare.
Has a substantial library, an economic partnership, a high school, several notable institutions and arts education, a savings bank in prosperity, as sixteen hospitals, orphanages and institutions of charity and beneficence.
On the other ie churches abound, as fabulously abundant convents.
I have had a hundred and twelve buildings religious, among churches, convents, chapels and oratories, which proving that in Seville famines have never been as regards the spiritual nourishment.
On the contrary, in this area in Spain has been sinned by gluttony, indigestion resulting secular.
Sevilla has a total circumference (with the suburbs) of 25 kilometers, and its walls, still something to resist the action of time, have more than sixty turrets and thirteen doors or fourteen more or less significant.
Are numbered up to five hundred sixty-four streets and sixty seats, the barracks abound, unfortunately, but even also abundant sources and public water is not needed at any point.
Besides the many sights of interest, more or less officer, of all styles and uses, cite the two theaters of the city and the splendid bullring.
The Seville rightly boast of having the best bullring in Spain, more affluent and the Virgin in the cathedral.
Rather, I would have a poor and lack Virgin bullfighters and a circus that could not be better name than slaughter splendid.
Contáronme fabulous things about the luxury of ostentation that unfolds in Seville Week Santa, coinciding with the great fair in Seville.
So while people makes pitch wonders in the processions to be at the height of opulence unheard of Virgin, manolas majos and hold at the fair all the luxury of their picturesque dresses, their weapons, horses and riding harnesses.
Each class does things his own way, but I confess the vanities of the show seem more excusable than those of the processions.
Christ and the Virgin should bother much in heaven, seeing the way they worship publicly on earth. * * * * * CHAPTER VII. * * * * * The Guadalquivir.
It was seven o'clock when we took the train from the recent railway which connects Cordoba and Seville.
For the first time was to test the route between the small Lora City, not far from Sevilla, and Cordoba.
Thus, although the train was beyond reproach in the first section already in operation, was reduced from Lora to Cordoba, to a third wagon class, in which employees of the company's administration had the kindness to give us place.
As the rails were recently settled and demanded rectification, our great wagon (which looked like a Noah's Ark, bringing people of all kinds in the most democratic confusion) jumped and bucked at every moment as ten wild horses together, which amused us and alternately frightened.
The principle runs via a beautiful and vast plains, to the left of the Guadalquivir and from numerous country houses, plantations of vegetables, cereals, olive still fresh, and fallow fields where sheep graze, and some beautiful pomegranate groves that looked more charming for its elegant form and pretty red flowers.
Lora is a town of 8,000 inhabitants, located a short distance of the railroad, and that becomes more important to train under.
Later it crosses the Guadalquivir and it pays via constantly until very near Cordoba, So it is always in sight.
The river banks generally low, shallow bed, sandy and muddy, no navigation and has the beauty that is supposed to advance.
The land, generally flat framed in the valley between low hills cords or high hills, is well suited for landscapes laughing, but the absence of trees on the banks of grasslands (but is very rare points) makes unpleasant or monotonous a region that could be beautiful in its entirety.
HOWEVER, Here and there are gorgeous views on the game from the hills to the valley, the twists and turns of the river, some trees and some very interesting geological formations (Such as the ruined castle hill and Almodovar) corresponding to the buttresses Sierra de Córdoba, which is part of the Sierra Morena.
From Seville to the front of Palma on the railroad played in the city of Carmona and three small towns, Lora, and Peñaflor Guadalabar, offering beautiful views and leaving register a vast field of olive trees, vineyards and cereals.
But as he passed by in front of Palma admire the landscape is beautiful.
