My father was a soldier, he was always in war, or conspiracies, and therefore his enemies, those of the opposite party of death haunted him.
I did not see more than once.
We did not see him.
And did not answer, remained dead.
I did not want to part with there.
The priest says that my answers got enough to know who we were, who my father.
Found in the trunk of letters and papers, documents which gave news about the residence of my father.
He wrote immediately, giving the fatal news, but the letter did not come into his hands.
Wrote again and received no response.
The author of my life had died too.
His body was dragged and paraded as a trophy of glory, the sound of music victorious, by a drunken soldiers celebrating an unexpected victory.
The priest is then went to my relatives, who refused to pick ... "We do not want children", - he replied - "do not want orphans are ungrateful, they eventually pay." I am told that when the holy old man received a letter from my relatives, said: 'Hearts stone!
History of pain! - Go on. - So that way, I went to the house of the father, father has been for me, and very tender and loving.
On the contrary, my dear, what more reason to be loved?
Listen, for pity's sake!
I do not want to say ...
Look, if you do not deserve to love me, forget, forget; I go from here, crying, yes, crying ...
but I'll go to the Sierra, to any part ....
Listen: this poor heart of mine, had not ever loved: I came to this house and told me about you; I said you were an orphan, an orphan like me and you were nice to me, and I said you were good, very good, and I became interested in you, I read your letters, I saw your picture, and found that they were like I dreamed you, you came, and I shuddered to hear your voice, I spoke ...
and drowned the voice in my throat and my heart fluttered trembling with love.
You said: "I love you, and I wanted to be quiet, and I could not, and when you try to kill your baby with a word disdainful, opened my lips and said: "I love you too!" - Yes, I love you, Angelina! ... - Listen.
I have hurt the heart, has saddened my soul ....
But I forgive, I forgive you, because you did not know what you did ....
I'm sure. - When and how? - You said once ...
and I've repeated many times ... "I will never marry anyone who is not worthy me, and not worthy of being the wife of an honest man whose parents it ... "I'll say once ....
The union of mine did not have the blessing of Heaven. - Sorry !...-- muttered.
The orphan was silent, his eyes moist and fell off two tears that fell in the violet as two drops of dew. - Sorry! - Repeated, shaking the girl in my arms, and drawing his gallant head .-- Forgive Linilla!
You know who I am ....
In my life There is nothing I'm ashamed ...
Later I would have told you had cheated.
Then I realized certain melancholy of the girl, when I talked about weddings and engagements.
I set the mood calm of the girl, take, as far as possible, the bad impression that my light and my careless words had caused, and got it.
I showed him my little thought not should be a source of disgust, and put all my effort that I had understood that the that was just the repetition of opinions read in I do not know which book they heard not know what people.
I never thought Angelina wounded to the quick, I could never imagine that poor she knew the story of his unhappy mother.
I also knew, because of my aunt who always refused to tell me how and how Angelina was the home of P.
Herrera, loving the old, the holy priest that I saw, and rightly, in his adopted daughter, an angel down from heaven to brighten the dreary hours of rural life.
And I had little difficulty get my beloved forget my sayings inappropriate and cruel.
Rulings, judgments and opinions hear in the world that seem thoughtful and fair, and we slightly, repeat, we make our own, and it often happens that later we realize that we have repeated nonsense.
Linilla - so I called in front - did not touch the point, and always showed me friendly and happy.
I did not go out to the street rather than work hours, and returning the I spent my office hours next to the orphan, more and more in love with her.
One or twice all season, went to the Christmas raffle, which gathered every night Plaza on the peaceful inhabitants of Villaverde.
Games or music or me were pleasant; I care not stop the beauty of my countrymen, or the elegance and grace of Gabriela. - Do not go to the sweepstakes? - Said my aunt. - Do not I have fun, I prefer to stay home, reading or chatting with you. - You do not look young, the patient replied !...-- Rorra. - All young people your age die to go there, - said Aunt Pepa - only you, as an old pussy, you're within the four walls.
While I was there, about Angelina.
I never tired of looking at it: every word was to me a poem.
One of the pharmacists put at my disposal all his books, two or three hundred volumes of poems and novels.
Then I read a lot, loudly, while my aunt worked and Angelina; then I made many verses, many daily.
Tell prose, here, talking to me, love me long, long, and I have happy, satisfied and happy.
Angelina was not beautiful like a virgin Murillo, but it was like one of Raphael, as the Madonna of the chair.
I can not see the famous picture without remembering the maid.
At times, after spending long hours in my room, I went out with paper in hand, seizing the moment when Angelina was left alone. - Verses? "Verses for me, is not it?
And I will take them away, read them quietly, smiling and blushing, while I placed her back, was following in reading. - Nice! - Exclaimed .-- But all these things I enjoy most when I say them without thinking.
I do not know why, but the lines always seem to me silly lies!
Fold the paper, it is kept, and I pointed to a seat: - Here, near me.
Tell me, Rorra: do you love me so much as say, as I love to you?
Began the conversation, and on, and spent the time and did not feel run times, happy, blessed with the happiness of those who love and are loved.
We gave for gardening.
Prepare the tables and planted roses, carnations, lilies, lilies, we promised for next spring full of flowers.
We divide the beds into two parts.
Linilla planted one, I the other. - Where spring the first flower? "In my pictures or yours? - In mine, because I love you more than you to me! - No, not in yours because I want as I love .... - You'll see. - We'll see.
The love and joy of being loved graced the young.
Her pale face took soft pink ink, her lips before discolored, burned, and his black and bright eyes gleamed, wet and happy.
She always so modest and enemy of galas, became presumidilla.
Graciously combed her hair and adorned with a flower used; usually with half-open rosebud, purple or white, which made it seem more intense the blackness of that silky hair, black as raven wings.
Every evening, at parting, I told him: - Linilla: the flower ....
Angelina flowed from her hair the desired flower, and I offered it for granted, as offered inciting a child to finish cutting fruit.
I pretended anger: - So, Miss? - So, sir! - No, as you know ....
Sweet kisses collected in the corolla of a rose!
XXX We had a very merry Christmas party, and nobody expected it.
Andrew came and told my aunts: - Ladies, we must have party.
Now there must be so, no, sir, because I want the little master is happy.
Everything runs in my account.
