When I was practicing this iniquitous diligence, was an Indian who came from the province of Tinta and turning to D.
Jacinto, he said, was sent by the Inca Tupac Amaru, and that this charge mirasen with great respect and reverence to temples and priest not to harm any to the natives, and that only by pursuing and finish at the escutcheons.
And having asked for the letters, responded that the day before his companion had come with a specification for D.
Jacinto, that were repeated acclamations of the infamous name of the tyrant, to be heard repeat in public squares and streets for all sorts of people, with great joy, running all with flags and other demonstrations of joy, who imitated D.
Manuel de Herrera from balcony of his house, waving a white handkerchief, and accompanying this action with the same words than the others, they were saying, "live Tupac-Amaru," which was returning to pronounce the town, full joy.
The mob of natives, who heard this news as favorable to his ideas, expressed the joy that caused, and some tried to find out, because it ensured the Indian very soon would be in the city of La Paz.
Jacinto Rodriguez, agreed with the wife of the captain of those militias, D.
Clemente Menacho, the Spanish attempted to use all the costume of the Indians.
Emerged from this line the streets, dressed in black velvet with rich gold overlays, threatening to all would be victims of the rebels, but he imitated, because they were European persuade, to who agreed to get rid of death, and at one point wanted to achieve the transformation, men taking the shirt or unco soon the Indians, and the ladies leaving their neat short skirts, wore the coarse and long acsos of the Indian.
When they were employed in these and other provisions, the news came that the Indians were approaching Challapata.
Went to meet the field as to the others, but came only 40 of the most major and at the head of them D.
Juan de Dios Rodriguez, and then they entered the square, was sent bells ring, then going to stay in the house that was driving, where were either given away and cared for.
Going through the E-Street, took weapons King, which were fixed on the door of the administration, pisándolas and outraged, with whose daring demonstrations had they meant the reign of our deceased August Sovereign, D.
These Indians had come with the specious pretext of assisting the village, who said that to defend it had 40,000 men ready, but met it was all invention of malice existed since time is occupied in order to assignments and waivers landowners of their estates to their community, what's egecutaron owners of them with deeds, to prevent death, wanting to lose their first goods to their lives.
And as far the Indians were made owners of that population, elated by the money they had paid, and the rewards of Rodriguez and partial, and contemplating higher refused obedience, and would not egecutar the order that had given them to withdraw, before more insolence returned by the night to plunder, rushed home and D.
Store Francisco Polo, which will not be served a Creole for freedom, and as Dawn in this operation, were seen by the owner, who came to pray to D.
Jacinto remedied that excess: what heard by the Indian Governor of Challata, D.
Lope Chungara, pitying such havoc, neighbors came together resolved, and cast them to the Indians together, and the order given, that whoever does not kill him, habiéndola egecutado in two or three of the most daring attempt was reached, leaving the others without resistance.
This was the cruel and bloody event in the town of Oruro, where not only experienced tyranny on the part of Indians and cholos rebels, but also of some priests and bishops religions.
José Arijon, respectable old who tried.
But much more was tyrant, seeing inside the convent to D.
José Isasa, who flee from persecution, had jumped the walls of the corral, the that also output in the middle of the day, setting out with outrage to which they were received between the clubs, spears and slings his enemies.
No less worthy of his ministry was another, although he allowed his religious persecution any protection, appropriated an grown much gold jewelry, pearls and diamonds, which put trust in his cell religious, was sacked by his fear of the rebels, in consequence of having found it to a European, so that according to prudent regulation, usurped over 70,000 pesos strong.
The priest of the village, continuing wrong doctrine, received from D.
Jacinto Rodriguez a bar of silver, whose value amounted to about 2,000 pesos, and a gold mancerina he sent the stolen, that held the vote to the Europeans killed in the tumult, content to bury them all together in a hole, and apply some mass.
None of these or other ecclesiastical superiors made the slightest demonstration to prevent the Indians broke into the churches, all consented to it, possessed of fear, and so tired sore, was to see that after the churches polluted, it can host the holy and tremendous sacrifice of the Mass, the priest buried in the place that was violated, The bodies of the residents who died of disease.
Satisfied and the accomplices of tyranny, with so many tragic events, tried to gloss over their evil with some specific pretext, if were subject to the obedience of the King.
Mine was supposed effective, built by the mayor from his home to the barracks: they formed car, which witnesses were the same as murderers and some boys, whom his own authority ages dispensing Chief Justice, D.
Jacinto Rodriguez, making them sign statements, they had made in advance by the lawyers address and Megia Caro.
Wanted to test the fact the mine own eyes, had been constructed secretly persuaded, as had commanded, but it came out wrong thinking, Porge responsible for this evil left work with the consideration of the offense, and having passed the exam the royal scribe, D.
José de Montesinos, found only a hole, which was not addressed to any party, but but followed the process full of evils and defects, and had the audacity to refer to the Audiencia of Charcas to delude his ministers.
It also invented daily infamous continuous news, in order that the faithful few neighbors do not raise the cry; sometimes claimed that had ravaged the city of La Plata, other than in Potosí Creoles, united and confederated with the Indians of the mita, had slain all the Europeans, and in the City of Peace had wanted egecutar the same betrayal that in that town, and that had killed 200 Europeans and 300 natives, with further developments of this nature, ran the evil of terror and submission to the loyalists.
Rodriguez all enjoyed the distinction of usurped control with greater satisfaction, trusting in the blind subordination to them had the Indians, but faded all hope the morning of March 9, which was suddenly attacked his house, the trusted them both, and nothing less trying to take away the heads and destroy all the villa.
Played immediately to question: joined the militia, and were rejected the Indians lost 60.
This made them change behavior, since leaving excessive contemplation with which they were treated, especially D.
Jacinto, who was persuaded would come to his aid after the fire, as they had previously egecutado: but disillusioned, he had cast some rocky areas, fix the militia, and gathering ammunition defense.
Retired the Indians in this lesson to their villages, farms, began to call from them to those of the other provinces immediate luring them with money stolen in the looting Oruro.
They occupied the roads to prevent the entry of food, taking the lives of the drivers, and taking advantage of all that led: so that those neighbors were reduced to suffer the greatest needs.
Every night he played question, by repeated warnings from entering the Indians to destroy the village, who took advantage of the occasion cholos to continue stealing whatever they could, until March 18, which was verified; dawn on the tops of the hills of San Felipe and nipples 6.000 to 7.000.
Went out to fight, they killed a few, and there were some injuries on the part of Oruro who lost, lost hope to overcome the heights were occupied, increasing consternation and was strengthened the party of Indians with more items arriving by the minute, and placed in Cerro de San Pedro.
Showed again the battle, which admitted the neighbors but only began the attack, returned to take the pads, but 14 who were killed with one of his captains, whose head was hoisted at the tip of a spear.
In this show gained new effort, and forgotten the resentment against the Europeans, for their own convenience, thought to look for those who had escaped and were hiding, to help the defense, whose commission is tasked D.
Clemente Menacho, with all his company, who said to a religious Mercy, could draw freely to some who knew he was in his cell because he had pardoned general for them.
In fact left the convent D.
Antonio Goiburu, and D.
Manuel Puche, they were received with arms and shows good faith, and subsequently identified to do the same which were, joining up to 18 who had the happiness to save themselves from the furor of the last conspiracy.
Together with the natives, and knowing that the Indians who had occupied the hills immediately to Oruro, remained in the Chosequirí, distant two leagues, decided to follow them and attack, in which action, which lasted all day 19, got killing 120 and defeat them entirely: from that day feeling the beneficial effects of this triumph, because the Indians began to implore pardon, and offered to hand over the heads that had moved, as egecutaron later, leading to the leaders of the peoples of Sorasora, Challacocho and poop.
Jacinto Rodriguez and other chiefs of the military, agreed an agreement with them, on condition that they attend the village with the necessary supplies to keep your neighborhood.
No less pain because of the havoc that the revolt was in the town of San Pedro de Buena Vista, Chayanta province, which, although had the fortune of castigating the audacity Indians as haughty and haughtiness, assaulted him in the months of November and December 1780.
Eager to resist its fury as small population, poor ammunition assisted war and mouth, again with greater strength for the month of February, 1781 to intensify attacks and assaults.
The priest, Dr.
Isidoro José de Herrera, who is competing looked up with a great view, a profound wisdom, and a long-standing loyalty, urging his parishioners to the highest on record, and to not to tarnish his ugly soot from the disloyalty.
This issue could avoid the risk pastor flight: but he scruple abandon conscience that afflicted flock, sometimes so tight that needed his help, Thin with a hope that his respect and authority could quench the ravenous flame remained in the village.
With this heroic resolution banner hoisted by a Saint-Christ, and so sacred effigy Spanish exhorted and rebuked the rebels: but these, despising those divine aid that will cross the All-Mighty hand of his minister, repeated beatings with a shower of stones, and although ours for seven continuous days worked wonders courage and perseverance, not only rejecting the furious efforts that were undertaken by that bastard, but injuring and killing many, and the forces yielding to the stubborn insistence and unequal numbers of the enemy, and being exhausted by hunger and thirst, with total lack of gunpowder and bullets, and without the aid he had repeatedly asked the Commander Military Court of La Plata, 30 miles away alone, determined as a last resort leave the church, believing that the respect due to God's house was the most impregnable strength, which saved their lives.
it was not so, because with shame the same rationale, and contempt of the adorable Sacrament of the sacred images and all the heavenly court, the temple became a den of outlaws, which sacrilegious hands took the life of the priest and to five priests, the sword from more than 1,000 people, among men, women and creatures, leaving the sanctuary become a sea of ??innocent blood, and sprinkled with her altars.
Esperimentóse the same tragedy in the town of Caracoto, Sicasica province, where blood of the Spanish, shed on the church came to cover the ankles of the sacrilegious assailants: Tapacari in the Cochabamba province had the same fate which the living: reaching the cruelty of the rebels to both excess, they wanted to bury alive the wives Spanish, for what they had already opened a hole in the plaza, could bury them all.
Out of the church to a Spanish, who had benefited from the altar with six sons and dragged him to his house, gave him the knife in hand, pointing out with cruel stripes, to which was the executioner of his own blood, in the presence of the woman who was ahead of her pregnancy.
Resistíose the unhappy this barbaric egecucion, and by the loving prayers of the mother, as the tender sobs children, but were sufficient to show compassionate soften the hardened hearts of those tyrants who beheaded the father resolved, and the children in sight of the mother for more inquiries and tears that used to deliver them, and having an abortion with the pain and fright, went mad to examine the fetus, and finding that it was male, took his life, before expiring naturally.
In Palca, in the same province of Cochabamba, the same tyranny and committed sacrilege killing many people of all sexes and ages, and the priest D.
Gabriel Arnau, who finished shock and shoved to the foot of the sacred interests, taking into the hands of the Blessed Sacrament Altar, which was the most sacrilegious ESPONSE TO desecration: India and the host taking a consecrated, ran with her hands, saying, "Look deception, we suffer from these Rogues, this cake was made by the sacristan with flour that I drove the valley, and then we pretend that it is God Sacrament. "So also in the village fell victim Arque of sedition all Spanish neighbors, set out in it and its broken.
It attacked the people of quilt, and egercitaron same cruelties, binding to a cure, Dr.
Martin Martinez de Tineo, who maneater led him in the tumult, where he was wounded by a clubbed in the head, because he would not assent to his proposals, that would give them no stripes, to learn the doctrine.
This church was maintained with the utmost integrity, to view the danger that threatened him: asking if the whip, he replied, yes, when should give reason for not wanting to instruct in the Christian obligations.
Reproducianle Indians would give them only 20 or 25 lashes, to which he replied that if they made this necessary, punish them with 50, as he had used until then, remained inflexible to these and other proposals they were doing, opposed to his ministry.
But as his zeal and arranged couducta, with the many alms to, infinite and perquisites that continually interests he forgave, he had become very dear to all, saved my life, and now free from their oppressors, passed without delay to the capital of the province, where he became bathed in his own blood, and performing in the main square, without doing any proceeding, be brought into the wound a measure of Our Lady of Copacabana, surrounded by a large contest, he exhorted those present, saying: Where is the loyalty and religion of Cochabamba, which does not prevent much damage and sacrilege?
And teaching the wound, said: "Look how he treats priests and ministers The Sanctuary do not believe in the vain bids Tupac Amaru a traitor, all will be victim his tyrannical ambition, because its intent is to release all the Spanish blood; good witnesses are the cruelties egecutadas in Arque, Tapacari, Palca and other peoples. "And repeating same reasons, gave a lot of laps around the square and streets of the town, which shook the minds of those cholos, who were wavering in faith, and announced with leaflets and songs, I was about to embrace the rebel party, which was founded reasons to fear a tragedy as bloody as similar to that of Oruro, which would result inevitable loss of the whole kingdom, because the province has more than 20,000 men of all castes, which pass through Spanish, able to handle weapons and as brave as determined.
This zealous pastor was the principal motive for Cochabamba are rooted in faith, linking God for this medium in the province's remedy as detestable revolt: not well understood because the lofty thoughts of the rebels, moving to the edges of knife to all Indians who were not legitimate, when armed with spears alone sticks out boldly, and made them know their effort.
These brave provincial became the terror of the rebels, because they had repeated meetings, left campaigns watered with the blood of the enemy, to be motivated by his bravery the content if any to avoid repeating the unspeakable atrocities that were experienced at the beginning of the commotion.
These strong men have made known that armed and disciplined applicable, did not have to envy the most hardened veteran troops.
It is true that I have noticed too little inclination to obedience and pillage, but these flaws its rise the lack of discipline and evil egemplo that gave them their commanders and officers.
Known by the mayor, D.
Felix Jose Villalobos, the good disposition of the Cochabamba and secured their loyalty, ordered 600 men, who under the command of D.
Joseph Ayars, saliesen to know the devastation that was experienced in his province.
He headed this command with Arque streams in search of the enemy, who waited in the vicinity of Bedspread people, confident in their greater number, and occupying the advantageous situations.
Presentóles battle, who admitted bold, making them a long and stubborn resistance, until defeated and placed in an embarrassing disorderly flight, left bodies strewn and waste, at the disposal of the victor, the prominent hills that had by impregnable.
Uploaded victory after the tragic event of Oruro, directed his march to that villa, where he entered, neglecting the Rodriguez expressed disgust and partial by setting in place the arms of the Sovereign, who had been a few days before trodden, and waving the flags in the streets real and most major places: and then having spent three days at the destination, leaving some food for relief neighborhood and retired to Cochabamba, but in Oruro had the audacity to remove the second time weapons SM, after his departure verified.
To avoid the cruelties of other went Tapacari body of men of equal strength, that after having fought the rebels, escaped timely Spanish to the women, who had already collected and confined them to the cruel attempt to bury alive.
On the part of Tarata took them founded suspicion, that were never verified by the activity of its heal D.
Mariano Moscoso, whose zeal and known were able to implement effective remedies loyalty, sacrificing much of their interest for afford many soldiers of those militias, which serve to contain the audacity of malcontents.
These were not ravaged by the King, from Tucuman to Cuzco, but the cities of La Plata and Peace, which the towns of Potosi, Cochabamba and Puno, for Chucuito in the province had been similar thefts and deaths of Spanish and priests having regard also to the Mizque some troubles that gave no little care.
The continuous and repeated warnings that successively received from these major events the Excellent.
Juan Jose de Vertiz, Viceroy of Buenos Aires, he determined to rid of some troops, but of the few forces that was to attend to the needs and fears that all those costs caused in the war with the British .
