Marieta's brought Pepet that den, pleased to have as his most beautiful woman in the district.
Good women remembered him with scandal.
Everyone could see that this marriage was for Bad Art.
Pepet barely left his house, forgot the fields, leaving release the laborers did not want a moment away from his wife, and the people, through the open door or windows always open, caught the hugs; saw them chasing each laughter and caresses, in full intoxication of happiness, insulting fill with everyone.
That was not live as Christians.
She and the mother blazed guts with their drinks.
Everyone could see in Pepet increasingly thinner, more yellow, smaller, like a candle that melting.
The village doctor, only to be mocked witches, potions and credulity, talked to separate them as the only remedy.
But the two went together, he increasingly fallen and miserable, she getting fat, ruddy, arrogant, insulting gossip with their air of sovereignty.
Was there the effect of bad drinks.
The old woman locked in his hut fearing people, the daughter went out in a few weeks and neighbors heard their cries.
Finally, some evenings, defying the hostile stares, was with her child the cemetery.
At first he was somewhat afraid to Teulaí, the terrible brother, for whom killing was occupation men, and, outraged by the death of his brother, spoke at the tavern to pieces the woman and the witch mother.
But a month ago it was gone.
Be with the roders in the mountains, or the business would have led to the other end of the province.
And buzzing around the car whispering hostile poured into her eyes, but opened Marieta their large eyes compelling, loud air sucked in a gesture of contempt, and turned to look at carob trees, the dusty olive, white houses, fleeing in a circle around the train, while the horizon inflammable on contact with the sun, which sinking through thick fleece of gold.
He stopped the train at a small station, and women who had discussed more Marieta hurried down, throwing forward their baskets and baskets.
Some stayed in the village and fired from the other, the neighbors of Marietta, which still had to walk an hour to get home.
The beautiful widow with a child in her arms and supporting the strong hip shopping cart, left the station at a slow pace.
I wanted the down the road those gossips hostile to be allowed to go alone, without having to suffer the torment of his grumbling.
In the town's streets, narrow, tortuous and advanced eaves, there was little light.
Latest extendíanse houses in two rows along the road.
Could be seen beyond the fields, blue with the arrival of dusk, and far above the broad, dusty strip of way, like a rosary marcábanse ant women with head bundles, immediately marched towards the village, whose tower looming behind a hill its cap of glazed tiles, bright with the latest reflection of the sun.
On a door balanceábase the olive branch, dusty and dry, an indicator of a tavern.
Under him, and back to town was a small man, leaning against the doorjamb and the hands on the belt.
Marieta noticed him ...
But sure it was far away, moved on, savoring the cruel idea of ??meeting through what I thought impossible, trembling at the thought that was Teulaí which was to tavern door.
Walked past him without looking up. - Good afternoon, Marieta.
And the widow, to reality, did not experience the thrill of times before.
Could not doubt.
Teulaí was the Barbarian treacherous smile, as he looked more upset with those eyes and cruel than his words.
fainted, and she, so great, so strong, she felt her legs wavered and even made an effort to make the child fall from her arms.
Teulaí smiled slyly.
He was glad the meeting, would accompany the people and by the way talk of some issues. - Avant, avant - said the man.
And Bouncers followed after him, meek as a lamb, forming contrast rude woman big, powerful, strong muscles, which seemed drawn by Teulaí, sickly, miserable and ruin, in which only betrayed the character the pinpricks of light that gave off strange his eyes.
Marieta knew what he was capable.
Strong and brave men had fallen due by the evil bug.
In the last house in the village an old neighborhood chanting his website. - Donates Bona, bona Donate! - Teulaí shouted.
The good woman went, pulling the broom.
It was too famous Marieta's brother-in many miles around not to be obeyed immediately.
He took the child from the arms of her sister, and without looking, as if to avoid a tenderness unworthy of him, he passed into the arms of the old, entrusting their care ...
Was a matter of half Time: back soon for him, as after a certain order.
Marieta broke into tears and rushed the child to kiss him.
But his brother pulled. - Avant, avant.
Subdued by the terror inspired by this man poisonous to those around him, continued Later, without the child and without the basket, while the old woman crossing herself, she hurried to get at home.
Hardly be distinguished as white spots in the road undecided women marching the people.
The dark brown fumes extendíanse separate fields, the trees took a shade of dark blue, and up in the sky, purple, pulsing the first stars.
Continued silent several minutes, until Marieta stopped with an inspired choice fear ...
What I had to say, the same could be there than elsewhere.
And legs trembled, stammered and did not dare raise his eyes from seeing your brother.
In the distance sounded squeaky wheels of extended voice called through the fields, tearing the quiet atmosphere of twilight.
What I had to say was to pray, and if he was afraid he could throw her apron over her face.
To a man as he a brother kill him with impunity.
With word hit, trembling, pleading, tried to soften Teulaí.
He had wanted the soul to his poor brother, he still wanted, if he was dead not believe her, she had not had the courage to be aloof and cold with a man so in love.
But the bully listened increasingly emphasizing his smile, which was already a grin. - Shut up, fill the Bruixa!
She and her mother had died the poor Pepet.
And if he listened now also be able to bewitch.
But no, he not fall as the fool of his brother.
And to prove his strength of hyena, no other love than that of blood, grabbed his bony hands Marieta's face, lifted for a closer look, looking pale emotionless cheeks, black eyes burning behind the tears shining. - Bruixa ...
Tiny and miserable in appearance, struck a boost to the good-looking, his knees this superb machine hard flesh, and reached into his back belt.
Nobody on the road.
In the distance the same cries, the same chirp Wheel: singing frogs in a pond immediate rattled on the slopes the crickets and a dog howled mournfully beyond the last houses in the village.
Hundíanse fields in the vapors of the night.
Finding himself alone, to convince himself that he would die, all his arrogance disappeared pretty girl; felt weak as a child and his mother beat him and broke into sobs. - Kill me, kill me! - Moaned face breaking into the black apron wrapped around his head.
Teulaí impassive approached her with a gun in his hand.
Even heard the voice of his sister moaning through the black cloth as a child cries, begging him to the top area soon that did not suffer inserting their pleas between fragments of prayers recited hastily.
And as a man of experience, looked to the mouth of the gun in one package black, firing both barrels at once.
Amid the smoke and the flashes Marieta saw himself standing like a spring-driven collapse with a kick of his clothes messed agony.
In the black mass were exposed inert white stockings seductive roundness quivering with the last gasp.
Teulaí, quiet as a man who has no fear and ultimately to a shelter in the mountain, immediately returned to the village in search of his nephew, satisfied with his achievement.
And his uncle inundábase awareness of satisfaction have made sure the little one big deal.
That would end badly, and when you least thought the people would suffer a new disappointment.
The mayor's most notable residents preached peace to the young man of the two families enemy, and he was the priest, an old man of God, from one house to another recommending oblivion offenses.
Thirty years of hatred and Casporras Rabosas brought uproar to Campana.
Almost the gates of Valencia, the sunny little town from the river looking at the city with the round windows of his sharp bell, echoed those barbarians, with a grudge Africa, the history of struggles and violence of the great Italian families in the Middle Ages.
They had been friends in another time, their homes, although located in different streets, bordered by the pen, separated only by a low wall.
One night, for reasons of irrigation a Casporra tended in the garden of a shotgun to a child's uncle Rabosa, and the youngest of this, because it was stated that the family were not men, succeeded, after a months of stalking, placing a bullet between the eyes to the killer.
Since then the two families live to kill themselves, thinking more about harness the neighbor's carelessness in the cultivation land.
Gunshots in the middle of the street at dusk shots flashed from the bottom of a ditch or embankment after cañares or when returning from the hated enemy field, once a Rabosa or Casporra way to the cemetery with an ounce of lead in the skin, and thirst for revenge without extinction, rather, ends with the new generations, it seemed that in both houses and the little ones out of his belly mothers tending their hands the shotgun to kill the neighbors.
After thirty years of struggle, only Casporras house was a widow with three children seemed towers guys went muscles.
The other was the guy Rabosa, with eighty years, still on a couch of straw, his legs dead from paralysis as a wrinkled idol of vengeance, to which his two grandsons vowed to defend the prestige of the family.
But times were different.
It was no longer possible to go dead and their parents in the middle square output mass.
The Civil Guard were not lost sight of, the neighbors watched, and one of them was enough to stop a few minutes in a trail or in a corner be when surrounded by people who advised him peace.
Tired of this surveillance degenerated into persecution and stood between them as insurmountable obstacles, Casporras and eventually Rabosas not found, and even fled when they stand before the accident to face.
Such was his desire not to be isolated and that seemed low wall that separated their yards.
The hens of each other, climbing the piles of firewood, fraternizing at the top of the fences, the women of both houses changed from windows gestures of contempt.
What I could not resist, it was like living with the family and the widow had her children Casporra lifted a rod wall.
The neighbors were quick to express their disdain with stone and mortar, and added some more to the wall spans.
And so, in this move and repeated demonstration hatred, the Wall was going up and up.
No longer see the windows and shortly thereafter were not the roofs of poor poultry birds trembled in the dark shadow of that wall that hid the sky, and their crowing sounded sad and subdued through that Wall, monument of hatred, which looked kneaded with bones and blood of the victims.
Thus passed the time for the two families, not attack each other and in time, but approach: stationary and crystallized in their hatred.
Uncle's house burned Rabosa.
Grandchildren were in the garden, the wife of one of these in the laundry room, and through the cracks of doors out windows and thick smoke from burning straw.
Inside, looking raging inferno expansion, was the grandfather, the poor guy Rabosa motionless in his chair.
The granddaughter was tearing hair, arrested and charged for his neglect, people in arremolinábase Street, frightened by the force of fire.
The frightened neighbors experienced the same awe as if they had seen the bell march to them.
It had looked at changing a nod of intelligence, and without further words were thrown as salamanders in the huge hearth.
The crowd cheered at seeing them reappear as holding high a saint in his litter Rabosa the guy on his couch of straw.
Without looking at the old abandoned even, and again inside. - No, no - people screaming.
But they smiled moving forward.
Iban to save some of the interests of their enemies.
If Uncle Rabosa grandchildren were there, or would have moved them from home.
But only it was an old man, who must protect as men of heart.
And people are soon saw on the street and inside the house, going into the smoke, sparks shaking as restless demons, throwing furniture and bags for getting back into the flames.
The crowd screamed when they saw the two older brothers taking the child in her arms.
People, in their haste, tore the old Rabosa of his chair to sit esparto the wounded.
The boy, his hair singed and smoky face, smile hiding the pangs that made him puckering.
And before the poor boy could stop the paralytic sought with his toothless mouth deep and had clasped hands and kissed them, kissed them countless times, bathing them with tears. * * * * * It burned the whole house.
And when the builders were called in to build another, grandchildren Rabosa uncle would not let them start with clean ground, covered with black debris.
Previously they had to do a more urgent: the wall down damn
