XIII I confess, with characteristic candor that is me, I've been tempted to paint the Conde de Alhedín as a seductive evil, demonic and profound in its schemes and plans war. "In this way - I told myself when these things were happening and I was not even in the secret - if Dona Beatriz has indeed been seduced, his fall will have some excuse, and, if it has been, its success will be more glorious and memorable. " Nothing, however, that disgusts me more than lying.
Not even like to appeal to her to write a story.
And as the Count of Alhedín exists in reality and I know him and treatment, it makes me guilty about presenting different than it is, even wrapping in the veil of a pseudonym.
The Count of Alhedín, to the credit of the truth, nothing more than a good boy, if we the judge with the relaxed criteria used in the world.
The Count of Alhedín is so far from being a Don Juan Tenorio as far heaven on earth.
I also assured that, if it was self-examination, however severe and scrupulous was before the era of our history, would never come to persuade himself that he had seducing any woman.
Finding easy and abundant harvest of laurels between the seductive and seduced and had no Count the bad idea to lose to any candid and innocent maiden, or to disturb the holy peace of a marriage as well-matched model, exemplary and loving.
If in some cases recognizing the Earl had been mutual seduction, in the most, with notable comfort of his mind and no prejudice to his vanity short, the Count did not see his own person but to the suffering, that is, to the truly seduced.
Not one of his conquests had until then hints of tragic character.
No Conde accused of having started from the front one the bright halo of holiness and purity.
There was no woman who had fallen for him a sacred pedestal where there been before, but never touch the mud of the earth, without in the least tarnish the clear whiteness of the hem of her robe.
Or the Count was one of many, and not first in a series more or less long and varied, or, if such had been the first the devil himself had cleared before the roads so smooth and maliciously, that could be fed give and forfeit what he had to lose, and only Condesito his heart to conscience and a young philosopher in the fable, for yielding to the specious argument fragility These verses state: Take it for his life, and consider someone else to eat if you do not want.
When I stop to think about a heroic virtue in a thought occurs to me that I am truly sorry enough.
True, there are still, and will continue to secure civil and international wars, revolutions violent, pests, diseases and a host of other plagues that God is willing and able to prove and exercise our patience.
True that we are all doomed to die, and not bad guy death, especially when viewed from the summit of life, in full enjoyment of the youth and vigor of our spring healthy, but in normal circumstances in life bourgeois political order and today lives, it is difficult if not impossible, to appear or give in any case subject of heroism, of extraordinary suffering, of Fortitude sublime or otherwise under great and amazing, not to appear or be given as a reason or occasion in another subject or several, a case of vice or malice or ferocity not least out of all reasonable time.
For there to be a regular there must needs be Carthaginians to have wise quiet drink hemlock judges must needs be wicked who hate their discretions and wisdom to convict him drink, and to have martyrs who leave skin or to let roast simmered in a gridiron must needs be so hardened tyrants and heinous crimes, being ordered around skinning and roasting they did not lend to worship idols or other nonsense like that.
Now I do not know if fortunately or unfortunately, but it's true that evil and mischievous superlative degree and extreme as they become more rare each day, and therefore the rough path of virtue and macadamized paving will, without those who have under in that grade achieved almost never occasion to wear it are forced to keep dormant in the depths of their hearts.
His mother, the Dowager Countess, idolized him and pampered him forever, but the pampering, far to pervert the good natures, make them better and sweeter the gall to make syrup.
For Condesito was easy to be good.
We have said that Hard had fifteen thousand of income, which was of good family and was in perfect health.
There was no physical exercise that did not shine, great rider, accurate pistol shooter, agile and skillful in fencing and valsador airy and graceful.
His jokes were laughed at, his discreteos concluded.
Everyone believed him capable of the most serious business if he could someday be used them their time and abilities.
Earl lived with his mother, but in a huge mansion, which enjoyed full independence.
So I got friends and visitors of various kinds without his mother, or by chance, had to stumble and give them understood anything.
The Countess, however, not unaware of the frivolous and rather dissipated life of his son.
La Condesa she longed to leave her, to marry now, and that, done everything a parent, mixed in the politics of his country and was a statesman.
The Countess was a lady in every sense of the word and is perfectly suited old.
Was closer to fifty than forty, while retaining more than a few remnants of once admired her beauty.
And he was very much against what they call the spirit century, but regretted that the Spanish aristocracy lacked class spirit and was, therefore, unable to be counted as a political element, though, considered isolation, not enough worth less individuals that belong to it many of those who clamber to the highest positions and rule and govern, starting from the humblest parts of the social sphere.
Not so disunited Countess walked with the times we live in, because clearly perceived that the invasion and rise of commoners came from far behind clever and it was not the day.
The aristocracy, she thought, was slumbering in a golden bondage centuries, and that content or resigned with vain distinctions aulic, leaving the influence and control to Cisneros, the Pérez and Vázquez, being Spain a democracy monkish, and winning now be mesocracia something of a layman.
La Condesa, at least, not that we go out accountable for their judgments, and explained, a synthetic way, the history of his homeland.
It was from here that, in pure noble and ancient hatred of democracy, the Countess was almost liberal and progressive.
Preferred to valid domain of a bully, whom the monarch pulled out of nowhere, this command that classes called conservative, something which came through it, although mixed with unstable imitation of the aristocracy of good law and the furious barrage of unjustified improvised notables.
In sum, and this is what you will, the Countess wanted her son to not consume the youth all in courtship and entertainment, but that it should be formal and pro man, and added to the new luster inherited nobility and coats of arms with the acquired talent and other personal items.
We know that the Earl had spent the summer without leaving Madrid.
We are in the month of October.
Almost all the elegant ladies who went to Biarritz, a Spa and other points, and had made a visit to Paris, were already back from the summer expedition.
They came, as was natural, full of finery and workmanship of Worth, the Ferrière, Alexandre and other artists; gala they were about to wear during the winter.
Among these ladies expeditionary and reinstalled and near their dollars are telling the cute Adela Condesito premium.
XIV After the usual affectionate greetings and a brief preamble on trivial matters, Mother and son sitting in comfortable chairs and facing it from him, the Countess went on as follows: - Well you know, Ricardo mine, that I've been lenient with you.
So I lost all moral force, and only if I am with authority and courage to give advice. - The kindness of you to me can not and should diminish the respect and veneration I look at you, mother - said Ricardo -.
I will obey you if you are in my power to obey. - I do not intend to obey me, but I listen and let yourself be persuaded by my arguments.
It's a shame to waste your time as any light-headed lad, without dedicating yourself to anything seriously.
This barrage of questions answered with plenty of rest the Condesito: - All the excitement of you, dear mother, are so good, I would without hesitation the if it were up to me to follow.
Unfortunately, this does not depend on me.
To be a deputy, it is important something to be proposed, and I all I propose.
I declare yourself: mind a political opinions and draw a line of conduct.
But in vain I ask myself: I do not know what I dread what I believe.
Furthermore, it is not so easy to invent that game.
For their faith, just occurs to me another article of faith that constitutional decision of the year 1812, that all Spanish are fair and beneficial.
I love freedom as a means, and progress as an end but I love in a vague and lofty and comprehensive, which provides in practice a thousand interpretations.
So on the one hand amoldaría me almost every game means accepting its principles, and on the other side would be unruly or undisciplined in every game, because its leading figures I am not happy.
In short: I notice that I lack a vocation for politics.
I am most purpose for contemplation to action.
Look, mother, I'm tired of attending this drama, that never ends which is always the same, where tangles of entanglements, changing decorations, and entry and exit of people, almost all do wrong, and in which there is no beginning and no argument purpose, nor word nor thought.
Imagine yourself, for if I get tired of being a mere spectator, spectator inattentive and distracted, how I tired if you complain a role and trying to represent.
Undeceive you: politics is a tedious job, which only must exercise those without money or position, and need to acquire them, but I, I have my flow, I can and should be more useful to my country and myself watching this flow, and improving and increasing public wealth, not adding one more individual to the number disproportionate and those who are fighting the portfolios, the full powers and general directions.
I'm so skeptical, you miss to believe in the beliefs of others.
It seems to me that most consistent are often the least sincere, that they are consistent by dint of being stubborn.
Adopt an opinion, as they could have adopted another, without faith and charity, and and are always for to say that they do their role, and because the end is easier to play a role I say the same thing, whatever they may be circumstances, which no other paper which say many different things, depending on amount may from time to time not only to the private good or singular, but the public good.
With this reflection I am inclined to forgive the apostasy; but as my mind is a perpetual contradiction, reflect something else and then condemn hard on apostates and fickle.
The suspect concerned and rogues.
Misgivings no change in good faith, but because they want to be on top and make a killing.
I am unable to politics.
Now that there is little fool or rascal is not a wise goal or governor of the town or a major character, now, that all men are forever throwing speeches scientific societies, in clubs, assemblies and other light sources, is not should be some who go to salons for the poor women are not left alone, with no one to talk and entertain a little?
You see if I have reason to follow away from politics.
As for the other council capital from you, I have nothing to object.
To get that fearful union, that only death breaks, I find women whom you trust and love, and whose spirit is open to me and show me that can be durable, strong, holy, intimate communion with him.
Let you find that woman and I will point married. - Sorry to tell you, Richard - said the Countess - that everything you're saying is heap of sophistry and extravagance.
If I indeed, and certainly not I, that Politics is only a means to thrive in most of those engaged in it, more blame even the selfish who will not intervene in politics because they are doing quite well.
Still must presume that the materially seeking is also seeking personal gain applause, glory, and feel moved by the desire to do good to everyone, after all is not incompatible with his singular good, but the lazy, cold-hearted, the unbeliever, who, not and because it does not need to bother thrive, because it is not involved in anything, and do not know rather than censor everything, and says a thousand wrongs and no remedy to one of the latter, I say, not no soul, the generous and benevolent that is, that lends itself to assume anything good.
The latter is worse and more despicable than the politicians interested hustler assets.
If you have such news, you are misinformed. - Well then, why do not you go to your cousin Adela?
I'm sure you would love. - Mother's love maybe blind you, but although it tend to love, how I I send my heart to love you?
I do not love, without love I will not marry any woman. - You love, I know, which can not be your wife, for that is another - he finally said the Countess, can not suffer further transgressions of his child. - I've told you I do not love any woman now married. - I heard you are in relationship with the wife of a clerk in the Treasury, with a adventurer who goes home to the Countess of San Teódulo. - Mother, who may have told lies.
Neither I am in relations with that woman or that woman is an adventurer.
Caro would cost any man who dared to qualify such in my presence. - You yourself tell what.
The vehemence with which the test defend me even more than love.
The thing is worse than I suspected
