So said the fisherman giving half of all money brought from Arabia, and the fisherman kissed the stunned and confused's Friend Cador plants, and we last name his guardian angel.
How may be, he said the good man, that is the one who gives more to be pitied than to receive?
Because your great misfortune, "replied Zadig, was the need, and mine depends on the coraron.
This question he brought to mind Zadig all his adventures, and made him go through the list of all their woes, starting with queen bitch until arrival at the house of the bandit Arboga.
Ha, 'said the fisherman, Orcan is worthy of punishment, but these are usually men who are in Privanza destination.
Separáronse with this: the fisherman it was giving thanks to his star, and constantly cursing Zadig yours.
Zadig came to a beautiful meadow, where he saw a crowd of wives who were looking for caring thing that had seemed lost.
He approached one of them, and asked if I wanted that help them find what they wanted to find.
God forbid, said the Syria, what we we can touch only the women.
I leave this Zadig to Syria and to all others who seek their basilisk, and continued on his way the prairie.
On reaching the bank of a creek, he found another lady lying on lawns, not looking for anything.
Head was tilted to Anoy; exhaled from time to time deep sobs and held in his hand a wand with the qual was esciibiendo letters in a fine sand between lawns and courage mediated.
Zadig wanted to see what he wrote: arrimóse, and saw a Z, then an A, and wondered: then read a D, and gave her heart skip a beat, but never was both his astonishment, as the two rearward Quando read letters in his name.
Remained motionless for a while, finally breaking the silence, unsure, voice, said: "Generous Lady, forgive to a hapless foreigner who dares to ask why anything strange encounter here the name of Zadig, by thy divine hand writing?
On hearing this voice and these words, lifted with trembling hand the lady her veil, myth Zadig, uttered a cry of Temur, wonder and joy, and surrendering to the various emotions that together embatian his soul fainted in arms.
Was Astarte, was the queen of Babylon, the same as Zadig idolized, and whose love his conscience accused him, those whose fate had cost so many tears.
He spent some time deprived of the use of their senses, and when their eyes Cluver's eyes slowly Astarte opened again between faint, confused, loving, O immortal powers!
