With a strong reaction of his pride, Fernando came out of this discouragement.
Had to be man and accept the events, without exaggerating its importance.
A simple adventure trip, which would be ignored, Maud would ensure that what happened did not come out of the mystery.
Had borrowed good service - Ojeda laughed bitterly at the thought of it - had been happy few hours and then they parted as strangers, no memory and without melancholia: the same as if they had met the late afternoon on a boulevard in Paris to spend half an hour together in a hotel and you never get before.
The detachment of it was undoubtedly due to a late remorse that had come with ad nauseam ...
Regret, no: simple prudence desire to remain isolated in the days missing to reach the next port.
Ojeda, meanwhile, had also one great love, and it suited him just as Maud forget ...
Rose from the bench, approaching the windows of the lounges.
On the railings of a gallery communicating the music room to the dining room had gathered some women, watching couples who danced below.
They were ladies who would not dress for the party; maidservants of the passengers rich, single-board maids took advantage of Butler's absence to take a look.
Ojeda was detached from this group and through the winter garden, going out to the deck, a woman dressed in dark, easily. "Ah, Mrs.
Clasped his two hands the right hand held out to him the German, and she, with some excitement for the effusive words, turned his eyes to all sides, wondering to see him alone, believing it would appear suddenly the slim silhouette and the American cigarette.
He stammered, as if realizing his embarrassment felt some shame.
Gave apologies for they look simple, when all the women of the ship that night had taken its best costumes.
She had to dance, and neither liked to remain alone in the room while her husband played in the den.
And with a contraction of his hand, hidden between Fernando, thanks for the goodness of this to deal with it.
Then, his face brightening with a pale smile intended to be malicious.
He had almost decided to give up their friendship.
I have no other friend on the ship you.
And he said heartily, glad to be next to mine, pleased with the tenderness she watched him.
Fernando, who believed it necessary to deal with a woman, lamented had not been next to Mina from the start of their friendship.
Quite the opposite of the other that even in times of greatest outpouring kept the packaging of a haughty lady descending to speak with his servant.
In addition, Teri thought in his determination not to debase the nobility of memories with another "crime", such as finding qualified with his recent adventure vehement.
The failure of his existence the escape of any complication was passionate, preferring a vegetative life and humble.
Was the desired partner for the runs of the sea: a female friend all rest, and the separation is say goodbye!
taking each melancholy remembrance something selfless and pure
