Chosen by common consent, among others, this site newbies, and then took room at the people of four nations and many languages, Boros, Penot, Taus and Morotocos, using his name to that town San Juan Bautista, and this is covered both to which they had comfortably with what life pass, the new barbarians to that in faith, coming many in number and aging in vice, a thing of incredible work remove bad habits, make them forget the old superstitions and reduce them to narrow of law and Christian life as a missionary graciously said, they are so young, without use of reason to bring them alive rational men, need to be continuous exercise of all virtues, especially patience, zeal, delight and that that everything works, love, suffering and endless impertinent nonsense, settling his own way and becoming each of them to win and lead all to God.
New village Encargóse P.
Juan Bautista Xandra, Sardinian nation, which sought, with all the fervor of his spirit, that the people made their huts and till the ground, so that back in a little of Father Zea Zamucos, with not so good success as expected, not a little consoled himself with what he saw in the new town of San Juan, and took courage to risk new life in the company of Zamucos.
This conversion is the work Zamucos business I now write, that having been the last of this gospel worker, and the sun on the horizon, the more precipitate runs at sunset, so is more bright and beautiful, and the sun threw the rest apostolic its incomparable charity when closest to death, and although used, at least the years of work, had so much strength and encouragement, he could get to grow successful the banner of Christ in inaccessible country, not so much by the barbarity of its inhabitants, the by its natural place, rather than later, by the inscrutable judgments of God, committed to other that great work, got frustrated so many hardships for some time, and the hopes here to penetrate the vast provinces of Chaco.
Strengthened, then, his spirit with long prayers and supplications to God our Lord for happy conduct of that business, he set out for Zamucos in July of 1716, accompanied hundred neophytes, and a few leagues opposed him hell with horrible storms in air, water and wind swirling, rising rivers and a thousand other discomforts, so that thing walk fourteen leagues, spent nineteen days, but not without some fruit, for giving a slight run to record some of the Tapuyquias Rancherías, already ravaged, found there thirty souls who persevered even in the darkness of heathenism, and won to Christ dispatched to the town of San Joseph.
Happy with this unexpected win, went ahead and found a few leagues with a forest ten leagues long, horrible in sight, and so difficult to penetrate it, he never had been similar in all their wanderings.
What we did and suffered, with no words as best I can refer you to the same P.
Zea wrote it to P.
Vice-Provincial Luis de la Roca: "The Indians (says) get suspicious, however, that after all, began to work and to remove the thickness, but half of it to completely fainted and resolved to leave, and I miraculously the power to stop them, and to encourage them to take after it started, I stood his forehead with an ax in his hand, sometimes with the hoe and other carrying water to cool them ardientísimo fire of sun that made, and so, by the grace of God, nineteen days of work, ended up breaking the forest. "But what became unbearable was not having the day or night of the bloody truce endless hassles of mosquitoes and flies of several species, molestísimos, whose stings us and we greatly disfigured last long signals. "I put his name Purgatory to this forest, that whosoever cometh unto the coming years this country in search of souls, know how much it must cost. " So much for the P.
Finally opened the way out to open field, where they found something to eat Father nor his companions to repair the past work, because there was in that place no hunting or fishing pond, or a hive, as there are other parties.
Only water was great copy estantía in the gaps, and some as tough and bitter roots as gall, and they are not in great abundance, for this cause lost hope of reaching at the end of your trip, because outside it said, had also fallen ill work not a few of the converts, and others could hardly be for lack of food.
With all of that step forward, two days distant from the last Rancheria of Cucarates, begged some Morotocos Orerobates and twist some both the road and went to three Settlements of their nation to reduce to those his countrymen to the knowledge of the true God.
Condescended to them willingly accept the holy man, and gave orders to the rest of his entourage to wait for him beside the Cucarates with only a few turned around to the said Ranches, and in less than two days came in those lands where no one even found soul, because the famine had forced the villagers to spread through the woods in search food, so Christians were behind them without wasting time, but the infidels, judging, or enemies or Chiquitos Indians, who were greatly afraid and fled, until disappointed that, having been given to know us, they stopped.
But it was in vain to speak them to become Christians, as they are not good to leave his native land and take home in another place, and otherwise could not be indoctrinated in things of faith and admitted to holy baptism, for which reason, seeing the P.
Stop here, and with the help of other infidels to enter the Zamucos was impossible because all, to see the little ones, had retreated deep inside.
Thus, with incredible feeling and pain in his heart, he was obliged to go back and defer the company until the following year: But the zeal for souls and the greater glory of God, which stimulated the Apostolic Father to continue what was begun, was not allowed to expect that time opened, and although the continuous rain that fell were flooded campaigns, decided to expose a second time to the risks and dangers past.
Which and how many were, not referred to the Father in full, but enough to explain understand the value and encouragement they had in the business of serving God. "The same (says) this mission was to try to touch the gun hell to undo, break the air with furious storms and move on the earth even more terrible persecution, because about persuaded me that it was foolhardy to dare this company and that there was to get out well with human effort.
Other, more flawed trial, said he was lost in vain the time and effort in converting a few when there were nearly as many countries where less God coast to win great multitude of souls. " So we painted, as an outline of the efforts of men and demons to remove him of their attempts, but all vanished, because when God called him, or persuasions of reasons, terror and danger, and he went through pregnancies, were powerful to take away from their attempts.
Called, then, one day to twelve of the most fervent Christians, and of one mind on the dangers, and great abundance of reasons to which he exhorted them to be his companions in the venture, saying that in heaven God would give them the reward of what they should suffer for their love, that should seek the good of others and move to compassion of so many souls of the oppressed tyranny of the devil, whom they, by divine mercy, had shaken off the yoke that do not be frightened of work and risks that were offered because he ran on behalf of sky rid of them, outside of which he would be the first to be exposed to danger and They come treading in following in his footsteps, he first probe for the fords of rivers, the marshes yield, would throw hand ax, and if you dare to attack them barbarians he would offer to serve as a shield.
This and more I said this very generous propagator of the law of God, with great energy of mind because his was eloquent.
And indeed it was necessary so effectively in his words to persevere and his Indians could suffer so many hardships.
Persuadióles what I wanted, and with these few peers in the strictest of time, February the following year, went to reconnoitre the forest that remained to be open to enter the Zamucos, and seeming cowardice not to put then to work to pave this difficulty taking a hatchet to his imitation and other neophytes, he began to make the journey. "For about fifteen days (he says in a letter) from dawn to put the Sun, worked on removing some of that jungle, most of the time with water to waist, to walk barefoot among those thorny, losing at every step along the way, because Water violence would take us back and forth. " Working with this determination came to the middle of the forest, where he met the holy man that in that way not so much work had to suffer and overcome difficulties when comparing little less than an impossibility because of the risk out there, that grow a little water are all flooded, they had an inch of land to settle overnight, and nuisance and annoyance of mosquitoes was unbearable to be under water by this found it necessary to go back until it calms the time and to take new strength and encouragement peers, although the Venerable Father, whom the consolations of heaven instilled both spirit and courage in so many anxieties, and zeal for souls made him almost insensitive all jobs.
They all arrived safely on Holy Saturday to the Reduction of San Juan Bautista, having spent more than forty days in the journey.
Are these career of the same language and nation that Morotocos, with whom shortly before Peace had been broken by disputes and feuds that had each other, and were followed, both parties, many deaths and ruined, until tired of fighting and sent to war Carer messengers to the Morotocos to return to his old friend, but against every right people gave them to death inhumanely these messengers.
So angry this treacherous to the Carer, who plotted to destroy the Morotocos, without giving quarter to none, but rather, making pieces to anyone who came his hands, and celebrating with joy most cruel meat banquet.
The fugitives, on several occasions, tried to kill P.
Zea, but God, who kept him always fought, in many ways, his rage and cruelty.
He was always very poor in their dress, so much that by the many patches that had, say with grace a missionary, he was in more accidents than substance, he himself mended by their hands never moved another, until the first, and can not survive, was falling to pieces
