Accounts were, as if the ship was theirs.
While it was being repaired he could tolerate the conduct of Captain. - The British paid - said Toni -.
But now will not pay, the ship is without a win, and we spend every day ...
Calculated and cook it thoroughly support the cost of steam, frightened to reach the total.
A day of immobility represented more than the amount earned by two men in a month. - This can not go - Toni protested.
His outrage led him to the ground several times, looking for the captain.
Afraid to talk, considering a lack of discipline to interfere in the direction of the ship, and invented the most absurd Ferragut pretexts to address.
He looked harbor antipathy goalkeeper, because he always replied that the captain had out.
This individual must have air pimp great fault in the stillness of steam: it warned the heart.
Not to go to blows with him and why not wait to see him covertly riese hours in the hall, they bet on the street, watching the entrances and exits da Ferragut.
The three times I got to talk to him got the same success.
The captain held much see him as if he were a ghost of the past that could communicate the joy of exuberant happiness.
Listened to his mate, glad that everything went well on the ship.
And when Toni, faltering voice, he dared ask the date of departure, Odysseus hid his hesitation in a tone of caution.
I was waiting for a precious cargo.
The more we wait, more money going to win ...
But his words were not convincing to Toni.
Protests remembered their captain, a fortnight before, the lack of good charge in Naples and his desire to leave without delay.
Returning on board, the second sought to Caragol, commenting both the changes in their boss.
Toni had been done another man, with beard, wearing the best your luggage, betraying in arranging his person a thorough dedication, a strong will please.
The rough pilot was believed to perceive the true talk like women's perfume Visitors to the blonde.
And raised arms, while their short-sighted eyes looking cane bottles and flasks oil to make them witnesses of his indignation.
The two men were consistent in assessing the cause of his sadness.
She was to blame all, she who was delighted to have the ship in this port, who knows how long, with irresistible power of a witch. - Ah, the females! ...
The devil is like a lap dog behind her skirts ...
Are rot of our lives.
And the angry chef chastity against women still throwing insults and curses equal to those of the early Fathers of the Church.
One morning the crew who cleaned the deck posing a cry from the bow to the stern. "Captain!" They saw a boat approaching, and the word spread and cameras corridors, giving new force to the arms, encouraging the sleepy faces.
The second came Caragol to the deck and put his head out the kitchen door.
Since its first look at Tony sensed that something important was about to happen.
The captain had a brave and cheerful air.
At the same time saw the kindness of her smile exaggerated desire to seduce, to impose something gently considered of doubtful acceptance. - I'll be happy - Ferragut said to shake his hand -.
They entered the room.
Ulysses watched his ship with some surprise, as if he were returned to him after a long journey.
I was looking different, arose before his eyes details had never attracted attention.
Recapitulated in a synthesis that was like a lightning stroke, all that had occurred in less than two weeks.
Could see for the first time of great change in her life since Freya had come to pick you up steam.
Was seen in his hotel room in front of her, who was dressed as a man and smoked looking the Gulf. - I am German y. ..
Suddenly he would explain his mysterious life, even less comprehensible detail.
Modern war nations mass rises, it is not, as in other centuries, a small minority clash of professionals whose job is the fight.
All strong men went to the battlefields, the others working in the industrial centers of war turned into workshops.
And this included general activity also to women who engaged in the service of parental work in factories and hospitals or intelligence beyond his borders.
Ferragut, surprised by this revelation brutal, fell silent, and finally dared to ask their thinking. - According to this, are you a spy? ...
It was an outdated term that had lost its original significance.
Spies were in other times, when only professional soldiers took part in the war, mingled voluntarily or by interest in the operations, surprising the enemy's preparations.
Now with the mass mobilization of peoples, had gone the old spy craft, despicable villain, who face death for money.
There were only patriots tiding of work for their country, some with weapons hand, other craft using or exploiting the qualities of their sex.
Ulysses was taken aback by this theory. - So, Dr. ...?-- again asked, guessing what could be the awesome lady.
Freya said with an expression of enthusiasm and respect.
His friend was a distinguished patriot, wise to put all his faculties to the service of their country.
It was his protector: had saved the most difficult moments of its existence. - And the Count? - Kept asking Ferragut.
Here the woman made a gesture given reservation. - It is also a great patriot ...
But enough about him.
It was evident desire not to deal with this arrogant character.
A long silence.
Freya, as if fearing the effects of meditation master, the cut suddenly with his impassioned speech.
The doctor and she had come to Rome to take refuge in Naples, fleeing from the intrigues and gossip of the capital.
The Italians were fighting among themselves: some were in favor of war, others of neutrality.
Were the two women in Naples, entertaining his futile hopes to travel to the populations nearby, where they found the ocean. - I kept a good memory of you - continued Freya -.
I guessed from the first moment our friendship was going to end up as over ...
He read the look of him a question. - I know what you're going to say.
Strange that I made you wait so long, that made thee suffer with my whims ...
Is that I loved you while I wanted to get away.
Posed, an attraction and a hindrance.
I feared in my affairs complicate ...
Also, I need to be free to devote to fulfilling my mission.
Freya's eyes were fixed on her lover with a tenacity searching.
I wanted to probe his mind, realizing the maturity of its preparation, before risking the decisive blow.
His examination was satisfactory. - And now that I know - he said with painful slowness - leave! ...
You can not love me; I am a spy as you say, a wretch ...
I know you can not still love me after from what I have revealed.
Get away on your ship, like the heroes of legend, and we will not more.
All we will have been a beautiful dream ...
I do not know what fate will be the mine, but I care about is your peace of mind.
His eyes filled with tears.
He fell face down on the couch, hiding his face between the arms while crying hiccups shook the lovely curves of her back.
Odysseus, moved by the pain, while he admired the perspicacity of Freya, who guessed all your ideas.
The voice of good counsel, that voice spoke rope in the middle of Brain saw the captain at a difficult time, had begun to scream shocked to the first revelations of this woman: "Ferragut, run! ...
What is more, he was ready to defend it against all enemies.
The I did not know who these enemies, but if I needed a man, there he was to him ...
In vain the voice rope insulted him while formulating such offers.
Undertook blindly maybe this adventure was going to be the most terrible in its history ...
He was Spanish, was a neutral, that had nothing to do with the war in Central Europe.
His second had spoken at times of solidarity of race, Latino people, the need to end to militarism, to make war so that there are no more wars ...
He was not English or French.
Nor was German, but the woman he loved was, and was not going to abandon it for some antagonism that seemed uninteresting.
Freya should not mourn.
Her lover said repeatedly that he wanted to live always at his side, was not going to abandon it for what he had said, and even gave his word of honor as evidence that would help in everything we consider it possible and worth it.
So its fate decided hastily Captain Ulysses Ferragut.
When her lover took him back to the house of Dr., was received by it as well that if it belonged to his family.
And had no reason to hide their nationality.
Freya called simply Frau Doktor.
And she, with teacher verbal enthusiasm, finished catechize the ocean, explaining the law and reason of his country to go to war with half Europe.
The Kaiser was a man of peace, notwithstanding for many years had methodically prepared a military force capable of crushing to humanity.
All had caused, all had been first to attack him.
The arrogant French, long before declaring war, sent clouds of airplanes on German cities bombed.
Ferragut blinked in surprise.
Must have occurred while at sea.
Verbose authoritarianism of Dr no doubt allowed ...
Besides, that lady should know things better than those living at sea.
As a traitor of melodrama, the British government preparing for war came from a long time, not wanting to appear until the last minute.
And Germany, lover of peace, had to defend against this enemy, the worst. - God punish England! "- Said the doctor, looking at Ulysses.
And that, not disappoint, his hopes, he shook his head gallantly ...
But to express felt so agitated by a new duality.
The English had been good comrades pleasantly recalled his voyages as an officer on board ship British.
While some irritation caused him increasing his power, invisible to men inland, monstrous for those living at sea.
They were found as dominant in all the oceans or solidly installed in all strategic costs and commercial.
The doctor, as if divining the need to stoke their hatred against the great enemy, appealed to historical memories: Gibraltar won by the English, the piracy of Drake, the American galleons with methodical regularity captured by the British fleet, the landings off the coast of Spain, which had disrupted the lives of the peninsula in other centuries.
England at the beginning of his greatness in the reign of Elizabeth, was the size of Belgium.
If you had done large, was at the expense of the Spanish and Dutch, to dominate the world.
And so vehemently spoke the English doctor gives the evils of England against Spain the ocean impressionable spontaneously ended by saying: - May God punish! ...
But here the navigator reappeared Mediterranean, Ulises complicated and contradictory.
It was agreed Suddenly the repairs of his ship, which should be compensated for England. "May God punish ...
Now German diplomacy should work, not to keep his side, but for were to prevent adversaries.
Every day he received news from Rome.
There was hope to keep Italy neutral.
But who could trust the word of such people? ...
The ocean immediately got used to this house, as if it were theirs.
The few times Freya was separated from him, was going to look in the hall of the imposing lady, who took Ulises air with a gentle mother.
In several of his visits he met the Count.
The taciturn character handed him a hand instinctively keep a certain distance.
Ulysses knew now his true nationality and he did not know this, but the two continued the fiction of Count Kaledine, diplomat Russian.
Like everything about this man commanded respect in the house of Dr., Ferragut, attentive his selfish love, not allow any investigation, links to instructions the two women.
Experienced the monstrous pleasure which is sitting at table in a well-heated room and go to sea crystals stormy, with a ship against the waves.
Newsboys hawked the terrible battles in central Europe were burning cities under bombardment, thousands died every twenty four hours and thousands of human beings ...
And he did not read anything, do not want to know.
Continued its existence as if the world lived happiness in a paradise, sometimes waiting for Freya, evoking his memory esplendideces your body, refinements and new sensations that he tried his passion, others embraced to reality, with a rapture that erased and deleted everything that was not two of them.
Something, however, he suddenly pulled his selfishness love, something that overshadowed his gesture, started his forehead with a wrinkle of concern and made him go on board.
When he sat in the great chamber of the vessel, against his mate, his elbows on the table and began to suck on a fat cigar he had just lit. - We shall go very soon - repeated with obvious concern -.
You'll be glad, Toni, I think you'll be happy.
I expected something more.
The captain, a journey, he always said the destination port and the specialty of the load.
So, realizing that Ferragut would not add anything, ventured to ask: - Is it where we're going to Barcelona? ...
Ulysses hesitated, looking toward the door as if fearing to be heard.
It was a journey without danger, but that it should be a mystery. - I'll tell it to you because you know all my stuff, because I feel like my family.
The pilot did not seem excited about this show of confidence.
Impassive, while inside were beginning to awaken all the concerns that had been agitated in the days above.
Were times of war, and should use them.
For both not a novelty carrying shipments of military equipment.
He had led a time in Europe arms and ammunition for a revolution in South America.
Toni had told his adventures in the Gulf of California by sending a small schooner that served as transport to the insurgents in the northern provinces rose up against the government of Mexico.
What were they going to carry on this trip? ... - Toni, it's not artillery or rifles, nor of ammunition ...
He stopped in his confidence, feeling one last hesitation, and finally said, lowering his voice: - The Germans paid! ...
Let us provide essential oil to the submarines have in the Mediterranean.
Contrary to expected Ferragut, his second did not make a gesture of surprise.
Impassive, as if this news was meaningless to him.
Could one of these machines sailors, small and fragile, making long crossing from the North Sea to the Strait of Gibraltar?
Was aware of the great evils which caused the submarine near England but in a small area in the limited range that they were capable.
Ferragut interrupted him with a vehemence south.
This man, extreme in their passions, expressed as the doctor spoke as if his mouth. - You're referring to the submarine, Toni, to the small submarine that existed at the start war: steel cigar fragile, plying evil to separate water and can be opened to retail Shock ...
But now there's more: there is the sub, which is guarded like a submarine by a ship's hull, which may go blind in midwater and at the same time can navigate on the surface better than a shortstop ...
You do not know what they are capable German.
They are a great people, the world's first! ...
And with impulsive exaggeration, insisted glorifying German and inventiveness, as if a share of this glory mechanical and destructive
