There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole being and even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these two women were challenging his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish statements.
Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected and wearing the skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering awkwardly sand and so they could descry from time to time her tiny feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.
The desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.
The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them.
They looked to the air like we call family, and were all very different.
The older and smaller of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair, as a cherry red lips and white teeth that showed laughing.
The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or five years younger than the other, ten and eight at most, was white and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like an angel.
No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree.
He had a singular expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.
Count well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the society or could not be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy of the straight.
His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette and the blonde was single.
Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought he noticed they were in a hurry and have come as repentant alone and that if one side were flattered to have self-esteem as the attention of disdainful lover, the other went suspicious, almost appalled that little triumph.
Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided the people belonged to women.
All looked on, and they all said they did not know. - Are outsiders - added one. - Will be new to London - said another. - Must be either Malaga or Seville - exclaimed a third. - Sevillanas son - said the Count -.
He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with clear allusions to the two who went before and that such was, and spoke much louder voice that he had used in the rant, so you might hear them and serve his speech as a function of relief.
No sooner were heard commending tightened step, and taking advantage of a moment of confusion and noise, tried to slip away.
He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden advantage and also the noise he was separated from his friends, as if by chance the lost, and took the street of trees where he saw the two young men had rushed looking the garden gate.
It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls.
Earl was not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo fresh out of school.
But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of these women, and even formed the purpose of talking about saliesen the garden so that, in the case of a sofión, which he deserved for his sick vulgar bad parenting, not subjects might see him it might have.
Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the driver to come over victory. - Ramon! - Said the Count -.
A little victory snapped.
Two or three times approached them and tried to speak.
He looked at them, he faced them, almost stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and chase and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.
In the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty car.
Seized it quickly gave the driver the address, paid for in advance and double pulverized, and breaks out the way, up the Calle de Alcala and then entered by the Turk.
The Count wanted to follow, but his car had gone to the Fast, and no rental cars appeared.
III The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown. "I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow last year.
Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise.
God knows how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me.
I'm not in love with either.
Zadig had understood and described all conditions and circumstances of the horse of the King and Queen's dog just by looking at their footprints stamped into the ground.
The Count, in his art, was nothing less than Zadig, and took for sure he really say who the two strangers simply because if any seen for a moment, but I did not think, I did not wonder about this point.
Another more vanity than vanity to be as expert stopped him.
The vanity of believing left interesting for those women, who had seen him and had noticed his pursuit, return after looking for him, first yaw or repentant or unrepentant, but following the same purposes as the leak, according to Conde, had been very much in place, so penalty of having humiliated them to pass easily tired and light, lending from the first time accompanied by left who knew neither the name, only because they had repaired certainly he was rich, titled and have a car.
The Condesito would not, therefore, not bother with the thought in looking at the two beauties, because I was pretty sure they would return to find him.
As there again or the next night or the night after, he was crushed Condesito and even offended.
In his conceit forged several hypotheses to explain further, and involuntary and spite of the unknown, its absence from the Gardens. "Who knows - I thought the Count -.
You may have the married a boy with measles. " In short, all supposed to not assume that perfectly free will by leaving to go the girls on a date which, implicitly, but clearly, he so handsome, so distinguished, so illustrious, so rich and seductive, had given them to the Gardens and can not be understood or course in relations with them not to miss the respect and social considerations.
With so comforting speeches Count hardly dominated his impatience, went two nights at the Gardens, and also saw the ladies.
The husband was, therefore, employed in one of these two ministries.
Discovered the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the husband and where he lived; but this was very easy.
Before the appropriate investigations, as the name of a person and number and street of a house can not be guessed by mere speech, even if you have an understanding excruciating, Count, fond of exercising his thought also below.
Fashionable society is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other European capital, even for women.
Here no one asks, before letting go, whether it is or less noble birth, more or less rich.
The most haughty woman does not disdain to friend not ashamed to be accompanied by their daughters or wife of a clerk anyone provided that their manners and are not unpresentable facade.
Poverty is forgiven dress also, as no notice is made by presumed abominable extravagance or bad taste.
No leading lady or semi-major not a welcome to the most modest provincial, who met in the field or in some bathrooms or in some provincial town, and that the call premium and the treated as a relative, if by chance it is. "In Madrid - thinking the Count - many people now lack in the summer, but Madrid has not been desert
