Well, I marry a countess. - With a countess! - Yes, sir, a countess who possesses all these countries we're seeing and others there, and has two coats with eight silver and fourteen wolves on pots, with half head Moor and a sign that says ... - Take smokehouse and woman who can spin - Marijuán said, interrupting -.
Well, as I said, guys, my girlfriend is very upsetting waiting is over the war to marry me.
Paco told me if I talked about this before you get the chance, punish me not letting me mounted on the rack.
Her eyes are two stars, as that great and very clear that he is on the roof of the house, her mouth is composed of two sheets of pink, his teeth make all the pearls make a run of envy, his cheeks are open carnations and when she cries, her tears are diamonds.
And wait until your rogasen, the Rumble morgado with school singsong voice, sweet and sour and effeminate gestures, began the following litany: On the railing of the sky a girl walks white, blond and red, that shines like a star San Juan tells Jesus "Who is that girl?" "Our Lady, good St.
And at the end of this relationship was welcomed with loud applause, the reciter animóse and saddled us another, equally famous, beginning: Up at that height, is a clear source, where the Virgen lava His holy breasts and face .... ............................ - No more romance! - Santorcaz suddenly exclaimed, scaring us all with her a break -.
Don Paco has taught me many, and makes me learn by heart to tell them in the gatherings. - "Nothing else has taught you that Mr.
Paco, who from the first moment I and MP for a great dunce? - History has taught me also, yes, sir.
And I know what our father Adam and that of Alexander when he went to give battle to the Persians, and now let us give to the French. - Is that all? - Takes!, Also Latin, but my dear mother told not bunged me the head of Latin, since it was not necessary, and finally D.
Paco said to know a little muse Musa enough. - What books have you read? - Nothing but the Sinners Guide, which is what the hell.
It is very ugly book, and my dear mother would not let me read more than what the hell, who gives a lot of fear and dreams with it.
But my dear mother has other books in the chest, and when he went to Mass, I very cautiously pulled them out to read them.
Both books are very nice, and bring a one of love and kisses, that I was secretly glad Ouando I read them.
This word, which acquired fortune that night, was going from mouth to mouth, and over a hundred the repeated between buzz and chacota. - I see that you are around animals - Santorcaz said, a little smart -.
Diego, education you received could not be more deplorable in a young primogeniture, which what it has to stand out from others in society, must cultivate his understanding. - Well, friend - said Rumble - you tell me stuff that I like.
All you I said yesterday, when we were on the way over here, I was delighted, and I swear that if was on the verge of getting married and was necessary to continue to tutor, I would tell my dear mother I will put you in place of D.
Paco, which I reached it taught me not geese and more than nonsense. - As a young man again to occupy such a high position in the world must know something more than the romance of rail in the sky.
Well, the Board would Sidekick put with the other Boards for removing many bad things in Spain's government, which we can do without the French come to show us. [2] - It must be - observed Santorcaz -.
I have said that Sevilla are secret societies. - What is that? - I know - said a -.
In Sevilla there is what they call flamasones men bad night to come together to make spells and witchcraft. - What are you saying?
There are no such spells.
My master was also to such boards, and when his wife taunted him, he replied that there were entered in the manner of philosophers and did not harm anyone. - Well, in Madrid the secret societies are still in its infancy - added Santorcaz -.
I have nothing clumsy: I know him, yes, gentlemen.
Santorcaz, that what you said of entail I had happened to me many times when playing in the backyard with the chickens?
But since you teach me what I know, answer me to a question: why do we have in our houses many old papers full of scribbles and why we use these shields with frogs and snakes?
Of my house has four alligators and a chessboard with two very cute Calderito. - If these signs represent something - said Santorcaz - is concerning the first of their use their deeds, if he did, or their privileges, if he had, but today, my friend, these paintings not worth anything, and within a few years, that having no money, be a poor ragamuffins, anyone who came over as well as anyone who has made a fortune work or excel for their talent, will bienquisto in the world, even if you or a dram lizard on his shield. - "So - asked the lad - I'll be a ragamuffins if I lose my heritage or am I a brute?
This is really good. - Nothing, nothing - said a -.
Outside primogeniture, and all brothers and females entering to inherit equally. - That can not be - observed Marijuán - because then there would be large houses overlooking luster to the kingdom. - That can not be - said a third -.
Why, do the King would be so stupid that removed primogeniture?
Nothing, nothing, the account will always have it. - Is that if the King does not take away, some would remove them - added Santorcaz.
Everyone laughed at hearing support the idea that there is a will superior to the will del Rey. - How can that be?
XIX - Gaznápiros, animals, if you're proving what I say - he said vigorously D.
What happens in Spain, what is?
Is that the kingdom has been willing to do one thing and doing, against the advice of King and Emperor.
Three months ago was in a bad Aranjuez Minister King sustained a fool, and said: "We do not want the Minister or the King" and went Godoy and Charles abdicated.
The new and the old King go to Bayonne, where they looked the tyrant in the world.
Fernando says: "The Crown of Spain belongs to me, but I gave it to you, Mr.
If have scabies, we scraped it: no more King of Spain Ferdinand VII. "Fernando heads to the Spanish and told to obey Napoleon, but in the meantime, guys, a man who is called mayor of a town two hundred neighbors write a scrap of paper saying to be armed all the French, this scrap of paper going from town to town, and like a fuse that set fire to several mines scattered here and there, you lift your step the nation from Madrid to Cadiz.
For the North goes the same, and the large towns, the same small form their boards, which read: "No, if this does not send anyone but us.
If you do not recognize the abdication, nor admit to that D.
Well this, no more no less, is what is happening here.
And now answer me the cork oak hear me: who's in charge, who arranges things, who makes and breaks, the king and kingdom?
The amazement that produced these revealing words in the friendly competition, consisting of boys rude and ignorant, but very vivid imagination, was so extraordinary that a short time there was not the slightest voice, a sure sign that the ideas expressed by Santorcaz, coming up suddenly in the dark cacúmenes of his listeners, there were armed great zipizape and dust, leaving them dazed, confused and speechless.
The first to break Rumble was silence, saying: - It's all very well said. "For days will believe that I had a similar idea when I was catching flies and putting them in a certain part tails so that the fly did laugh my two sisters who were praying?
Only I did not know how to say what I thought. - Yes, gentlemen, live Boards! - Said one, standing up -.
Twelve million people are watching and envying you your glory, and even France itself forward for your success. " Loud applause and cheering greeted this proclamation, faithfully recited with dramatic gestures for the boy. - Yes the Spanish - then continued Santorcaz - can do what they are doing, do not can also say tomorrow: "We do not want no more no more Inquisition Let's say ...?», links ...
Or they say: "Instead of a thousand monasteries, which have so only half, which is more than enough "or" I feel like there tithes ... " - That would be good - said Marijuán -.
But if all the Spanish are going to do that, and each begins to throw his side saying what she wants, she will become such a labyrinth that not be interpreted. - Go around dunces - added Santorcaz -.
Well, instead of all those small governing boards in each village, can not be a very big meets in Madrid and agree what to do?
They looked listeners each other, and monosyllables of acquiescence and admiration ran word of mouth, showing how quickly those young minds deployed its wings, still stiff and hesitant to try to describe the first circles in space of thought.
These conversations love with me - said the young Count of Rumble -
