I have in my possession four promissory notes due and archivencidos yours, and I'll execute you tomorrow.
Restrain your anger .-- EUMORFO, generous mogul.
CREMATURGO .-- Either way, the truth is that Asclepigenia cheated us the three lovers.
the goddess Minerva has brought us here to disabuse.
Let Asclepigenia to see and tell you what you deserve.
Come to my company.
Let .-- PROCLEAN. (Proclus philosopher takes his stick and go out together all three.) SCENE IX.
Parastasio platform or rich and elegant Asclepigenia house adorned with statues and paintings, and illuminated by lamps, some hanging from the ceiling, placed on tables other Delphic.
Asclepigenia And Atenais. (The first appears reclining languidly lying almost in a chair esquimpodio or longer.
Atenais, at his side, on a stool.) Atenais .-- How you saw your first love?
Asclepigenia .-- Yes, I have seen.
I certainly in the fifteen years he has lived away from me has not washed alone even when your hands.
Atenais .-- This serious flaw has spiritualism or mysticism, now private and spreads.
Asclepigenia .-- And that's not the worst, but the mood seizes a sadness vague and sophistic that weakens; sadness that the former just met, a contempt for the world and the sweetness of life, cities and towns depopulated deserts, a disdain for the welfare and wealth, stealing arms to agriculture and industry, and a gentleness resigned amengua that the value of citizen and soldier.
More than Attila and all the barbarians, I do symptoms predict the total ruin of civilization.
But back to dirt and neglect in person, I assure you it gave me creeps see Proclus.
Atenais .-- Cruel drawback is that if you have to live with Proclus.
Atenais .-- But, declare openly, in spite of Proclus is so old, so worn and so dirty, would you still love?
Asclepigenia .-- I love him and adore him.
It seems to me that he is the latest incarnation of the wonderful genius of Greece.
Loving, is magnificent and praises my whole being, even consider myself as science, poetry, Greek civilization personified.
Atenais .-- Indeed, Proclus is the prince of philosophers
