Luis wanted to rely a doctor, she refused.
With the assistance of Jacqueline was enough.
We undertook the first symptoms at dawn, being in bed, but not until eight summoned Jacoba, who under the pretext of making some mattresses slept for several days at home.
Is locked in the cabinet, where they already had prepared the necessary clothes and without a cry, without a movement out of touch, without the mild complaint, that brave woman left her care.
Jacqueline took the baby with the mess clothing, after having sent out with appropriate excuses servants.
The Count cried with joy and admiration to know this happy outcome.
Then, when received by Jacoba ordered to take the girl to the portal Quiñones, I felt heartbroken.
The plan her lover filled him with astonishment, but as he was accustomed to obey, did what command.
The result topped the audacity of the lady was as she had expected.
And now, looking at the baby safe forever, not only strengthened their love and refined, but felt the joy of victory, which after strong run time finally arrives at the port of salvation.
Pedro would not oppose it.
And like he had no children, who, having nothing more natural taken a liking to leave her to her death a significant legacy.
The Count made a gesture of disdain.
The girl did not need finances D.
You know I do not want to hear it even.
This difficulty for a moment struck him.
The count wanted to leave in trust to someone you trust.
Best would be putting money in your name at a bank, and upon reaching the age of majority, pretending an inheritance, to invent a parent out of the blue ... - Finally, we'll talk about that ...
And he kept it very willingly, trusting of his inexhaustible imagination, their willingness and audacity.
When they tired of talking about what future they turned their eyes to this.
The lady persisted.
Yes, that was to be godfather.
The sponsor would Quiñones, and its representation D.
Her godmother, represented by Maria Josefa.
The count was very pleased.
All that was skillful and prudent and appropriate to ensure the fate of his daughter.
But after that happier, a rumor that came the hallway made him jump in the chair, get livid. - What are you, man? - That noise! ??... - It Jacoba ...
But seeing him doubtful, even frightened eyes, stood up, taking the child in her arms, opened the door and exchanged a few words to James that, indeed, was there
