It was liberal, but undeterred we fear to do good to ungrateful fulfilling the great commandment of Zoroaster, who says: "Give food to the dogs" Quando you eat, even bite you "after." Quanto was wise man can be, for he tried live in the company of the sages had learned the science of the Chaldeans, and was instructed in quanto about the physical principles of nature in his time was known, and metaphysics quanto knew everything at all times have known, that is to say very little.
Most firmly believed that a year has three hundred sixty-five days and a quarter, against what he taught modern philosophy of his time, and that was the sun in the center of the world, and when the main magicians told him in a tone of reproach, and looking sideways, that sustained early sapient haeresim, and that only an enemy of God and the state could say that the sun revolved about its exe, and that was the year of twelve months, Zadig was silent, without frown or shrug shoulders.
Opulent, and therefore not lacking friends, enjoying health, being handsome, wise and moderate, with chest naive, and elevated mood, thought he could aspire to be happy.
Was bespoken Semira her marriage, which her beauty, her dowry, and his birthplace, was the best wedding Babylon.
Zadig Profesábale a sincere and virtuous love, and Semira loved him with passion.
Verged and the happy day that would link them, when two lovers walking outside Gates of Babylon, Baxo some palms that shaded the banks of the Euphrates, they saw approached by men armed with cutlass and arrows.
These were some of the youth executioners Orcan, nephew of a minister, and as such the sycophants of his uncle he had been persuaded to which they could do quanto he pleased.
None of the clothing and possessed virtues of Zadig; but believed that long preceded him, was in despair at not being the favorite.
These jealousies, mere children of his vanity made him believe he was in love Semira, and wanted to steal it.
Habíanla caught the robbers, and the outburst of violence had hurt her, pouring the blood of a person who by his presence Imao tigers would have tamed the mountain.
Memphis would send and invite famous physician to Hermes, who came with a swollen entourage, and having visited the patient stated that inevitably perdia the eye, predicting up to the day and time that had happened so fatal dismantling.
Zadig said to him, what is so far beyond what you made thee?
The servants told him crying that night had fallen dead suddenly her husband, who had not dared to bring bad news, that ended Zadig to bury in the tomb of his parents at the end of the garden.
The next day I cry less, and ate together.
Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month of marriage is the honeymoon, the second is that of aloes.
Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm resolution not to say On another occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming.
Grabbed the parrot peach with writing and took it all to the knees of the king.
