The wine used in moderation is medicine for the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the wise Memnon, and got drunk.
Proponenle desktop play a hand: a game where you go through recently, is an innocent diversion.
Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about his word.
Give rise to a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate friends a cup head you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and with an eye less.
Having slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh, to give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had made a bad faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families.
Memnon be spiteful palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the bankrupt, and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos twenty feet in circumference, and gowns thirty tail.
One that he knew something, he said the sideways facing you: iJesus, how awful!
and said this, he left without waiting for response.
Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able to throw at the feet of the monarch.
His Majesty arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times, and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign with great kindness, and handed him one of his lieutenants, to give her account.
Call The satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are, because you dare to give the king a memorial that has not passed through my hands, and you commit to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew a maid service to my dear.
Do not give more step in the matter, at your peril good eye you have left.
Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated by a herniosa lady, had drunk, he had played, he had an eye removed, and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.
Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead, and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf of its creditors.
Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning, which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight of Memnon with his patch.
Memnon said to him.
Your good genius, he replied.
For me again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that he had lost everything so that day.
With rogues you have not betraying the men well, not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors who fail, or satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied?
No, I said to the inhabitants of the star, none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony, because we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We can not tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps commit injustices, because we are all equal.
Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the time?
In care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here to console.
Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the qual is more unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you can admire the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him in a dungeon, tied hand and foot.
Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and another in jail.
Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed life, but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose of being completely sane. ?
Memnon replied pulling a sob.
As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong, fully powerful, or completely happy.
We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to the truth where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds in space.
In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less than in the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy.
I am afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're saying.
Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must take its appointed place.
In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some philosophers, who say everything is fine.
Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if they see the placement of the entire universe.
End of Memnon. * * * * * THE two consoles.
Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and had every reason to be: the Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you: the cast of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck, and King witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold.
Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned to mourn their own misfortunes.
Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love with a handsome musician I had excellent voice of choristers.
Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who was called maiden, sent him to cut his head in a hanging scaffold Mourning, after having been eighteen years in prison.
replied the lady; and give back to your affliction.
Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of Naples, which was seized and hanged.
I have a confused idea that, 'said the afflicted.
I will tell you, "said the other, the adventure that happened in my time in a sovereign dethroned after dinner, and who died on a desert island.
Well tell you what happened to another great princess, my disciple of philosophy.
She had her lover as he is absolutely beautiful and great princess one day his father entered his room, and grabbed the lover on her face and eyes that shone like two carbuncles, and Princess also very red face.
Dislike both father of the boy's face, he shook the most massive blow to the day that has stuck throughout the province.
Grabbed the lover pliers, and broke the head of the lady's father, who was a long time to death, and still has the sign of the injury: the Princess was careless shot through the window, and spoiling a leg, so that even today it is known that Coxe, although it has beautiful body.
Her lover was sentenced to death for having broken his head at such a high prince.
the lady said to him.
Because it is not successful grieve for their misfortunes, and that having been so unfortunate as many leading ladies, does not seem right that I despair.
Hecuba Behold, behold a Niobe.
Ha, 'said the lady, if I had lived at the time, or so many beautiful princesses, and their comfort You might have told them my misfortunes?
command to list all the monarchs who had lost their children, and took her to the philosopher, the qual read it, found them very timely, and continued crying.
After Three months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy.
Then lifted a beautiful statue of the time with this label: THE COMFORTER.
End of the two consoles. * * * * * HISTORY OF VIAG Of castigating, WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600.
My father was the governor, and I remember a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria, made some bad verses in praise of mine, where I described as a descendant quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed the government having my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her lover.
Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.
Fifteen years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the truths, because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is use in this world, from China to the Alps.
Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise in the world had.
Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their Gitonas: good me free.
Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few robberies.
They said, though against all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are not usually sold.
It occurred to a maiden lady, and very mild condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend father obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious congregation no longer exists, and put according to both of giving me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned and excommunicated.
Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.
Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very cheap to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.
Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other two pages of theological disputes.
More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather stricken by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with violence, and that was the liberties of the Gallican church.
Chufletas says and does degueello San Bartolome.
iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!
Some saints Catholics, for the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire parliament, and rid England of both heretic.
Taught me the site where had made to burn more than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.
We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people.
Quando arrives The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt minister.
Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the state.
Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals.
This good weather will not last forever, this town is being so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.
I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.
Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year all breathed abundance and joy.
After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos.
Baxo a magnificent canopy were the king, queen, infants and the princesses.
In front of the August family still had a throne higher.
Dixe, return to one of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for those who can not be.
I figured we were going to see a tournament or a bullfight, when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed the king and the people.
Then came an army of friars in rows of two by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded, beardless, with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind, in the midst of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with sacks where had painted flames and devils.
Were these, or Jews who had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with their Wives, or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin Fathers
