Railroads and roads, the navigation of the lakes, popular schools, colleges, museums and libraries charitable institutes, charities, credit and economy, and few can distinguish a civilized society, are treated with great care by the authorities and citizens and no progress can not find sympathetic reception among Vaudenses, worthy rivals of the Genevans.
The history of Vaud has much analogy to Geneva: the same succession of conquests and domination under the Romans, Barbarians, and Burguiñones Franks, the counts of Savoy, Bishops and earls of the country and the French from 1798 to 1814.
HOWEVER, Vaud was subject in recent centuries (from 1536 to 1798) to the domination of Berne, who weighed on Geneva.
The French Revolution to the country of Vaud independence for Berne, making appear in various combinations of Napoleon.
Thus, from 1798 to 1803 was the first Republic of Geneva; later became part of the Republic Rodan (under French protection), and Canton was held Confederate independent Switzerland.
Its constitution with this character dates from 1803, ratified then by the treaties of 1815.
For the rest, the Vaudenses have been very bellicose, as indicates the absence of fortifications in its major cities, except in Lausanne (where they have been demolished) and the small inland town of Romont.
Vaudense population is very scattered in fields and small towns, villages and districts, circumstance that explains well the dedication with which they are cultivated all the fields, graciously dotted with farmhouses and villas happy.
The Canton is divided into 19 political-judicial circuits, 60 electoral circles judges peace, and 388 common or municipal districts, apart from the villages, by their smallness, lack of political personality.
Thus, the proportional term is about 500 inhabitants per district.
Vevey, very industrial and commercial center, with 5.500.
Morges, commercial city, with 3.500.
Bex, located in the Rhone Valley and noted for its salt mines, with 3.200.
Nyon, with 2.600 and 1.400 Rolle on the banks of Lake Geneva.
Villanueva, with 1.300, major port in the eastern end of the lake and stopping point for trade that takes the road from Geneva to Milan by the Simplon.
In the inland areas are important only some small towns: Iverdun with 3.800 inhabitants, situated at the southern end of Lake Neuchâtel, notable as a commercial scale and steam navigation, Moudon, with 2.450 residents, one of the most ancient cities of Switzerland and Romont, fortified (with 1,250) is frequented by farmers of their annual cattle and horses. * * * * * The canton of Vaud in 1814 was about to lose its autonomy and had to do to save the sacrifice of some freedoms.
Until 1830 cantonal retained its first constitution, but given the movement's drive liberal in Europe by the French revolution of July resulted in Vaud democratic reform required by the people en masse.
However, the reform of 1831 later seemed insufficient and in 1845 a new revolution gave rise to the constitution that is completely relevant today Democratic-Republican [15]. [15] In 1861 was voted a major constitutional reform even more advanced in the sense democratic.
According to her all the children or permanent residents of the State, age 23, are citizens and exercise sovereignty in elections or assemblies, or by choosing their representatives.
The people has reserved the constitutional power and only delegated legislative authority, executive and judicial general business.
In districts with fewer than 600 people exercise power own administrative and legislative Grand-Council, entirely patriarchal and democratic consisting of all heads of household over 25 years.
In most districts population, the legislative authority is entrusted to a popular election Communal Council composed 25 to 100 neighbors, and the administration and enforcement are chaired by a municipality by a trustee.
Circuits that divide the state are administered by prefects.
Legislative power cantonal resides in a grand council, composed of 195 members popularly elected by the circles, which meets in Lausanne twice a year in ordinary sessions without the right remuneration.
The credentials of representatives last four years.
The Great Council appointed Members of the Houses of the Confederation and senior officials, among them the 9 Members of the Council of State, which exercises executive power for six years.
These 9 directors must leave within the Grand Council, and they appoint annually from among themselves the president or head of government.
The State attends to all your needs with an annual budget of about 550.000 pesos.
In Vaud are abolished in recent years the death penalty, forced labor in prison, public embarrassment and confiscation.
The prison system is entirely analogous to Geneva and the beautiful Losana Panopticon is the first to be founded in Europe.
The vaudenses and other Residents enjoy the full freedom of religion, advertising, instruction, locomotion association, etc.
Except for the roads and free public education that the State holds, the manifestations of social activity belong to the private sector.
Is so great was the interest that there is progress in public education almost there is a city that has its well-stocked library, museum and many colleges and libraries important.
There are about 800 state elementary schools, 10 community colleges and 22 schools secondary, some classical and other polytechnics.
There is viewed with particular attention science economic, and not many months [16] that met Lausanne congress and a competition economist to combine the best European tax system.
It's very small minority in the State of individuals without any instruction. [16] in 1861. * * * * * Vaud localities we play, three of us and drew particular attention them to reduce some quick observations.
Vevey, which disembarked to cross the Leman from Boveret, is a city so funny its structure, its admirable situation and beautiful scenery nearby, and interesting by social movement.
Starting from the bank of the lake, whose waves bathes small springs, elegant villas, terraces and gardens and walls of many of their homes, first extends on a plain low extension and then climbs amid vineyards and orchards to the hill that dominates, which serves as a seat at the Cathedral Saint-Quentin and various works of an ancient castle, limited by a large terrace shaded leafy elm and chestnut trees.
At the foot of the walls that hold the city side of the lake bob in the waves many little boats painted in bright colors, and everywhere rise a thousand rumors full of poetic harmony.
The hotel itself of the "Three-Crowns" in we stayed, extends its elegant terraces to the lake, filled with flowers and shrubs, including orange, jasmine and the cigar of lanceolate leaves, plants that grow in the air Free and open ground, and in southern climates.
Vevey, surrounded by beautiful rolling hills and slopes, and near which there are many beautiful views and pleasant walks, offers one of the most enchanting panoramas you can imagine, especially if it is seen from the terrace or the soaring tower Saint-Quentin, a gothic monument of simple and severe style.
When walking the city develops like a garden of the most varied contours and colors, then stretches the vast lake Whispering quiet, full of light and poetry, and crossed by numerous steamers, sailing vessels feluccas and boats and oars, and limited in its southern margin by the barrier abrupt rocky and severe for its dark vegetation, which form the mountains of Savoy or in the former province the Alps.
In the same bank at the foot of these mountains, are the small towns And San-Gingolfo Meillerie (which begins the new frontier of France), dominated by ports buttresses and the high peaks of the Oche-Tooth and Chaumeny.
Nothing is more majestic in its genre that these almost vertically steep mountains on the lake, covered with ancient forests and gloomy, with few natural grasslands in narrow skirts, interspersed with numerous villas or houses of shepherds from afar microscopic animals seem alpine dwellings.
If it gets the look right and left, on the coast itself in Vevey, is everywhere a swarm picturesque cottages and vineyards interspersed with fences of sticks, and sustained in broad arenas of many steps for railings or walls simple and robust construction preventing the collapse of the land.
That is a huge wave of shoots the breeze Curling, whose green makes the most funny game with bright turquoise the lake and distant mountains dark ink.
It is impossible not to feel deeply seduced by the charms of the incomparable panorama, full of smiling poetry, promises sweet love and mobility as a whole and its details.
In Europe, in general, a town of 5.000 habilantes is an atom, and HOWEVER, many cities, 25 to 30.000 residents who lack true culture.
In Switzerland, where, except the mountains, everything is small, funny and attentive, the little things and details are worth much are everything.
It is certainly remarkable to find in the modest town of Vevey, a little more than 5.500 inhabitants, a large number of institutes and all the comforts of life, which regularly are not in big cities but very advanced civilization.
If conditions country's physical development have favored that can not be denied that individual freedom and collectively, the goodness of the institutions and the spirit of dignity and engendering independeneia Calvinism, allied to the generous qualities of the French race, are the main causes.
Indeed, Vevey contains, among other interesting things: two libraries, a religious and popular and one of the city, with 13,000 volumes, a considerable number of schools, schools, hospitals, hospices and other educational institutions and charities, several small museums or scientific collections, literature and art, three circles, with cabinets reading, very good building for all public services, excellent gas lighting, docks and markets, hundreds of workshops and small factories, and a multitude of companies serving literary interests, religious, economic.
Very notable among including those of musketeers, musketeers and police, who train in the shot, - institutions essentially national and interesting for their political-social in Switzerland, where Every citizen is a soldier in reserve and the mountains make their living by hunting.
Vevey is not only a first-order center in the state, in the production and export of wine (white and very soft, gender champagne), but is notable for the exploitation of marbles and other objects minerals, manufacture of watches, jewelry, machinery, trade timber and the rearing of silkworms.
So, although its population is the second city vaudense, is the first in its industry and commerce.
Among the free associations of Vevey is one which, besides being curious traditions and customs that maintains a measure of the interest therein is taken by agriculture and fecundity of the spirit of partnership I speak of the Abbey of the tenants, Congregation very old vineyard growers and owners more interested in them.
Taking Pray for currency words and works, his object is not other than to promote prosperity of the vineyards and growers.
So, every year send commissioners to go carefully vineyards in the district, and by virtue of their reports to the congregation discerning awards most distinguished cultivators and takes steps to improve the crop, expand veveisinos wine trade and remove any disease or illness that can attack the vines.
No less curious is the Feast of the tenants, that they held five or six times each century, in times of great vintages, - party, as we were told, offers the most unique genre scenes, and has some pagan character that makes it very original at the time present.
The afternoon sun shone on the melancholy beauty of mountain peaks Jurassic and the lake and riparian meadows, when we embarked on the steamer and headed Aigle towards the port of Ouchy, coasting along the shore setentrional.
Breezes curling waves lake, bright and full of delicious murmurs, like agitated dense wreaths vines in the vineyards of the coast and in the bottom of them, at 100 feet away, saw stand five or six towns or villages full of grace in detail, and as descending of rolling hills in picturesque disorder, to bathe in the lake the scallops and terraces their cheerful houses.
Each of these villages seems the original of one of those cribs birth or as popular in the Spanish companies in the month of Christmas.
Ouchy, a small village on the banks, shaded by beautiful trees and surrounded by villas elegant gardens and parks, is the port of Lausanne.
There, or at very close range There was the old Lausanium destroyed in the year 563 by the violent impact of water Lake, produced by the collapse of a mountain on the opposite bank.
The residents, terrified, sought the highest place of the neighboring county and he founded to Lausanne, with incredible fad, to three miles away from Ouchy.
A bus took us immediately to that city, by a wide road, which is actually a huge street edged by sumptuous villas terraces, parks and gardens of thick foliage laden with perfumes.
The city, cut into the bottom of two streams that come together in deep gullies, delay on three hills and inland slopes and narrow valleys in between.
So forms are so irregular and complicated that reach the extravagance.
Its streets, almost all narrow dark, winding and very steep, forming a maze of hills that require up or down in any case.
It has not much communication between the streets of the three hills was very slow and painful, but then the magnificent bridge Pichard (which sits on a double arch and measures 180 meters long, one hill to another), some streets that skirted these hills and beautiful walking paths and outdoor wheels, the city has greatly improved and facilitated movement of people and carriages.
