One of the Lantigua would venture to argue that this was a comedy misrepresented, and again only was fixed in the luxury of costumes and uniforms. - Look, look my mom.
For twenty-four poor, there are three hundred recommendations.
Tomasa, the camera girl, my neighbor, was in charge of washing the twelve elders such poor and change their smelly rags for clothes that have been today.
I wanted to help a little, because it seemed to meet something that our Lord commands us Jesus Christ.
If not for me, not just scrubbing all morning ...
Speaking truthfully, if I were poor and I bring to this ceremony was to acknowledge not all, because frankly, passing the shock and discomfort of being so washed, not offset by what they provide.
The funny chickens, whose tender age had much value the spiritual and imaginative, not understand these practical reasons the experienced Dona Candida, and all were own, nice and appropriate to double majesty of Religion and the Throne ...
Isabelita Bringas was a sickly child, weak, spirit, and watched it predispositions epilepsy.
His sleep was often disturbed by distressing nightmares, followed by vomiting and seizures, and sometimes lacking this symptom, the bad early manifested a more alarming.
He would like lela and took too long to understand things, completely missing Infant liveliness.
It could not be nagging, and at school the teacher had orders not impose any punishment or require her application and work.
If during the day witnessed something to excite their sensitivity or had cases before her pitiful, at night reproduced at all in his troubled sleep.
This is compounded when excess in food or by poor condition of this, the stomach's digestive work of the poor child was over With few forces.
That Thursday, Dona Tula splendidly fed her friends.
The girl was docked Bringas a bowl of milk, which he liked, but it dearly paid the poor, as did a quarter-hour that had been lying when he was thrust fever and delirium, and began to look and feel with horrible blunders all incidents, people and things of that day so busy that had so much fun.
Repeated games the terrace, saw the girls all, greatly disfigured, and Candida as a major black pastor who guarded the flock again attended the ceremony of food poor, peering through a hole in the skylight, and animated figures of the roof, removing out their paws to scare the curious ...
No, appeared through the door of the ladies step mom, grabbed Pez's arm, and his dad giving him the Marquise de Telleria.
And they, how well packaged and what stiff! ...
Came to rest and take refreshment at Dona Tula, to accompany more late to the whole Court Lady and the visit of Tabernacles ...
For all the gates Palacio top of several liveries appeared much blue and red cloth, much gold braid and silver, tricorn infinite ...
Raving again, he saw the shining city and glazed a thousand colorful.
Surely it was a city of dolls, but what a doll! ...
By various sides white wigs out, and no door opened into the recesses of the second floor without give way to a beautiful wax figure, tow or porcelain, and all ran down the corridors shouting "it's time ...».
In this he forgot one thing, one another, a buckle, a pen, a lanyard.
In the courtyard, the yeomen writhed with coachmen and footmen, and was like a big pot that boiled human members of many colors, twisting to the action of heat ...
But much nicer would your dad when hiciese Knight of the Holy Sepulchre.
At this point, the poor she was completely soaked his being on an idea of ??whiteness, at the same time an obstruction horrible embarrassed, as if things reproducing his brain, dolls and palace were contained within his tiny stomach.
With agonizing convulsions threw it all out and contained the rave, and felt a relief ...!
The restoration procedure used with rare skill still not denounced themselves same as those plasters marred by the poor condition of the building to which they apply.
The time defending his wit, his elegance, his refined taste in clothing gear and sympathy inspire those who knew not trying to close.
All these qualities equally subjugated the spirit of Rosalía Bringas, but what stood out including the most tyrannical was the exquisite taste in fashion rags.
This gift for her friend was like the sun shining Bringas which could not face watching to face without dazzling.
Because in that estimate had the authority of the Marchioness in these treaties, which did not dare have an opinion that was not a true reflection of the August proclaimed by her.
All doubts about a color or form of dress were cut with a word of Miracles.
What is said was already legal body for any question that occurs later, as not only authorizing legislation but his teaching by example, dressing in a spotless, the de Bringas, which at this time in our history was passionate greatly by the dresses, rose to Milagros in his soul a veritable altar.
Garcia's widow Grande Rosalie captivated with its prestigious historical figure.
Respetábala this as the gods of a dead religion, but Milagros had it in the predicament of living dogmas and the gods in power.
Nobody in the world, even Bringas, was on the ascendant Pipaón as large as Miracles.
The woman, authoritarian and somewhat rude to peers and lower became timid in the presence of his idol, who was also his teacher.
Agustin Caballero freebies and assignment of all the finery she had bought for wedding, Rosalie awoke the passion of the dress.
His former modesty that most had virtue of necessity, was subjected to a test that did not come out victorious.
In another time, the wisdom of Thiers was able to curb the appetite of luxury, making us believe all that did not exist when the only positive in this was the inability to satisfy them.
It is the primary event in human history and the eternal case, the case where order of fragility.
While there was no evidence the fruit forbidden by God that household, all going well.
But the apple was bitten, but the devil take the form of snake here ruin or other animal, and goodbye my modesty.
After having released so many beautiful costumes, how resigned to return to the old rags never change no longer fashionable?
He had been blessed Augustine, generously and without hesitation, the corrupter his cousin, had been the serpent in good faith that got him in the head the most dangerous vanities that can hollow out the brain of a woman.
The gifts were the fruit whose sweetness took his innocence, and because of them an angel with a sword of satin that I threw her paradise on your Bringas had it so secure.
hard to believe that what Dona Eva is so remote.
Say what you will, had to spend yesterday, as it is for chilly and throbbing that event.
Appear to have brought the papers last night.
As his wife disapproved Bringas several dresses and expenses in finery and ornaments, she affected to despise the news, but bells were always covered by reforms rags combining and interpreting more or less freely what brought the figurines.
When Milagros was going to spend time with her, if Bringas was in the office, chatting at home, venting each in his way, the passion that dominated them both.
X But if the holy man was in his hollow window, plunged into the microcosm of the work hair, the ladies were kept in the Carrion, and there were dispatched to their liking without witnesses.
Rosalie pulled the dresser drawers gently to make noise, drew skirts, bodies pending reform, pieces of cloth cut or cut, strips of velvet and silk, and putting it all on a sofa, on chairs, trunks or soil if necessary, starting a feverish advice on what should be done to achieve the best and most striking effect in of distinction.
These councils had no end, and if you take minutes of them offer an encyclopedic record of this curious womanly passion in the world does more damage that revolutions.
The two spoke quietly so as not found out Bringas, and was its rapid whisper, drowned, vehement, sometimes indicating indecision and surprise, sometimes enthusiasm of a happy thought.
French words seeking to qualify this conference is taking off the fabric of our language, but even if it stuck with pins, I have to hold for the exotic language rags castiza not lose its brilliance.
Looking .--=( ROSALIA a fashion plate.) = To tell the truth, I do not understand this.
I do not know how have to unite behind the coat tails of French guard.
MIRACLES .--=( With a stunning, which gradually overcomes his great trial.) = Let aside figurines.
Nephew told me that I will return the envelope.
The icing gros puts me to twenty-four real.
Meditating .--=( MIRACLES.) = Good, because if you look at the achievements icing, I would skirt adorned four leaflets about four inches, let's see?, no, five or six, putting him on the edge a narrow bias emerging green glaze ...
MIRACLES .--=( Taking a half-body modeling and working with their hands on the fabric lapels and skirts.) = The French guard coat will open in heart, with flaps, and closes on the side of the stem with three or four green buttons ...
showing the liner, which is green as the flap, and join those laps back with recessed ... = (The Queen, throwing back her hands, cups her own dress in that part prominentísima, where returns have to meet of the coat-tails.) = Is whole you ...
holgaditos fists, holgaditos; to fall on the wrists.
t I have two or three classes ...
MIRACLES .-- pink satin skirt, touching the floor, adorned with a lace-covered steering wheel.
Then, on the skirt fits waist = (Uniting word Descriptive mime hands in their own size.) = do you understand? ...
fits the Cutting a garment waist ...
In doing this, and falls around here, forming a caught behind a big pouf. = (In enthusiasm.) = How original!
corresponding with them only for a retroussé ...
MIRACLES .--=( superbly with a gesture expressing the successful placement of what he describes.) = Large loop on puffs of satin ...
ROSALIA .--=( assimilating everything you hear.) = "And the body?
MIRACLES .-- Very low, with the shoulder straps fasten through ties ...
Removing and putting .--=( ROSALIA fabrics and pieces for a better comparison.) = I have an idea for this dress shirt.
If I choose to end the ash color pink ... = (Stopping pensive.) = me decide what I'm clumsy!
The figurine ... = (Collecting all in shock and quickly.) = I think I feel Bringas.
They are an ordeal these openly ...
Oh, friend, your husband seems to Customs, so that is pursuing the rags ...
Rosalia were happy times for those passing through the Marquise discussing the form and manner to fix his clothes.
But the greatest joy it was to accompany her friend to stores though sorrows not going to buy many good things he saw.
Weather they would not feel it.
Milagros was made to show everything in the store, stirring, comparing; the sudden passing whim to cold disdain; haggling, and concluded by acquiring different things cargábanle the amount in your account.
Rosalia, if something bought, after much thought and cruising around money, paid always tocateja.
Their purchases were generally not that patchwork, outdated or fabric pieces to make matches with the good she was at home, and recast the old giving sheen and representation of novelty.
But one day he saw at the home of a mantle Sobrino Hermanos ...
The passion of the collector in the presence of a rare specimen, the enthusiasm of the hunter to view of a brave and stout res give us no idea of ??this great fondness wipe in certain women.
Rosalia you were the eyes behind the superb garment, when the kind trade-dependent taught an assortment of them, piling on the counter as if they were empty bags.
Timidly asked the price but were afraid to haggle.
The enormity terrified cost almost as much as it seduced splendid piece, in which the velvet bright cloth and trimmings combined pilgrimage.
At home he could not remove imagination, all day and all night, the happy mantle, and thereby snatched his blood burning desire, which feared an erysipelas ataquillo if not sated.
Again Milagros to stores the next day, with no intention of entering the Sobrino, where temptation was great, but the Devil arranged for them to be, and here displayed again on the counter white boxes, those glossy cardboard chests which they are filed women's dreams.
The clerk took them out one by one, forming black stack.
The preferred appeared with its elegant shape and luxurious trimmings, in which black lightning bead, trembling in plush, confirmed all that the poets have said mantle night.
Rosalie had to feel cold in the chest, burning in the temples, and their shoulders Nerves suggested so true to the sense of touch and weight of the mat, he believed and carry on. - Buy it you ...
by God! - Milagros said her friend in a manner so suggestive that Sobrino dependent and it could not but support a concept as sensible.
And when the shopkeepers moved away a bit in the direction of another group of parishioners, the Marchioness catechesis followed her friend to this whisper - Do not deprive you buy if you like ...
and indeed is very cheap ...
Just come you with me, that does not need to pay now.
I have here a lot of credit.
No you will pass the bill until within a few months, into the summer, and perhaps year-end.
The long term idea was hesitant to Rosalia, tilting all its spirit-side Purchase ...
Actually, 1700 was not exorbitant real for her and easier it would gather, if you will light selling some things that no longer wanted to be, if in addition economized, sparing with patience and perseverance the daily expenditure of the house.
The worst thing was that Bringas was not to authorize such a considerable expense which was not absolutely necessary.
Other times she had made herself his polkas and shawls, borrowing one for the model.
Buying the tackle on the rise in Santa Cruz, joining pieces, hiding patches, obtained satisfactory results through hard work and little money.
Bringas not allow luxury that certainly had to look Asian, and that the thing happened, it was necessary fool ...
No, no, not determined
