Even the properties that seem more absolute, cease to be when are subjected to the test of reason.
A metal globe, for example, could come within a metal globe, as we enter into one another, two geometric balloons?
The unbeliever has been the holy tabernacle, and smiling with contempt, said: "Here is a monument of superstition, behold the man loving the absurd. " There still is a work of theology, but philosophically, I could do without responding to the objections of unbelief, but it seems very timely occasion to Drop difficulties raised by the superficiality and lightness that I can not help seize it.
The genre of the work forces me to be brief on this topic, but the importance claims that the object does not overlook, mostly when Catholic authors who have Solid writing philosophy have also made some clarifications on this matter, in places have thought more appropriate, and particularly when dealing with the extension. [252.] The mystery of the Eucharist is a supernatural, incomprehensible to the weak man inexplicable in human words, that they admit the Catholics, that is recognized by the Church.
So it is not to point out a philosophical reason to clarify this arcane, any faithful will so far dared to take his vanity: it is only whether the mystery is absurd itself, that is, inherently contradictory, because if this were, the dogma would not be a truth but a mistake: God's omnipotence did not extend to the absurd.
The question is whether the fact, however to be outside the laws of nature, is inherently possible, because in that case the question leaves the field of philosophy and enters the criticism: the unbeliever, if he admits the existence of God, must accept his omnipotence, and then we should not argue about whether God can not do this miracle, but only if it has. [253.] Difficulties may object to the August mystery of the Eucharist reduce to the following: a body is without the conditions they are subjected to other bodies, does not make any sense impressions we receive from others, and order, is at the same moment in many places.
To release these objections dutifully should be fixed ideas. [254.] The doctrines expounded in the theory of sensitivity in this volume are impressive of how falsely stated that the mystery of the Eucharist is impossible.
Under the sacred species there is a body that does not affect our senses, here are a miracle, but not an impossibility.
He said that there is no necessary relation between bodies and our sensitivity, the link we are now experiencing can not be explained by any intrinsic property of the mind and body, so it is essential to have recourse to a higher cause freely established such relations.
The same cause may suspend, then this point of view, the question is reduced to the following: can the omnipotence God make us a body not to produce the phenomena of sensitivity, suspended the laws God has set free?
Ie that it is enough that one of the first three propositions is false, for the unbeliever can not take a step. [256.] Who undertook the test three propositions, not only could be sure of not achieving its purpose, but just try, manifestaria has not thought about the phenomena of sensitivity on these matters and has more philosophy, the notions the vulgar.
No need to be philosopher enough to have acquired a slight philosophical instruction, to know that such an undertaking is complete ignorance of the history of philosophy.
Since I do not need to stress this point because I have long since aired these issues, the two books that compose the present volume. [257.] The above solution could be enough to dispel the difficulty successfully based on the particular way in which a body is not the extent to which conditions we subjected the others, because from the moment that the correspondence is suspended of a body with our senses, as these are the only channel that tells us what passing on the outside, we can not verify that any absurd thing that we have no experience.
To receive the extension, we need to feel, then we can not say anything concerning the extension of an object not feel.
But although this response could stop the course of the objections, do not just want to it. [258.] What is the extension?
in reality is a set of relations of men entering in the composition of extension.
These relationships are not inherently necessary, as I said, then God can alter them.
It follows from this that the question is to stop the same point as above: can the divine power to suspend, or alter, or remove the However, relationships are not required intrinsic need?
The difficulty therefore is what has been, but what it is: once we are off the field of philosophy in the field of facts, or is in the examination of the motives of credibility. [259.] The other argument, on a body found at the same moment in many places, although apparently stronger, the fund is reduced to the same as above.
Being in a as we understand it now, it is found with the extension itself, in the ordinary way, and with ordinary relations also with respect to the extension of other bodies.
If is a body with the extension subject to other conditions, without relation to ordinary the extension of the other, missing the event that we do lies the impossibility of being a body at the same moment in many places, after having proved that God's omnipotence can alter or even remove these relationships, there is no contradiction in him missing that they ought to be.
And I do not mean that to happen in schools distinctions expressed, is always perfectly understood, the whole truth, the whole philosophical delicacy found on them, or that they are accompanied by all the analytical examination that they were susceptible; dispense now the merit of men, and look only at the bottom of things, but the would involve minor philosophical intelligence in which employed, the more admirable us that August is religion that inspires its advocates fruitful thoughts which coming centuries can be developed
