I asked my uncle with a look what it was that and he replied: - This is for ink ...
I mean, it was, because the latter made the past year, it left over.
Made it with guts and copperas, and tossed into the jar with that paluco, Higares that is because of different stuff does not work: out the wrong color ink.
After the cupboard empty, my uncle sent me to take out the shelf pulling me.
I took the shelf, which was heavy and brown, like everything inside the cupboard.
Were on the bottom of it, vertically and one in each corner, two wide strips, which appeared be there to hold the ends of two horizontal and closer, on which lay the shelf, but it was a very different destination, were loose and served to hide some iron pin that was fastened to the side panels of the background.
Get this one at last, after removing the hindrance of the four strips, and overcome the difficulty, not small, rusty pins run, a black figure appeared in the bowels of the wall. - Jala that pa-capita, pulling - my uncle said, pointing to the package by hand over my shoulders half embedded in the cupboard.
Embutílos still more to do as I ordered my uncle got his hands to the package, I had four faces, hard and cold, as they were of iron, bent fingers on the edges the bottom, and pulled towards me - but not enough to the first pull, because it was so heavy the box and I need to repeat with greater force to drag it to the mouth of the cupboard, where I left it on behalf of my uncle. - Now - I ordered - give a half turn so that it is for us the last side.
Hícelo well, and she appeared in the lock, which to the naked eye there was nothing particular.
The box would measure just over a foot wide, by a matter of foot and a half high. - Current - my uncle said so -.
For now let me get to where you are, but repairs well what do you see me to find out better than I will explain.
Then chose one of the keys to your keychain, and, with some trembling hand, directed to a point in the lock box.
All these procedures and details were putting my curiosity and surprise in a degree extraordinary stress.
The appearance of the room, so austere that bordered on the poor; your door and immediate locked, emaciated man, wrapped in a cloak rough and unkempt, highlighting the pale face, sunken eyes and shiny hands and cadaverous, black backgrounds that cupboard, and another fund it, the more black Moreover, an iron box hidden by a more or less ingenious traps, a gloomy light illuminating stay, and beyond the roaring of the hurricane, I was looking at a whole passage of melodrama, in which I played the role of young lover, protected from ruthless usurer, one of those incomprehensible whims of the human heart. - The box - my uncle told me when I revealed the secret almost a lock, very easy to learn, after explained - the Jizo was running and a jerreru from here amañante and very little idea, and gave it to my father, and she opened it, walking time, this pantry in this morio, not four feet lower mountain.
No memory of attempted robbery in the house, but since there was something secret box to keep at it ...
As soon as it was open, and given a good part of what kept, turned my uncle to me and said, as if reading the thoughts bubbling in my head: - The least you've figured you, to see what is going on here awhile ago, your uncle is a miser forsaken of God, and that is deslumbrarte eyes with the fruit of their prey.
The truth, Marcelo: what I would include, as in your case.
I smiled without saying a word, and continued my uncle - But well and yet fail this time signals.
This you see here, is, in sum and settlement, saving your uncle Celso ...
and the poor puchera Tablanca.
These jewels Loose are those that have been coming to my hands, and the like came to your father by inheritance from our ancestors, at least a few, these gold earrings, necklaces and these coral, and the silver shrine with fine stones, which gave me my poor wife when we got married, and had legármelos commitment to his death.
These cartridges long and short, fat and thin, gold coins are all of them.
I do not know what up together, because they never tired I wanted to find out.
What I know is that it declines depend on the needs there outside my house.
Me and few are her children, we have plenty with what gives us land each year, and that we treat them well and what you want by mouth.
The sources that have been flowing, they are not, as you can understand, in Tierruca poor and the cattle Tablanca: other is very far from here, and old in the family, better springs.
All they'll have news when you need them, in papers that are in these files and to on the dresser ...
veils there, because a while ago I walked with them in hand.
What important that you know without delay so that it can roar, it was in this joriaco what you've got to look at and not cataloged anywhere, and that this, jewelry and coins Your single membership is from this moment.
I agreed say a word. - It's my business - I said, covering my mouth with one hand, cold as stone tomb - and resolve about it what I want.
Advise re not talking about that case or any other, because he needed rest and quiet; but I took into account the advice.
A little while, but without leaving your chair, continued: - Should warn you, that I have understood that not trying to match this misery to favor that does little to offer me.
The proof of this, if you do not just my word, will find in my will, made at the gates of death, when the first attack of this dog disease ...
I tell you, let me just talk to me until the end of all what I mean.
Another day you speak, and leg ...
Returning to the case, say that of all that it is yours now, have left many people believe that these miracles mine; because so many times I had to beg me for a bit, with the excuse of not being able; as soft to the first letting discover the source, poor thing and poor Me, son of the soul!
because, in the settlement, these men, though good in the main, are rude and governed more by mouth than by the understanding ...
Nor do I say this Supply to force you to do this to anything, but because it is the truth, and not on that you know ...
as I know everyone has their way to kill fleas, and you'll especially yours, therefore, and you'll make your layer a coat or two, or those you fancy ...
But (and be the example to see the matter both sides) if you come down here one day to follow the same tastes that I had I regard this neighborhood, I will not hide the fact that much work has to cost you at first, and some trouble later.
To help pull over the initial difficulties I recommend the Priest, who knows as well as I, and even much better than me, which leg is lame each of its parishioners.
It can also be helpful, and good, Neluco Celis, a doctor; that although young, has a will of pearls for these things, great eye and greater understanding.
Be warned also that the priest is the only man out of us, who knows what is stored in this wall.
This time was longer than the interval of my uncle, because it was more the fatigue caused by cough.
As he recovered a bit, he continued: - Well, well, what I was going: you're on top of things and you start your plan: here begin the joys of the good involved, but also the uneasiness fat if you do not weapons lot of patience, but much, pispajo!
Because I come back to tell you that these men as soon it will fall, you are not all saints.
But we have five fingers on each hand, and no two that are equal: the same goes for the children of family, and going well in a family and a few blood alone, what will not happen in a family of many, as is that there are so many sons of different mothers?
Will stumble from time to time, even with ungrateful, and you will see that this is the most painful trip and more forced to close eyes to go ahead with the duty that one has with God and with their good intentions; and by doing so, to get to watch as these unfortunate children who most need for his weakness, love and monitoring of the father.
At any rate, prosperity and I thank the good consolation of the ingratitude of those who are less so, because ill, properly, I do not know here: truth be told.
Thus led task end by taking a lot of law, but beware of ever giving it well secured, firmly believe that everywhere, because tall towers of the same make have been the floor overnight.
As safe as these men I had to those Coteruco my great friend Don Roman de la Llosía, and I've already told you how and why, two years ago, in As these new policies came to govern us today, in a blink of an eye he got out of hand, and grateful and loving men, became fierce his enemy to the point the gentleman was forced more by what he saw pain afraid that I did, to move his residence to Santander with his family.
And it goes beyond the dates, without taking his eyes of his people, but with the comfort, ultimately, to see how there are missing him and longing for him that he vilified them, as they back the stool to the bottom of Cuba, stirred for vile hands.
What will test you on the other hand, my son, a good seed can not ever bad fruit, and that the short or long, and having planted so good always triumphs and comes out above all.
This does not tire you more now, and we will leave, if Paez you, all these gadgets as they were.
So doing, that is, I proceeded, because my poor uncle was not to move from the chair, and barely managed to get the key ring of the chest after closed and open for me several times under his direction, lest I forget the secret of the lock, and while I was putting everything into place and lock the cupboard, which wanted to separate key also on the keychain, and I finally parted, their bodies, having no strength or patience he to do so.
So Enough of this conversation, and another thing ...
I also want you to take to your room these I was flipping through papers when you came here for you to go finding out about them if you're not the funniest thing in what you entertained.
He hurried and awkward with all those who were scattered on the dresser, a jumble sorry, and I delivered them.
As I folded and ordered a little better, we exposed excuses and objections that were useless: she did not hear me.
When I finished my short and easy task I said: - Now return, my son, your chores and head a little airing the house, and go in the confidence that if so treated here between the two I've taken the disease off, you gave me strength and courage that he no longer had to carry it without shame or fear to the same grave, and this, in my view, better than good health.
Then I hugged her, and still told me before I move toward the exit, turning him to the laundry: - Look, man, until the wrath of God seems to have calmed also: it does not rain much or Rebombo thunders and the wind as before.
And it was the truth: the same light in the room, despite finishing the afternoon leave was less sad when I had entered it.
XIX As the night of that day were only rumors of a distant time and intermittent to gasp their way to exhaustion after a fierce struggle continued for ten days.
On this occasion was the gathering something more lively than the previous last, and even the patriarch it seemed like another president so he was talkative and humor hustler.
As Facia knew that, unlike all others so downcast and gloomy were walking the few times he was seen in the kitchen.
Lacked the poor who booms of the storm at the mouth of the chimney, which showed on the crust of soot collected housewarming as big as the palm of the hand that step of hailstones on the doors and windows of the house, that incessant blasting goteriales the roof, and that flow from the rain by yards and yards, in sparkling rivulets to tumble down the slopes after looking outside the river no longer fit into their channel.
I could not ultimately determine whether, thinking it so much and so I was pleased or mortified me: there were shades for everything in the box and thoughts.
The truth was that frustration and nervous about the battle of my concerns in the dark, turned on the light, and no sooner had I on, I remembered the papers that my uncle had given me in his room to say goodbye, and I had saved after a dresser drawer. - Good resource - I said - to overcome these long hours of sleeplessness.
I got up quickly, grabbed the papers and went back to bed, ready to learn from them.
The main were three: the testament of my uncle, an inventory of your property valued sale and rent, and a memory dedicated to me his letter, with very crooked lines and rather blurred, was signed and dated subsequent to the will, and very little prior to the first letter he had written after the sick.
I started with the will, which was long and thorough.
After the pious and charitable bequests, which were many, among them one very important on the local school, was very good legacies to his servants, in particular to Facia, which left the property, as well of the corresponding legacy in money, the hunt, with land and cattle, he had lived bride of the scoundrel who cheated on her, forgive all debts to his neighbors of Tablanca, and the income of the year he died at the wearers of their farms, cottages and herds.
My sister left an estate of two that possessed in the province of Leon, and the remaining its volume, after making these and other less significant deductions, appointed me heir, being the only male in direct line of Bejos Ruiz.
Put things here, and without my surprise after treaty evening hand in hand the testator, I went in very strong desire to know the approximate value of the estate.
In the final analysis, what the devil!, I was also weak flesh like other men.
According to I expected, had acquired a history of my father, all the flow of my uncle for a man his way of life, was very considerable, but for my Bejos Ruiz custom, it was something very different: rather, that flow, enjoyed Tablanca as I enjoyed my uncle, was a veritable wealth to live as I lived in Madrid, no be extravagant or anything, I would have eaten in a few years.
Compensation worth of this weakness, the mortification felt fears that was not as selfless as I thought with loving gratitude to my heart responded the largesse and distinctions of my uncle.
The only request I made, and very expensive, was to ensure that is not dismembered in my life the heritage of the Ruiz de Bejos was happening to my hands full and as he had received from his father and he's those of his, nor my children to inherit, if he were to them, and if not, what will happen to those my sister with the same recommendation for the same purposes, provided they were compatible with laws.
He could not be explained more clearly there, because the papers are light things that carries the air easily, "and who knows what hands will give the best." After I named the people responsible for administering the estates' that were rooted "outside the valley and the province, and concluded warning me that, as stated in the will, to time he wrote those lines should not be anything to anyone, unless it was his soul to God, whose mercy trusted and who called for the miracle that I feel some the wish to leave the bones in the cemetery of Tablanca, having spent many years in the house of the Ruiz de Bejos.
Like other papers, although related to the flow of my uncle offered me no great interest, resigned from his careful reading by then, and devote the time I had it to spare space imagination, eyes closed, highly varied field of event that day.
When I awoke, the light shone in my cabinet by the fourth part that always left the door ajar in the sunshine.
I thought the light was brighter than it had greeted me in identical cases over the past fortnight, or that the sun would be very high, which would not be so strange that I had slept late night.
I looked at the hourglass that was at the head of the bed and saw that it was just after eight.
Despite the lack of sleep made me a good while longer, I rose and opened all the quadroon.
The little sky I saw from there was a blue satin and silk cloth, and sun bathing and all the peaks of the West.
Glistening rocks and logs and Bardales and soils everywhere, though, and felt a cold wet and sticky down to the bone; but he was smiling and calm nature, and this raised a lot of encouragement.
