They were all there, without knowing why, or what, without knowing for sure who it was that brought them together.
The field had circulated the news that evening, at dusk, would be a great revolution, and they came exasperated by the miseries and persecutions of the strike, taking in the Gaza an old pistol, sickles, knives or shears terrible that one could reverse to blow a head.
They had something else: the faith that accompanies any crowd in the early stages of rebellion, credulity, which makes the most absurd excited about news, exaggerating each which on their own to deceive himself, believing that the true strength to weight their crazy inventions.
The initiative for the meeting, the first story, the thought work of Madrid, a young stranger which had appeared in the field of Jerez in the middle strike, rousing his simple with bloodthirsty sermons.
Nobody knew, but he was a boy of great verbosity and bird account, judging by the friendships that he displayed.
Salvatierra had sent him as he said, to fill in his absence.
The great social movement that would change the face of the world, due to start in Jerez.
Salvatierra and other less famous men were already hidden in the city, to present at the time appropriate.
And the gullible, the imaginative vividness of their race, mending the story, embellishing it with full details.
I was not going to take more blood than rich people.
The soldiers were with them were also officers next to the revolution.
The tricorn also sided with the people.
Salvatierra walked in it and his name was enough to accept all the supernatural miracle.
Don Fernando had done everything he ships had revolted, he had thrown the battalions against troops Alcolea came from Madrid.
The history of that country, the tradition of the land Cadiz province revolutions influenced on the credulity of the people.
They had seen with so much ease, from night to morning thrones topple and ministries, and to take prisoners to kings, no one doubted the possibility of a revolution more important than before, it would ensure the welfare of forlorn.
The hours passed and the sun began to hide, but the crowd knew with sure what was waiting and how long he would stay there.
Zarandillo uncle was from one group to another to satisfy their curiosity.
He had escaped Matanzuela, fighting with the old woman who wanted to prevent the passage, against the advice of the overseer, reminding him that at his age was not at adventures.
I wanted to see up close what was a rigolución of poor witness the blessed time (if ever) where workers of the land remain with her for kidneys, breaking it into small pieces, filling the vast and uninhabited properties, making his dream.
The old woman was right; This Güel to death.
Another curious was also from group to group, listening to the conversations.
Would give a gun when they entered the city, to see if was fighting with the bourgeoisie as a bold.
But the answer to the proposition gypsy with exaggerated gestures of fear.
And laughing like a monkey capers, rubbing his hands as he spoke of looting, flattered in atavistic instincts of race.
A former farmhand of Matanzuela reminded his cousin Mari-Cruz. - If you are a man, capers, tonight you can get revenge.
Take this scythe and gets in the Rogue belly Don Luis.
The Roma refused the deadliest tool of the group fled to hide her tears.
The workers of the city, the core partners of the idea that he had left and had Jerez efforts to re-enter the country people are grouped around Juanon, guessing him as the leader who would unite all wills.
They found, at last, at Madrid, and Juanon approached him to see what they were doing there.
The Madrid had not seen him, but he knew, he was told that was awaiting Jerez input of the people.
and what is third.
A jail then: to get the fellow prisoners.
The long years of subservience and cowardice weighed on the rude people to be against their oppressors
