Characters, then, like that of Faust, as in our Spain v.
gr., Don Juan Tenorio Student and Lisa, are called to be precious jewels of all literatures, and inspire the best dramas, operas, novels and poems that can be composed.
To travel the world in triumph, just waiting to arrive in genius seizes them, and subject something epic report are still, things become art, with more reality and significance and spirit, to live in the soul and memory of men, that the real heroes and acquaintances of history to become real characters, even if they have ever existed, as Semiramis and happened to many others, whom critics have come to find out later that never existed.
For the legendary hero is a great fortune that a poet of merit seizes him, but more fortunate still that of the poet who manage to hit the hero.
Owes much to Don Juan Tirso and more to Don Juan Tirso, Lisa Espronceda Espronceda and to Lisa.
Similarly owes much Goethe's Faust Goethe and Faust.
Confining ourselves only to the theater, as Goethe wrote historical dramas Egmont and Tasso Goetz, sentimental comedies, such as Clavijo; comedies Aristophanes; Greek tragedies as Iphigenia; farces, somewhat similar to what we call around here operettas, comedies satirical literary the order of the Coffee, Moratin, etc., etc., but all this thinking, I wrote it, left and then maybe he forgot while he was working in FAUSTO life.
Concretémonos now, as we said, and with the restrictions already mentioned, the first part alone.
Clearly, concerning the work delivered by the people, Goethe has created a work admirable.
Style, language, versification, like German there is no shock, and not sure that is a paragon Faust.
We speak of the disposition of the fable and characters.
Imagine, for a moment that Faust sees Marguerite and feel in love with her before to rejuvenate, that for the sake of Margarita, a pair of ambition and desire of pleasures makes the covenant; what then happens, it happens the same way, and after the cruel death of Margarita, Faust cries, repent, do penance, mocking Mephistopheles and goes to heaven.
