I had not thought in the salvation of his soul he did not believe in their future life, because everything had been killed ends in death. "So there is nothing, nothing ?...» The question of the dead remained unanswered, unheard.
By sole virtue of sight of his beloved candle plant had looked, I had heard, including the soul of the world: mysterious voices had told him memorabilia, all living, throbbing and glistened.
But, then again silence and darkness to gather around him.
The with previously evident or hidden meaning remained mute.
So deep and sincere was his conversion, which is sometimes felt under electric of the ancient faith, but then again the darkness around him thicker.
And in the alternative of course, was silent again with terror and despair, his alter ego, the man Time I thought I had buried past and into himself.
As before having met the Countess, his thinking was dark, confused, lost.
The miraculous flowering had sprouted from every crevice of your soul withered and crumbled.
At other times, his heart, be closed to all pleasure in their own greed, but once they had received the seed he was embittered by rancor infinity.
The young man decided to go.
He saw other lands, other men, hoping to leave his pain over the ways of the world, but nothing was enough to calm him down.
In Nice, in front of the tomb his sister, wept hot tears that far from extinguishing the fire revived.
Lake had become: a mortal dread came over him at the thought of seeing again the only places where I could tell he really had lived.
Feared drowned with grief to see Ouchy beaches, hills of Lausanne, the town Cyclamens, the forest of Comte, the humble chapels, the panorama of Lake Geneva veiled by clouds and smiling, sunlight.
Finally, one day went.
The passivity of the Nature eternal hurt him as an insult: if at least something had been destroyed in the land, if only I had seen around him traces of devastation similar to which he felt inside.
The young man was acknowledging each point along the way, every detail of perspective.
His desperate certainty that no power could have never perform the miracle to give back what was lost and turned around but his eyes, and sharpened ear, as if an apparition, a voice suddenly could evoke the lost asset.
Alejo Zakunine Prince was in his presence. - Roberto candle plant - said the voice - can not you recognize me?
I come to you because I have something say.
Seen from above, from the spacious front end to the tip of the beard, the face was all furrowed with deep wrinkles.
Hair, very rare, were white with temples.
His whole person was printed signs a rapid decline.
Candle plant looked at him as if fascinated, unable to answer a single word, to see clearly in the tumult of feelings that raged in his soul. - I have to tell you one thing.
Ferpierre want to give it to the judge, but I thought it best was first to address you ...
And after a pause he added: - Listen, candle plant, Florence d'Arda not killed.
The young man ran a hand across his forehead, eyes.
Again, more so than in the first instant was unsure of being awake. - Do not believe me, you?
I know you the asserted against everything and everyone, and very nearly got to prove it.
True many circumstances, especially, were, against you.
Sister's letter Ana, seemed to have the last word on the fate of the Countess.
I will say you how I killed her ...
Candle plant trembled as if shaken by fever. - I will refer you to my shame: this is the beginning of the punishment.
I never knew what worth.
Never, while he lived, I realized the beauty of her soul.
No beauty was understandable to me: the world and life seemed devoid of that quality.
I had within me a Hell, nothing could extinguish the flame which devoured me.
She loved me for compassion: the instinct, need, lust of slaughter gave me.
And although I did not understand, for a moment I was blinded by her light.
And I teased her and offended.
He paused a moment, staring before him as if he were blind, and then continued: - Listen you.
When he has said everything, you will understand my words deserve faith.
In the first time I said I was next.
Nature and life had to go provided me with a feeling passing another with fulmineo violence.
Those who know what I have done in the world may sometimes think that perhaps the voice guided me the right.
But I do not was aware.
If within me judging my actions and those of others, all came down a mechanism, a game of blind drives and fatal.
I could not, therefore, believe the change had come over me by virtue.
I only made fun of it, too I laughed at myself ...
Should tell you which was, day by day, hour by hour, my awful work, how to constant, tireless preaching of divine love and goodness opposed contempt, insult, betrayal.
But you know all this.
Everything you suggested to his hatred towards me was not enough: what I did is incredible.
Sometimes when words poison and corrosive desecrated, vilified, destroyed their faith, when he showed that nothing exists outside of evil, that the only remedies are iron, fire, death, when urged to leave me, to betray, to lose, was operated inside me a backlash, and tears came to my eyes.
But I hid my tears.
When you met her, I realized that she began to love him, my heart was dilated to joy.
The last attempt seemed destined to prosper and savored success.
Everything was carefully prepared, had prompted the action to the fainthearted the wavering, to the fearful, and delivered almost all that remained of my property without thinking encounter difficulties in later.
My duty was to get me also in action, and I had to leave for that purpose, but I was obliged to stay to prepare a new action in the case of a setback.
And one day I learned that my brothers were dead, hanging from the gallows that fell on roads leading to the exile, under the rule of the thugs, and I knew that women, the children went to the gallows, that many innocents suffered in my place that fear reigned over all the people of my race ...
That day I found myself in the presence of such ruin, with the fear of having the wrong road, alone and almost poor.
Then suddenly arose in my heart something like a necessity, as a forward, like a burning thirst for relief, then I almost reach out and find support me, almost prostrated me to hear a word of comfort ...
And yet, I realized that nothing in this crisis My life could have been heal as the love of a creature like this.
My attitude was to demonstrate, however, what happened within me.
And it was not mine: it was you, and when I acquired this certainty, I started to laugh again and mock.
I ran it, but I had to return to his side, even when I showed repentant and converted, I weighed the subject, far from it could not live.
A Zurich going to talk about it another unhappy, Alejandra.
Alejandra Natzichet is dead ...
No, not dreaming, but the reality was all the dream characters.
The man who spoke in his presence seemed to him as proud revolutionary pale images of a nightmare look like living people.
The Life has so dear: our souls, that these four creatures have been found to suffer unspeakable pain, and none knew what the other suffering, or always know too late!
Alejandra I professed brotherly affection: the solitude in which he was sunk, her integrity, which made her able to withstand and overcome the difficulties of life, I inclined to protect her, to hold her like a sister, as a daughter, but she wanted me with a more ardent affection!
Alejandra tried to cure me call of duty to serve the cause: I wanted to hear, but vain.
The idea of ??winning back the love that before disdained, to seize and running my whole life.
None of this is said to Florence: the time had come to see, I spent days shaking discover and mine was no longer in the soul, had already handed over to you.
To not believe in this horrible thing, I say, "Think so elevated, it never will!" And an inner voice answered: "Now do you believe in that moral high ground that before you laugh?" Yes, before I laughed.
My confidence that I would betray not based on both the esteem in which he had his character, as unable to believe it was all over between us irretrievably.
One day I spoke.
I ask you please not leave me this time around collapses around me.
Later you will do what you want ...
That same day, the day the storm had spoken to you too.
Narrowed between our two passions, he resolved to die.
The answer he gave me was: - Never leave him because I'm his wife, but you remember that our love is dead.
His tone was cold, her eyes meet mine avoided.
When I realized that you also had spoken, I thought it was not sincere, I thought I was hiding something.
But the fear was that had decided to flee, did not believe that had the decision to die: not even know! ...
She also spent awake.
A hundred times a thousand, I wanted to go look, but his door was closed me.
Alejandra morning came for me, calling me with intuition of a disaster.
As I promised, but first I wanted a last look at Florence.
Hearing me into his room hurriedly hid something.
At this point he was squeezed between our two passions, he wanted to die to free ...
I realized that I had no right to speak, introducing me to his room, which was given leave to your destination, freedom, death, but could not.
The idea that among two people who had been on each other did not exist, nothing, nothing that I was worse than a stranger to her, she found no place in my mind.
And the secret voice told me: "Before, you thought that love was fleeting encounter of two whims, before you laugh ties indissoluble ... " I could not admit that he belonged to another, even if it were only in thought.
I, who had betrayed her, could not accept being betrayed my time.
My pride was unlimited, would not tolerate someone were worth more than me.
And understand that you would have known make her happy, pride, love, jealousy, all passions, all the instincts of my race, my nature revolted threatening. - You promised me yesterday - I said with bitter emphasis - let me not because you're my wife, and now want to kill you ...
She did not deny it. - Let me die - was his answer, - it will be better for everyone.
I was afraid to understand, but, however, asked - Why?
She shook her head. - Do not say no! - Insisted .-- Do not say no! ...
I know you do not love me you hate me, that defy me but do not tell me you love another, because ...
She repeated: - I love him.
I love him, and because this love is forbidden me, I die.
A Sister Ana was who had written, but no outrage expressed my suspicion, tone of irony to express it.
At these words he hid his face in his hands.
I know I took them suddenly, and tried draw it into my chest. - No, not die, you live for me, me ...
She jumped up and leaned back: - Do not you touch me!
And though it actually would you kill, would not, because he fears the trial of his God.
I want you free from that penalty! ...
And before I even had the time to suspect my intention, I seized the weapon, had hidden in several books. - Now do not kill you, will not face the wrath of God, and you may also run for new strokes.
He looked around him, as if she were prey to a terrified, as if he thought lost, like become engaged in a whirlwind voracious and absorbing.
I also then looked around me, puzzled: my hand shaking armed.
And as in my eyes had a question, she realized: - It's going to come: I am yours! ...
If it were true, if I'd believe it because I too had gone mad. - Not true!
Listen: if it were not true, what I would have liked die?
You've found me with the gun in his hand, I have already written a letter last farewell; I would write my will, then I would have written it.
There is not one of my thoughts, not a beat of my heart, not a movement of my soul, not a fiber of my flesh, that is not yours ...
I raised the gun.
The eyes flashed, his voice sang: - In life, even beyond death, it just ...
Roberto candle plant had trembled in the tale, of pain, horror, compassion, remorse impotent, hate bad content.
The Prince held his gaze and said: - Paste you.
So the two stood face to face for a while neither could have then appreciate.
Candle plant again dropping the arm, and a hollow voice, tremulous, he repeated: - Murderer! - I have come that you meet justice.
What you do will be fair.
But listen to me still an instant.
When I saw her fall, when I saw the blood flow from his horrible wound, a roar escaped from my chest.
I wanted to die with her.
He was holding the gun, and I went against myself, but someone pushed me in that moment his arm as with pliers.
And voices approaching, rumors of steps: - Listen.
If not I immediately said it was because still did not understand: I could not hear the questions I did, answered them mechanically as dreams.
But then, when you threw me face the charge, I rebelled.
My thoughts, my feelings, blindly obeying the kind of sudden reactions.
Charged with you, I defended myself.
I said all he could say against me, I recognized it was me who pushed her to death, but denied the extreme act.
Several times during the interrogation was to confess, but hearing the name you, to see the harshness of the judge, I contained.
The need to tear, dying, to atone for my fault that I overlooked at first, I went to the anxiety of the discussion: imprisoned like a wild beast, and I had no other commitment than to break my chains, running open field again be master of myself.
And without understanding, confirmed the statements Alejandra, and when she was accused, when he finally realized when I saw that was lost for my sake, then, naturally, I accepted the sacrifice ...
Both were released, and then, at the time that I was free, which lie succeeded, I wanted to say truth.
Still I was silent for some time, because within me, in the long night of my mind, the dawn of a new day was already included.
Alejandra believed to watch over me because we were together, because I spoke.
I could not see, not heard: a soul, silent and invisible, ruled and my life ...
The Prince continued: - The bitterness, hatred, envy, concuspicencia all the misery that had formed my life, I finally came under the dim light
