These three birds were rare and Lindis, one of them all green, and bright as a emerald.
In it she thought she saw the washerwoman, with great content, which was the cause, according to all assured the world, the persistent ailment Venturosa Princess.
The other two birds were not, nor nearly as beautiful, but not lacking in merit singular.
The three came with very light flight, and the three were brought down over the cup of topaz and plunged into it.
A little while the laundress saw that the water within transparent three youths came out so cute, well-educated and white, which seemed outlandish statues made by master hand, with marble tinged with pink.
The girl, in honor of the truth must be said that he had never seen men naked, and seeing his father, his brothers and other friends, dressed and poorly dressed, could not infer how far he could rise the human male beauty, figured I looked at three immortal geniuses or three angels of heaven.
That is, without embarrassment, followed looking quite pleased, as holy objects and nothing sinful.
But the three came to the point of water, and soon wore elegant clothes.
One of them, the most beautiful of the three, took over the head a diadem of emeralds and was obeyed by the others, as sovereign lord.
If it seemed to bare a lavanderilla angel or a genius for beauty, dress and dazzled her with his majesty, and it seemed the emperor of the world and the most lovable prince of the land.
These gentlemen went at once to the dining room and sat on a splendid table where there were three covered preparations.
A music made them submissive and invisible save to reach ears gave them while they ate.
Servants, also invisible, bringing the plates were and serving admirably the table.
All this I saw and felt the lavanderilla, without being seen or heard, those gentlemen had followed, and was hidden in the room behind a curtain.
From there he could hear some conversation, and understand that the most beautiful young men was the Crown Prince of the great empire of China, and the other two, one his secretary and the other its most beloved squire, who were delighted and transformed into birds throughout the day and night only regained their natural, after the source bath.
He noted also the curious washer that Prince of emeralds just ate, but family members begged him to eat, and that showed rapt melancholy, exhaling sometimes beautiful model depths of a fiery breath chest.
The chronicles relate that we capture is finished and that sumptuous and merry little feast Prince of the emeralds came to himself as from sleep, he cried and said: - Secretary, bring me the box of my hobbies.
The secretary left the table and went in a little box with the most precious mortal eyes have seen.
One in which Alexander the Iliad was locked, as opposed to it more sloppy and poor than a box of nougat Jijona.
The Prince took the box in his hands, opened it and spent a long time gazing with eyes loving what was in the bottom of it.
Then put your hand in the box and pulled a cord.
Then he felt, not one, but two invisible hands fell over her shoulders pressed it.
In fact, they danced sitting in the same chair of the Prince, and as authorized by the voice, began to eat with a special appetite, the novelty and exquisite food made greater still, and fell fast asleep eating
