The country lacks military spirit.
We are a warrior people, and it will be easy to beat the English, weakened by a false conception of life.
The doctor paused and added: - We also have the internal corruption of our enemies, their lack of unity.
There will be many days without you see his hand.
The revolution is about to explode in France while the war.
The people Paris barricades in the streets, will play the anarchy of the Commune.
Tunisia Algiers and other possessions are to revolt against France.
Argensola believed the case aggressively smiling with incredulity. - I repeat - Hartrott insisted - that this country is going to know rpm and insurrection here in their colonies.
I know what I mean ...
Russia will also be your inner revolution, revolution red flag, forcing the tsar to ask grace to his knees.
England will be rejected by the colonies requests for support.
India is to rise up against it and believes Egypt is time of empowerment.
July seemed impressed by these statements, made with a doctoral security.
Almost was angry with the unbeliever Argensola, still staring insolently and repeated Professor eyes: "Are you crazy: crazy with pride." The man must have serious reasons to make such prophecies of misfortune.
His presence in Paris, so it was inexplicable Desnoyers, gave his words a mysterious authority. - But the nations will defend - he argued his cousin -.
Do not be so easy victory as you think. - Yes, you will make.
The fight is going to be tough.
It seems that in recent years France has been concerned of his army.
Find some resistance, the more difficult victory, but defeat ...
You do not know how far the offensive power of Germany.
If our enemies known in all its intensity, fall knees, regardless of useless sacrifice.
There was a long silence.
Julius von Hartrott seemed oblivious.
The memory elements accumulated force by race plunged him into a kind of mystical worship. - The preliminary victory - he said suddenly - for some time that we have obtained.
Our enemies hate us, and yet we imitate.
Everything bears the mark of Germany is sought in the world.
The same countries that try to resist our weapons to copy our methods in their universities and admire our theories, even those who did not achieve success in Germany.
Many times we laughed with us, as the Roman augurs, in assessing the servility with we are ...
And certainly do not want to recognize our superiority!
Argensola first approved eye and gesture Hartrott words.
Exactly what saying the world was a victim of the "German superstition." Intellectual cowardice, the Fear the fort, was admiring all of Germanic origin, without any discrimination, collectively, by the brightness, the gold mixed with the powder.
The so-called Latinos to give this admiration, they doubted their own strengths to irrational pessimism.
They were the first to order his death.
And the proud Germans had no more than repeat the words of these pessimistic to assert itself in the belief of their superiority.
With the passion southern jumping without gradation from one extreme to another, many Latinos had proclaimed that in the future world there was no room for Latin American societies, in full agony, adding that Germany remains latent only the civilizing forces.
The French, they yell at each other, incurring the greatest exaggerations, not realizing that there who listened to the other side of the doors had been repeated for many years that France was in decay and marched to death.
Here Argensola interrupted: "What if the German culture did not exist, as stated by a German celebrity? "I needed to contradict this pedantic that overwhelmed with pride.
Hartrott almost jumped from his seat to hear such a question. - German What is this? - Nietzsche!
The professor looked at him with pity.
Oh peaceful afternoons reading by the fireplace in the study, listening to the rain hitting the Glazed glasses! ... - The philosopher said that - said - and says different things, like everyone think a lot.
His doctrine is pride, but of individual pride, not pride of nation or race.
A culture, as it was' unity style in every aspect of life. " Science is not culture.
Germany, according to Nietzsche, it had its own culture gap style. "The French - he said - are at the head of an authentic culture and fruitful whatever its value, and to date all have taken it. "His hatred was focused about their own country. "I can not bear to live in Germany.
The spirit of servility and mezquinería penetrates everywhere ...
I do not think more than in French culture, and everything else called educated Europe seems like a mistake.
The rare cases of high culture that I found in Germany were of French origin. " - You know - continued Argensola - which, to quarrel with Wagner by excess Germanism in his art, he proclaimed the need mediterranizar music.
His ideal was a culture throughout Europe, but Latin based.
Julius von Hartrott replied disdainfully, saying the same words in Spanish.
Moreover, Nietzsche was a poet who had died in full dementia, and not among the scholars of the university.
His fame had wrought abroad ...
And not reoccupied most of the young, as if he had evaporated After his daring objections.
Reactionaries and revolutionaries have been insulted for three days.
I have seen how challenged with shouts and songs, how they beat in the middle of street.
And this division of opinion will be accentuated even more when our troops crossing borders.
We are the only people free land, because we obey.
We have the freedom that befits a great nation: economic and intellectual freedom. - What political freedom? ...
We are a nation of masters, which recognizes the hierarchy and want to be commanded by those born superior.
We have the organizational genius.
This was, according to the doctor, the great secret German and the Germanic race, to take over the world, would involve all of its discovery.
The villages would be organized so that give the individual the maximum of performance for the company.
Men regimented for all kinds of productions, obedient as machines to a senior management and giving the maximum amount of work: this is the perfect state.
Freedom was an idea purely negative if it was accompanied by a positive concept were that he should help.
The two friends listened with astonishment the description of the future that gave the world the superiority Germanic.
Each individual subject to intensive production, as well as a piece of garden that you want to get the owner the highest number of vegetables ...
The man turned into a mechanism ...
Hartrott returned to insist on the inferiority of the enemies of their race.
To fight was necessary faith, an unshakable confidence in the superiority of their own forces. - At this time, in Berlin all accept the war, all believe certain victory, while here! ...
I'm not saying that the French feel fear.
Have a history of bravery that galvanizes at certain times.
But they are sad, they guess that would make any sacrifice to avoid what they are coming.
The people shall shout with excitement at the first moment her screaming whenever they have to their doom.
The upper classes do not have confidence in the future; silent or lie, but they all guess the premonition of disaster.
Yesterday I spoke with your father.
Is French and is rich.
It shows his fury upon the governments of his country because he engage in conflicts in Europe to defend remote villages and uninteresting.
He complains exalted patriots, who have kept open the gap between Germany and France, preventing reconciliation.
Alsace and Lorraine says are not worth the cost in men war and money ...
Acknowledges our greatness: it ensures that we have progressed so fast, they can never reach other peoples ...
And as your father think many others: all those who are satisfied with their welfare and are afraid to lose.
Believe me, a country that doubts and fears war is due before the first battle.
July showed some concern, as if to cut the conversation. - Leave my father.
Today he says that because the war is not yet a fact, and he needs to contradict indignant with all that is within his reach.
Tomorrow might tell you otherwise ...
My father is a Latino.
The professor looked at his watch.
Should go: he still had many things to do before go to the station.
The Germans established in Paris had fled in large flocks, circulate among them as a secret.
That evening were the last ones to depart still remained in the capital significantly. - I came to see family affection, because it was my duty to give a warning.
You are a foreigner and nothing holds you back here.
The war is going to be hard, very hard, and if Paris tries to resist as before, will witness terrible things.
Desnoyers made a gesture of indifference. - The same as your father - continued the professor -.
Last night, he and I had answered your family Similarly.
Even my mother prefers to stay beside her sister, saying that the Germans are very good, very civilized and nothing to be feared of them when they succeed.
The doctor seemed to resent this good opinion. - They do not realize what is modern war, know that our generals have studied the art of reducing the enemy quickly and used it with a relentless approach.
Terror is the only means, disturbs the intelligence of the opponent, paralyzing its action, powder resistance.
The more fierce as the war will be shorter, is heavily penalize proceed humanely.
And Germany is going to be cruel with a cruelty never seen, not to more protracted struggle.
He had left his seat, requiring a cane and straw hat.
I looked Argensola with hostility.
The teacher, passing by him, only made a dismissive motion rigid head.
Then he went to the door, accompanied by his cousin.
The farewell was brief. - I repeat my advice.
I may be wrong, and this people, convinced that his defense is useless, it delivers good ...
Anyway, soon we'll see.
I will be happy to return to Paris when the flag float over the Empire Eiffel Tower.
Case of three or four weeks.
France was about to disappear, for the doctor, was certain death. - Left Paris - added - will the French, because a people is not easily removed; but they take their rightful place.
We will rule the world: they will take care inventing fashion, make life pleasant abroad to visit them, and in the intellectual field will encourage them to educate beautiful actresses, produce entertaining novels and run funny comedy ...
Desnoyers laughed as he shook hands with his cousin, pretending to take his words as paradoxes. - I'm serious - continued Hartrott -.
The last time the French Republic as a nation important has sounded.
I've seen up close, and does not deserve another chance.
Disorder and lack of confidence above; enthusiasm sterile below.
Turning his head he saw the smile again Argensola. - And we understand a little of this - he said aggressively -.
We are used to examine people who were, to study fiber by fiber, and we can know at a glance the psychology of those still living.
When the door was closed to meet his friend, who became discouraged.
Who would you say are of the same land that produced Kant, the pacifist, the serene Goethe, Beethoven ...
Many years have believed that they formed a nation of dreamers and philosophers busy working unselfishly for all men ...
The farce of a German geographer revived in her memory as an explanation: "The Germany is a two heads.
With a head dreams and poet, while the other thinks and running. " Desnoyers showed desperate certainty of war.
This teacher seemed more frightening than the counselor and the other German bourgeoisie had met on the ship.
His sadness was not only selfish thought that the disaster was about to interfere carrying out their wishes and those of Margarita.
Suddenly discovered, at this time of uncertainty, I loved to France.
She saw her father's homeland and the country of the Great Revolution ...
He, although there had never mixed in the struggles of politics, a Republican and had some laughed many times to friends who adored kings and emperors, considering this as a sign of distinction.
Argensola tried revive him. - Who knows?
This is a country of surprises.
The Frenchman has to be seen at the time it seeks remedy their lack of foresight.
Whatever you say your cousin the Barbarian, no enthusiasm, no order ...
Worse than we had seen the living days ahead of Valmy.
All Disorganized as the only defense battalions of workers and peasants who first took a rifle.
And yet, the old monarchies of Europe did not know how to get out for twenty years of these warriors improvised.
V Which shows the four horsemen The two friends lived in the days following a hectic life, considerably enlarged by the speed with which events were happening.
Every hour spawned a novelty - the More often false - that stirred the harsh opinion sway.
As soon as the danger of appeared averted war, and circulated the word that the mobilization was ordered to within a few minutes.
Twenty-four hours represented the concerns, anxiety, nervous exhaustion one year normal.
And what the situation was worsened by the uncertainty, the expected event feared and yet invisible, anxiety about the danger never stops coming.
History overwhelmed stretched out their banks, succeeding the facts as waves a flood.
Austria declared war against Serbia, while the diplomats of the great powers were still working to avoid conflict.
The stretched grid around the planet vibrating incessantly in the deep ocean and on the relief of the continents, providing hope or pessimism.
Russia mobilized a portion of his army.
William II, fearing that the intervention of the powers to resolve the conflict between the Tsar and the Emperor of Austria, forcing the course of events by stating war against Russia.
Then, Germany was isolated by cutting the railroads and telegraph lines dough in the mystery its invasion forces.
France witnessed the avalanche of events, words and expressions sober enthusiasm.
Two generations had come into the world getting to open the eyes of the reason the image of a war inevitably would come.
But all accepted it, with the firm intention of fulfilling their duty.
Paris streets during the day sulking with their concerns.
Only a few groups exalted patriots, following the three colors of the flag, passed by the square Concordia cheering before the statue of Strasbourg.
They all knew without having ever seen.
The eyes attracted the eyes, the smiles seemed to catch each other on the sympathy of a common idea.
Women were sad, but spoke loud to hide his emotions.
In the long twilight of summer boulevards were filled with crowds.
Converged to the outlying neighborhoods of the city center, As the days and revolutions remote.
Groups came together to form an agglomeration without end, from which emerged shouting and singing.
The demonstrations went through the center under the electric lights had just ignited.
The parade runs through mid night, and the national flag appeared on andante crowd escorted by the flags of other peoples
