Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you have it.
Well, for this step are the rules and art.
Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who you love and yet still loves you. - A look at like that neighbor it. - There's your mistake, Ines.
You put no middle ground between indifference and love.
Daughter, love is little Apoc.
From indifference, or rather, from the general affection to all others at that unique feeling called love, there is a sliding scale that goes up point point and that is the period of flirtation.
Without such a flirt, without leaving perched grades or steps of the aforementioned scale, no one ever comes to the temple of the true love, no glory reaches its favor gift. - How is that? "So I may not love or be loved without flirting never before? - I do not deny the possibility, but would be difficult, extraordinary.
All this period is what I call flirting.
If not please with a face that guests dismiss, ignore anyone, no look at anyone but as a neighbor while not feel love, and love or ever will come to your soul or you infuse it with another human soul ever.
I say all this to stop you prudery and go be something flirty.
And I wish that you are with distinction and smoothness without impeachment of any kind, with the composure and modesty required, and keeping that wonderful candor, that aspect of pure innocence that God has placed in your gesture and in your face, so I recommend the divine art. - And with this art, what will I earn? - Earn you love.
We go to a particular case.
Let's talk about the other night Condesito.
Thanks be to God that it has not done so flammable that you put to love a man only to see him pass.
There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you.
Neither do men fall in love suddenly.
What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found beautiful, graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated, in which no mistakes, and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires and thoughts.
I grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great, is promised triumphs and victories that make you favor.
Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.
Inesita almost felt defeated.
Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the girl came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain limits, was a duty, which was missing.
Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence, he could, and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the art.
Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro, would find the little Count, he would be persecuted and have occasion to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.
According to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with the eyes, lazy style and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable purity and simplicity of intention and without promising anything to pass friend: "Me you nice, although I deplore it as much as you are a fool.
I glad to treat you, but for that you want it to be less vain and more restrained, and are then presented as the good society requires and so it does not crash. " Inesita argued that his eyes could not reel off as long rant.
Doña Beatriz, On the contrary, claimed that with the eyes said it all without difficulty.
This question was, when knocked Don Braulio, and then entered the room, interrupting the two sisters.
The man was as he had described the Earl of Alhedín: skinny, bald, small body not pretty, and though he was only forty-five, seemed to have ten more, because the work, care and trouble he had aged.
His dark face was wonderful expression of kindness and intelligence.
His cheeks sunken cheeks were furrowed with wrinkles, but in your mouth, rather large to small, had strength and spirit, and his thin lips were folded gracefully, providing entertainment to all appearance and showing two rows of white teeth, healthy and well placed.
Don's nose Braulio, though not deformed, was one if not acaballo or parrot's beak.
Don Braulio had been very tired, and the few words she spoke to women felt all retiring to bed.
The first one left the room was Dona Beatriz.
Don Braulio was a moment alone with Ines.
There came to her and said quietly: - Agnes, I have to comply with a commission that you have given me.
Which requires written not talk to anyone about the letter, but me if you want.
So your sister has to be a secret.
There are also another rare condition.
The answer you give no support to you within a month and begs the same time does not slow to give it more than four months.
Don Braulio, that said, put the letter in the hands of Ines, and went where his wife had gone, without waiting to read the letter Inesita or do him any questions about it.
Seemed Don Braulio also wanted Inesita meditate calmly, before speaking of the important business letter undoubtedly was.
V Just looked Inesita was alone in the address of the card, and without emotion, almost a curiosity, at least perceptible, would open it and read it, when he appeared on the scene a new character, did the girl keep it rushed the letter in his pocket.
This new character was the mistress Teresa.
Love does not ever called him because he had been breeding but because he had been housekeeper of the parish priest.
Was already closer to the sixties of fifty years, and had looked with great care and affection of Beatrice and Agnes from they had been orphaned.
A much loved them both, but as it had looked Inesita from more child, and as Inesita was single, had greater familiarity with it confidence.
By a strange hallucination, more often than we think, the housekeeper, as if the years had passed in vain, or had not happened, did not see the woman Inesita already formed, but the girl spoiled little girl who had both.
Still, therefore, and treating it as mimándola Inesita had five or six years.
Their actions Inesita regarding resented this hallucination, but in his speeches, when he spoke with it, there was a funny combination of mimes and innocence with which it comes to creatures, and the efforts of wit and discretion studied with ignorant people and crude attempt to catch up with those of whose knowledge and intelligence have made the concept better
