Needed a lawyer, was foreign, public opinion, influenced by the exaggerated accounts the newspapers about her beauty and her jewels, showed a fierce animosity, requesting a prompt punishment.
Nobody wanted to take over his defense, and that's why he had accepted, without fear to the unpopularity.
Ferragut guess thought this sacrifice momentum old philanderer, who had made Freya go because it was beautiful.
Moreover, this process was a Parisian event and could give some notoriety novel to those who intervene in its proceedings.
A few paragraphs further, the ocean became convinced that the maitre d 'had ended up falling in love of his client.
This woman to die when it scattered around its power seduction.
Professional success interviewed by the lawyer to dissolve the first steps.
Defense Freya was impossible.
Crying for answer when he was questioned about the facts of his previous life, or remained silent, motionless, staring, as well as if it was the fate of another woman.
Military judges did not need their confessions: they knew full detail by detail existence during the war and in recent years of peace.
Never police abroad had worked so quickly and successfully.
They knew all the works of Freya, had even provided accurate data about their personality a secret agent, the number of order contained in the Berlin office on the money they earned, their reports in recent months.
Documents written by herself, with an irrefutable guilt had come to join the process, nobody knew where they were sent or by whom.
Each time the judge put Freya in the eyes of one of these tests, she looked desperately to his lawyer. - Them! - Moaning -.
The defender was of the same opinion.
The police had known their presence in France a letter he addressed their leaders from Barcelona, ??clumsily defaced, written under A key to the mystery which was discovered by the French counter long before.
For the maitre d ', was certainly a mysterious power had wanted to get rid of this woman sending it to an enemy country as if it is sent to death.
The defender Ulises guessed a state of mind like his, the same duality that had plagued them in all dealings with Freya. "I, sir - he wrote the lawyer - I have suffered greatly.
One of my sons, officer, died in battle Aisne, others close to me, nephews and pupils, have died after Verdun and East expeditionary army ... " He had felt, as a Frenchman, an irresistible repulsion convinced that Freya was a spy who had caused great damage to his country ...
Then, as a man, took pity on its unconsciousness, its adversarial nature and light up to the crime, selfishness beautiful woman and friend of the estate, had to admit that the moral turpitude to change welfare.
Its history attracted the interest lawyer beating an adventure novel.
Commiseration it was taking a vehemence of infatuation.
Moreover, the idea that they were the exploiters This woman who had reported a chivalrous enthusiasm inspired him to defend its cause unsustainable.
The hearing before the council of war had been painful and dramatic.
Freya, who until then seemed stupefied by the regime of the prison, to be aroused in front of a dozen men in uniform and severe.
His first impulse was that of all beautiful and flirtatious female.
These converted military judges reminded him that she had seen in teas and great balls of hotels ...
But there was something cold and hostile environment in which paralyzed her smiles, leaving no echo his words and made dull the glow of an eye.
Every head bowed low severe weight thoughts all men at that moment seemed to have thirty years.
Would not as it was for more efforts to do.
Their admiration and wishes lay abandoned on the other side of the door.
Freya guessed that he had ceased to be a woman and was no more than one accused.
Another of her sex, an irresistible rival, fill it all, linking to these men with a deep love and austere.
His instinct was to look at the white matron, her face serious, advancing its bust vigorously over the president's head.
Lied to the absurd and blatant illogicality of that seen in danger of death was necessary re-read his first statement, which denied now, to resubmit the evidence materials, whose existence would not admit, to march the entire past supported of those irrefutable facts of anonymous origin. - It is they who have done it all! ...
Because they want my loss, I shall tell what I know.
The lawyer went slightly in his account of what happened in the council of war.
The secret professional and patriotic interest prevented him from being more explicit.
Council had lasted from morning till night, their judges Freya revealing everything he knew ...
Then, his counsel spoke for five hours, trying to establish a kind of exchange in the implementation sentence.
This woman's guilt was unquestionable and very great evils which had caused.
But life had to give in exchange for their confessions important ...
In addition, had to take account of the irresponsibility of their character ...
revenge of the object did the country's enemies ...
He waited until late at night, next to Freya, the court's decision.
Had returned to being a woman, spoke quietly to him, smiling les gendarmes to charge for their care, did praise the army ... "Some French, some Knights were unable to kill a woman ... " The maitre d 'was not surprised to see the sad and sulky gesture of the military to leave deliberation.
Seemed unhappy with his recent vote showed at once the serenity a clear conscience.
They were soldiers who had just reached his austere duty, removing everything he had on them as mere men.
The manager read the sentence swelled its voice with a fictitious energy ... "A death !...» Freya was sentenced to be shot after a long list of crimes: reports given to the enemy, representing the loss of thousands of men, ships torpedoed in consequence of their ads, where they had perished helpless families.
The Spy shook his head to listen to their own actions, appreciating for the first time full enormity, recognizing the justice of the tremendous punishment.
But at the same time confident a gracious pardon to change all that was revealed in a gallant mercy ...
He continued shouting his innocence, without giving further proof that the desperate instinct of preservation.
With credulity that you want saved, accepted all the comforts of his defense problem.
Stayed the action to appeal to the grace of the President: maybe the pardon ...
Got the lawyer suspended for two months of sentence visited many of his colleagues who were political figures.
The desire to save his client's life was haunted like an obsession.
The newspapers protesting the delay in the execution of the sentence.
He began to dream in the talks on behalf of Freya Talberg as an argument against the weak government.
Women were the ones that were more ruthless.
One day in the Palace of Justice, had been convinced of the general animosity that pushed his client to the guns of the execution.
The woman in charge of keeping the togas, verbose midwife familiar with the treatment of distinguished lawyers, had made their views rudely. - When to kill that spy? ...
If I were a poor woman with children, they need earn their bread, and have shot ...
But it is a cocotte elegant and jewels may be slept with the ministers.
The prisoner, as if divining the public outrage, immediately began to consider their death, losing little by little the love of life, which made him break into lies and crazy protests.
In vain hopes maître pretended pardon. - It is useless: I must die ...
I have the right to shoot me ...
Freya wanted to accompany her at the time of execution: it would maintain its serenity.
And government promised to his colleague on the forum a timely notice to assist in fulfilling of the sentence.
It was three o'clock in the morning and was in the best of his dream when he awoke to sent to the Prefecture of Police.
The execution would take place at dawn: it was a decision at the last moment, to journalists later they found out the event.
A car with his companions took him to the prison of Saint Lazare, Paris through silent and gloomy.
Only a few reverberations hooded cut its pale light the dark streets.
In prison he met with other officials and many police chiefs and officers representing the military justice system.
The sentenced was asleep in his cell, not knowing what I was going to happen.
They marched in single file through the corridors of the prison in charge of waking, shaded and timid, jostling with their nervous haste.
Under the regulatory light was Freya in bed with eyes closed.
To open and be surrounded by men, his face swelled with a wave of terror. - Value, Freya! - Said the prison director -.
The request for clemency was denied. - Courage, my daughter - said the priest of the establishment, starting the beginning of a conversation.
Their terror only lasted a few seconds.
Surprise was the rude awakening, the brain still paralyzed.
Some men turned their heads to hide their eyes ...
He had to jump out of bed in the presence of two guards.
She asked the lawyer to remain in the cell, as if would thus reduce the time to dress before strangers.
Ferragut surmised pity and admiration of maître At this passage in his letter.
He was born to love and luxury, and was about to die torn by bullets as a tough soldier ...
