An octogenarian sheriff approached the back of the box with the big blue visor cap tray in hand.
Marcones rose to the pan down shortly after with a young sailor suit, clutching his arm.
Don Roque began to curse him trying to mute the sound and getting it halfway.
They heard of Occasionally !»... :--«¡ Dunce "You have no shred of education" ... "Acorn animal" ... "Would you figures that are in the tavern? "The sailor held his eyes sprayed on the ground.
A voice shouted from the courtyard: - A ride to jail.
The mayor, having harshly reprimanded and threatened Barnacle, let him come again Once your site, with great satisfaction the pot, which was received with cheers and applause.
The orchestra, silent for a moment, returned to his hellish prelude.
Before it was over, started out by setting traps to a dozen devils with paths and huge wigs in tow, the tail label, and torches in their hands.
Just as we found on the floorboards and closed conveniently traps, were started, of course, a fantastic dance, it is well known of old that can not be together four demons without giving the ball furiously.
The public forced his mother to do sacase.
But lo, with much coming and going, passing and rub the ministers of Beelzebub in that no very large enclosure, a torch was to set fire to the wig of one of them.
The poor devil without realizing it, danced more and more infernal rapture.
New murmurs and more anxious to see metempsychosis of that Angel of Death.
After a few minutes the wig and the mask flying through the air as on the comet. - Kill! - They shouted.
A huge burst of laughter rang through the theater. - Kill, do not you'll find that constipated - one from the pot said.
Still burned two or three wigs, putting to shame many other rogues the street that served as extras in the theater.
The dance is over at last no more fires.
Once again buried in the underworld demons who had escaped from the burning, presented at the scene of a dashing young man, on its own pastor, judging by Pellicer covered his back, and a beautiful girl of the same profession.
Which, in the same point, following the old precept that obliges every pastor and every pastor to be in love to appear elusive, began their dialogue, where complaints and tender love laments it contrasted with her indifferent laugh.
Were happy and joyful all, like the quad than the pot, with the tasty words had passed on the scene when the stage door he heard a loud voice said: - Don Rosendo, is entering the Bella-Paula.
The effect of this unexpected call came, it was inexplicable.
Because not only don Rosendo rises as a spring-driven and hastens with a trembling hand into her coat to leave, but on the whole competition a strong rumor spread accompanied by agitation alive that was about to interrupt the pastoral dialogue.
Quad artisans lanzáronse continuous act to the street.
In the pan down with heavy rattle almost all sailors was there.
And the seat boxes and also left many people.
A few minutes were not just in the theater more than women.
Cecilia stood motionless, pale, his eyes fixed on the scene.
His mother and sister while looking at her with smiling face. - Why look at me like that? - Turning suddenly exclaimed.
Venturita Dona Paula and laughed.
II HAPPY ARRIVAL OF "BELLA" PAULA " The bunch of spectators ran through the streets towards the waterfront.
Front, surrounded by six or eight sailors, his son Paul and some friends went Don Rosendo, silent, preoccupied, listening to the comments of his companions, who pronounced his voice breaking by fatigue. - Don Domingo is lucky, comes with more than half tide - a sailor said referring to the master the Bella-Paula. - What do you know if it now?
It may be funded from the afternoon - said another. - Where? - Where to be, sucker?
Don Rosendo not answer.
After a moment of growing up hastily, turned saying - Let's see, it is necessary to warn Don Melchor who is entering the Bella-Paula. - I will go - said a sailor standing out from the pack and going to penetrate again in the village.
The night was cold, starless, the wind lie: the calm sea.
It glowed in the dark as it ships lantern anchored.
Just be warned the dense network of your rig.
The helmet appeared as a mass Black report.
The newcomers did not see a much larger group of people crowding into the very tip the pier until it fell upon him.
All were silent with their eyes on the sea, efforts to warn the darkness of the ship.
The waves breaking softly against the rocks nearby, occasionally bleached in the dark. - Where is it? - Asked several of the theater audience pulling eyes to see something. - There. - Where? - Do not you see here, left, a green light? ...
Don Rosendo moved into second body wall, and found there and Don Melchor de las Cuevas.
This was a tall, very tall, thin, shaved in the manner of sailors, ie leaving the beard around the neck like a bandage.
He had more reason for it than most Sarrió neighbors who shaved this way, because it belonged to the honorable body Navy, while serving as withdrawn.
But in the sea ports, particularly when the population is small, like the one in which we find ourselves, the maritime element predominates and infiltrates so that all people, could not help it, without realizing it, adopt certain uses, words and dress of the sailors.
It would have been handsome and gallant Lord of the Caves in their younger days, because today, seventy-four years, is a vigorous man, erect, bright and piercing eyes, nose hawk, noble and open front.
Standing on a seat attached to the parapet wall, with huge glasses sea ??led to the little green light that shone intermittently yonder.
Was by far the highest figure coming out of the group of spectators. - Don Melchor, you are here now ...
There was suppressed laughter in the dark, because the Lord commanded respect de las Cuevas deep crewmen.
The angry old sailor turned his head toward the spot where he had left the wisecrack.
Esforzóse to penetrate the darkness in silence a few moments, and at length said hoarsely - If I knew who you are, you will soon band I lowered into the sea.
No one dared say a word, nor was there the slightest attempt at laughter.
In Sarrió was known that Lord of the Caves was quite capable of doing as told.
He had served in the Navy more than forty years, always enjoying the view of brave and honorable officer, but at the same time of a severity bordering on barbarism.
When any ship commander remembered of our ancient maritime ordinances, Don Melchor was determined to implement them and in all its rigor.
We had terror in the people who had drowned a sailor spend three times under the keel, as prescribed by the ordinance for certain offenses; more than one hundred were crippled with sticks or had lifted the skin with the whip.
Furthermore there was not Sarrió pilot or sailor could have with him the regard to sea, so in the knowledge of the time, that the maneuvers of the vessels, in all the secrets of navigation.
The little green light was approaching slowly.
Perceived as the bulk of the Bella-Paula naked eye, and also two or three black spots near it, which often changed site.
They were the pilot boat and auxiliary boats to pull the boat when it was necessary.
As the wind just blew the corvette remained hoisted all sails.
No But he was too close to the wall for this not constitute a hazard.
Al Don Melchor less well understood, because he began to swear under his breath and restless.
He had scarcely uttered these words, when they were on the tops of packages almost imperceptible to the sailors. - Just happened! - Don Melchor said. - Yes, that Sunday is a fool! - Said under the sailor whom the master of Cuevas had threatened.
The hull of the sloop, painted black with a white band in the draft, was highlighted finally with pure dark background.
The eyes of viewers, accustomed now to the darkness, well see what was happening on board.
In a bow, the pilot. - What about the scandal? - Don Melchor shouted again.
The mizzen outrageous, as if to obey his voice fell.
The wind sails could not replenish low: the hanging crab stick limp and faint like a prom dress used.
And those were quickly lowered gripping This, and the ship began to walk calmly desperate towed by two boats.
The figures rose rhythmically rowers on the benches.
But the Yanks were so weak in relation to the mass, the ship hardly moved.
When After a quarter of an hour got about thirty fathoms near the tip of the Pawn took off one end, one of the boats that brought the levee to help turn the corvette. - Captain, Captain! "- Shouted a loud voice from the group. - What? - Answered the ship. - Do you come on board the Master of the Cave? - Yes. - Eye For the Master of the Caves ...
The joke caused great uproar in the crowd.
The corvette started in turn, supported by out of land, which creaked with stress.
People in the dock began talking to the board.
But it showed silent, taciturn, serving maneuvers rather than the questions they were going.
Then the mocking temper the sailors in that region is boasted again.
The ground began to go the board, especially a subject that seemed a lot of hair, who was called Tanganyika, which was moving from side to side, with the grace of a bear, running cables, and throwing grunts of disdain for the crowd. - Listen, Tanganyika, and you'll feel like eating a casserole of cod, right? - Rejoice, Tanganyika is cider Llandones Winery. - It was hot in Norway? - There you would like to see me, thief! - Growled Tanganyika, while clutching a candle.
The cable fell the sea and began to rise quickly through the ship's side.
This was the shelter of the pier, but the tide was not enough to rob the old spring.
The captain gave a voice to the pilot. - Fund!
The pilot told sailors at his side: - Arria!
The anchor fell into the sea with a loud noise of chains.
The boat started to turn on it. - Are you going to tie you to the ground, Domingo? - Asked Don Melchor. - Yes, sir - said the captain. - No need; amárrate in two.
Within an hour you enmendarte. - Both one and the other cost me - whispered the captain, shrugging his shoulders, and then said aloud: - Check the manual!
Another crashed into the sea anchor with the same noise. - How do you go to you, man? "- Said a sweet voice and manly from aboard. - Hello, Gonzalito. "You're good, my son? - Ideally, I'm going there right now.
And they came down with great agility for a cable to the boat. - We will wait - Rosendo said getting to walk.
So much time here ...
Dizziness to be with the view Fixed ...
His forehead covered in a cold sweat and his legs quaked. - Do not be afraid by what has already happened, dude.
Let's go down to receive Gonzalito.
Fell in effect at the dock, where he had to leap a tall, blond, handsome appearance, wearing a long overcoat that almost reached his feet. - Uncle! - Gonzalo!
Rosendo also greeted warmly to the young, but was so preoccupied with the danger he had run its existence, which instantly turned to be dark and gloomy.
They stood up then to the house of Don Melchor, located at the top of the town lording an immense extent of sea.
To all their questions answered in monosyllables Belinchón lord. - You know, Gonzalo - stopping suddenly said, - that a little kill me now? - What!
Finished the story, fell into a deep consternation. - I suppose that the family will already be in bed? "- Gonzalo said after he had deplored enough (at least in concept) the danger of the merchant. - No, they are in the theater ...
Do you think I would have killed, Gonzalo? - Phs ...
In this he had already admitted enough in the population, and at a certain street, don Rosendo farewell to the uncle and nephew.
It gave him the hand with obvious sadness. - I'm going to the theater to find the family.
Until tomorrow to rest, Gonzalo. - See you tomorrow ...
Then fell on the traveler a flurry of questions, do not stay on in England, but all relate to the trip by sea. "What wind?
