What room or what cuartajo! ...
I call him because of it used when staying in this house fine characters like you, or a Bishop of here or there, or when a wedding in it and some days later ...
Which is of my room sleeping there make your uncle sixty years, the rest, I say, the first of life, to me slept in that bedroom on this side of the entrance: a lot of them with your father, in the same bed, until, by walking on very often testerazos both under clothing on who interfered who ...
We separated, and poured him to sleep alone in a room behind the ...
Here have the table, pure oak, like banks ...
Well-back ledges, eh? ...
as the edges of the table and four legs, I mean, no, that the legs are as shapely in thread Like the cross braces that is below ...
They also have some chairs tournament leaning against the walls.
Zanchetta, what will the moths! ...
Courtesy of obligation, without the baby ...
You see, just opposite my room.
There now seemed more clear, not only by the double light of the lantern and candle, which burned in burnished brass candlestick on a chest of columns of sockets and capitals of gilt bronze, but because the room had no ceiling and exposed joists as the adjoining room, and was, like the walls, well milled.
Leaning against they had a couch, several chairs and comfortable contemporary furniture, hung over this, a Eccehomo between two cornucopias of good sized bream, on the couch, a Purisima and in front of these paintings, two of saints as well, all oil and frameworks gold, but very dull now.
The room had a large bedroom, and the entrance door her white curtains on large flags contained in Roman nails.
Well then: here hangers, with their corresponding overall, nailed to the wall ...
and still plenty of room for another much more ...
And with that, I said you're at home.
Outdated and hurt that body death and could not resist without great losses and protests the bustle in which he insisted the liveliness of spirit contained in it.
While busying walked in my room that I thought a lot, and not all rosy.
Instinctively I touched the thickness of the clothes on my bed, and although it was very considerable, I took the quilt red damask and put in place my heavy rug in two folds.
I felt frozen feet, and I fit fur-lined slippers, and I wrapped the body in a Russian coat that was provided, it was determined to give me another chamuscón in the kitchen immediately.
In the room called my uncle, as well as the door between the dining room, there were other two had to correspond to as many facades of the house.
Out of curiosity I opened the little window or "quadroon" one of the clearing leaves closest to me, and I saw everything black, very black, through a mean to cristalejo, opened after the whole sheet, which led to a balcony stone ledges, and even more black than I thought before that so it looked.
In contrast, rumors from within perceived distant and intermittent, since there were constant, more pronounced and closer.
Should produce the tumbling river a short distance of the house.
This murmur was almost incessant roar and, served as accompaniment annoying the patter of rain poured on the floor by the roof gutters.
I gave this "music" great sadness and closed the balcony door but hurry.
Leaving the room with the candlestick in hand, I found the gray woman busy setting the table, in the light of a lamp of three burners, hanging from a wooden bar, subject from one end to a ceiling joist.
It was not unpleasant, indeed, face of that servant, and well look, until there were traces of having been beautiful in his youth.
We expressed a laconic had classical overtones, and responded welcome to the questions that I risked it, to talk about something a little brighter the dull color of my ideas.
So I knew I was called Facia, which served very young at my uncle and that she thought he died, if that was the will of his master, whom he loved and respected as a father and lord, and even with that not quite the great benefits paid I owed him.
All this I was saying as the careless, over short periods and not looking at the face, but reflecting his true expression of melancholy sweetness that was very interesting as he moved slowly back and forth, putting here a dish after pass with snow-white canvas, and there a glass or fork.
In this way, and throwing the conversation I to that side, even told me that his master had always had a health 'of fierru "until One night, a few months ago, after a week of cold deprived him not to walk the world had woken up "ajuegándose ASEAN, with a chest jirvor, a color wax in the face, and a look of terror in the eyes desaflegía. " He left it, but not to raise its head. "Tristezón and acobardao", as was another man.
After my uncle said, referring to the front pew hombrazo: - The Lord ...
because there are mouths to the same Creed of the Mass do not sound like it is ... - This mouth is mine, watch it! - I say that there are those mouths, I say no more than that - said the hombrazo. - Santo and current, but I am coming to wonder if going or not going to know my nephew, all your passport, cuartajo! - And I reply that it is honor for me, can not offend me.
