That night he drank the pattern more than you should, and my goodness he forgot me and left me the inn is two hours before dawn, the pilot ordered that it should be sailed.
Looking very tomorrow where the ship was, and who had a league of land section, I was obliged take the eye to another, and deal with another patron, whom he gave the same as the first.
Wait eight days fastest time but the more we stopped, the storm raged, so that no pudiéndonos keep at sea, we turned down the same road at the port, and Enrique Schertz, (which was the ship that had put my clothes and had been forgotten), came last.
A league Cadiz, and the dark night, the lantern became captain of the navy, so that others pilots and continued to see her.
We arrived at Cadiz, and anchored ships, remove the lamp, and became the earth, with good advice, a fixture beside a mill, a bullet shot Cádiz.
But it was of great harm to Henry, Schertz, who thought he was bluffing, and directed his ship right into the fire, and gave great impetus in the rocks that were under water: so that took a thousand pieces, and sank with all people and goods, dying quarter of an hour 22 people, leaving alive only the captain and the pilot, who left clinging the largest tree, also sank six baskets of gold and silver were to give the Emperor, and a lot of merchandise, causing the wreck Estrema poverty to many.
I thanked Almighty God, that his mercy did not allow me to embark on that ship.
The author again sailing from Cadiz to Antwerp.
The day of San Andres, two after this misfortune, we made sail to Antwerp: suffering so great a storm, the sailors swore that he had twenty years, or that all the time sailing, no storm had been more cruel or horrible tornadoes.
We arrived Wight, England port, without trees, wheels, or anything else that could serve in navigation, so if the journey had lasted a few days more, none of the 24 ships have been saved.
But God saved us from this danger almost obvious, because about same place, the first day of the year 1554, eight ships were wrecked, plunging miserably all people, not save anyone, and the goods and other precious things: it happened This calamitous shipwreck, between France and England.
Detuvímonos four days in Wight, composing our ships.
The best we could, we made sail for the Brabant, and reached Armuyden, city of Zeeland, where there are a multitude of ships: this city is far Wight 47 leagues.
From there we sailed 24 leagues to Antwerp, where we arrived safe and free to January 25, 1554.
So, after twenty years, by a singular providence of Almighty God, I got there from which it came, but in many, many dangers of life and body I had and tried, few hunger and misery, care, work and anxieties, to walk in the provinces Indians, enough may be understood this historic declaration.
But give to God Eternal and Omnipotent many thanks I can conceive in your mind, because I returned safely to the places, which I left twenty years earlier.
Be glory and honor to himself, forever ever.
CONTENTS OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED IN VIAG OF Ulder Schmidel AL RIO DE LA PLATA.
A Girls and stingless bees - 52.
Village of Carias Froemidiere leagues at 20 - 40.
Her dress, food and the reason for its name - 31.
Dan guides to Hernando de Rivera - ibid.
Agac, Indians stubborn warriors on land and sea traces and ornaments - 38.
Oyola overcome by loss of five Spanish - 35.
Those of the people killed by Carias others are forgiven - ibid.
Sent to Spain, Cabeza de Vaca, rebel - 38.
Missing in Peyonas, fertile land being - 45.
The Sivisicosis have war with the neighbors about it - 46.
Agustin del Campo, Nuflo is going to Lima Chaves - 50.
German and Flemish. 80 with D.
embark Pedro de Mendoza - 3.
They came of them Indians - 15.
Spin and the Indian tegen - 43.
Get to Buenos Aires with relief goes to the Timbús, and dispatches notice to Spain according to Oyola - 24.
Surge in Santa Catalina and 200 with a Spanish caravel, and two months go to Buenos Aires - ibid.
Getting rid of a storm by the knowledge of its pilot, and arrived in Buenos Aires 30 days sooner than those who came with him - 26
