And strange and sad! - Those wonderful suspension bridge are simply not plagiarism fertile than the engineer in Europe makes our indigenous bridges invented ago centuries.
Forget their great inventions or useful, and just think plagiarism in military parades, making caricatures of our sovereign dictators and mimicking the fashion, luxury, vanities and vices of European societies. * * * * * A half hour away from Freiburg visited a strange monument of the most curious ways: the chapel or grotto of Mary Magdalene.
She proves that man, when you have no humor no power to destroy, is often at least entertaining to create nuisances or useless things.
After laughing through regularly cultivated countryside, got out of the car walk down a hilly path, between hazel and beech forests, to the top of a stratified huge limestone cliff, abrupt and severe, which dominates the right bank of Sarina.
It is within this cliff is the cave.
Someone a few centuries ago, very stupid and idle, be entertained in the cave dig on the edge of the abyss.
A loner most tenacious, mercifully idle, expanded and completed the work, By the late eighteenth century, working with only one partner for twenty years.
Juan Dupré de Gruyères (this is called the romantic architecture) and became the cave, by subtraction subject, in a monumental shrine.
A narrow passage opened on a surface of the rock gives you entrance to the forest covering the ground inside the chapel, a cavity which has the honor of door.
There lives an old man, whose dialect incomprehensible German equivalent to the silence, but his gestures are expressive.
His life is to give to every curious the same explanation, presenting an old log to sign and receive the tip.
The two sappers from the rock or artists negative architecture managed, by dint of unprecedented demolition work, practice in heart of the church of rock 20 meters long, 11 high latitude and 7, with bell tower is 22 meters elevation.
In addition, a kitchen with fireplace, 29 meters which gives the smoke in the woods above, a refectory, a large room, sacristy, two cabinets, multiple cells, some facing windows overlooking the huge gulf and surrounding countryside, a stable, finally a basement where a spring of delicious water.
What of employee working there!
It's funny in all interior walls and jumbled innumerable inscriptions written by travelers or visitors, some reduced to the simple signature (among which I noticed the name Alexandre Dumas and other famous people), some embellished with verses, sentences and exclamations in all languages.
Some Spanish had to visit the shrine because he reached a wall see some interjection feature.
Leaning on one of the windows is discovered in front a beautiful landscape, but it feels dizzy with his eyes probing the abyss.
The Sarina slips into the background, clean and quiet, to over 100 meters deep.
If at first can not be a reflection unless I have noted on restlessness of the human spirit, to leave the hermitage and breathe the balmy air again forest and grassland, already knowing that the work must be patient and wonderful work a lonely, indefatigable in digging for twenty years, also is a proudly says and comfort: If the human spirit and work can produce a work as remarkable as useless do not have to produce when inspired a fruitful idea and a great need for creation!
The way that mediates between Freiburg and Bern, which takes less than four hours, it offers under the social point of view anything that interests the curiosity of travelers.
Since leaving The first of these cities away all traces of the race that inhabits the southern counties tours before.
The Germanic race, although not very pure, single prevails and manifests where want: the customs, institutions, social and political life, the structure of locations and as may be characteristic.
What appeals to travelers in transit to Bern Fribourg is the charm of the picture that surroundings, a delicious variety.
Such is the beauty of the countryside, and its appearance indicates so the modest welfare of the population and agricultural or rural genius that dominates, the eye does not tire of admiring the picturesque sites and capricious waves Sea vegetables that swarms spread over hills, deep valleys, plains miniature skirts laughing contour, divided into soft down inclined planes in all directions.
In all this succession of plains, valleys and hills or low mountains, which together appear to form a huge garden or English park, turns in the funniest keeping streams clean jumpers, lost amid sunken rocks between depths of vegetables, thick forests of firs, beeches and oaks, sometimes admirable regularity of natural, decorations that look like opera in a theater without limits, shiny patch of grass on contrast which makes carpets in some places the embankments and bridges of a railway; gay cottages shown to the side of the road, almost invaded by shadowy vaults fir forest, in short, many farmhouses on the hills climbs amid of vegetables, fruit trees, plantations and herds of cattle grain number, round and lustrous as the beautiful hills in grazing.
All this has a charm indefinable look sweet tranquility, candor and seducing or being flattered as a living eclogue.
If undulations produce a constant succession of ups and downs, you are trying to travel a thousand pleasant surprises, the twists of the road also contribute instantaneous changes to the landscape and horizon.
Sometimes the coach rolls smoothly and among dense forests, basilicas and soft green perfumed and elegant tapestry roof, where the look feels trapped between air vegetable coffered endless crowning columns of gray or reddish color, and resemble the masts of the firs and pines, others descends to the bottom of a narrow valley full of aromas and wild rumors, or dotted of property and crops, beehives or domesticated, which give the appearance of a garden capricious and varied, sometimes in order, to climb to an eminence, about some of the highest mountains, or to pass an open group or cords that form, there is a vast horizon that spans the entire central Switzerland, and is seen in the distance, the SS-E., the grand amphitheater of snow-capped granite mountains of the Bernese Alps.
In one of those eminences of the route, whereas the measure to a release, we pass some young, modestly dressed, traveling on foot, each with a suitcase on back and his staff in his hand.
We thought at first that infantry travelers would be mere amateurs of hiking, like so many in Switzerland, where the beauties of country and communication facilities invite to that kind of pilgrimage, indispensable for the naturalist and the most fruitful and affordable for poor students and tourists and curious.
But one of the Swiss who accompanied us in the coach told us that young people pedestrian travelers were just artists or artisans pilgrims traveling under free to a particular institution that exists only in Switzerland and even in some German states.
The institution is curious indeed, because it shows not only the organization that has industry in most of the Swiss cantons (still subject to the system in certain branches companies or associations privileged), but also the spirit of brotherhood that prevails in the Confederate populations.
When any young man has obtained a diploma that is recognized as a member of one of the artists or artisans' guilds, if placement is not advantageous in his home town, or if you want to obtain better elsewhere, begins to travel walk from town to town, and his diploma gives the right to get free entertainment and the assistance needed in places of transit, the country houses of the way and in the same city where he stops to exercise their industry, art or trade, whilst no of placement.
The explanation they gave us such a beautiful institution (which I believe is the work traditional customs and not laws) gave us keen pleasure, making up some degree excuse the vicious regime of the guilds, in favor of that noble spirit brotherhood and hospitality. * * * * * The Bern canton or state is in every respect the most important and worthy of the Confederation, however, that ranks eighth in the order or historic range of the cantons, the Its entry date to the early confederation.
Its territory, the most extensive Switzerland whole is relatively huge and extremely varied topography and beautiful appearance.
Divide most of the Confederation into two parts, one to S.-O., almost entirely composed population of language, customs and traditions of France, and the other to N.-E.
and SE., this territory started in the long line of colossal peaks of the Alps that separate the basins of the Rhone, the Aar and Reuss, and thus part limits the cantons of Vaud, Valles and Uri.
extend over the boundaries of the Berne cantons of Uri, Nidwalden, Lucerne, Aargau, Basel Solera and describing its boundaries a line very irregular and angular, while the S., S.-O., O., N.-O, and N.
touches on the cantons of Vaud, Fribourg and Neuchâtel and the French territory.
The southern part is called the Alps or Oberland, while the Jurassic or setentrional is the general name Leberberg.
If the varied topography in Bern favors both the variety of climates and productions, of hydrography provides not only the most grand and picturesque conditions but also considerable navigation benefits.
So, first with the waters of the Aar itself and several important tributaries, such as Sarina, the Thiel, the Emmen and Simmen, waterways in much of rafts and small boats and canoes, and other uses of the beautiful lakes Brienz and Thun waterways, entirely enclosed in the Bernese territory, and Neuchâtel and Biel, on whose banks have participation other cantons.
Agriculture itself, the livestock and wood cutting are the main elements wealth and prosperity and social life in the city of Bern.
In mountainous regions the territory is covered with vast forests of pine, beech, pine and other trees construction, which are exploited on a large scale, using all significant flows to bring down the Rhine to central interior timbers, but those endless forests of fertility are everywhere broken, to stage more or less considerable, extensive natural meadows, where numerous grazing flocks, mainly cattle, which are the basis a valuable export of cattle breed very famous in Europe, and higher cheese rides worth many millions.
In the central lowlands or agriculture Bern, very careful but insufficient for domestic consumption, is divided into three main orders, well determined by nature: in the bottom of the lake and river valleys mild temperature, the vines thrive and flourish on the banks, in the plains and hills delay swarms wherever cottages that meet the cultivation of all cereals, Europe filamentous plants, vegetables, fruit trees, bee breeding, etc.; finally, in the low mountains that ply those same plains are also exploiting forests fir, oak, beech, etc., and are not a few herds of cattle and sheep and beautiful stud highly regarded in Europe.
The Canton of Berne is not just agriculture.
Its trade is considerable.
Mine explodes iron, lead and copper, some coal (in the region of Jura) and numerous marble quarries and various stones.
In terms of manufacturing, consists mainly of linen fabrics and cotton, silk, leather tanning and carved, distillation of liquor, iron and copper clock (in the border districts of the canton of Jura Neuchâtel), hats beautiful fine straw and wood sculptures (toys, curiosities, etc.) constituting Pastors industry artists Oberland.
It is interesting to note in this connection that rough hands but apparently, being the most rustic, are precisely those in Bern and other Swiss cantons made more delicate art objects.
Thus, the rough and naive pastors who have spent the summer and early fall of lofty mountains, making cheese and guiding their flocks amid cliffs and wild forests, approaching winter (towards the month of October) are descendants of the meadows and forests to become artists.
With his rough calloused hands made then, around the home, some in Bern and other cantons similar, countless exquisite objects made of wood, horn, ivory, bone, etc., who admires and calls for the traveler, by the grace of his composition, originality forms, the delicacy of execution, accuracy perfect imitation of animals, mountains, rooms, etc., etc., and others in the cantons of St.
The canton of Bern, in spite of being so hilly, is distinguished by its many excellent means of communication.
Not only does good roads in all directions, and in the mountains very broken good dirt roads, but also of steam navigation in the lakes and the Aar, laid railroads remain easy and cheap communications for France and almost all border counties. * * * * * The history of the Canton of Bern is confused with its most notable features of the whole Confederation, whose balance has always had a very considerable weight Bernese politics.
In other is very close analogy with the history of Freiburg.
The origin of the republic of Berne, as in almost all cantons, was very humble.
Until the late twelfth century the country now belongs to the state was a swarm of domains or domains feudal nobles whose owners lived as bandits, committing depredations of every kind under the general authority of the French emperor.
The purpose of putting the populations covered by this violence encouraged the Duke Berthold V of Zahringen to found a fortified town of constitution free, at around Nydeck castle on a beautiful peninsula that determines the plateau undulating the tortuous course of the Aar.
The Duke, one of their hunts, had killed a bear that site, and in memory of the incident gave him the new city the name of Bern, derived de Boer German for bear.
In his first Berne was reduced to the free city and a very small territory around, forming a colony isolated and vulnerable to many attacks, but their free institutions and excellent position attracted many immigrants, the city was divided between neighboring towns through alliances and pacts of fusion, and thanks to this and to several successive conquests, more or less daring, after three centuries (from 1.191, the founding era) the country Republic came to be a very powerful aristocratic patrician, he did respect their independence and extended his domination to the cantons of Vaud, Aargau and others.
Berne acquired in those time great military reputation, first single or allied to Freiburg and elsewhere, after Confederate cantons with major league, and always maintained very violent and glorious struggles for the Bernese, and against the German emperors and dukes of Austria, and against coalitions of other princes and lords, some formidable.
If your origin city of Berne was a communal or democratic government, its enlargement significantly changed its policy so that power is found within concentrated in the hands of few families of patricians, while the civilians were on the noble owners in a situation analogous to that of the serfs of Russia, Austria, Germany, etc.
The French Revolution and the invasion of 1798 changed this state of affairs.
Berne lost conquests very important for the independence of Vaud, Aargau and other countries, democratic institutions triumphed in the Constitution and laws, the peasants were emancipated, and the nobility lost their titles and privileges.
