Angelina never thought I could love me.
Angelina was very lovable.
Angelina is a little girl judiciously.
Angelina will have no boyfriend who becomes her husband.
She is not able play with love. - I think so, but ....
So! - And my aunt joined the fingers of his right hand and moved as To indicate a crowd of people. - In Pluviosilla - continued - many!
A rich Spanish, a youth of very biting and endiantrado pharmacy, able to laugh at shadows, a handsome college, which he wrote poems, others, and others.
The love for Fernández Gabrielita .... - The young blonde, who plays the piano very well? - Already know? - The other day I saw her at the gate. - Beautiful!
XIV Sometimes I was chatting in the pharmacy of Don Procopio Meconium.
In that famous hangout, center recreational idle and unemployed, was met at all times the young and handsome and older more talkative of the Buddhist city.
I do not know how many more, among whom the owner of the pharmacy, the invariable Don Procopio, wild player, who had made that temple of Galen in a sanctuary of Birj.
We used to see there at P.
Came from time to time, when they had less social gatherings; be read from cover to cover periodicals, and then ...
While Don Procopio played in with his brothers, out in front of the counter, in the presence of buyers, often tangled talks became disputed.
Venegas was pleased to attack the fallen empire, Sarmiento argued hot and full of verve.
The Republican Catholicism was beating, the doctor said the Liberal Party pests.
The teacher, very fond of the "Political Catechism" Pizarro Suarez claimed do not know what reasons for religious tolerance, and those opposed to its opposite number Protestant arguments as those used by newspapers in the late 56 and early of 57.
The doctor sat in Jupiter brings out their arguments in the form, science seminarian, and finally, the outpourings of Sarmiento replied with insults.
First, this was their tactic - it went straight to the doctor; was granted the right, but bitterly reproaching his exaggerations of monarchist. - Iturbide, (to whom the Declaration of Independence calls "a genius above all praise") made nonsense.
In our time nobody improvises king or emperor.
Paper only as high block who was cradled in royal birth, who was born on the steps of a throne.
It should that the search according to their traditions, it is necessary to take into account lessons of its history, it is necessary that the institutions and the government will come form appropriate cassock like me, you coat, bag and this young man short.
There you have explained ephemeral empire of Maximilian.
Then, turning to the religious question, serene and restful said: - Amigo, Don Crisanto: I understand that the Church does not sponsor or monarchies or republics.
It matters little that the head of a state is called president or king or emperor.
No, friend, do not have to pretend that you want.
Nothing to identify the political issue with the religious question.
Then shut against Venegas.
Was to hear him when, in a concise, brief, incisive, pilloried the nonsense of a teacher who knew nothing right and everything is back words and booming sound.
As I point ignored it is against religion.
Tell me, if I answer a demand would have to consult with Castro Pérez, or any shyster, what if one day I will get a deputy and I have to legislate?
And anyone can become a member: you, the doctor, the Indian who is on there, very busy with their sovereignty, I ....
No, not me, because I am a priest, a minister worship, and therefore am not a citizen more than half.
or you would not know what would do, and vote for the good of God, or whatever it is safer to the good of the Devil.
Now, as to such dirty tricks that you have vomited against the Holy Mother Church, we to the point, sir, and my friend, you know not what they say.
And farewell, friends!
I'm going, I have not prayed the office, and is the short hour of chocolate.
We stayed commenting on the conversation of the guests, until the six me I was going to install a seat in the Plaza, to hear Miss Fernandez touch.
Good to know that the Fernandez family was frowned upon in the city.
Their culture shocked to Villaverde good Buddhist.
They only became close with Sarmiento and P.
Solis, because although the main families visited the city, not my good countrywomen samples were estimated by the newcomers.
The people of Villaverde, particularly women, were not welcome the customs Fernandez family.
If you believe that we have not seen Villaverde luxury and elegance ....
Yes, yes, we know who says that this population is a large farm ....
Because they can play the piano.
There is Castro Perez Luisita as well as she plays, and yet it is modest and humble.
I understood very well what it meant to me by saying, "I recommend you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked me introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen to me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and courtesy.
I wanted to strangle the old man. - Sir, - I said - it is true that I make verses, but do not live so pleasantly delivered to occupation.
In truth that poetry tends to captivate, but only from time to time.
There you have what is necessary.
That told me two days later the worthy Don Roman. - The thing is for sure, boy.
Right and left the mountains of Mata-Thick, covered with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the hill of the Otates that seen from the point where I was, like a camel lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts
