This was to fulfill the wish of the father grandfather aborted. - This one to be a lawyer! - Said Dona Bernarda possessed the same zeal that old for that title that was the finishing of the family.
And lest the corruption of the city wake up in the child's father the same interests, frequently sent to the capital don Andrés and wrote letter after letter to friends Valencia and in particular a canon of his confidence, not to lose sight of the boy.
But Rafael was judicious, a serious young model as her mother told the good canon.
The highlights and awards of the College of Alcira continued in Valencia, and also Ramon and his wife found out from the newspapers of the successes achieved by his son in the "Youth school law, "an evening meeting in a classroom at the university, where future lawyers were released to discussing issues about as original as the "French revolution been good or bad "or" socialism, compared to Christianity. " Some guys terrible, that they should go home before ten, otherwise face the outrage of parents, declared themselves rabid socialists and frightened the janitors, cursing the proposed subject property - as soon as I finish the race - get a notary or registration.
But Rafael, provided it was properly measured and of these, contained on the right of the learned assembly, and all issues holding the healthy approach, thinking with St.
These successes were soon being propagated by the party's weekly, in order to build the glory of the head and enemies not dismissed as biased, always began: "According to read in the press of the capital "... - What a boy! - Dona Bernarda said the priests of the population .-- What gab!
Already you see, is another Manterola.
And the devout lady, when Rafael for holidays or vacations coming home, ever higher, in manner that it seemed to him the quintessence of the distinction and clothing under the last dandy, it was said with an ugly mother satisfaction: - It will be a real boy.
All the rich girls of the city you wish.
No more to choose from.
Dona Bernarda felt proud to watch his Rafael, tall, thin and strong hands, big eyes, aquiline nose, a curly beard and a certain grace and lazy rolling her body made her look like one of those young Arabs and rich white slippers alquicel who are the indigenous aristocracy in the colonies of Africa.
Each time he returned home the student, he was greeted by his father with the same stroke molt.
The drive had been replaced by banknotes, but the powerful claws rested on his head, acariciábale increasingly slack, weighed less.
Rafael, for his absence, he felt better than others the state of his father.
Erect as always, serious, imposing, talking little, but thinner, sunk the fiery eyes, it was only the solid skeleton, marcábanse at the neck, before looked like the neck of a bull, tendons and arteries between the loose skin and flabby, and arrogant mustache, increasingly white, fell in dismay as a torn flag.
Rafael was silent, not wanting to delve into the conjugal drama unfolding next to him, hidden and quiet.
That gloomy vivant of insatiable appetites, engaged in debauchery dark and mysterious crossed the stormy whirlwind of their last wishes.
Manhood, to feel the closeness of old age, before filing expired, burned him with more force, and the mighty boss burned at the last glimpse of their animal exuberance.
It was a sunset that caught fire his life.
Always grimly serious and ran the district like a satyr crazy, no guide to desire, their encounters brutal abuses of authority, came as a painful echo the manor house, where his friend Don Andrés tried in vain to console the wife. - But this man! - Dona Bernarda angry roar .-- That man is going to lose, does not look that compromises the future of your child.
It was a crazy appetite in his fury, rushed on the green fruit, without seasoning.
Fell awestruck and trembling before his senile burning on the foliage of the gardens, in the stores orange, or evening, at the edge of a road, off-the virgins childhood almost bald, with oiled hair, smooth chest and lean members, sad, a thin boy, under the dirty skirts of misery.
At night he went out claiming party's needs and saw him enter the suburbs looking for day laborers ways disrupted by motherhood, whose husbands work sent in advance in their gardens.
He bought dozens of women's shoes, pay in stores handkerchiefs and petticoats the next day were held only on the outskirts of the city.
The most enthusiastic adherents, without losing the traditional respect, spoke with a smile of his weaknesses, and pointed out a number of the slum urchin MøreNot, strong and grim, like a reproduction of Quef.
And Dona Bernarda's God must have heard her, because her husband walked quickly towards death, but as a believer, without flinching or feel fear, driven by that name that consumed, without worrying about losing their strength and cough that sounded like thunder far, creeping dread of the caverns of his chest. - Take care of yourself, Ramon, - said the priest friends, only people who dared to refer to disorders of his life .-- Will you getting old and his age, to live as a young man, is called death.
The chief smiled, proud at the bottom of the men knew their deeds, and again to sink into his rabid dropsy, feeling that every shot of pleasure burned with new desires.
Even patted his son on seeing him enter the court, escorted by Mr.
And if you just wait to see fulfilled the desire of the old Brull, which he did not know make, a few days later he released his last cough, sounded plaintively all bells of the city, came out with a black border to the weekly span of the game, and all the district as people came in procession, to see if the corpse of the mighty Don Ramon Brull, who could stop or accelerate the course of justice on earth, rotting same The remains of other men.
III When Dona Bernarda was single and absolute mistress of her house, could not hide his satisfaction.
Now what would a woman could.
Had the advice and experience of Don Andres, more than ever attached to it and figure Rafael, the young lawyer named holder of Brull.
The prestige of the family remained unchanged.
Don Andrés, who with the death of his employer had purchased the house a second parent authority is responsible for maintaining relationships with the authorities in the capital Madrid and the big shots.
Don Ramon had left the machine and mounted perfectly adjusted; just had the oil to continue to march, and there was his widow, always active, just noticed the slightest squeak in the gears.
The provincial government is talking about the district with the same security as in the past. - It's ours.
Brull's son has the same force as his father.
The truth was that Rafael was not very interested party.
Gazed as one of the farms family whose lawful possession no one could compete, and merely to obey her mother: - "Go to Don Andres Riola.
Rather than go for the evening stroll to the casino.
When his mother forced him at night to visit the home of a wealthy, which suited be happy, I read, not as in Valencia the books you lent the canon, but works I bought as directed by the newspapers that he respected his mother volumes with holy reverence that inspired the paper sewn and bound, only comparable to contempt felt by newspapers devoted almost all of them to insult the holy things and promote the instincts of roguery.
Those years of reading at random and without scruples and fears of students, killed silently many of their strong beliefs that broke the mold from the mother's friends had gotten into his thought made him dream of a great life, which had no news that around him.
French novels he moved to Paris that obscured the little-known Madrid at the time of the doctorate, the stories of love waking up in your body young and virtuous no other missteps that the vulgar outpourings of student debauchery, a fierce adventures and complicated passions in beating some of the intense fire that had consumed her father.
He lived in the ideal world of his readings, rubbing with elegant women, perfumed, spiritual, of true art in the refinement of their vices.
The sunburned orchard that his father went mad and brutal aphrodisiac causábanle the same disgust as if they were women of another race, creatures of a lower caste.
The Misses of the city, seemed to him disguised as peasants, with the same instincts of selfishness and economy his parents, knowing the price it was sold oranges, knowing the number of hanegadas that each candidate had their baby, adjusting the love of wealth and believe that honesty was to be ruthless with anyone who did not fit their traditional life and mean.
For this deep boredom caused him his life monotonous and gray, separated by wide moat that purely imaginative afterlife enveloped him like a perfume exotic and exciting, emerging from the pages of books.
Someday he would be free, raise their wings, and this release was to take place when elected, he deputy.
Wanted to come of age as Crown Prince craves time to be crowned king.
From childhood he had come to expect this event would divide his life into two, introducing new ways to go directly to glory and wealth. - When my child is deputy - the mother told her rare outbursts loving expansion - as he's so cute, I played the girls and marry a millionaire.
And looking forward to this age, life went by Raphael, without alteration some, a candidate there, sure of his destination, awaiting the passage of time enter into life.
It was as noble children of other ages, which are graced in the crib the monarch with a title of colonel, playing spin the waiting time to go to catch head of his regiment.
He was born MP and it would, now expected between racks.
His trip to Italy, the papal pilgrimage, was all that disturbed the monotony of their existence.
Guided by the canon, most churches visited museums theaters only saw two, taking advantage of looseness that caused travel adventures in the austere character of his guide.
Passed indifferent to the artistic works of the famous temples and stopped to worship any absurd relic accredited by miracles.
But still he could see dimly as Rafael passing, a world different from her country, was fatally dragged its existence.
He felt the touch of the very life of pleasure and passion that absorbed in books like heady wine; and even from afar, admired in Milan's golden adventurous bohemia of the singers, in Rome, the splendor of an oligarchy and artist in perpetual rivalry with Paris and London and in Florence, the elegant English emigrated in search of sun, taking his canotiers Straw, the golden tresses of misses and bird chatter in the gardens where pondered the bleak poet and recounted his jolly tales Boccaccio to ward off the fear of plague.
That trip, quick as a cinematic vision, leaving a confusing tangle of Rafael names, buildings, paintings and cities, served to give their thoughts more fully and lightness, to make the gap even further isolated him in his ordinary life.
The continuous contact with these fantasies made her life intolerable boss forced to intervene in the affairs of his supporters, and at the risk of upsetting his mother, fleeing the casino, looking for the loneliness of the field.
There was developing more fluent their imagination, populated by beings fantastic the way and groves, often talking aloud with the heroines ideals about love, arranged according to the pattern of the last novel read.
One afternoon in late summer, Rafael climbed the little mountain of San Salvador, immediate to the city.
He liked to watch from that height the vast estate of the family.
All the people who inhabited the rich plain - as don Andres said describing the greatness of party - the name of Brull had a cattle iron.
Rafael, following the rocky road of rapid zigzags, recalled the mountains of Assisi had visited with his friend the canon, a great admirer of the Saint of Umbria.
It was a landscape ascetic.
The blue or red rocks poking their heads on the sides of the road, pine and cypress trees out of their grooves, extending over the barren land, their roots twisting and as a huge black snakes at intervals, white pillars with roof, and in the center, occupying a hollow tiles with the sufferings of Jesus on the streets of Bitterness.
Cypress Green waved his pointed hat as if to scare the white butterflies buzzing on rosemary and nettles, the pines stretched above her parasol, casting spots shadow on the burning road, where, hardened earth by the sun, crunched under feet.
On reaching the plaza Rafael chapel, rested from the climb, lying in the bank masonry which formed a large half moon to the sanctuary.
There reigned the silence of the heights.
The sounds from below, all the buzz of life and work constant of the vast plain, came overwhelmed and crushed by the wind, like a whisper of a distant swell.
Among the tight row of cacti that stretched behind the bench, fluttering insects, shining in the sun like gold buttons, filling the silence with tinnitus.
Some chickens - the Hermit - pecked at one end of the square, roughly clucking and shaking their feathers.
Rafael is plunged in the contemplation of the beautiful panorama.
No wonder they called it paradise their former owners, the Moors, whose grandparents came out of the magical gardens of Baghdad and accustomed to the splendor of the Arabian Nights, was entranced at the sight yet land for the first time in Valencia.
In the great valley, orange groves like a velvet wave, fences and fencing vegetation less dark, crimson land cutting into geometric forms, the groups of palm trees waving their suppliers of feathers, and leaves that jets would like to touch the sky falling then languid fainting; villas blue and pink, among clumps of gardening; white farmhouses almost hidden behind the green of a wood stud, the tall chimneys irrigation machines, yellow and singed the tip tapers, Alcira, with packed houses on the island and overflowing on the opposite bank, all of it a matte color Bone, riddled with windows, such as smallpox gnawed by a black hole.
Further, Carcagente, the rival city wrapped in the belt of lush gardens, for the sea, mountains angles, corners, with edges that look like the fantastic away castles imagined by Doré, and at the opposite end of the West Bank towns high, floating emerald lakes in their gardens, the distant mountains in a violet hue, and the sun starting to drop like a hedgehog gold, sliding between the gauzes formed by constant evaporation of irrigation.
Rafael, sitting up, looked behind the chapel floor throughout the West Bank, the extension of rice under the artificial flood, rich cities, Sueca and Cullera, poking its white houses on those fecund lagoons recalling the landscapes of India, beyond the Albufera the huge lake and a strip of tin boiling under the sun, which a distant murmur Valencia dust, marking storey on the hazy blue mountains, and in the background, serving Limit to this apotheosis of light and color, the Mediterranean, the Gulf blue and trembling, kept by Cape San Antonio and Sagunto and Almenara mountains cutting the horizon their black humps like great whales.
Looking Rafael in a hollow towers of the ruined convent of La Murta, almost hidden among pine forests, evoked the tragedy of the Reconquest, lamented the fate of those warriors alquiceles white farmers whose still seemed to float among the orange trees, the magic trees of the paradises of Asia.
It was an atavistic affection.
The Moorish heritage he had in his melancholy and dreamy, he was regrettable - contrary to their religious beliefs - the plight of the creators of that Eden.
He imagined the small feudal kingdoms of walis; domains similar to that of his family, only instead of being grounded in the influence and the process, holding spear of those riders who tilled the land as well pranced in meetings and meetings with elegance unmatched by any gentleman.
Valencia saw the court with his poetic Ruzafa gardens, where poets sang mournful verses to the decline of the Moor Valencia, listened to the beautiful, hidden behind the tall roses
