Magdalena made a gesture of doubt as if he had a weak residue of hope, which strove to maintain. - Do not you think Oliver and will not return more than what is right - I added firmly.
I gave him know the reasons good or bad that decided the fate of his sister.
I explained Oliver's character, his absolute disgust for marriage.
I insisted on his belief - perhaps unreasonable, but without reply, - that any woman would be unhappy, not just a given, but all without exception.
So I tried to mitigate what could have wounding resistance. - What makes a point of integrity - said to Madeleine, as the last argument.
He smiled sadly at the word probity so badly matched the irreparable misfortune whose responsibility weighed, their eyes on Oliver. - It's the happiest of us all - he said.
Two days later, Julia was already able to take some walking around the room.
The indomitable force this little being, secretly trained as hard evidence, but not slowly revived within hours.
Just in convalescence, viósela straightened against the humiliating memory have been caught, so to speak, in weakness, locking fight with physical evil, dream that could win and dominate.
Two days later had the strength to go down the hall alone, refusing all support, but the weakness of sweat covering the thinned skin on your face and although successive bouts of weakness would make it falter at every step.
The paths taken by soft woods.
Returned revived, just by breathing the smell of heated oak a bright sun.
Stranger entered the castle, almost pink, touched by a chill feverish, but good omen that it was only the effect of the active return of blood impoverished veins.
I was shocked seeing revival in that way, for so little, a ray of sunshine in winter and a little resinous smell of cut wood, and I realized that empecinaría to live with an obstinacy that promised long miserable days. - Is he ever Oliverio? - I asked Magdalena. - Never. - Do you think about it constantly? - Constantly. - What do you think that will last? - Always - Magdalena said.
Free from the concern that for three weeks, was chained to the bedside Julia bed, it seemed as if Magdalene had lost his mind.
Seized it that proved stunning and positively crazy extraordinary foresight, of exaltation and daring.
I recognized that look in the theater I realized that we were in danger; and taking everything to extremes, threw me piece by piece, so to speak, his heart head, as he had done that night with her bouquet.
We spent three days taking walks and making daring expeditions, three days of unprecedented happiness that can call themselves a rabid sense of destruction of their homes, sort of moon blatant and desperate groups, no example, nor by emotions or regrets by and that seems like nothing is not at this time of heavy and mournful satisfaction during which allowed all those sentenced to die the next day.
The third day, despite my resistance, she demanded to ride one horse of her husband. - I will accompany you - I said, - I have need to hurry and get away.
I did like her and followed her.
When he saw I was going to reach speeds up the march, lashed to his horse and threw no reason to escape.
I took the same air as she stood and made a new effort that left me behind.
That persecution irritating, rampant, I was beside myself.
She rode an animal very Lightweight and managed so that their speed tenfold.
Just sitting up all the to further reduce body weight, without a cry, without a gesture, ran madly as carried by a bird.
In my time I did my horse galloping at full speed, still, dry lips with mechanical fixity of a jockey in a race to the bottom.
She was still in the midst of a a bit narrow path enclosed by the edges, so that did not fit two horses in front unless you do not ladeara.
Seeing stubborn of closing the door, climbed on the forest and some time so I went along with the constant risk of breaking my head against the trees, and the time is right to block his way, postage jumped the decline and fall deep in the way I stopped my horse and quartering.
There was, therefore, a halt to two steps Me and the two horses, panting, covered with foam as if they had been reared the feeling that their riders wanted to fight.
I truly believe Magdalena and I look with anger to the point that bizarre game mixing the excitement and challenge about other feelings untranslatable.
He stood before me, the whip handle, shell between the teeth, livid cheeks, bloodshot eyes, splashing of bloody glare; then uttered one or two convulsive laughter that froze me.
At least one minute, as Bernardo de Mauprat attracted Edma steps, looked run under the green branches of oaks, the veil in the wind, her long wavy dark rider with supernatural agility of a black devil.
When he had reached the end of trail and saw no more than a red dot on the bottom of the forest re-launched my horse to escape breathing, to my regret, a cry of despair.
Come to the right place where he had been away, I found at the intersection of two roads, stop, panting, waiting with a smile on his lips. - Magdalena - I said, rushing toward her and grabbing her by the arm you .-- Cessation this cruel game, stop you or I kill me.
I just answered with a direct gaze that made me go flush to the face and took more slowly by the way the castle.
We returned to the step, without exchanging a word, our horses matched, rubbing his jaw and covering each other with foam.
Foot cast land on the fence, walked through the yard sand whipping the ground with the whip up straight to his room and did not reappear until the evening.
Magdalena on breaking the color changed. - The Lord of Nièvre is good.
Then he complained of feeling very tired and retired.
It was not like the previous night.
Nièvre decided to leave the next day and had resolved completely going, without reflection or more calculation.
At midnight there was still light in the room of Magdalene.
A group of maples planted near the castle in front of the windows of his room received a reddish glow that every night when I suggested that she ended the vigil.
An hour after midnight was seen even in the glare.
I wore light shoes and went downstairs in the dark.
So I went to the apartment door Magdalena located at the opposite end of July to the end of an endless corridor.
In the absence of her husband a single maidservant slept near her.
I heard two or Three times I seemed to hear the dry sound nervous little cough that was common to Magdalena in moments of deep despair or disappointment.
I placed my hand in the door: it was fantastic the key.
My heart beat to the breaking point, I was like stupefied and trembling from head to toe.
I wandered down the hall in complete darkness, after I was like stuck in a place without any idea of ??what he would do.
The only thing about which I had no doubt - and yet undecided, and - was that a fall would kill Magdalena that was beyond any possible discussion, I will not survive even one hour.
I know not tell you what was what saved me.
I found myself in the park without knowing why or how there was gone.
In comparison with the darkness of the corridors, outdoor was clear even though it seems to me there was no moon or stars.
The compact mass of trees was as curled long black hills at the foot of which the windings are distinguished the rides whitish.
Long after a cold feeling inside I got a little me.
I went back inside, locked the doors with the dexterity of a sleepwalker or a robber and clothing as it was I dropped on my bed.
At dawn he was up just remembering the nightmare that had made me miss all night saying: "Today depart." And that purpose Magdalena informed as soon as I saw it. - As you wish - I replied.
I was horribly broken and was seized with a flurry of body and soul that made me damage. - We see our patients - I said a little after noon.
I accompanied her and went to town.
He was the soul and eyes elsewhere.
He took a step backwards first staggered, then fell forward and fainted in my arms.
As I dragged myself to my room, only had one desire, that I found collapsed on the stairs.
I threw myself at her feet, took his hands without resist, sobbing.
That will be easier still.
It was Sunday and found him with his family.
In the monotonous lullaby of that constant and long sound of the wind and rain, but did not think in the tumult that occur around the room and the dream of Magdalena, where he slept
