So he had taken breakfast with his uncle, began out, to begin to put into practice what had been prescribed.
Before the rectory was the way that right and drove down to the people and left and drove up to Lada, the same one he had brought.
Behind was a declining little garden with vegetables and fruit trees after a forest garden, also decline, which belongs to the meek of the parish and called the Mata.
It was a shock in the true meaning of the word, but formed a grove of trees of various kinds, planted by the predecessor of the current pastor, and who would not have in existence over forty years.
Because of that, which grow slowly, such as oak, walnut, beech, etc., still did not have the build that had to reach over time, whereas others had in the fullness of its development.
Bananas could be seen splendid proud with its wide branches Peak ruffled leaves, dark elms magnificent carved art glass and needles cathedrals, and very thick and made of tiny leaves, large and sturdy-looking brown patriarchal exuberant health and freshness, they sported alongside their white birch delicate stems.
Wild acacias were also contending with a weak pillar vast vault of leaves, numerous ash elegant figure, representing in his bowl well cut classical neatness; Espinera wild yew, poplar, mulberry and other various kinds of trees, all fraternizing in the piece of land jungle parish hobbies the former priest had been assigned.
Andrew felt an irresistible desire ensotarse in the thicket.
Despite the vague terror of the unknown that always inspires a forest, especially when there have been more than Retiro de Madrid, and the reasonable fear that the bugs tend to there lair, entered it resolutely.
Vegetation had never seen such a powerful, dedicated entirely to itself, free to aggrandize whims and strange and monstrous bear.
The good priest had thrown a handful of germs land in that tissue.
Nature had answered the call with a jolt formidable internal forces, raising the turf on a huge temple moving domes, a cathedral whose shafts vegetables of all colors and sizes lined indefinite series of sight.
And their high arches and thick, sometimes torn by a special treat for that saw the sky, down more pleasant freshness, more silence religious craft of stone of our Gothic churches.
Light, entering with effort through the manifold to the lattice, fell on the grass discreet, mysterious, full of exquisite sweetness, inviting deep emotions and soft.
Experienced a delicious confusion by putting the plant at that site.
The sharp, penetrating odor of the jungle, full of balmy emanations, product of the sweat of trees and earth, intoxicated him sweetly.
The infinite variety of lights and shadows danced unceasingly, the contrast the various shades of green, from deep black to gold, he obfuscated.
He sat, or rather, he fell on the grass, and rushed at once with admiration, fear, welfare and surprise, turned its sights around, contemplating the sublime temple of nature.
Dared not even lift a finger not to disturb the quiet majesty and peace of their craft.
Forgot at one point of his life, its pleasures and its pains: believed to be born again in other regions higher, purer, happier.
Those trees full of vigor, filled with health and strength, he seduced: August immobility, recollection with their drinks, he caused a sensation depressing: the strength of his huge arms, which spread through space firm and powerful, full of sap, he instilled awe and envy.
The forest was offered to all wild life and lush, with the verve and the pride of Youth: no decayed tree, no plant withered, all male, all healthy, yet strong.
Never has the weak nature of our young man felt so humiliated.
Along those athletes crass and replete who held his muscles effortlessly holding the mass of their tops, felt so poor, so small that he was astonished to live.
But this humiliation, far from causing pain, seemed to regenerate.
A strange joy penetrated in his heart and was spreading through him, flooding in such a way that caused her anguish.
It was a joy that was squeezing his throat and blood cooling.
Never experienced sensation of pleasure so pure and so deep a sense of beauty.
For the first time He who had written so many thousands of verses!
came face to face poetry, the heart said it clearly.
It was genuine poetry, radiant and clear, without verses or consonants far from cuttings, which arises from the communication of a sensitive soul with nature.
Was poetry at that time expressed a Blackbird, which came to rest nearby, with his notes pure and crystalline.
The forest shuddered to hear the cry that piping, that sweet and melodious song which reflected the freshness, the harmonies, the mysterious spells forest, directing them to the Maker as a morning hymn of thanksgiving.
What I felt was so fresh, so sweet, coming to harm.
VII Rang for the third time the bells of the church, responding with a busy concert and unintelligible to clear and calm song of the blackbird.
Was church not far from the rectory.
When he reached it, had not yet finished the Rosary in the villages on Sundays preceding the bloodless sacrifice.
But only attend Rosary women and the devotees, lucid minds, the temperaments of the village Voltaireans stay on the porch smoking and talking loudly.
Sometimes the voices are so high that the healing is on accuracy out to impose silence.
For this reason, I always pronounced a speech in which calls, among other things, scribes, but the recalcitrant parishioners offended do not give, and receive Shepherd stones down the head with an ironic smirk.
Our young man entered the church, which was small and poor, and after making a genuflection before the altar, went to the sacristy, even the poorest little room to the church, a round window through which came the sun's rays.
A chest with handles as a desk occupied the entire bottom of the larger canvas wall, a crucifix horribly bloody hung over the ark.
The first thing he encountered was with Celeste, kneeling at the door, praying the rosary.
Scattered about the room, some sitting, some kneeling, were: the schoolteacher, who was an effeminate young blonde with farmer in suit holiday, the clerk of the place, who worked all week and come Saturday Lada afternoon to spend Sunday with his family, his thin face, aquiline nose, aspect of fox; a gentleman named D.
James, son of the people, who had recently arrived from America: olive color, small eyes and sunken diseased liver, forty-five to fifty years old, the clerk and two or three people, whose appearance represented the transition between the farmer and the gentleman. - Good morning, gentlemen. - Santos and good ones you have.
The string ended at once.
Fermin entered the sacristy as haughty and furious the conquistador who sets foot in a city surrendered, came with incredible arrogance saying and cruelty: - This night is cold as in December, I do not think we will have fruit this year.
However, the clerk dared to humbly point would not miss more than the early fruit, the next morning still could be achieved. - Do you? - Said the priest, fixing his eyes fraught with threats. - Yes, sir - "said the clerk with great presence of mind.
Against what might be presumed, Fermin did not fall like a thunderbolt on it.
He took a huge herbs handkerchief to blow and replied: - Do not know what to tell you, D.
Felix, now all the sap up and just dropped flower ... - That's what! ...
The pears are hard crust, and the chestnut and walnut trees same - said the clerk with increasing boldness.
It looked terrifying by the priest. - I shall be glad, D.
Felix, I rejoice, my pear Marco have taken a flower cart that year ...
I do not wish for something good, that I lose the harvest ...
Felix how has your Pomarada?
The priest, as he spoke, had thrown from the bonnet and began to get the dawn of canvas helped by the teacher and the sexton.
Felix gave a detailed description of the state his farm: Some orchards had charged much, others, however, did not have a single apple .-- Something strange is happening with the cider - ended by saying while fixing a fold of dawn, the teacher and the sexton had left a bad .-- Before the orchards produced a year and lay other.
Now they are content to give a handful of apples every year. - Merear, Domine, et portare manipulum fletus Doloris - murmured the priest, placing the handpiece left arm .-- Come, D.
Felix, God does not offend you with these complaints.
A man Gentlemen (turning to the bystanders), which last year collected thirty-seven pipes ... - So what does that matter?
I have collected thirty-seven pipes of cider and I have fifteen days ox de Pomar, and D.
Pedro Marin has no more than nine, and two years ago got into Winery near fifty pipes. - Redd mihi, Domine quam stolam inmortalitatis perdidi, etc .-- murmured the priest put on his stole .-- But tell me how you have paid to pipes and how they have paid to Don Pedro. - Hum, hum! - Growled the clerk, caught in the trap. - Hey ...
Great sound in the church to the appearance of the priest, the women kneel, most of men as well.
In the sacristy operates a movement of concentration towards the door.
Don Fermín, within the sanctuary, leaning deeply, begin to recite dark hollow voice the prayers of the Mass, a child next to him replied.
The teacher Celesto the clerk and open a huge red letters missal, place it on the ark of dress, and with shrill voice begin to sing.
Impossible to give more disharmonious and devilish.
Andrew, after having referred to a moment in terror, took refuge at the door and from there began exploring the corners of the church.
Was entirely occupied by people of the village, all farmers, women in front, dressed most part of black serge cloth, tissue color to the throat and head covered with a blanket flannel, the men behind green baize jacket or yellow corduroy breeches, white woolen stockings garters subject of color.
The young courtier, not very fervent, walked over and again his eyes distracted by the competition now looking at a woman who pinched her son to watch was then in an old man who prayed with his arms crossed, later in children who were entertained to get his head through the railings of the altar.
There were some pretty nice faces between women, fresh and rosy, which, though appearing much attention and devotion, did not stop back often, and with obvious curiosity, to the pale stranger who leaning on the doorway of the sacristy.
There was, in particular, a dark, funny slightly aquiline nose, mouth, tiny and fresh, not too big eyes either, but black and alive, narrow forehead, and adorned with curls of black hair, who managed to draw your attention .-- Go salt girl! - thought, devouring both eyes.
A young villager also Andrew had to wonder, because he looked long and fixedly at a good time, no matter none of the nagging curiosity of it.
After I had examined her taste, gave a very slight grimace with the lips and narrowed his eyes again to the altar.
The stranger, the perception clear and fine learned man, guessed by this face that had not liked.
The swarthy face never again to bow to his side throughout the duration of the mass.
Instead, Andrew a kind of magnetic attraction, just might take your eye.
By moving the missal to read the Gospel, she got up, took a wax taper before her, placed on a stick, and went to turn it into one of the two candles burning at the foot of the gate the altar.
Then our hero beheld a figure higher than low, slender and graceful, a chest raised and ruled that, shall we say to the detriment of its purity, was not the least impression did from the beginning.
Upon arrival at the Offertory, the priest was about to preach to his parishioners.
Some of these, closest to the door, got out, the women sat, in the sacristy, the clerk also sat on a bench, took the silver snuff bottle and began to roll a cigarette: were quick to go with some others.
Andrew, the teacher and D.
James remained at the door. - "I have to tell you one thing - began the priest in the cavernous tone he could assume I have .-- to tell you that you are a true Pharisees, because aparentáis meet the requirements of Our Lord Jesus Christ and Our Holy Mother the Church, and do, I understand you, mockery of them in secret.
However, if a hand is, do not mind working in holiday, missing one of the first commandments of the law of God, saying 'sanctify the parties ... " What are my parishioners in times of grass, as now, is a true scandal, and is yielding to say, I understand you, all the pious of the council.
With the freshness up the grass on Sundays, load and go with the car screaming by the middle of town, as if God did not look up, as if a key with your sin spine over the head of our Redeemer.
This is not good, not good, and I hope corrijáis you, if you will not be whitewashed tombs of the Gospel tells us, full rot, do you understand me, and filth inside and clean on the outside ...
that's ... "But someone will say:" So, under no circumstances, you can work on Sundays? ...
If Juan, Pedro and Diego, for instance, have tended grass in the field, and fear that they will lose not put it in the tinada as soon as possible, either because the day dawns cloudy and threatening rain, or do you understand me, because it is dry few days or for any other reason, if they seize the Sunday morning to put it, and effectively put, trying not to give scandal ...
But if John, Peter or Diego are set to stir the pot or put it on a Sunday to be more unemployed on Monday, or because you understand me, want to conclude the sooner this work to begin another or that they have it in the tinada before other neighbors, or any other cause that is not legitimate ...
You can not work on holidays without a cause that While those that are heard at the door ...
Those who work sin mortally and are doomed, if not cleaned in the sacred tribunal of Penance, to eternal punishment hell. "Therefore, you know ...
The third commandment of the law of God is "sanctifying parties. "Everyone is required, I understand you, to keep the holy days of obligation, not only for the good of our soul, but for the example you give good behavior of others.
Those who miss this sacred precept without commit a grave sin.
God rested the seventh day when he made the universe, and wants us to rest also ... "Therefore, you know ..." The priest still continued good effort while dragging the car of the word, repeating the same concepts, sometimes with the same words, looking at the knuckles, to rub gently, new ideas and arguments.
The voice was deep, particularly when periods ending: at first, but that deep twang.
The faces of the parishioners expressed resigned boredom.
Women sat on the floor, watching the priest face to face with distracted eyes.
Men door yawning, opening the mouth to the jaw out of joint.
Jaime, tired to listen, also retreated to the bench where he was the scribe.
He set a animated conversation about what the neighbors would collect for the feast parish I was not far away.
The clerk, D.
Jaime and another claimed that there were the cause of the neighbors were opposed to be taxed, saying the factory was still some funds: the teacher and Celeste defended the priest.
At last he finished his talk, and continued the service.
All returned to their original positions.
The singers were just as they now say but amen and et cum spiritu tuo, responding the priest.
When he, after singing Mass solemnly ite est, his blessing to people, the bystanders turned on each other, saying a "good morning" and rushing amical to collect the hats.
Some left, others, including Andrew, were waiting for the cure he entered the sacristy mumbling Latin, downcast eyes and folded hands.
After took off his cassock, he greeted his friends with expansion.
When our young man left the church bells rang merrily.
The sun bathed and all the valley.
