Rafael begged quietly; crawl boldly begged him misfortune.
Should leave alone, then later and would, seek opportunity to be seen, perhaps it could be in Madrid, when the courts open was there alone, she would sing at the Royal free if necessary.
Just one night without feeling your body confused with yours, would despair.
Would eventually be given to the mortal sadness Macchia, it would shoot as the Italian poet.
The lover continued to protest.
If married, if I left after escaping a woman to cry betrayal, children being called in vain, yet understand that resistance; the reluctance of a good heart who will not leave your love behind it the curse of a dispersed family.
But who left in their flight?
On his mother only to be consoled knowing that soon he was healthy and was happy.
His mother, who objected to the blind maternal love that does not want to find love rivalries and jealousies hinders child sometimes happiness.
The evil which would result in following her she would not be irreparable.
Flee together, walk about his love for the world.
And Leonora, head down, he repeated feebly - No, I am determined.
Parting morning alone.
I have no strength to face the hatred of a mother.
Rafael was angry. - Then I do not love me.
You're tired of me.
Want to lift the wings drives you madness of the past, want to fly again for your world crazy.
And in his irresistible urge to tell everything, not to forgive the story of any of the dangers which should come after the separation, Rafael spoke of his mother, what would happen to be alone with her mired in the monotony of the city.
I wanted, it was her only child, but his calculations went much ambition, that desire for the aggrandizement of the house, which had occupied their whole existence.
I had intended, without consulting his wishes, to serve as a hostage in the alliance pondered with a large fortune.
I wanted to marry him: and if she was leaving, if it looked lonely, abandoned, sadness and the time that everything may bite her will, to make him fall inert, giving as a victim that stunning does not cover the importance of sacrifice.
