In addition, I note that something distracted you, that always crosses a deep wrinkle your forehead, a sign of serious meditations ...
to meet you yesterday and today a little haggard ... - Well, do not bring bad crib with my face! - He said smiling under this smile shone through anger.
Indeed, the generally explore all the time Miguel's face as the sailor on the time.
Sometimes he was pale, sometimes weary, other melancholy, some overly cheerful; never failed to have something that catches your attention.
This eternal and scrupulous inspection I was flattered at first, then I got bored a little, and had recently become irritated. - And why you're angry, ungrateful! - Said Lucy .-- If I see your face, you do not look more than her, everything else seems irrelevant ...
Although it did not cause any impression metaphors of the General's love, Michael softened. - I can not, Lucia ...
If your taste trasformarte at a light and note all the variations I experience, what do we do?
It is a test of love that I thank you.
The General thought he should continue with the same subject. - You can not imagine, Miguel, I suffer when I see you sad, what joy when you happy ...
This idea kills me, let me stiff, as if the sky is falling ...
Also die of grief, and if not die, too bad for her ...
I do not want to think about it, Michael, because all saddens me.
The General had used this resource many times, always with the same success.
A Miguel Grace did not like in these gloomy ideas and tried to steer the conversation to another point.
To alleviate a bit the bad effect of this sudden movement, approached the lady smiling and lovingly stroked her face. - I have a letter to the newspaper started ...
I need to finish before he leaves the post.
Farewell, my love ...
That my love was delivered in a distracted, routine, which would have mortified the Generally, if it were not common in her speech also caress her lover. - How quickly!
Lucia got up too and threw her arms around the mime before.
Miguel endured that embrace and even made efforts to be excited. - Wait a little - said the general's pulling away and taking a bunch that were on the fire .-- Take these flowers, put them in front of you when you write, so when you lift your head remember your Lucia.
Miguel took the bouquet and kissed him mechanically, as was his custom whenever generala gave him some object in memory, then said goodbye.
Leaving the Challet had less oppressed heart on leaving Romeo Juliet that famous night that the reader will surely know, but its path was at least as light.
Wanted to reach the ninth time in San Ramon Nonnato to be held for days in the church of San Pedro.
Maximina saw there, which was bound by a sympathy irresistible.
And you most excited about was that she had accepted her love without that reservation that the fear of being deceived state requires the girls, when a young superior status goes to celebrate.
Maxi was his girlfriend had no need to overcome scruples and cautions that the calculation or evil thought enters the affecting them.
He gave his heart with innocence, like a natural thing or could not be otherwise.
The only thing that made her hesitate at first was the surprise to be directed it in preference to other young people who went around town for much nicer, a Once convinced that it had the bad taste to find beautiful or at least sympathetic, no far found little difference in wealth or imagined that anything could be nothing but a pure and frivolous pastime for the young stranger.
He opened his mind love with the innocence that the flower opens its cup to the sun.
And that shy girl, melancholy and reflective, in a few days had experienced remarkable transfiguration, joy brimming with his soul on to her attractive face did not have before, thanks to their movements, sound to her laugh, brighten your word.
Observolo with pleasure, the pleasure of the artist looking at the work output of their hands, was another incentive to stay in love without counting the fatal consequences that this could bring honest flirtation.
When he was away from the general's house, near the shore and where Ursula was waiting with his boat, took a look at bouquet in her hand, and thought it was great annoying to lead the church, saying: - Where am I going with this load of grass! - what onto the floor, and quickly followed his way without thinking about it.
The ninth of San Ramon attracted many people to the church of San Pedro.
It was a large temple, dirty and dark until day: night, with four or five oil lamps hung here and there over long distances gave a sinister aspect.
But now the canopy of lights that burned around the image glad a very wide circle where protruding heads of the pious women who were placed in first row.
Miguel used to enter the church through the sacristy door, and from there, taking a little head, looked across the illuminated portion of the temple.
Looks like you're sad and you cried (the secret had been tuteaba few days: she did not dare to do it occasionally, when the young man as strongly required.) Maximina walked in silence. - Do you have fought your aunt? - No.
The girl looked at him with pleading eyes. - There's just a little difficult for this writer, who visited many days, is my girlfriend ...
I said you could not breathe.
Finally a more talkative and less well intentioned than the others, it reported sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to the heart, but tried to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front of her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because after a while she felt sick and had to unbutton dress hastily, lest they drown
