He did not disdain olive branches and flowers and winning graceful palms that day received of his triumph.
His faithful, more simple and naive, love love material objects him, and surrounded by roses and herbs, in the early days of May, the sacred tree it was his gallows, and when, and below the spring, when the unfolding richer vernal Church celebrates the sacred mystery whereby he wanted to communicate to us, infused in the liquor that gladdens the hearts and the bread that feeds us, the people Christian gayomba smelly carpet and fresh green pine needles the passageway for, and women shed a rain of flowers on the artistic and golden temple, ark of the new alliance, where he is in custody.
Must be confessed, is unfounded, is unfair accusation of the wicked.
Doctrine did not come of Christ to condemn or devilish nature.
The three enemies of the doctrine capital not have less influence, jurisdiction and control in the realm of spirit than of matter.
So, a rule of thumb, it can be ensured, without fear of being exaggerated, that even the things that seem natural, nature, although under review, has made Six-party one, and the spirit of man has the other five.
For this spiritualism and not by Christianity, the natural disdain: Do not feel all the beauty of spring.
If you do not have, or in your chest, or in your pocket, some of these tejoletes or some such Spiritual vile papers, all the flowers will seem thistles, and spring, winter, and the you carnations flower smelling like sardines, the marjoram, wild thyme, lemon balm and basil, rue and infect you, leaves you velvety punctured Begonia hands as if they were Scotch thistle, by touching the touch gorse believe mimosa pudica and nettles will be for you as spurge peppermint and chamomile, the cane will be bitter sweet the palate as a broom, to the red pomegranate blossom prefer the yellow arugula; confuse the nightingale's song with the frog you crave crows and owls doves pigeons; and butterflies painted and air, and the slender damselflies, fireflies and lucent and fireflies and aromatic macuba fly will cause you more disgusted that the weevils, cockroaches and dung beetles.
Science does not depopulated the nature or penetrates their innermost secrets.
The mystery continues and will continue forever.
Mysticism, which seeks for the shortest path to their God, in the abyss of our own soul, not seek to have him there in solitary confinement.
The axiom of this sublime science capital is infinite intelligence that is not the word Finally, only the beginning of things, while being so close and central to where gravitate, and the point where their disagreements are peace, and shaking homes, and solution its contradictions and its qualities perfect unity and conditions.
In this high sense, all things ascent towards greater good and perfect life all progressive evolution of a race of beings, in a marked space and a period greater or lesser time, is a spring.
Things, looks at a whole move, not Indeed, in a circle and back to the point where they started.
On the whole there is no progress.
With it, total if we could assume something added to the glory of God.
Although there deep of his being, the idea is and live with all its future development and refinement, while it go at least as much to process without end, it looks as it grows divine glory as God is more creative than before, as his works are giving increasingly clear and fulfilled testimony of his knowledge and his omnipotence.
The immutability of perfection implies God's infinite perfection total immutability of the universe, which is the work yours.
It is, however, moving into the details, and hence the partial or temporary progress this or that.
As I engrossed in meditation metaphysics, I might add, with all due respect (not to God, for whom it would be absurd and ridiculous to go out with this exception, but apparently other meditators) divine wealth does not grow or decline, it's not quantity, is infinite.
God is always creating, and always has everything set up.
If you would create an atom would be more creative, if you annihilate, would be less, if somewhat improved throughout, would be corrected in some way, himself.
So to hold back the progress of our planet is partial and transient, is offset by a decline or to other worlds, and is limited in time, although dilate hundreds of thousands of years, and in space, but covers the entire solar system which we belong, and even a complete set of suns, our sun is minimal part.
Considering now the evolution of life, within such a wide space, we may declare years maximum for which we live, that, in the spring.
The maximum spring of this year began, according to authoritative scholars, makes twenty million of years younger and usual.
A brown race, which is then and they belong to the Egyptians, gives an age of 15,000 years, rising in improving of the black race.
Comes to light after the yellow race, whose most famous representatives are the Chinese and Japanese.
And he is, after all, race white Aryans, Semites, Caucasians, etc.., which is granted 8,000 years old least.
Just if mankind is born.
Sylphs have my human figure.
At this point, if we incur a rational speculation, our concepts are equal, but to count on extended to greater numbers, to notice much, Sylphs beat us, penetrate your senses and see and perceive depths extension of time, volume and duration in the infinitely small, where the median, the mean for us, the universe of a cubic kilometer is more daunting for them the whole vastness of the heavens to us
