Another day took him to church Groom packet of letters she had for the read.
Later he asked the scapular necks, and both urged and argued such pretexts, which concluded by get it.
The next day he confessed, smiling, that was not to put it to a friend who had just died, but to bring her on the chest.
The little jokes which Blessed be allowed to speak also exceeded sometimes desirable ranges.
One day he said suddenly: - Do you know what I'm thinking, father?
The angel who comes often to get the hand on the head's eyes are very similar to yours.
And burst out laughing as he said.
The cleric also laughed, blushing.
Then it was serious and moody.
A strange incident, which shocked the town, came in an indirect way to further strengthen and disturb their relationship to P.
One night he woke up terrified by the noise of a detonation inside the house.
Jumped up and ran to the room D.
Miguel, where he figured he had come.
To reach it froze in terror at the scene which appeared in sight.
A man rolled in the middle of the room in a pool of blood, while D.
The case had been that, being the priest in bed, a man had entered her bedroom, had awakened and summoned him to give you the money.
Miguel threw undeterred hand to the vest, took the key and threw it into the middle of the room.
Then, as the thief picked it up, took one of the guns under the bed and had shot him leaving tended.
The toilet, dominating his fright, quick to give spiritual aid.
The event is said a lot and very different way in the village.
Was entitled to defend itself from an outlaw that God knows what would after stealing it.
Fr Gil was deeply shocked, but kept silent.
Obdulia transpired the feelings that agitated him and advised him to leave the rectory and settled in another house. - You can no longer live there after what happened, Father.
The scare has led been very strong, and every day has to be renewed the impression viewing the site.
This was not exactly what he meant, but a truly Christian man virtuous living must suffer many things beside who had just violent death a fellow.
But if he did not say with words, was left to guess at the seriousness and sadness of their continent.
Fr Gil longed for a long time otherwise.
Now, after the murder (as he described their conscience) it had become unbearable.
Michael had incurred the censure of the Church, he withdrew licenses for confession and say Mass: the rehabilitation would arrive a season.
Taking advantage of those moments of terrible weakness of the priest, with the help of her godmother rented a house not far from the church and moved to it.
A former Ms Eloisa maid came to serve and be his housekeeper.
Freed from fear of the pastor, Obdulia began to frequent the new home of Excuses carry on high surveillance.
Enterábase of linen, robes of state, of the foods that most pleased the father, of the peculiarities of his bed.
But also engaged in some work thinner, in embroidering a little master, or a body or any other article of clothing priesthood
