A traveler passing through a lonely poet hears the ringing of a bell, which detract from the meditations in which he was enthralled.
In its soul is home to the faith, but it is inaccessible to the religious inspiration.
That sound pious in the heart of the desert changes Suddenly the disposition of his mind, and takes you to savor in a serious and severe melancholy.
They soon discover the silent mansion where they seek asylum, far in the world, innocence and repentance.
Arrives, dismount, llama, with a mixture of respect and curiosity, and stepping on the threshold of the monastery is a venerable old man, his face serene, cuts and gentle treatment.
The traveler is presented with affectionate warmth, is driven to the church, the cloisters, at the library, wherever there is something to admire or notice.
The old monk did not turn from his hand, holding the conversation with discernment and good taste, be lenient with the views of the new-comer, as he lends can please you, and not separated from him, but when the hour of meeting its duties.
The traveler's heart is gently shaken, the silence interrupted only by the singing of psalms, the crowd of religious objects that inspire contemplation and piety, together with the estimable qualities and to the kindness and condescension of the old cenobite Traveler's heart inspire feelings of religion, of admiration and gratitude, that Mrs.
If such a situation in spirit our poet to place him in their relationships interlayer reflections on the trip religious institutes, what do you think they say?
For him, the institution will at the monastery and the monastery will be embodied in the monk whose memory fascinates him.
Count it with an eloquent piece for religious institutes to be against philosophers who condemn an ??imprecation against revolutions which destroy them, tears of sorrow upon the ruins and tombs.
But woe to the monastery, and all monastic institutions, if the traveler had been found with a host of bad mood, dry and bland conversation, fond little beauties literary and artistic works, and nothing good humor to accompany curious!
In the eyes of the poet, the monk would have been the personification of unpleasant high school, and in punishment of bad reception, had been convicted of this type of life, and accused of bringing down the spirit, strengthen the heart, separate treatment of men, be rough and rude manners, and bring countless ills without producing any good.
And yet, the reality of the cases would have remained the same in either case, mediating only happened that would grant the visitor reception more or less rosy. § XI.
Need to be fixed ideas.
It has been said that the big thoughts born of the heart, and could have added, to the heart are born too large errors.
History is not written without any attempt to philosophize about it.
The indifferent and the human race.
miserable lot of dust, should forget that soon will scatter the wind?
Weak creature, "perhaps with media account to change your fate in this region you do not know, the happiness or misery are they for you indifferent?
If there is such a judge, who do not want to take care, do you expect will be satisfied if the call to view answer: 'What do I care to your commands, or your very existence? "Before unleashing your tongue with such foolish speeches, take a look at yourself, think of this weak organization that the slightest incident can upset, and very short time must be sufficient to consume; and then sit on a grave, recógete and meditate. § III.
Existence of God.
Curing the good thinker of pretending to indifference, deeply convinced that religion is the matter of highest importance, it should go further and devise as follows: Is it likely that all religions are no more than an accumulation of errors, and that the doctrine the rejection of all true?
Raise your eyes to the sky, the face of tiéndelos the earth, look what you yourself are, and seeing everywhere grandeur and order, say, if you dare: 'the one who has done perhaps the world, the case I have done to me, the building is admirable, but there is no architect, the mechanism is amazing, but no architect, the order exists without computer, without wisdom to devise the plan, without being able to execute him. "This reasoning that the most insignificant case of artifacts, would be negligible and even contrary to common sense, can it be applied to the universe?
What is foolish with respect to the small, Is it prudent to relation to big? § IV.
It is possible that all religions are true
