And I said to myself: Happy Linilla!
Neither Gabriel nor I returned his face to the street.
I could not utter a word. - Is not it true that you love each other?
Answer me, Rudolph! - Listen to me before, Gabriela, such happy news with you so happy. - Oh, - burst the beautiful lady, illuminated by multicolored lights reflections Bengal .-- So glad !....
Gabriela sensed what was going to say.
As an invisible being whispered into my ears.
A very tender letter, a very heartfelt letter! - Who? - Ernesto. - Yes? - Does it surprise you? - No ...
The resolution of you ...
the wishes of Don Carlos .... - My father will transfer ....
Ernesto loves me, I'm sure of it! ...
Begs, pleads, and I can not despise because I love him ....
I will kill you in the heart of fatal passion Ernesto ...
They say I'm beautiful, they say I'm intelligent, I'm kind ....
The poor lady looked down, and was thoughtful and silent.
Entered through a window flood of light, and stay, almost dark, lit with melancholy moonlight.
Boot hundreds of rockets, fired at once, leaving the atrium.
Stood, laying on the giant space curves, thundered overhead, and explosion flowed streams of gold dust, hundreds of lights that resembled descending a shower of stones.
Gabriela Domino his dejection, and said quietly, with stealth expressive accent: - Today I said to Ernest.
Dad ignores it, just you know ....
The party was over, the crowd dispersed, and the circles of Don Carlos out looking for ladies to say goodbye.
Half an hour later I was in my house.
A letter that never reached Angelina.
LXI At seven, tired of waiting for my aunt Pepilla, I sat at the table.
Pepilla aunt put at one end of the table the book and the rosary, and taking off her shawl threw himself on the back of a chair. - Are you going today? - Yes, aunt, then we end.
There on my desk is a letter to Linilla.
You send it to who comes from San Sebastian.
Today or tomorrow will come the boy .... - If you saw, Rorra, - said my aunt hastily - I already coming into care.
Ago more than two weeks that we have no news of Angelina.
I will write this afternoon, so if anyone comes not have to wait ....
Then I have to go to the races. - Listen, Aunt: If Angelina writes, as you know, then lueguito, I sent you, the letter.
Mauricio tell you to go through here every day. - Well!
The aunt was released chatting happily.
Nothing to deal with the kids ....
The other day I told the P.
Solis and I said, 'You're right! " - Go with you and the P.
Linilla be wife and mother ....
The old woman looked at me intently, and smiling, he said: - Would you marry Linilla? - From all my heart! - That marriage would be very much to my taste.
They say, but I do not think so, you're in love Gabriela .... - No, aunt!
Gabriela is very elegant, very nice, very rich, how you want!
It was necessary to leave. - Well, Aunt ...-- said getting up - it's time, horse riding .... - Do not say goodbye to your godmother? - Yes, why not!
Aunt Carmen was near the bed, sit-in his chair.
I never saw her more pale and weak, barely heard what he said was almost complete paralysis.
The poor old woman had an arm motionless and fingers contracted.
Extremity had lower strength, the feet were swollen. - Rorra: - exclaimed Aunt Pepilla - tell your sponsor that you recommended the doctor. - Yes, aunt, exercise, plenty of exercise, even around the room every day, a lap one, godmother!
That being so, sitting, sitting all day, can not be good ... - But ...
Aunt Pepa waved me that I saw the feet of the patient.
The was so swollen barely fit into the slippers. - Right, godmother, you will do everything you send the doctor? - I said yes, moving head. - Are not you take drugs?
He smiled and gave a nod .-- Aunt Pepilla eyes were wet.
good! - said with great difficulty, and a voice so weak that hardly heard Want .-- God will find me alive!
Sarmiento neither this nor want to believe. - No aunt! - Burst out laughing .-- Are you nervous, why are you so weak .... - Go ...
When I got up and leaned over to kiss her forehead, I saw that the pale cheeks of the patient two tears rolled two tears of those who in the face of a corpse appear drops of dew in the bosom of a white rose.
I left the room with a broken heart.
Aunt Pepa I was silent and downcast ....
I did not go without talking to Sarmiento.
I found him at home. - Oh, boy ....
Trust in me ....
If something seems I have serious, take to let you know ...
I do not want to live deceived ....
The overall condition of your aunt is bad, very bad, but again, for now there is no fear ....
Go with God.
I'll come every night ....
Last night I was with your aunt and was very happy.
And took the road to the ranch.
LXII I dared not ask permission to go to Villaverde, although the news was received that afternoon not good.
Aunt Carmen had very slight fever.
A cold, by way of doctor, and nothing else.
We work on the desktop until eight at night, and sit at the table, I said Don Carlos: - Tomorrow, after church, you write those letters, and in the afternoon we liquidation that.
Gabriela want some sheet music.
I say they are on the piano, you pick them up and send them.
There on the table is the list ....
Fernandez was in a good mood, and chatted over lunch to taste of the festival of Villaverde.
Then she talked about farm work and the works of railroad. - Is to feel, - he said - that the railroad does not pass through Villaverde.
Will be the city Pluviosilla to get more out.
For twenty years now and you'll see! ...
It would be appropriate acquire land in Pluviosilla, particularly near rivers ....
Within a few years have to be worth twice what it now costs.
Pluviosilla will not be doubted, the first manufacturing city of the State and the Republic ....
Mauricio appeared suddenly in the dining room saying someone looking for me. - Me? - Asked startled. - Yes, bring a letter .... - Who comes? - I do not know.
I got up hastily in search of the unknown.
I had two letters: one of Linilla and another of Aunt Pepa.
I ran to read. - What? - Asked Don Carlos .-- Some care?
And the doctor sent him to have and receive five Viaticum.
Come then, then, ask permission, that Don Carlos is not to deny it to you.
He read at a glance, and exclaimed: - Well, saddle Mauritius and Go away!
And addressing the young man added: - You go with the Lord.
Half an hour later we were going, and good step on the way to Villaverde.
Back in the heart of the Sierra flashed distant storm.
Could be heard distant thunder, distant, and from time to time, in the light of lightning, we discovered the tops of distant mountains.
The sky was enveloped in a network of lightning.
Amenazábanos rain, big drops fell, and echoed in the nearby forest groves and the step of rushing wind.
The trees seemed spectra, the lights of the candles burning huts in front of a corpse.
We went at a trot.
I was silent and anxious, Mauricio I was diligent and respectful.
The rain did not invade the valley in the mountains stopped, unloaded there, and soon was cleared heaven.
There, due to Villaverde, twinkling stars of the Big Dipper.
The storm was struggling, but weak and faint, in the far reaches of the Sierra. "Death! - I thought, while Maurice was whistling through his teeth melancholic song .-- The death!
My heart ached, and my thoughts went from one thing to another without stopping anywhere.
No, yes, I thought, I thought many times, but always saw far Far! ...
And now came suddenly, insidious, unexpected ...
The dying - I said to myself - it's like a shipwrecked swept away by the waves to win the fight shore, all that love him want to save, and can not, and it is impossible, every effort is useless ...
The heart, dog-tired, was insensitive, hampered intelligence did not succeed to focus on anything ...
Then I happened to all that was a horrible nightmare, which would raise comforted and happy.
reality was there before, cruel, relentless.
And pray devoutly, full of faith, faith of a saint, came to my lips and the prayers I learned as a child, and recited carefully, paying the soul and life into every phrase, every word, every syllable.
Wanted to get to Villaverde, and I was tempted to go back to the ranch, and run, flee to the mountains, forests, to distant cities, to know nothing, nothing that happened in my house.
Wanted to see me surrounded of my friends, all my friends, all to retreat into her affection as a port of salvation ....
I was afraid of being alone, and each time he looked when Maurice was close to me ....
I do not know what time it was when we went in Villaverde.
After the checkpoint we continue down the street Principal.
A dog howling in an alley.
The dozing in serene the corners, sitting near his flashlight, got up on hearing the passage of horses, waved, and went along the sidewalks lazy and distracted ....
The headlights dim shone here and there with red light in the darkness of the streets, like candles in funeral pomp.
A few minutes and I would be at the bedside of the sick.
Pneumonias and fevers Villaverde pernicious are terrible, just resist them elderly, poor and my godmother, ailing, weak, exhausted by long sufferings, would have to succumb.
But, why, if we wanted So ...
For a window came a flood of light.
I felt that I tore the heart, my blood was up to the brain.
To dismount the horse saw, unwittingly, the body of my godmother.
Was veiled with a cloth white.
Andrew greeted me in his arms. - Well you said what my heart!
Hesitant, not knowing what I did, I went to the room, leaning on the server that is not noble could contain the sobs.
Aunt Pepa came to meet me, leaned on my shoulder the grizzled head, and without saying a word hugged me tightly.
LXIII When we returned from the cemetery I went to my room.
Andrew followed me there.
Sitting around intended to distract me I know not what stories of my childhood.
Suddenly my aunt came. - Rorra: I got a letter from Angelina? - No. - Why not?
I sent you yesterday with the boy who was, to call .... - You're right.
I got up and went looking for the letter.
I had it in the pocket of her blouse. "Rodolfo: "Forgive me if this card fills you with bitterness.
I know that you love me and understand my words will hurt the heart, but someday, when you're happy, because today you're not, you'll thank me what now has to cause you much grief. "Forget, forget, I beg, I beg for the holy memory of your parents who are in the sky, your aunts, who both want and love you so much! "In writing these lines I'm in tears, I feel that my soul is going, because I have loved you and I love you even with all the strength of my heart, but I understand that I must be frank, that would be wrong, very wrong, if yours encourage a feeling that it closes the doors to a future that I should not spoil
