The colonel had come with her, but he stopped with a gesture. - Searching again in two hours and I have done my luggage - said holding out his hand and with a half smile on his lips.
Estrechola Asiola Colonel and enthusiastically.
Perhaps the pressure was slightly reciprocated as the gallant colonel away cupping her breast and triumphant passage, as vigorous as permitting the narrowness and high heels of her boots.
When he was away conveniently Lady Clara opened the door, listened for a moment from the empty input, and then rose the ladder quickly, up to his old room.
The appearance of the room had not changed since the night of his escape.
His hat, above the vanity, as he recalled having left to take his hat on the chimney a glove I had forgotten in her flight, the two bottom drawers of the dresser parted (no care of closing) and pin the chest and a dirty fist resting on the marble the table.
I do not know what other memories occurred to him, but suddenly turned pale, trembled and listened with a beating heart and hand in the door, he approached the mirror, and between shy and curious, he separated the strands of blond hair, his rosy ear, discovering an ugly wound licked it yet.
Contemplola long time, raised her head indignantly, and diversion of their velvet eyes deepened.
Then he turned, and laughed, carefree and determined ran to the closet where hung her beautiful clothes, and the inspected with visible excitement.
Suddenly, he saw that was missing from its usual hanger a black silk, and felt faint, but found out a moment later, lying on a suitcase, where she had thrown herself.
Then, even when time pressed, could not resist tempted to try the mirror the effect of a lavender-colored ribbon on the jacket he wore at the time.
Suddenly he heard a voice beside him children, and stopped nervous.
Jumping on the door was a girl of six to seven years.
His dress, elegant in its heyday, was torn and dirty, and hair despeluznado and a deep red, was a lively comic touch on his head.
Yet Thus, the girl was cute.
A certain air of confidence that often characterizes children who were thought long abandoned, was breaking through his childhood shyness.
Underarm brought a doll made of rags, apparently self-made, and almost as big as she, a cylindrical head doll features crudely drawn.
A long shawl that visibly belonged to an older person fell from his shoulders sweeping parquet.
This unexpected visit did not please the lady of Galba.
The girl, still standing in the doorway, asked again: - Is it Mom?
And took a hard look at arrapiazo.
And before the Lady Clara could have been avoided, had already left wrist down, and grabbing skirts with both hands, began to dance before her unparalleled nonchalance. - What is your name? - Lady Clara said coldly, pulling off his clothes and not too small child's hands clean. - Tarolina. - Tarolina? - Ci ...
Tarolina. - Carolina? - Ci ...
Tarolina. - "Who are you? - Even more coldly asked to stifle a nascent fear. - Wow!
I no longer live with my other mom.
Now I have to live with Dad and you. - "How long have you been here? - Moody asked Lady Clara. - I think three days ago - Carolina answered after a pause. - Do you agree?
Carolina's eyes began to blink on this lively discussion.
Dad brought me home ...
Miss Simmons Sacramento, last week. - What!
You just said three days ago - said it severely. - I meant a month - then said Carolina, completely lost in his confusion and ignorance. - Do not know what you're fishing - loudly exclaimed Lady Clara, resisting the impulse to shake the little figure before him and precipitating the truth by means of a purely material.
The blonde head suddenly disappeared in the folds of the dress of Madame de Galba as efforts to extinguish the color of her cheeks burned. - Stop your whining - Lady Clara said her dress fighting the wet kisses girl and end up feeling upset .-- Come, enjúgate face, go and be comfortable.
Listen - continued when he left Carolina .-- Where is your dad? - Also has game ...
He left ... (Here he hesitated) for two or three days. - Who cares for you, girl? - Lady Clara said staring at her. - John, Chinese.
I vizto Zola, John makes the food and arranged the beds. - Go, then, behave yourself and do not bother me anymore - Lady Clara said remembering the reason for visit .-- Wait, where are you going? - said while the girl, dragging behind him a long wrist gripped by the leg, was preparing to climb the ladder. - I'm going up to play and be good and do not annoy mom. - I'm not your mom! - Shouted the aforementioned, and then quickly returned to her bedroom and slammed the door.
Continuing preparations, took the fourth wardrobe a big trunk and began packing their anger and rage baggage quickly.
then I understood everything.
Her husband was premeditated brought this child from his first wife, this child whose existence has never seemed to care for insult, to take his place.
Undoubtedly, the first woman in person would soon there, or maybe have a third woman with red hair, not brown but red.
Perhaps the entanglement was prepared in advance, perhaps he was this girl with red hair, like her mother, in Sacramento, at a convenient distance, and ready to bring it whenever appropriate.
Perhaps the mother was also there, but no, he had gone to the East.
However, in its current state of mind, preferred to rest on the idea that there was.
She felt a vague satisfaction in exaggerating mood.
Surely that had never been abused as a scandalous manner women.
Concluded the picture of your misfortune.
He lay alone and abandoned, to the sunset falls amid columns of a ruined temple in graceful attitude even melancholy while her husband was away quickly, a woman with red hair, strutting beside him in a luxurious carriage drawn by a magnificent torso.
Supported by suitcase just fill, composed of the dismal plan poem of his misfortune.
Abandoned, alone and poorly dressed, we found with her husband and the other, beaming with silks and jewels.
Fancied himself own consumptive dying because of their grief, but still beautiful and fascinating to ruin their glances rearward to the Director of the Avalanche and Colonel Roberto, who watched with effusive passion ... "But where I was, meanwhile, Colonel Roberto?
El, least understood.
and laughed again with indifference and levity of some moments before and then suddenly turned to the original gravity.
And the red-haired pixie, what he was doing at that time?
He ran the door quietly, and among the multitude of small talk and pops of the deserted house, he figured he heard a faint voice singing in the upstairs.
Recalled it was just a loft used for lumber room.
Almost embarrassed of their action, sneaking up the stairs, and opening the door, looked inward.
A ray of sun shone on the diagonal and between restless spots on the sole window of the attic and illuminated part of the sad, empty room.
In this ray of sunshine was shining hair the girl as if crowned by a halo of fire.
There, with his huge wrist between the knees and sitting on the floor, seemed to speak and quickly understand Lady Clara which reproduced the interview occurred a few moments ago.
Severely reprimanded wrist inquiring about the length of stay at home and on the measurement day and weeks.
Correctly imitated the ways of Madame de Galba and conversation about literally reproduced above, with one difference.
After he had informed Doll was not his mother, and completed the interview, he said affectionately: "What if Stork was very, very Stork, would be his mom and give her a kiss. " The moody fugitive, this scene struck very unpleasantly, and the conclusion made dyed her cheeks with rouge.
It's unfurnished room, half-light, the monstrous Doll, whose size seemed almost natural to give your pathetic lack of spoken language, weakness the only animated figure of the table, affected the sensibilities of women and the poet's imagination.
In this situation, could not take advantage of the feeling and thought of the beautiful poem that could be plotted with those materials, if the room had was darker and more deserted the child was, for example, sitting beside the coffin his mother while the wind moaned through the doors and windows.
Suddenly he heard footsteps on the porch and recognized the staff of Colonel noise echoing through the floor.
Unable to find a reason for the exaltation of their idol and to understand its nature, I did not know what attitude to take.
He stammered, gasped, began serious, gallant, tender, but in a way so foolish and incomprehensible that Lady Clara experienced the painful question that was in its perfect trial. - No go - the lady said with sudden energy Galba replying to a comment made whispered the colonel, and removing his hand from the pressure vehement passionate man .-- It useless, my decision is already taken.
You are free to send in my bag as soon as want, but I'll stay here to put face to face with this man the evidence of their infamy.
He'll face to face with his villain proceed.
I am convinced that Colonel Roberto did not appreciate the full value of the convincing evidence of infidelity and perversion charged and proved to the evidence given by the hostel Galba's daughter in his own home.
However, Entrol at once as a premonition vague that an unexpected obstacle was opposed to the perfect realization of the wishes of his romantic spirit.
Carolina, however, did not notice these compliments, but the gentleman further suppressed Colonel scurrying to Lady Clara, seeking shelter in the folds of her dress.
Sucediose embarrassing but momentary pause, and then the lady of Galba, making the child a significant gesture, said in a barely audible voice: - Bye.
Go to the hotel tonight.
He held out his hand, Colonel bowed to her gallantly and retired. - You're safe - said Madame de Galba, blushing and confused, looking at the ground and as directed the red curls, barely visible between the folds of her dress - are you sure you'll Güena if I let you stay here in my company? - And let me call you Mommy? - Carolina asked, staring at her. - And I'll let you call me mom! - Lady Clara responded with a forced smile. - Yes - Carolina said forcefully.
They came together in the bedroom, with the suitcase which soon caught the attention of Carolina. - But, Mom, you're going again? - Said with a quick glance and anxious and clinging to her skirt. - No ...-- said, looking out the window questioned. - So is that only play to go - said laughing Carolina .-- Let me, then, play me too.
Carolina Lady Clara nodded and flew to the next room, reappearing with a box, where seriously started to pack his clothes.
Lady Clara noted that there were many.
Some questions regarding why they gave to new replies the girl, who in a few minutes Mom began to familiar with his short past.
But for this, Madame de Galba was obliged to take Carolina in her lap, stroking the terrible creature.
Even when Lady Clara was not interested in the statements of Carolina, still remained some time in this situation.
Left to their thoughts and sliding fingers through her red curls, let the girl untie all their talk. - I do not have it, Mom - Carolina said finally after changing one or two position. - Well, how should I have you? - Mom asked, laughing between fun and bothered. - So - Carolina said, and twisting his arm around the neck of the lady of Galba and rested cheek on her bosom .-- In this way, right?
Curl up again, acurrucose like a kitten, he closed his eyes and fell asleep.
For a while, she remained silent in that position, just daring breathing, and then was because of some hidden sympathy born of contact, or God knows why certain thoughts began to shake.
He remembered an old pain that had settled out of her memory for years, recalled days of sickness and distrust days of stabbing terror by something that should help ...
and avoided with horror and grief mortal thought of a being that could have been ...
She also had a child of age Carolina
