This concept was born under the abuse both to his body, taking care so little about him as if was a beast, with a bowl of rice or corn bad stew, and wild fruits, passed ordinarily, and when eating undercooked fish, it seemed a great gift.
Finally, it was so detached from earthly things (words of a conmisionero yours) that seemed to have no inclinations of man, and it was just born to dilate the glory of God and seek the good of souls, these were his wishes, his desire and that they all himself.
It is not therefore wonder, that God wanted so ornate crown servant of merit and virtues as most happy death.
CHAPTER XVI Conversion of Morotocos and Quies, and discovery of new road for these missions by the river Paraguay.
Joseph, was ordered looking for the Tapuyquias Rancherías, so got on track after some Boxos Indian nation, bringing one of the Tapuyquias who had captured them when were still heathen.
After many days they came to take a path full of traces of men, where persuaded the Boxos who had recently passed that the Tapuyquias, when unexpectedly came to a seed, where he was currently working on an old Indian with his family.
Mood he perished in sight of us, and with words and gestures of those who prayed, asked them not to kill him.
Burláronse the Boxos of his plea, and he took all the shock, presenting a knife; and guiding the old man, who danced with joy with that in mind, were received from countrymen with great kindness, which corresponded to the novices by giving them some things Europe, taken in low esteem among us, but they greatly appreciated.
Did not understand, being of different languages, but with all that, and got hit bring two youths, who learned the language of the Chiquitos, served after performers.
Tapuyquias these Indians were not, as had been thought, but Morotocos, or as others call them, Coroinos.
They are people of great stature and good forces, use of arrows and spears that make a hard wood, and handled with great skill.
They are few in number, and by pestilence, as for the wars they bring with neighbors, and also because being content with only two kill other children, which women are freed from all trouble and annoyance to thus able to live at will in any dishonesty.
Honor women with the title of ladies, and indeed they are, because they send their husbands, and their fancy move from place to place, never put his hand on the estates home, but serve their husbands, even for humble ministries.
Although they have chiefs and captains, why not have no government or religion, and have only some reverence to the family of the devil.
The country is the most unfortunate of those nations terroir and surrounded sterile and wild everything from mountains, and the food is worse than elsewhere, because people just based on nothing but some roots are abundant forests.
To drink, have a forest of palms, which take the core logs thick and fluffy, to spin the lack of water supplies.
In the winter it is very cold there and freezes, which the peasants, even go naked, not cause discomfort, have skin with two fingers of callus, and thus are robust, strong man and much endurance, so that there are men and women who spend a hundred years old, and die otherwise healthy old age.
Two young men of this nation saluted much the way Christians live, and then others also, who, seeing such an abundance of food crops and so fat field, gave great parties waved his style of extraordinary joy felt, seeing as how they spend their lives comfortably and with less work, and staying among Christians are promised out of his misery and poverty of their land.
At the end of June the same year, prevented the P.
Felipe Suarez to go to five Rancherías of Morotocos, to attract people to a knowledge of the true God, but he had to stop some time have received a letter from P.
Visitor and Vice-Provincial Antonio Garriga, in ordering him to happen to P.
With the advent of these were reported as some of other infidels were Quies, confining with Morotocos, but in a different language, the Curacates, located to the north, the Zamucos, that although they speak the same language of Morotocos and use their own weapons, however differ from them in that shaved head as the Toba and Mocovíes, and women dress with more honesty, covering from the waist to the knees, the Career and Zatienos Ibirayas or who live next to a salt mine, and other nations to the south, which extend into the provinces of Chaco very broad.
Received this news, it was after winning to Christ and Quies Curacates, which living on the banks of a river that flows into the great river Paraguay.
Dispatched, then, beyond some Boxos and Chiquitos, which in a few days came to the lands of Quies, although resistance did, however, they trusted and were not credit to touch and courtesies of us, but rather gave them in the face with the havoc them had their weapons past years, it still retained many signals and scars, with all that, they took with them the neophytes to a two boys, so that Chiquita learned the language, interpreters were after.
For the mission to the Curacates refused to take with you the P.
Zea no Indian Chiquito because they feared the former and flee, and so it was only with some Morotocos.
Arriving at the first Rancheria of Cucarates Zamucos found in it some who had come to visit him, said unto the Father with the full power of his spirit, which was great through an interpreter, making them a rich present of knives, hatchets and wedges or other tools to cultivate the land.
They did not want to admit this, because Cucarates had become angry with them, as if they had been moved to visit Father of interest, and because the were given to the Zamucos the less had to give to the Cucarates.
Notwithstanding this, the P.
Zea forced them to receive him, saying that God would give to everyone.
Or were not for this, or because they wanted Cucarates not reduce to the holy faith, laid hold of P.
Zea a chieftain of his, and took him aside to kill him, saying he came "to what end to deceive?
The holy man, who wanted nothing prevented his Christians to defend him, but Morotoco brave, do not suffer the heart to kill his view that Venerable Missionary with great courage and determination, was stripped of his hands, saying the chief: - Why do you want to kill our father, being so good?
Zea (not without pain, lost his chance to see the crown of martyrdom, that was so close) the action of this barbarian, who shortly before being somewhat less than one Gross, now was an advocate of the divine law, and their preachers, never ceased to give many thanks to heaven and to the wounds of our Redeemer, whose blood was as effective in the hearts Barbarians and inhuman.
These, then, at the end of January 1715 left the port of Asunción escorted to the bank by the governor of that province and the whole city, which was exposed publicly at the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament that God would give them a very happy trip.
Vice-Provincial to the Assumption, through many dangers and enemies
