But it increases in complaints of "abuse" and regulatory proceedings begin, and is the law with its casuistic distinctions and subtleties, and lo our man paying the broken glass and perhaps at the gates of the prison, as a highwayman.
And there are cases of it. - Why? - Well, sometimes, because "that's the law", which seems made to try to protect criminals; and many others, because the push to that side ...
those black clouds that also saw you last night in his dream. - I think not, and you forgive. - Lucky you! - But what reason is there, brought to believe in these clouds, which do not favor our friend the other being convicted? - The reason for the "wrong again", he also mentioned to us last night. - It will be so, but do not understand. - Then follow the example pictured, and suppose that the offender is a arbitrista victorious Note, a man of coarse grain and worse entails, profiteers and shyster, but well rounded flow.
Assuming this, it can be assumed that this man is the leader of a tight mesnaderos submissive squad, which falls in battle is now used as a herd of sheep, or who has diabolical art to handle the cups and illusions of this farce to its full taste, or if you have nothing of it, knows to look for any way, they also know the value those skills represent the right brand, and how to negotiate.
That remarkable man with all his knowledge, with all its virtues, with all its bells of noble lineage, with all its sacrifices towards the general good and glory of the land where he was born and the whole country, is a martyr the tireless work of Sisyphus.
I had not, neglected Madrid, judgment about the evils new and those black clouds despite having dreamed about half of it the night before and a prophecy of what was of paint Neluco the next day, but remembering vagueness and platitudes that on purpose such a delicate matter had read many times mechanically in newspapers or heard without Talks focus on coffee, and uniting all the statement made by Neluco and what, for a good time, continued to tell me yet, and, above all, the satisfaction that I felt in enlarging more and more the idea I had formed of the knight of the tower, I accepted good win all the medical opinions, and so we were entertaining the ascent of the mountain, first part of our long journey.
To let me even more pleasant, spoke Neluco some features of this singular man, and among them the following, which he painted from head to toe.
On one occasion he came to his neighbors, he was no longer young, going to look a little by cattle he had in the winter, far from Provedaño a half-day journey, a good walk in the high mountains, facing east.
The day was December.
The sky was gray; pure shaved the cold north wind, and that night fell a snowfall of two feet.
entire Event Tower, who had left home at the same time not be needed elsewhere; Spears jumped into the yard, take the road of the village, flying, rather than treading on the thick layer of snow that whitens lining and, as the place and the entire valley as all the surrounding mountains, arrives with his club hit the doors locked for fear to the glacial weather; ábrense to order one by one; questions, explores, learns, estremécese, unworthy, admonishes, reprimands, threats where the will is not to your liking, and, finally, clubbed to straighten the most crooked, to get what he is looking for: a half-dozen men who accompany the winter should be blocked by snow, if not dead hunger or devoured by wolves, his poor neighbors, who, back in the morning counting Next, there was no other provisions of mouth led to a loaf of four pounds is fine collection of them, urged the six recently settled around him, and were incensed at anímanse out because they are good and charitable to the bottom, begin to march up the hill seven, uphill, and walk, walk, walk, when they transpose Palombera summits, feel chest pain, as if the air that carried with it millions of aspiring sharp point, and a fumble and a breakdown in the knees, as if they were slabs of lead the "snowshoeing" dragging their feet; confórtanse a bit with a drink of liquor they drink "to the Riola '; and walk, walk steadily, sometimes come wrapped in swirls of snow sifted, crumbled and subtle, which prevents them from even breathing and, fortunately, pass like a cloud over of hovering and wander wandering on the mountain, the same lord of the tower, complexion iron and that always walks ahead, you will note missing his indomitable strength, that members is numbing, which can not be altered one syllable to his lips made by coldness, which are stiff, numb hands bruised, begins to fear something serious and not by him, certainly, and jump, jump, rubs, hits, screams and howls like a wild ...
anything but shake and stop, or stop a moment to rest a muscle or a fiber of body, and then singing and joking while walking, to encourage and set an example to those who are their orders and will remain in absolute silence, terrifying, those lonely heights and unforgiving.
Man is there, but nearly died of hunger and cold and despair.
While some comfort him some drinks and words, others light a fire that becomes heat, which also lacked all.
Following in the spirit, the lord of the tower is fed carefully to the hungry and shivering, which eats more you eat, how much you put in front of mouth.
That also must cure sorrow, and sends them to tell those who know something entertaining stories and romances.
Nobody the six knows a word of these things, but the lord knows by heart Provedaño tomes integers, and gratings loud and resonant half poem of the Cid.
Man no joke, not even paying attention.
We must do more, and orders that will sing to the use of land, but no one is in the voice for it, and sings it to belt out tunes from the valley native and even the preface of the Mass of the day of 'Corpus', the most solemn and regorjeada the year.
And no one moves, he dances like a madman to high and low, and then the Aragonese jota, and finally, a shoe boots the besotted an exclamation of surprise and a laugh with joy, and the gentleman, and hastily and and panting, these words appear on the pitch, a curse: "Ahab the son of a goat!" All and "lovingly and company 'rest, warm up, talk, eat, just the day sleep, he wakes the next, clear, calm and radiant sun, and become eight to Provedaño above the frozen snow, as if nothing had happened.
All this is narrated by Neluco thoroughly, I had to hear.
After the immediate harbor and gorges, and prayed at the shrine on the other side of the Hail Vader usual, I could see the sunlight of the afternoon, the rest of the way to Tablanca, which had always happened at night, which did not seem so deep not as dangerous as I had imagined in darkness.
We arrived at last, and after know at the door of my house, Chisco, who had new top, the doctor despedímonos and I 'see you later "and he continued walking towards him.
XVI There was no thinking and new excursions in the mountains: the last had been exhausted my strength and filled the measure of my curiosity undemanding.
The body and the soul called me rest for a few days and then ...
And if so, Such luxuries do you allow the temporary wintry, by some miracle of God, had not triggered even over Tablanca and its environs?
For one thing, the life he had made during those two weeks, most runs, the peaceful and sunny right temperature, no longer fruits give me very worthy of esteem.
With my incessant raids, if I managed to get to land as soon and as fully as I waited for my uncle and he wanted me, at least killed time of day and night was plenty to entertain issues a little get-together the cocinona and conversations at the table of my uncle, ate with good appetite, and Women's condumios gray and his daughter repolluda I tasted glory sentíame courageous and strong, and I slept like a groundhog in the body stretched on the bed much neglected reading the newspapers he received from Madrid, and writing to my friends and I would not letters soaked in melancholy tinge of the early days, we were looking more bearable relentless vision of the rocks around me, and shortness of horizons miserable I choked, in short, that if I had "done everything", conceived as the possibility of it.
Say, if not, the example of the party: at first it was unbearable, and every commentator, new to me, that appeared in it, I rather boorish and more bland than the previous; was no joke in his "humor" expressed in language and conventional maimed or reason, therefore, to some laughter shameful that even came to bother me, as if I offend; hastiábame the simplicity of the issues that interest them, and could not help regret resobado acordábame of the Latin poet in exile in Pontus: the barbarian seemed I could not understand that anyone was understood there.
Trying to find in my books and newspapers, in the solitude of my room, the remedy against such boredom the kitchen, but the fear of my uncle to translate it as a sign of contempt for his rough commentators, I contained.
Seeing forced to feed the spirit of it all, I recently little to savor it without disgust, and soon ended up failing to find it enjoyable something better.
The same thing happened to the condumios of Facia.
Worth the example of a touched my friend's passion for making toothpicks, just because it has mastered the art with rare ability.
This was that in the first week I got my spoon in the talks and insisted upon in rustic those serious issues of scope that I was beginning to penetrate, it would distinguish characters, tricks and zunas of each, and I felt very flattered by praise from all my feats of hiking and hunting.
My uncle was bathed in water pink with these things, because I took for signs of rapid acclimation, and I was pleased to see how little effort on my part gave him one of the few pleasures that he could vacuum and the poor old man.
Then my visits to the town, the case reported by Chisco Facia, the acquisition of medical and friendship with all of this was linked naturally gave new impetus to this positive trend and gives me my greatest attachment to things and vicissitudes those simple people.
Far from correcting the trial that I had formed of temperament tablanqueses to 'see go ', so to speak, on the porch of the church or in the alleys of the town, I said I more and more into it when I tried to close in the kitchen of my uncle and I could study them in full exercise of all its physical and intellectual and only because there was where exposed and aired the most important of his life, the warmth of bonfires the cocinona under the chairmanship of Don Celso, who always hit the nail on the best and more convenient, the same with a wisecrack with a formal opinion.
They were, without exception of a single, parsimonious in the extreme and soft condition and in their shootings joke, those who are fond, squandered the metaphors, colorful local Greek for me at first, and very witty after I learned to translate to my language.
We were looking theirs, meanwhile, more sweet and lilting rhythm the more he heard "sound." The priest Don Sabas was attending very often and so dull as the first time, but to me I do not it looked like after I had seen him as "eloquent" on the cliffs of the mountain consagrábale why certain reverence, regardless of who owed him on his inauguration and its virtues, and I fancy that not know it or disliked.
As he had boasted over once in front of me, that with these bonds had to tie him to the land of my forefathers, and forever, "for all eternity": thus, even in Latin, had emphasized the boasting.
Don Pedro Nolasco only two or three times had returned to the gathering, and that "to be me was' because it was poorly managed and, to the years he had, with the ruggedness of the Callejos in the dark of night, although he had a flashlight.
Neluco attended plus the kitchen to top that at the end of that season, and I think he did with the charitable purpose of shortening the period of "acclimatization" because it showed I was very diligent in taking the issues to me conversations, translating the metaphors and helping my uncle in his relentless grind to stoke fires of prodding the attendees gathering more assets.
There I met Toper, the father of Tanasi, and pepazo, the groom preferred by Chisco Molehill for his daughter, saying the TARUMBA, also off the pace, often by cocinona.
The Toper was a middle-aged man, cuadradote back and something red matted hair, little talkative and very skillful in the work that led to the gathering (it was rare that he would talk show without it), "paint" covers the tip of his knife.
