At such times, women appear less graceful aerial and lovable, and men more timid dare all, and feeling more are given more eloquence. - Isabel, Leonardo said, I am surprised your conduct with me. - Rate it, "said Isabel, smiling. - Not for me to qualify, for the simple reason that I am the victim. - That more?
As I said the last goodbye, naturally stretched a foot on the sidewalk.
One of the two mulatto passing bumped into me, and believing him put together a trip, full of anger gave me a shove.
You know what are those insolent sluts when creating offense. - Yes, Isabel said thoughtfully.
Appearances, however, condemn him. - No, Elizabeth, no.
If you deceive at this time, if you do not tell the whole truth if you paint a passion that he felt, therefore if you had given just cause of tort, would be the worst of men ... - Okay, fold the paper, convinced Isabel interrupted. - Pelillos to sea?, Leonardo asked with loving accent. - Pelillos to sea, "she answered with heavenly smile.
Saying this left hand secretly run by the railing to catch Elizabeth, leaning on it.
Sobered and walked by her aunt, who said it was high time to pick up.
She had not heard before an "I love you, Rosa 'intention and the fire.
She, who was attracted to the young as the needle to the magnet, as sometimes the snake could not divert attraction break the enchantment, found no hand gesture, word or scheme to deny that he had succumbed and also loved his tempting from the first season they spent together in the coffee Light.
CHAPTER II And in the beautiful coffee plantations everything is fresh and smells kissed its white flowers by tropical breezes.
PADRÍÑEZ As a bride of Cupid from the previous day, Rosa Ilincheta, fearing shame of face his accomplice in the clear light of day, delayed his departure from his best dresser.
But Isabel had obligations to complete and appeared very early in the south porch of the house the umbrella in her right hand, a basket hit off the left arm through the hoop, and all wrap the silk embroidered shawl enhancement.
Then the sun peeked from a corner of the house, illuminating a part of the garden and planning the shadow of it and trees, long distance, on the spacious farm batey.
There was plenty of dew in the morning.
Was soaked grass, dust off roads and russet leaves of the plants and the flowers of flowers studded with tiny seed pearls, as many prisms that decomposed the light of the sun almo, upon receipt of sideways.
Isabel threw a questioning look across the country spread out before her, and ventured out the porch, because from there began to see a rose from Alexandria who had just opened the sweet solar heat in the southeast of the garden table.
So she cut without punctured or splashing, and when she was adorned with splendid braid her hair again mechanically the eyes towards the house and thought that one of his guests watched from the shutter of the bedroom window at the end of the porch, where in fact the two were staying.
Was Diego Meneses, who have not enjoyed peaceful sleep, left the bed since the dawn and breathing the pure atmosphere of the countryside, at the time that Isabel appeared in the midst of gayadas flowers.
Thereby the troubled this incident, which for a short time it was uncertain if he returned back from or go ahead, because the act of adorning the hair and look for the house, Magu to innocent and accidental, could be interpreted in different ways, and she fled both frivolous and the foolish vanity.
On the south side, a stone fence separating the field that included square the varied farm village.
In the center stood the coffee mill between the two pairs of awnings, which can contain a time, drying, half of the harvest.
Further, closing the large space on the left, you could see the thick dark rim of the pot with gallows and pulley for the extraction of water, the loft after the poultry birds and some pens, in background at right, the bell, or rather the wooden pillar whose arm covered with an awning, hung the bell, and the granaries and warehouses, stables, cow barn and other outbuildings.
The huts of the slaves included a village regular size.
Was devoid of vegetation or the magnificent batey we have been describing, for many trees, and certainly the most corpulent copudos and all that farm, he adorned and shaded.
Including several avocados, red mamey, mango and star apple trees, especially the first, which the continent conifers, climbing the sky seemed the height of its branches.
Those steeper and flakes were chosen by the Guinea fowl (Numidians Meneagris Cuvier), knowing the Hurani of these rare birds to their haunts at night.
The band, which might well consist of hundreds, from appearing before the sun began to stir and repeat the cry, or his peculiar cackle, it seems that Easter and the other says answers, Easter, until all wake up and prepare to descend from their very high and natural perches.
Neither the young nor the chickens still gave signs of life: those for not being early risers, they by the darkness and seclusion of his home.
Of the slaves of both sexes, who picked up their hoes and spades the dried leaves and stalks of the soil who with the same instruments touched the grass on the roads, who raised both hands open piles of trash and put it in baskets they lead others to the head, who arm to draw water from deep well and poured into a large stone basin at the foot of curb for others, in a rustic buckets made of the petiole of the palm, distribute deposits in the various departments of the estate.
At the edge of the well water was bathing horses in twos or threes, the coachman Leocadio.
Inside the mill penetrating voice sounded bold, who sat at the end of the vertical wheel axle, that turning the floor was peeling coffee, constantly goad the cavalry served motor.
Four slaves, meanwhile, tended the grain, not yet dry, while others led the milled or debarked to fan whose blades made a huge noise and awakened the echoes wherever the sound wave was elastic obstacle in its path.
And once all clean straw or dust, was taken to the store so that there was chosen and classified by other slaves.
None of those who passed the scope of Isabel left to give it the good morning and ask his blessing, bending the knee in submission and respect.
Peter, the Contramayoral, without the ominous badge of his office, going from one place to another, encouraging his colleagues to work and gave her hand in many cases, to give added weight to the word with the work.
The rise or the appearance of Elizabeth in the awnings was the signal for the black mill Argentina raise your voice and sharp with the song, so rude and simple, perhaps improvised last night, which begins with this kind of verse: The girl is sin, and ended with this one, repeated in chorus by all the other blacks: Probe cravo cries.
Between the first lyrics and the chorus or foot inserting the guide, though not native, born on the plantation, congo phrases in pure, also answered the chorus with the bound: Probe cravo cries.
Was useless to ask harmony, even listening to a song, or any civilized or savage; but seemed Asaz monotone sensitive ears, it is also true that the tone and the lyrics were full in melancholy feeling.
Isabel felt it, but pretended not to hear or understand speech, and proceeded to the foot of the trees, which already swarmed and ran in all directions the aborotosas Guinea fowl.
Some, the most surly, wanted to see her take flight exploding in the nasal scream, shrill and high, which often give the alarm to her companions.
More familiar with the voracity of these birds were enough to reassure and contain a few grains Isabel corn took from the basket, leading to the arm and took care to throw at a given point near each other.
The band mass fell on the little food, deposed surveillance, forgot the danger, and only occupied egullir grains or pebbles.
This circumstances took one of the slaves, a sign of his lady, to drag on the ground and pillar two, without being thrown out of seeing others.
Very tasty meat is these birds, as tasty as the partridge, the reason why Isabel is proposed to give your guests with a couple of them, grilled, lunch.
In view of the food, now thrown in handfuls, came rushing chicks.
These, less haggard than guineas, to which they feared, and more capable of sympathy to them, fluttered at first about the young, then fell on his head, shoulders and arm basket, running to snatch the corn from the hands and even bite in the mouth.
Such so tender and innocent shows sometimes, even repeated a day with another, Always tender, and never, but in extraordinary cases, agreed that kill off of sight.
For this and other similar acts that was reflected the influence by Isabel on how things came to him, not least their slaves but believed that God had endowed with a kind of charm or secret power which could not refer or repel.
Diego Meneses was still scrutinizing the footsteps of his friend, and, well, by dint of civilized man was unwilling to concede anything supernatural in it, did believe, like others, it was an extraordinary woman.
From his observation post was faithful account of what he saw or heard, Leonardo, who was still in bed resting and enjoying the fine linens full of lace and scented with rose petals of Alexandria, all of the work Elizabeth hands industrious.
Meneses said Gamboa, among other things: - It's a lot of women that, friend. - Did not I tell you?, Answered this content. - It's worth a Peru.
There are many like her out there. - Would you change?
The hair changes hair Rosa.
Come on. - Do not laugh, gossip, Diego answered seriously.
Isabel recognize in rare items worthy commendable, does not mean that I like better than other women, or that is in love with her.
Leonardo replied, wounded by the observation of his friend.
You're wrong, man, medium to medium.
Since we arrived I have been watching your actions and words, and nothing to persuade me that you love to Isabel. - Male, Diego!
I'll tell you frankly what happened to me, "Gamboa said after a brief period of silence.
Do not feel sorry for Elizabeth that blind and burning passion you feel, for example ...
by Rosa. - Di best Meneses promptly stopped him, that you feel by Ceci ... - Shut up!
Leonardo said in alarm, and hereby incorporated in the bed.
Not lie in the rope house of the hanged.
You can hear: the walls have ears.
It is very common and do not believe that Isabel has ever heard. - Probably not, but the thread is pulled the ball, the more it has no hair Isabel dumb. - And now that is beside the point, how you've made about the scene in front of the house of Gamez at the time of the departure of Isabel? - I think I have suspected something and to me that her cousins ??have told or written about it a story.
It is shown that Elizabeth apparently very suspicious and felt me. - No doubt that the premiums have aroused his jealousy.
The blinded the demon of jealousy, engaging in the eyes of Elizabeth and premiums.
You can not imagine how much it was my shame. - I think.
But where does Isabel took could have been your sister Adela? - You will find there, Diego.
He likes the cinnamon as much as me.
There would be nothing unusual, walking to mouth, as usual when young, had taken a tumble ...
is to him drool.
if you ligasen these kinship with her? - Try to ignore it, because you say, it was all a result of a stumble.
Perhaps the plot for you, knowing of kinship that mediates between Vds.
Where there's smoke ...! - In this case the river does not carry water, or stone.
and Adela becomes infatuated people and talk ...
What I can tell you is that he has made me spend more scares that I have hair on his head.
At least I hope I hand him to mouth.
The only thing I reassured by this part, is that it neglects both the old and despises the Cubans. - Be wary, however.
Thing known is that the son of cat mouse game, and where jumps mother's daughter jumps.
But back to our story, the result is that these masses you are not the best foot with Isabel. - No.
Isabel is well, bitch to explain frankly, I am a point less, so in this way we going until God wants, or she lay down their pride and reconcile with me. - That same line of yours, noted Meneses, I confirmed in the belief that you do not love Elizabeth. - O I have not been able to explain, or you do not understand me, Diego.
Not having points of comparison under any circumstances between the two women, I can not love one another as I love.
The one of there always brings me mad, made me make more of a crazy and I still will make many more.
However, not love, or love and love never on this earth ...
None of these feelings is easy to experiment by Isabel
