In your greatness, your beauty, Fled what was firm, and only It remains a fugitive and hard. " We had our horses tied to the sturdy trunks of the orange aforesaid, we set the climb up the ramp, which led us to the living gazebo, stay truly delicious more reminiscent of an Italian villa or a Granada carmen that of a monastery hidden in the withdrawals and diversions of a mountain in Extremadura.
There are four large arches that put the gazebo in direct relation to the rich environment and vegetation that amenísimo magnificent gorge.
Two of them give to the part where we climbed, serving the one entrance to the ramp, and the other as a balcony, from which touched hand the fruits of the orange vermilion of the compass, and discovers, through its branches, an elegant angle of the adjacent church, perfect Gothic style, whose gentle warheads erect slender reeds and needles, all in a sturdy golden stone for ever infuse the spirit, in the midst of these abandoned ruins, arrogant ideas of immortality.
The other two arches overlooking the south, and since they enjoy the peaceful contemplation la Huerta and the forest of elms and all soft charms of that brief and peaceful horizon.
Of that Huerta climb, as noted, to penetrate through the arches in this room, parietal roses and climbers vines with its elegant bell, not yet had closed that morning, also two large balconies determined by both arches have the parapet on the inner face of the mighty or the wall, allowing for the full width of it to two large beds or wall units that grew Carlos V, and is now also grown carefully.
Geraniums, roses and carnations pitiminí, all flowers, as I said we were in May, saw us in those two little gardens as gracefully imagined and willing .-- When a little later came the Administrator and his wife knew it, Madrid purebred aficionadísima, therefore, to pots, was the author of the miracle that continue to dedicate to Flora the two beds that once cared Carlos de Austria.
Indeed, as reported by Fr Prudencio Sandoval in his History of the Emperor, the horses Yuste it used in caesarean section had nothing or martial, as derived from a jaquilla rather small and old mule .-- As I was finishing forces that so often Europe had traveled on horseback!
The north wall which is only notable for abutting the wall of the church and because one side of the room-viewing is a pretty little fountain, carved in the shape and style of which adorn the public parks or the palace gardens.
This source will have about two and a half yards high, and consists of a round pillar of center of which a stout stem leaves or tree, which then becomes funny group of children, very well sculpted, all in a single piece of stone is quite similar to marble; kind of granite.
