More cautious were the princes of his family who remained in their homeland, and by consent disposed of the nation that never leave any inhabitant of our little kingdom: the qual has kept intact our innocence and happiness.
The Spaniards have had a confusing idea of ??this country, who have called El Dorado, and English, the knight named Raleigh, came here about a hundred years ago, but since we are surrounded by impassable chasms Brenes and dreadful, we have always lived free of European rapacity, with the unquenchable thirst The torments of the stones and mud of our land, they would finish with us without ceasing to live one.
It was a long conversation, and her treatment in the form of government, customs, the women, theaters and arts, and finally Candido, who was very addicted to the metaphysical, wonder, through Cacambo, if the inhabitants had religion.
Cacambo ask very humility that religion was the El Dorado.
Again the old man was embarrassed, and he replied: Is he there may be two religions?
Our religion is all over the world: we worship God night and day. ?
Cacambo said, serving as an interpreter to doubts Candide.
As if two or three, or four, 'said the old man go, people make your world ask very rare.
Candide is not satisfied ask the good old and wanted to know was what they asked for God in El Dorado.
We do not ask anything, 'said the respectable good and wise, and all we have to ask, because quanto has given us everything we need, but you continually pay taxes thanksgiving.
Finished this long conversation, did the old man put a carriage of six sheep, and gave the two walkers twelve of his servants to take them to court.
Sorry, said to them, if my age deprives me of the honor of accompanying, but the King will entertain so that you will be happy, and certainly disculpareis country styles, if you dislike any of them.
Candido drive mounted and Cacambo six rams were flying, and in less than four hours came to the palace, located at one end of the capital.
The front door had Two hundred and twenty feet high, and one hundred wide, and it is not possible to say that matter was; rather they check to see prodigious quan benefits would lift the stones and sand we call us gold and precious stones.
To get off the car Cacambo Candido and were received by twenty beautiful maidens of the royal guard, which took them to the bathroom, and dressed plumion a ropage of Colibri, then the principal officers and palace officials conduxeron to the room of His Majesty, between two rows of a thousand musicians each, as was style.
Quando were near the throne room, Cacambo ask one of the officers main as they were to greet Your Majesty, if kneeling or prostration to the ground; if you were to lay hands on the head or back, if they were to lick the dust room and finally were quale ceremonies.
The practice, he said the officer, is to give a hug the king and kiss him on both mexillas.
Abalanzaronse Cacambo as Candide and the neck of His Majesty And he corresponded with the greatest kindness, and politely invited them to dinner.
Meanwhile taught the city, public buildings to climb the clouds, the market places Columns adorned a thousand, the sources of clear water, the water rose, the cane liquor, that ran nonstop in vast spaces paved with a kind of precious stones spread a smell like clove and cinnamon.
Candido wanted to see the hall of the crime and the court, and he said that they had not, because none litigating, it was reported if there was jail and was told no, but what is most strange and caused him most satisfaction was the palace science, where he saw a gallery of two thousand steps, filling the whole of physical instruments and mathematics.
Having traveled throughout that afternoon as the thousandth part of the city, they brought in back to the palace.
Candide sat down at the table between His Majesty, his valet Cacambo, and many ladies, and you can not weigh the sensitivity of the food or the mouth such acute the monarch could be heard.
Candido Cacambo explained to the Donayre the king, and even translated Donayre were still, and all quanto astonishment to Candide, this was not what I leave him less stunned.
Candido was saying continuously Cacambo: This is true, my friend, that the fifth where I was born can not be compared with the country where we are, but After my Cunegonde not dwell on it, and no doubt you will not lack in Europe a that either want.
If we stay here, we are one of many, and if we turn our world no more than a dozen sheep laden with stones Dorado, will be richer monarchs all together, we will not be afraid of inquisitors, and easily may charge to Cunegonde.
This reasoning spect Cacambo: such is the mania of running world, to be had among his own people to flaunt what you've seen one in his travels, The two lucky dexarlo were determined to be, and bid farewell to His Majesty.
Nonsense are you doing, I said to the king, my country is well worth little, but is a Quando fairly well on a site, should be at.
Every man is free, and you can go Quando quisiereis, but it is very difficult company to get out of this country: not possible to upload the swift river by the qual you came by a miracle, and it runs Baxo vaults of cliffs, the mountains that surround my domains have four thousand yards of elevation, and are right and towers, its width takes an area of ??ten leagues, and you can not baxarlas as not falling down.
But since you are determined to go away, I will give instructions to the mayors machines to make one that you can carry comfortably, and when you have driven the other side of the mountains, no one may accompany you, because they have vowed my subjects Never go to your enclosure, and are not as reckless as you have to break: in quanto to others, but you ask me what fits.
Your Majesty, do not ask us something else, Cacambo he said, that some sheep laden with groceries, stones and mud of the country.
Riose the king, and said: I do not know, passion is what Europeans have your our yellow clay; Take away all that want, and make you much good.
Immediately he ordered his engineers to make a machine to lift out of the kingdom these two extraordinary men: three thousand good physicists working on it, and I conclude after fifteen days, without costing over one hundred millions of dollars, foreign currency.
Put Candide in the machine and Cacambo: two large rams had put the chair embodied and the brake to be mounted on them so they had passed the mountains, and others following twenty loads of provisions, thirty with medals of the most curious things in the country had, and fifty with gold, diamonds and other gemstones.
The king gave a loving embrace the two vagabonds.
It was something to see his departure, and the ingenious way in which hoisted them and their sheep to the mountain summit.
Habiendolos forsaken in secure camp site, they parted of them physical, and Candide had no other hiccups or other idea to go to present their sheep to Cunegonde.
A well that we have, he said, to pay the governor of Buenos Ayres, if is possible to put a price on my Cuncgunda: go to the island of Cayenne, Embark, and then see that kingdom to put us in setting.
The events of Surinam, and knowledge that made Martin Candide.
The first day of our two travelers were quite nice, carried on the wings of idea of ??being possessors of quanta greatest treasures in Asia, Europe and Africa could muster.
The lover Candido recorded the name of Cunegonde in the bark of trees.
A The second day was mired in swamps two rams, and were carrying the load; two others died of exhaustion after several days, then starved to death seven eight in a desert of some days there fell some potholes others: at last the hundred days of voyage are no more than two rams.
He said to Cacambo Candido You see, friend, that despicable are the riches of this world, nothing is solid, and not virtue, and said Cunegonde see again.
Confess it so, 'said Cacambo, but we still have two rams quanta with more treasures may have the king of Spain, and from here Columbro a city I presume to be Surinam, Dutch colony.
At the end of our miseries touch, and the beginning of our venture.
In the vicinity of the town found a black lying on the ground that he had only that half of her dress, this is about oil blue canvas breeches, and the poor will missing left leg and right hand.
Candido said to him, What are you doing there, friend, in the terrible situation in which I see you?
Yes, Sir, "replied the black, so is practical: give us a couple linen underwear twice a year for us to dress; Quando work in sugar mills, and we take a millstone finger, they cut off his hand, Quando us want to escape, they cut off a leg: I've seen in both cases, that price will come sugar in Europe, because that when the coast of Guinea I sold my mother for two coats Patagonians said to me: Son wanted, thanks to our fetish and worship Him without ceasing, to to live happy, and achieving them the grace to be a slave to our lords the whites, lucky and make thy father and thy mother.
lucky if I did; I know is that they have made me very unhappy, and that dogs, monkeys and parrots it is a thousand times less than us.
The Dutch fetishes that I have become, say whites and blacks are all children of Adam.
I am not a genealogist, but if preachers tell the truth, we are all cousins, and some that you can not behave in a way more hideous with their own relatives.
O Pangloss, Candide exclaimed, this abomination had not you guessed it out, it will force to abjure your optimism. ?
Ha, replied Candide, is the mania to sustain that all is well Quando this one very badly.
Shed tears as she said looking black, and I go crying in Surinam.
The first thing they asked was if there was any ship in port that could be chartered for Buenos-Ayres.
The man who asked it was just a Spanish patron them offered in good conscience comply with them, and they gathered at an inn, where Candido and Cacambo you were to wait with his sheep.
Candido he always wore his heart on his hands to count all of your adventures, Spanish and confessed that he wanted to rob the Cunegonde Cunegonde.
Keep me and I answered him in vms pass them.
Buenos-Ayres, because it would inevitably hanged, and vms.
neither more nor less; Kinga is the beautiful lady in Privanza of His Excellency.
This saying was stabbed in the heart of Candide amalgamation cry and cry after her, calling Cacambo apart, I said: Listen, my dear, you have to do, each of us carries in pocket one or two million dollars in diamonds, and you're more clever than me: go to Buenos Ayres, in search of Cunegonde.
If the governor makes any difficulty, give hundred thousand dollars, if not enough, give him two hundred thousand, you have not killed any inquisitor, and no one will pursue you.
I fletare another ship, and I expect I'll go to Venice, which is free country, where there are no Bulgarians, or Abarán, or Jews, or Inquisitors to fear.
Well it seemed so wise Cacambo determination, because he felt a pair of death have to separate from love so good, but the satisfaction to serve was stronger with the feeling of dexarle.
They closed shedding many tears; Candide charged him not to forget the good old, and it departed that same Cacambo day: the Cacambo this was an excellent sugeto.
He paused a while Candide in Surinam, waiting for another patron had to take him Italy with the two rams that had, been.
The skipper asked ten thousand piastres, and Candide's offered without rebaxa.
It must be very rich.
Returned from there a while, and he said that he could not make the journey for less than twenty thousand.
Twenty thousand will I will give a vm., "said Candide.
Toma, he said in a voice descends the merchant, "with giving twenty thousand dollars with the same ease as ten thousand?
Again returned, and said that he could not bear to Venice if not give him thirty thousand dollars.
For thirty thousand will, "replied Candide.
Ha, ha, murmur the Dutch, thirty thousand dollars does not cost anything to this man, no doubt that in both sheep takes immense treasures insist no more, do we pay the thirty thousand dollars, and then we'll see.
Candide sold two diamonds, which the youngest was worth more than all her money quanto had asked the skipper, and I pay in advance.
Were already on board the two rams, and followed Candide away in a boat to go to the ship that was in the harbor, the pattern is used of the occasion, set sail, and skews the sea carrying the wind.
Shortly we will lose Candido view confused and inattentive.
exclaimed, this mischief is worthy of the old hemisphere.
Turns itself flooded the beach in their pain, and having lost that which was enough to get rich twenty monarchs
