It is night .= <sc> Wrapped first </sc> .-- Gross! <sc> Muffled second </sc> .-- The gross will be it. - Do not you see the way? - Do not you have eyes? ...
That face, if it is not the devil, is that of D.
José Ido del Sagrario. - Felipe of my backings! = (Dropping her veil and opening his arms.) = Who you were to know as entapujado?
The night is cool, and not a thing we do in this gathering abandoned square.
Come and coffee Lepanto, which is not far.
Frankly, of course, when I say that I'm throwing the best hair that I has seen, can not believe it. - Well, Mr.
I had asked several times for you, and nobody gave me reason said: "What has become of that blessed?". = Enter the Lepanto coffee, sad, poor and dismantled establishment that has disappeared and the Plaza de Santo Domingo, without shadow or trace of his past glories.
Instálanse on a table and ask for coffee and drinks .= THE TABERNACLE IDO .--=( With solemnity, putting on the table his two elbows as objects have hampered elsewhere.) = So we are both eager to tell our troubles and to unleash the story of our adventures and happiness, I do not know if I take the front and let you start.
ARISTO .--=( Taking off the coat and put it very neatly folded on a stool next to hers.) = As you wish. - I see you have good coverage ...
And tie pin like a gentleman ...
Under the sun there another, nor can it be again. - Well, bravo!
A round of applause for that mirror of the masters.
Alejandro Miquis? - Quite the contrary. - Student? --= (With pride.) = Capitalist! - Chico ...
fat. --= (With inexpressible joy.) = Yes, yes, others have told me too.
Is that the successful move of my job, my career, my lifestyle, be expressed in this poor flesh.
Tomome of a scribe author of serial novels.
He dictated the beginning, then I picked up the thread, and there you are chapters and chapters.
Everything is a matter of Philip II, you know, Masked men, bailiffs, Flemish knights, and some ladies, boy, more brittle than glass and tinder more fuel ..., the Escorial, the Alcazar of Madrid, Jews, Moors, Renegades, the so-Perez Antonito, that looks just tangles, and the princess very hussy of Eboli, who with one eye sees more than four, Cardinal Granvelle, the Inquisition, Prince D.
Carlos, great skirt, much monkish habit, much to throw bags of money for any service, subways, nuns raised helmets, mess and backbiting, natural kids every moment, and my D.
Felipe all full of ointments ...
In short, boy, go beyond statements and more specifications ...
Earnings items, half him, half me ...
New layer, well-fed children, Tia healed = (Stopping ...)= suffocated sick and delighted me, working more than bishop and charging much pecuniary. - Nice job! --= (Taking breath.) = Do not think, you need to head, because it's a hell of liornia that we set.
Lying down, son, I feel in my brain sounds like a pot on the fire ...
And the street when I am distracted, I'm thinking of my scenes and my characters.
When I get angry, loose from the mouth without knowing Marry I say, and instead of a Carape is that's beyond me With a hundred thousand horsemen!
Maybe, my name is Tia the Doña Sol or Doña Mencia.
I sleep late, wake up laughing and say, "Ya, ya know where to go that sank into the trap. " = (With exaltation Felipe put in care.) = For you you know, my friend, that is a very long mine, made by the Moors, which allows communication Platero's house, home of Antonio Perez, the convent of Carmelite nuns roads of the Holy Passion of Pinto. - Wow that is really long ... = (Hiding laughter.) = Do things!
In what has been tangling got you!
Wakes me in two days.
Soon I will work on my own, then we ship the new task before us charge now.
My partner sees me ...
Frankly, the thing is good.
Leo and what is it, a very tender story, a memoir, a diary.
Because either you have spark or not have ...
Two positions on the loom, and has fourteen deals, and the thing will not end until the editor tells us: "Single, cut!". = (Hastening the brandy.) = Frankly, the liquor gives life. --= (Looking at the clock coffee.) = A little late, and though my love is great, I do not entertain me when I fight for a message. --= (Excitedly and without regard to what he is talking Felipe.) = Like I said, I have put in such two girls play pretty poor, it is understood, very poor, and living always more trouble the last day of the month ...
But they are more honest than the Passover Lamb.
There is the morality, there it is, because these cocks orphan girls who applied for both sweet, brave resistance and are so surly with all they talk about sin, serve as an example to the girls of the day.
My heroines are bare fingers as sewing, and the more they squeeze the hungry, most are relegated to them in virtue.
The little room in which they live is a silver cup.
There fresh flowers and cloth, because one minutisa water the pots and the other is dedicated to artificial carnations.
In the morning, when they open the window overlooking the roof ...
He says: "It was a beautiful morning in the month of May.
It seemed that Nature ...». = (With madness.) = In this knock on the door.
It is a footman with a letter full of bank notes.
and me put it where there is no catch.
In the rich, the noble, in the minister, in general, in the courtly ...
It is not disrespectful; is that what little I drank that damn spirit seems that the head has filled me stones. --= (With growing unease fever, which breaks the dam finally made his loquacity.) = If this gives life ...
if this warmth running through my body, I have I muse for the night, and now I'm going home and office sixty flip pages ... = (Jumping from his seat.) = You are a true John Wool.
I fall into the street.
No doubt a letter full of money.
Your love is a banker, a crook who wants to shame them. - Little by little ...
You have drunk too much. - You see, you see? = (Looking outside the city's eyes.) = Do you see how much make up the fantasy invented much reality? ...
Chapter: "How the emissary of the Marquis as it takes the ladder. " - If my master is not Marquis ...
My love is Agustin Caballero, whom you know. --= (With penetration.) = Whatever you want, wear the letter contains an instrument of immorality corruption.
de Bringas, can not go, because they have a bad boy. - Bringas Bringas! ... = (Recordando.) = Amigo Aristotle, let me see the envelope of the letter ... - See it. --= (Reading the address, launches formidable monosyllable of wonder and hold hands to head.) = "Amparo and Refugio Girls." If they are my neighbors, if the two orphan girls Sanchez Emperor ... - Do you know? - If you live in the same house, Beat, 4, I third them room!
I write Wonderland reality the plagiarizes me. - They are beautiful and nice girls. - I'll tell you ... = (Meditabundo.) = Nothing they say to the neighborhood, but ... - But what ... --= (With profound mystery.) = The reality, though ever imitating what we know rather than it also invents things that we dare not to dream that we have three heads in one. - So you put those things in his novels. - No, because they are not poetry. = (A frown.) = You do not understand art.
Joseph. - Come on, and since you and I took the course of my home ...
commission, you will enter my room.
Tia will be delighted to see you.
Grip Hand ...
I love that famous ...
Rosalia and Francisco Caballero, second officer of the Royal Commissariat for the Holy Places in 1867 was an excellent subject who confessed fifty years.
Still has days that the Lord preserve you.
But this man is no longer lithe and strong, that sociable temperament, that fun to say, that will obsequious, that courtesy helpful.
Those who try then, just when you recognize on the street today appears to us, giving his arm a servant, shuffling, made a curve, with half a face in a scarf, almost view, trembling, drooling and so clumsy word and walking.
Sixteen years has boasted of having the best health of his time, played their destination on time unlikely in our offices, bringing its domestic affairs with impeccable arrangements, met as the first in the family and society.
No one knew what debt was two religions, God's and savings, and that every man be blessed in such perfection, spent most of his spare time to various household chores undoubted advantage, thus demonstrating the clarity of their intelligence and dexterity of his hands.
From his green years, he worked, employees were their parents and grandparents, and still think their grandparents and the parents of these served in the administration of both worlds.
Not connected this man with the well-known business family in Madrid who had the same name and also gave some very famous arcades.
The Bringas of the D.
Francisco, Friend our beloved, came from La Mancha, and the second name came from those Knights Cadiz, affluent family in the last century, which was ruined after the war.
made good Francisco his career with slow but sure step, depending on are seldom reached then the inconsistency and turmoil of politics.
Hanging from the best skirts that were in his time, Bringas never saw the pale face of unemployment, and was certainly the happiest employees in Spanish offices.
Was he insured on the payroll as the oyster lies in very deep bench where they can not reach the fishermen lucky pilgrim Madrid's bureaucracy, which always disturbed by politics, greed, envy, idleness and vice, is a field of infinite pains.
Bringas was not political, nor had he ever been, even had his own ideas, like all Spanish, indeed very moderate.
He felt no ambition, and have no vices, not even smoke.
Was worker so thrilled played effortlessly work and his boss, was very lazy.
At home he lost no time, and his mechanical skills were such that it will not be easy to count them all.
Nature put it useful and varied talents to compose all sorts of broken objects.
Any rickety chair fell into his hands was like new, and his fingers were miraculous talisman to stick a piece of fine porcelain had been shattered.
He dared even with the clocks that do not want to walk, and the toys in the hands of the boys lost the virtue of its mechanism.
Restored books whose binding is impaired, and varnishing furniture to whom time and use have spent luster.
The same kid rejuvenated a fan or a shell comb, which the most ignoble part of the kitchen.
Cork births was Christmas, and sticks teeth for the whole year.
In his house would never be called a carpenter.
Bringas knew better no one nailed, join, upholstery, break open, and he obeyed the iron and wood veneer ebony and the sole piece of the tail and glue, the screw and the tip of Paris, paper sand and grit.
He had all kinds of tools and supplies and ammunition thousand, and if offered to handle a fat needle for joining pieces of carpet, nor was ago.
Sovereign sheathing old furniture fabrics and other furniture and boning invalid.
At the same time, Bringas was a man who did not disdain, in days of trouble and guests of be in shirt sleeves and clean silverware.
Go to the coffee in the kitchen style gastronome, and if we hurried, agreed to put a Valencian rice to overcome the best works of his worthy wife and the cook of the house
