The old man remained stolid.
But no doubt also, that woman had no inn.
But the so-Magdalena, apparently insensible, gave no answer.
The judge had down the glass of the window, pulled out the head, and began a series of questions that, to be answered satisfactorily elucidated have no doubt, anyone mystery.
To all this the charioteer replied that if we jumped in the car to help call Magdalene might have to stay overnight there.
We got up, then, and called Magdalena in chorus, and then every man to himself, and we had just over, when a hibernate, traveling companion, shouted from the imperial Magdalena!
a strange accent that we all laughed.
All listened, and with infinite admiration hear the choir of Magdalen!
repeated the other side of the wall, along with the final and infamous cry of hibernation. - Extraordinary echo! - Said the judge. - Extraordinary and remaldito! - Said the driver, scornfully .-- Salt and hence, Magdalena, and show yourself in person at a time.
A litany of Magdalena ending with a laugh interrupted his peroration.
Yuba-Bill ran out of patience, taking a heavy stone road broke down the gate, and followed Mail entered the enclosure, we took the same direction.
There was the most complete dark, and everything we know, because we sprayed the roses with her wet foliage at every gust of wind, was that we were in a garden or something similar. - Do you know the tenant of this house? - Asked the judge to Yuba-Bill. - No, no desire - Yuba-Bill said dryly, looking offended in his person, so stubborn individual, a company pioneering the whole proceedings. - Well, yes we have made good !...-- said the judge, thinking the gate raided. - Look here - "said Yuba Bill, with delicate irony - had better not come back and take a seat in the car until you tell me?
And said and done, he pushed the door of the house.
In tight beam penetrates all in a long room lit only by the embers of a fire that was extinguished in a corner of the fireplace.
The flickering embers that he was dismissed drawing attention to the grotesque wall strangely painted.
Distinguish a person sitting in a large armchair by the fireplace.
That figure did not speak or move.
The driver approached her angrily, running on his face the eye of the lantern he had in his hand.
All we could see the face of a man prematurely aged and wrinkled, with large eyes that showed the solemnity characteristic of the owl.
The large eyes wandered from Yuba face-Bill to the lantern and eventually set their sights on that unconscious dazzling object.
Yuba-Bill shook his shoulder that figure still.
With great shock on our part, when Bill took his hand off the venerable stranger shrink until it was reduced to half its size and become a mess Report rags. - Damn my appearance! - Said Bill, retiring spiteful.
Remade the first impression, the judge went ahead and went back to straighten the mysterious invertebrates in its original position.
Was instructed immediately to Bill and his flashlight to be devoted to exploring the field, it was Clearly, given the impotence of the solo, which was to have on hand servants, and we all approach the fire to dry our clothes dripping
