Happy and encouraged with one another notice, signed up new recruits, and after having strengthened by the sacrament of Penance and the Eucharist, for three or four days, 200 of the town of Santo Angel, (because these threaten to the risk of closer) stirred the old memories, that few years earlier by the same way, some Portuguese had penetrated to his people, who, although ranchers compatriots knew now was suspected spy.
Also were armed nearly 200 of each of the other people, and 100 were the people of Sao Tome in the same site by grass, and 60 of the San Lorenzo together in the same task, which with neighboring landowners of composing an army in nearly 1,200 men. 7.
While preparing this expedition on Sunday Septuagint, (it was early in the morning) one I spoke on behalf of Army captain and asked to go with them by a solicitor and spiritual health.
Excuse me this burden for the well-known slander, which the Portuguese and Spanish tend forging Little has as it had taught me the experience, however, considering that if any army in adolescents way of any serious illness, or prostrate with some wound, was to go at once to confess to, if my name, complied, to have the true and supreme power of vicarious Christo.
Captains who had judged themselves that authority, so that no soul is deprived of the sacraments, and provided salvation through no fault, and thus provided for the expedition, cleaned internal stains of sins. 8.
Finally, having left their villages to the mountains of yerba mate, three days before the closest road, other came from more remote parts, but as soon as they heard the sound of the enemy had been false, had sent explore, run these all the earth, and not having found no trace of enemies, but only a few fogoncillos, left of the barbarians, and having found that the aforesaid rumor had been spread by cleverly Santo Tome fugitive Indians were doing grass is restore them to their own people, although it is noted that Portuguese after them confessed that 200 Paulista the surrounding villages had come, but that view the tops of the trees in the crowd of Indians, had retired. 9.
The news of taking those twelve cars and no guns confirmed, the lie was eventually forgotten, and no confirmation came from the rooms in San Luis. 10.
May 3rd day afternoon mail came a warning, The soldiers of San Luis and San Juan, had rushed to the strong that the Portuguese had already made the stakes in the Rio Grande, but his attempt went wrong them, because having our men rushed to the dawn of the twenty February 3 payment of the Portuguese was already fortified, these fled at first, but after having gone on Indians who were entertained in the debris, they killed Johannine and shotguns à 14 to 12 Luisistas, and forced to away, having died also some of the Portuguese.
When Indians withdrew, they heard on the other hand the fusilazos, and suspected that Lorenzo were in action.
Este news expected over all, but it is then people spread over an unfortunate rumor. 11.
Also at this time are advised that in the fields of Yapey Spanish 800 were seen, and having escaped the ranchers, the had seized the sheep.
It doubted the truth in this case, and the captains of the other races came together counsel with the de la Concepcion (who was then supreme): But what was agreed, are ignored. 12.
Already talked to more foundation of the action of Luisistas, five years now, at one end of the San Luis land: between the rivers Great, Green, and Yacuí Guacacay, the Portuguese had settled in a forest and people had built a sufficient number of homes without News of the owners of the land, a short distance grazed their cattle, and though he had been often sent to explore land, never came to those terms, and by the vastness of the territory, and by his innate laziness.
Now, finally, in this variety of things, having discovered the most vigilant enemy that colony, and having explored, 110 Luisistas went to attack, and nearly 200 Johannites.
Undertaken storming the day February 22, the night of 23 came near her, and made its appearance at dawn easily put to flight the inhabitants, who were unprepared.
Meanwhile the enemy had fled, returned on which were busy in looting and without arms, and forced them to lease payment again because the dew of the night, and Having spent the river to swim, they had disabled the guns, no spears can not handle the dense forest.
Because of the houses taken their weapons, attacked the Indians, and forced them to give way to withdraw to the real.
Died from both sides a few: the Indians 22, among whom was a lieutenant of the San Luis (captain courageous Indians) that the homeless own and fighting bravely to the last one, was imprisoned by the crowd, and having tied his hands, died released by enemies who were on him.
Also the Luisistas other returned to his village, I do not know if shame if fear, or for any mutual dissension. 13.
Later in the same town enlisted new recruits and perhaps because, as prisoners who perished in war homeless were not spiritual physician, called for relief of their souls to him who had done the same time Lenten mission at the same place.
Consented to this to so pious prayers, doubts the recharged without remorse his own conscience, taking care to his life and soul of those Indians who were in danger.
Then he returned to his people are prevented for the road, and went to the rooms that are at the foot of the mountain.
On March 3, followed after an armed squad, albeit slowly, in response to weakness and fatigue of the donkeys, and formed the field to 12 April Guacacay rivers, large and small.
They crossed the river the Masters of San Luis to San Juan near its mouth to tell the people of San Miguel, which should come to their aid, because was necessary to charge the enemy with many people, since the situation was higher and stronger.
However, the disagreeing Confederate reduced their business and common interest to fight, because these from their colony of San Juan, still resentful of the Luisistas, by a recent scandal or stumbling, and not have asked and begged the alliance for the assault that had done, and now offended by the manner in which had convened, the mutually threw sparks of discord.
Those reproached the same owners of the land have done almost all the aforesaid low invasion favorably, have been the first who had fled and left in the danger to his companions, and thus reused back again to try his luck. 14.
Negotiated with each other: these by word, those written to be agreed and unite their encouragement and weapons almost this cluster of reasons: "That was not civil dissensions time, being an enemy stranger à the door to the most often siblings discordant for contempt, when more urgent the evil that threatens: that were to join forces so that each by itself was not again discarded, and a fatal dissension to grow at Victor enemy boldness and pride: the arrows one by one are easy to break, but not being linked: when burning the house next door, every citizen comes to the rescue, and so as he burns a house, the whole town would turn to ashes whether citizens or residents not defend themselves, happened to them. "These and other such things are proposed, and seemed to calm things down.
He added not a little weight letter arrived from the town council of San Juan, which persuaded the union, and obedience to them both captains. 15.
Expected from Michael, or a squadron assistant, or their responses.
Also it was said, that Nicole and Conception and came: the excuse of not Lorenza have come before yesterday, attributing it to the long distance: others were preparing their arms, and having been sent some to explore, observe the progress and movements of the enemy; asked eagerly came together quickly all the legions.
While this was said, was advancing towards the Rio Grande, to whom the Indians called Igaya, ie bitter. 16.
