They were silent for a long time.
When thinking Fermín see Mariquita? - Men, tomorrow.
The strapping young man made a gesture of annoyance.
Montenegro laughed at the sadness of the overseer.
Am I not owner to want a man like me? ...
I was lying: he was known in his face.
Shout: repeats that do what you please: I think in that unhappy, while you talk like a drag, the poor guy walks there actually a shame, crying like a child, even though the man is man entire field of Jerez.
But he could not talk anymore.
Maria de la Luz, passing suddenly from resistance to discouragement began to mourn, increasing their groans and tears as the story progressed Fermín of the desperation loving boyfriend. - Oh, poor baby! - Wailed the girl, forgetting all pretense .-- Oh, my Rafael my gun! ...
Why that stubbornness, that he makes you desperate and you mourn?
And boy, leaning on her sister wrapped her in their prayers or shoulders pushed violently, sensing the gravity of the secret that he hid Ladybug all trance want to know.
The girl was silent.
Listening to his brother groaned as if each of his words penetrated in his soul, twitching with the pain of torn wounds, but did not open his mouth feared saying too much and just crying, wailing populated by the silence of the afternoon. - Talk - shouting imperiously Fermín .-- Say something.
Speak, woman, speak, or I'll kill you.
And rudely pushed Maria de la Luz, which, like I could not stand up under the weight of emotion, was lying in the ditch, his face in his hands.
You could see the cherry colored disk, behind the branches of olive, and the black through a lattice.
Its last rays, flush with ground, heat with an orange glow the colonnade of trunks of olive trees, tangles of plants land, the curves of the body of the girl lying on the ground.
The girl's voice went dim, murky, distant, of that lump lying. - Do not want ...
because I love him very much.
I can not love him, because I love him too much to unhappy.
And with these words as if nerving confusing, Mariquita stood, staring Fermin with his eyes filled with tears.
Could beat her, could kill her, but she would never speak to Rafael.
He had vowed that if considered unworthy of him, abandon him, although it destroyed her soul.
It was a crime rewarding love so intense that their future existence by introducing something that might insult Raphael, so good, so noble, so loving.
There was a long silence.
The sun had disappeared.
Now the black olive branches stand out against a sky violet color with a light gold stripe single horizon.
Fermin was silent, as if terrified by the contact of the mysterious truth, whose touch and feel believed. - According to that - he said with a solemn calm - you consider yourself unworthy of Rafael.
Flee because there is something in your life that can be embarrassing, make you unhappy. - Yes - she said without lowering his eyes. - What is it?
Talk: I believe that a brother should know.
Maria de la Luz went back to hide his head between his hands.
It was a torment beyond his strength.
And the rattle of their tears, torn from again the calm of twilight.
Montenegro showed himself as despondent as his sister.
After his outbursts of anger, he felt weak, softened, humbled by the mystery, that only he could descry.
He spoke softly, with humility, reminding the young the close affection which united their lives.
When she suffered childhood diseases, his brother, who just passed the head of the edge of the bed, had watched, had stayed with her without fear of infection.
They were more than brothers, half of his life had been spent together, in touch from the feet to the front, mixing their breath, their sweat confusing.
Each of them did not know what in his or her body was treated as the other.
To not keep secrets Fermín Mariquita.
But as the brother demanded, it was hoped, and was what God wanted ...
Was upright again and spoke, without a gesture, without moving only his lips, staring on the horizon, as if in a dream and tells the story of another person.
Fermin began to get dark and it seemed that all the shadows of twilight it ran into Skull, clouding his mind, numbed with pain or drowsiness.
Intense cold and chilling, a cold grave, clawing his back.
It was the light breeze of the night, but Fermin seemed like a wind of ice, an ice tornado coming from the pole for him, just for him.
Maria de la Luz was talking impassive, as if recounts the misery of another woman.
Its words evoked images quick thinking brother.
All I saw Fermin: drunkenness general of the last night of the harvest, the intoxication of the girl, its collapse as a body inert in the corner of the vats, and after the arrival of the gentleman to take advantage of the fall. - The wine!
And with the thought evoked Salvatierra, recalling his anathema to the evil deity regulating all actions and affections of a people enslaved by it.
Then her sister's words made him see the awful awakening to fade the sad delusion of drunkenness, outrage that repelled a man she did not love, and he still seemed more unpleasant after his easy victory.
It was all over for Maria de la Luz.
Tired evidenced by the strength of his words.
And could not be the man she loved.
Should appear cruel, pretending indifference, to make him suffer as a frivolous girl, rather than tell the truth.
She prevailed in the female common concern that confuses love with virginity physics.
A woman could only be the wife of the man they carry as a tribute of submission, the integrity of his body.
She should be like her mother, like all good women knew.
The virginity of the flesh was as important as love, and when we lost, but was by chance, without any will, had to resign, bending his head, saying goodbye to this and follow the path of life alone and sad, while the unhappy lover away On the other hand looking for a new ballot box closed and unbroken love.
Maria de la Luz For evil was irremediable.
Fermin was silent, his beard in the chest and eyes closed, with immobility death.
He looked like a walking corpse.
Suddenly, awakened the human beast rears and roars to misfortune. - Ah, outcast bitch! - Roared .-- Bad skin! ¡....!
And the supreme insult to women's virtue out of his mouth shot Maria de la Luz.
The girl, as if the painful revelation had sunk into insensibility of idiots, not close their eyes, not stirred head to avoid the blow.
It was a flash of ferocity, nothing more.
Montenegro recognized no right to punish his sister.
In the mists of blood color passed before his eyes, thought he saw the bright blue glasses Salvatierra, cold smile of great goodness.
In addition, there was the wine as the main culprit: the golden poison, the devil of amber, spreading its perfume madness and crime.
Fermin was silent a long time. - From all of this - he said at last - not a word to the father.
The old man would die.
Sissy nodded in assent. - If you were to Rafael - continued - not a word either.
To avoid the revenge of Raphael, had lied to her, pretending their cruel diversions.
As this was the only solution.
With the honor of his family played no sir impunity.
If you do not want to love, tolerate him for duty.
She could send in their affections, but was above the honor of his home.
Because as a woman has no able to keep you, let your brother defend the family honor.
Had closed the night and the two brothers launched uphill return home.
It was a slow climb, painful legs were trembling, ringing in the ears, panting her breasts, as if a huge weight will crush them.
Carrying on their shoulders he seemed dead giant, which had to weigh on the rest of his life.
The brothers had a bad night.
During the evening suffered the torment of having to smile the poor father, to continue their conversation about the events that were preparing for the next day Fermin to express their views on the assembly of the rebels in the plains of Caulin.
The young man could not sleep.
Guessed, the other side of the septum, the Ladybird insomnia; heard continued revolver from his body on the bed, burst into sighs painful.
Shortly after dawn, Fermín Marchamalo left, addressing without saying goodbye to his Jerez family.
Going down the road, the first thing he saw was a tavern next to Rafael, on his horse, standing in the middle of the road, like a centaur. - When you come so soon, something that ties Bueno dicirme - said the tall boy with a confidence Fermin candida it almost brought tears .-- Drops by that mouth, Ferminillo dear, what results from the study bring your embassy? ...
Montenegro had to make a violent effort to lie, hiding with his vague words embarrassment.
The case was going so well, not too bad.
The insist that everything is fixed.
What mattered was that Mariquita I wanted the same as before.
I'm going to carry Jerez a tell Jesus.
You have more talent and labia, and more that in his head that the abogaos toos Caiz together, Seville and even Madrí ...
