Then, the seat moves Berne surrounded by the Aare peninsula shaped so that any point on the edge of the city is at the bottom of the beautiful valley where where they fight in a deep bed of crystal clear blue waves river, dominated by walls vegetables.
Berne height above the Aar is 76 feet, taken at the Observatory while the narrow valley bottom is 507 meters above sea level.
If tends around the view from the top of the Cathedral or the Centre, not only records the charming region of the plains, extending in all directions, but too, and this is more interesting for its majesty and beauty, superb snow chain Oberland, from the southern heights Stockhorn (2,356 met.) to oriental of Wetterhorn (3,718 met.) past a cordon of shining giants, such as Jungfrau, measuring 4.175 meters in elevation, and Finsteraarhorn still higher.
This show, provided thus far and the front, a grandeur that enchants and full the soul of admiration and devotion, and that makes the contrast with the plains the valley of the Aar, complete one of the most sublime panoramas that continental Europe can offer.
HOWEVER, there is something superior to such magnificence, as a few days after we Used to admire from the top of Mount Righi.
The first thing that attracts attention when crossing the main streets of Bern, elegant, clean and very lively in general, is the curious structure of their old arch on the gran via central and other adjacent.
Almost everything the city has the most curious and characteristic is meeting in the middle.
Almost all Eastern rotate parallel streets to west in the direction of the peninsula, usually cut at right angles, and All buildings have many similarities in shape and brown color of its stones.
All the streets are lined pipes covered by public sources that provide water abundant and pure, and those sources are all a character that makes them very curious by the figures of old men and wild beasts represent.
The great central street interesting aspects is low: there all the rest homes or are moving over large and dark masonry arches or very massive bastions, about eight feet in latitude and very low, where all the world to cover the sun and rain.
This is where all bonded trade shops, exhibiting disorder funny but all objects Bern industry notables.
Itself serves as the street market on certain days, and there found almost all the hotels or inns in the city, there is a social movement which abounds in interesting, colorful and varied.
