The councilman was and could not "get in noise ", especially as the Governor's relations with the city came to be a bit strained.
For its part.
Castro said curtly that it was all ridiculous.
Naturally, what would be ridiculous to make a man as he there?
He also announced that he was sleepy and this was already amply powerful an argument without the first.
Might have the Nati also given up climbing, but he felt obliged to wait to Rafael.
In a very dirty room waiting for the government and Manolito Amparo Dávalos when Nati joined them.
The manic Marquis was so shaky, so haggard and pale as if weighed on him a terrible misfortune.
His confusion and pain is increased when Amparo ordered to leave.
Not advisable to Salabert seeing him there.
He pleaded with the greatest extremes enabling it to await the end of the adventure, but in vain.
Unable to get came after the stay, but was to haunt the vicinity of the building as a faithful dog.
A few moments later, the appeal was taken to the office of one of the officers, that was ruthlessly, without getting off the couch and speaking in an authoritative tone that produced great irritation.
Soon it was this is not shameless whelp, but the fear of jail contained.
However, despite his patience, was not much that was.
If they fail at that time the Duke of Rafael Requena and would have been more than likely.
Salabert came puffing as usual.
Only a man with a hundred million pesetas of capital could authorize both snort and spit.
The officer was troubled a little in sight.
The banker, with his characteristic insight, took advantage of this dominance. - What is it, eh?
Nothing between two dishes ....
This is arranged in two seconds ....
All fixed, all arranged - began to growl with the ease which is at home.
The officer only had the courage to murmur: - Mr Duke, would be happy to oblige ...
Condujéronle to his office and was closeted with him.
After a few minutes out his cheeks a little bruised.
The secretary sent the door with a thin grin.
The Amparo is approached and asked: - Are you fixing the issue? - For now, yes - the ever-present cigar biting reply. - Well, I want to go in your car - he said, lowering his voice.
The banker's face darkened. - Too know that can not be. - What can not be? ...
Dame arm ....
And clutching his arm forcefully pushed him down the stairs followed by Nati and Rafael between the astonished eyes of the officer, the inspector and the three or four employees who were there at such an hour.
Once in the street, the beautiful tyrant offered his car to Nati and Rafael, and went without hesitation the Duke, who followed her taciturn but submissive.
Nerves are the old florist broke and that he was alone with her beloved.
The most vulgar words in the repertoire of point the drivers sprang to his lips trembling.
He kicked, he swore, gritted his teeth, uttered a thousand stupid threats.
Finally, taking the banker for the lapel of his coat fur, he said struck by the anger: - Of course, these two pigs, the employee and the inspector will be to escape unemployed. - We will see, see - said the Duke, restless and confused. - It is already seen.
Until his dismissal bring me no show at my house, because you do not receive.
IX # The Loves Raymond. # The new Clementine affair unfolded in a manner so childish as pleasing to it.
After that unfortunate turn of head, which had so embarrassed, she saved But for a few days, looking back, but the greeting was sent to Raymond increasingly expressive and affectionate.
The fad (not to give a better name, because he did not deserve) casting was, however, so rooted in his imagination, which ended by back again; next day too, to the other match, always finding the young twins nailed on it.
Finally, one day turned the corner and made a new waved. "Come on, I'm the shame," he muttered after blushing.
And so true was that since then it happened again without doing the same.
But that situation, but funny and original, it would seem heavy.
His temperament spirited not allowed to ever enjoy peace of mind, drove her to seek to desire beyond, to precipitate the events, but often, instead of pleasure desired, is wrapped in the rubble of his fantasy castle was built.
In This time, however, had better reasons than usual to want out of it.
It was so fake, who played on the edge of the ridiculous.
Alone with herself used to confess. "The truth is, all things considered, I'm doing the bear that boy.
I look like a lady the island of San Balandrán. " But though every day is meant to give a cut out this adventure is not over on foot, or crossing in front of the house Raymond without looking up, or all over, guiding cold greeting, it is certain that he had no will power to carry out its purpose.
Not even to stop sending the usual goodbye from the corner.
And the young man, seeing clear signs that she was of repentance, somewhat humiliating evidence of their sympathy for him, not depart from obedience, do not ever follow or seek opportunity to meet with her on the trip.
But to cross again for before he looked so cheerful, so happy, with such desire for health, the black ghost of pride faded and fell back into his chest in torrents sympathy and capricious desire to love and be loved by that child.
One afternoon, disappointment and bitterness had invaded his chest as he was thinking seriously, walking by Serrano Street, in completely abandon this ridiculous adventure, passing through under the gazebo after having greeted the young man felt it fall on a handful of broken flowers.
He looked up and sent him a warm smile of recognition.
That rain refreshed his soul, revived their faint whim.
Then he began to look with eagerness approaching half again Raymond.
He thought about writing asking for forgiveness of your visit and harsh words, but it was too late for that.
Then imagine that perhaps among his friends particularly among journalists, had some who knew him and by which he could send a message of care.
He even went through your head make sign to come down and give an explanation of word, but do not dare.
The accident came to his assistance in resolving the matter at his pleasure, when least expected.
One night they met at the Comedy Theatre.
Raymond, who spent the year of mourning I used to go from time to time, was with her sister in the seats.
She was in a box under against them.
They greeted each other warmly, and for a long time there was between the young and beautiful lady a shooting glances and smiles that caught the attention of extremely Aurelia. - But what is this?
You seem like close friends. - I do not know - said the young man a little confusing -.
Appears very affectionate with me.
In the first interval Aurelia received a beautiful bouquet of camellias brought a florist. - On behalf of the lady who is in the box number eleven.
The two brothers were the thanks to strong head.
Aurelia was very red. - Do not you think - said his brother - I rise to thank the lady?
Raimundo, when the curtain fell for the second time, left alone briefly and ascended the stage of the lady.
A happy smile lit up the face of it to see the young at the door.
He was received as an old friend told to sit at his side drew with he quiet conversation, leaving completely abandoned his companion forced Pascuala.
Fortunately for this not long in coming Bonifacio, who never took no chair when the family knew Osorio was in a theater box. - I welcome you keep me not grudge - quietly told him a long look insinuating -.
That proves that you have heart and talent.
Le I confess with all candor that I was wrong from medium to medium in the assessment of their behavior and himself.
It's so true than when I left home I would gladly become to ask you for forgiveness ....
If not in words, eyes and gestures you should understand I have asked that after many times ....
He still got another three or four passes over, true teacher, who arranged Raimundo head the poor, that is, left him immobile, confused, fascinated, as she wanted, in short.
At the same time those skills explained a bit of sympathy alien whose memory was ashamed.
Without giving him time to recover interest he asked his sister, for their lives, their butterflies.
Raimundo answered their questions with more than enough brevity, not cold, but for their lack of world.
But she was not disconcerted.
Still loving increasingly wrapping in a network of small words and tender looks flattering.
The more embedded and can even be said was excited regained his youthful admirer, here shown in the hall Pepe Castro on the seats, properly dressed in tails, the tips of his mustache stickers, fine needles, loops of hair coquettishly glued to his temples, the air loose manly, dismissive.
Clementina, who warned the surprise of her lover, after responding to the greeting redoubled his kindness Raimundo, turning entirely to him, bringing her face to speak, making a thousand goodies aimed at drawing the attention of the noble savage and worry.
Castro had come to be indifferent.
He directed it for a long time the Raimundo twins in a flippant and even provocative.
Our young man paid some looks innocent curiosity, because I had the honor of knowing the terror of husbands.
Realizing that his sister would be impatient, even from the stage not lost sight rose from his chair to leave. - We'll be friends right? - Said the beautiful lady holding him by the hand -.
Many memories his little sister.
I need to produce a feeling of this sudden and strange visit, and the give.
Tell it to one of these days I'll be surprised in the midst of housework ....
You interest me very much, so young brother and sister living alone ....
When the box got a bit dizzy and sat back down next to Aurelia, said this: - How beautiful is this woman! ...
But I still believe it does not look like mom.
Raymond, who did not remember at the time of such like, he felt a slight shudder and stammered: - Well, I find a certain air ....
Now it was just air.
The impression Clementina caused him was not very respectful devotion before being locked in singular way with her knowledge.
Pepe Castro, so I saw in the seats, and began staring at him with no doubt trying analyzed.
Since that boy blonde did not belong to the high society he frequented, pasósele by the imagination (because they had imagination and all), which could well be the same tracker who had complained both formerly Clementine.
As Naturally, this suspicion is excited him more sympathetically at him.
Raymond was so attentive to contemplate the box of Madame de Osorio, who did not notice the provocative insistence Tenorio.
He sat beside her, in the same position that a moment before had been Raimundo, who saw him in this way felt strange uneasiness, a vague sadness did not try to define.
However, it noted that lady was very cheerful and gallant gentleman seriously, and that she could not wait to take frequent glances to the seats, which put the other sulking increasingly and gloomy. - Have you noticed how you look at that lady? - Aurelia asked his brother -.
It seems as if liked. - What nonsense!
If the gentleman next to it now ....
Aurelia protested laughing.
No, his brother was better looking than that soldier chrome rosettes on the cheeks as the dancers.
When he finished the performance, Ray could see, not without some feeling of jealousy, Clementina waiting in the lobby your Land in the company of the same gentleman.
Saluted it With such affection, that Castro, increasingly restless, again addressed a long and intense look analysis.
On the space of a few days the young entomologist Clementina waited anxiously tarried at the door of his house and go up to the promise.
The lady was crossing as always with live pasito often affectionately greeted him first and from the corner back to make the proverbial good-bye.
Each time you saved the door Rayford's heart shrank, it became a bad mood. "Wow, you've forgotten, he said to himself: I will say no more with it, as happened not join us again somewhere. " Began assisting the chance to attend more often to the theater Comedy, but could not see it.
The Royal Theatre, where surely was, did not dare go for fear that he thought that lasted even persecution.
Why he had gotten into who was to head up into his house precisely at that hour and not another, we can not explain.
What I do claim is that they were immense astonishment and embarrassment when one morning Clementina was allowed to enter the house.
Aurelia was in the room and passed word to his brother immediately.
When he appeared, the lady was installed on the sofa talking to disengage from a friend who had them the day before visited. - Be it known that this visit is not for you - he said smiling and holding out his gloved hand. - I would dare to imagine, madame - "he said timidly squeezing. - Just in case!
I do not believe you fool, but women must always live prevented.
In the ease and joked that it took some warn could be affected.
About this pale eyes had always complained of emotion that overwhelms the spirit.
The visit was short, but she had time to flatter the girl with a lot of sensitive words, with effusive pledges.
He made her promise to go to see it someday.
If society did not like, it was afternoon and babble for a while soloists.
The orphans and the youth of Aurelia impressed.
Since she had said to resemble his mother a bit, as Raymond said it was believed with some claim to her affection. - Nothing, when you get bored here alone, are you coming to my house which is nearby, and we bored together, it is always easier.
Aurelia poor, confused by this kindness and worldly conversation, did nothing but smile.
When he rose to leave, said: - It is your responsibility, Alcazar, to remind Aurelia his word.
As you can do what you want.
The wise do not dare to insist because it bothers them at least thought ....
Having fully recovered his composure he spoke in a friendly tone, protector, a little maternal.
Still on the stairs for a moment entertained them with his brash talk and suggestive at once and he reiterated with grace all its offerings.
Raymond would not permit accompany her.
He went alone, leaving a scented trail sucked it with more pleasure than his sister.
Aurelia because then they closed the door remained silent.
In the words of praise Rayford was taxed to the lady warmly, nodded in a laconic tone that put out the fires.
The first impression of filial adoration inspired young Clementina entomologist had been fading slowly or, rather, confused with another tilt less holy, but keeping something from her.
Like all men away treatment of women, dedicated exclusively to the study, the view of sex and recognition of the divine law of love was alive and intense.
The day after the visit of Clementina Aurelia wanted and the pay, saying of course that desire timidly and with words muffled.
But his sister showed him the desirability of waiting for some time and he resigned.
At the end of the visit.
Aurelia spent an afternoon in the boudoir of Madame de Osorio.
Raymond, after much hesitation, he did not dare to go with it.
After three or four days came back home Clementina youth to invite them to go at night to the Real.
Rayford had no tails, Aurelia also did not have a very fitted wardrobe.
A relative gave the young his coat: Aurelia was the best rags of the closet.
The next day Raymond was responsible a dress suit in the best tailoring in Madrid.
Not only did this, but also without informing his sister, went to the Royal Theatre's accounting and took a seat near manure Osorio of the pit, in the same turn.
The intimacy between them grew quickly, thanks to the efforts of Raymond.
Because his sister, but also praised the kindness of his new friend, oppose silent and passive resistance to attend their treatment.
For more than made could not erase from his mind the strange way starting this friendship, nor could he hide the false bottom in it existed.
Knowing Raimundo tried to dispel their apprehensions desire, sometimes directly, other indirectly.
Aurelia was rather an ugly girl pretty, as we have said, good sense and honest heart.
The adoration he had for Ray, instilled by his late mother, did not prevent the parties know their character thin, weak, impressionable with excess and childish.
Actually in this respect it represents the male element and the female he indoors.
He cried very easily, she hardly.
He felt strange apprehensions, fainting, hallucinations sometimes true, she had the nervous system perfectly balanced
