And the vice is more common virtue. " Sometimes thought Don Braulio: "If I banned my wife that was to accompany the Rosita, everyone who knew or presumed to be make fun of me ...
Would believe that the suspected light or easily.
He was agitated, as if the sky were to fall out over, and only calmed down, just passing tempest of his soul, when tears came to his eyes and vented with them the feeling of the heart.
Ines Beatriz and were therefore in complete freedom to go to Rosita everywhere, and not failed to seize it.
Don Braulio became complicit in this, accompanied not infrequently.
Some were nice, some very unpleasant but all cleverly concealed by him.
The Don Braulio unpleasant emotions born of distrust of himself, tormented him.
Recognized tired, melancholy, old, slightly pleasant, shabby, inelegant, and each see step understanding men whose clothes, whose moral worth, whose soul, in short, we seemed far inferior to what in his own being noticed and appreciated, but they were at the same time, so superior to him in all that noticeable and more easily estimated, for example, distinction and ease of manner, youth, physical beauty, health and vigor, amenity and joy in treatment, lightness and grace in conversation, he looked like inexplicable prodigy his wife did not liked, rather than him, of any of these men.
Corroborated in his mind persuasion so sad thinking skills that he seen in men, and which was deemed inadequate.
It a man admired waltz well, it seemed beautiful, lovely waltz, and said to yourself, "What will my wife from me, not waltz?" More still admired by young people hunt, pulling a gun and the foil, skating, riding on horseback, and are agile and strong for all this.
Even those who deal or are graceful in calves caused her tricycle envy.
Back in his conscience, yet secret, declaring to himself our Don Braulio that being a woman, he would be very close to falling in love with a handsome young man who had such skills.
So he gave the unhappy the devil, and had made a pact with fixed him surrendering his soul, if the overnight he had become clumsy in fast and of puny in robust, granting under skating, waltz, ride, fence, fight, hunting and cycles.
Don Braulio is plunged in such meditations, and out of them so mean and base their own eyes, which instilled shame.
He looked at his wife, which was really beautiful, elegant, discreet.
Appeared to him worthy of a throne worthy of going in magnificent carriages, stepping Alcatifa of Persia, lace dress silks and delicious, to receive adoration of the wise and brave and rich, to award merit, skill, poetry, science and daring with a sweet look of love.
Y as Don Braulio had done nothing to earn the award, almost persuaded that he was usurping, that was a miserable possessor.
Doña Beatriz, meanwhile, was delighted to all men of the party of her friend.
His joy was talkative, his speech, delightful
