Ojeda watched the "doktor" with some astonishment.
America was hired by a government to give lessons in chemistry at the university in the country.
Enjoyed some popularity in the laboratory from their homeland ...
And was there holding the enjabonaduras and antics of the barber, shuddering under the dashes of black, without knowing the grotesque of a situation that had angered others, perhaps pleased to contribute to the delight of the crowd weary of the monotony Ocean.
Christening the trumpet sounded, and the "Doktor" splashed in the pool, defending of the handfuls of black ridiculous myopic stunning, majestic by the importance which gave the act and the seriousness with which walked away dripping dirty clothes and beards After regaining his glasses.
Continued the party with visible decay of curiosity.
People marched ship: cabin boys making their first trip, firemen long navigation to the northern seas had not been in the South.
And managers take extra baptism jokes confianzuda brutality in their heads shaved and naked torsos of those who were his peers.
Ojeda, during the long ceremony, he had looked many times at the castle practicable balcony Central Maud expecting to see the ladies leaning out to them.
Finally, when there were no longer neophytes and the grotesque characters were going to retire, preceded by music, was at one end of the viewpoint of the promenade deck, hidden behind Mrs.
Fernando thought maybe Maud watched him for hours without realizing it this, and it caused him some annoyance.
He separated from his friend to go running to the upper floors of the ship, and before heard them breaking music playing a march.
The procession moved toward neptunesco den terrace, where they would be baptized ladies.
Near the winter garden he found with Maud, who was walking between spouses Lowe.
Crossed a greeting, and instantly Ojeda experienced a feeling of strangeness.
Power seemed another woman.
Almost felt like to ask for forgiveness, as he is wrong to confuse a stranger with a friend.
She nodded with a smile insignificant greeted him like any other passenger.
His eyes were fixed on hers quietly, without the slightest hint of embarrassment, as if there were no other relationships between the ordinary in the common life on board.
In the Goethe also have offered not to oppose the lady.
And laughed, showing the luenga teeth inlaid with gold.
Lowe, with the instinct of solidarity guess that makes every woman the right moment to help a friend, stood clutching the arm of Maud, standing between her and Fernando.
In need of comfort, praise Maud inside the discretion of the race easy to master, hiding their impressions. "What good fakes! ...
No one would guess what's between us ... "but makes to the memory of the painful scene in front of the cabin door.
Trembled in his hearing the echo of the male voice almost hoarse with anger ...
They occupied several rows of benches, as in a school, and every time you lift a to receive the lustral water, the musicians threw their long tubes of copper a roar trumpets of war scenes similar to Wagner.
God had removed gallantly dive in sea water.
He held in one hand a large spray bottle filled with perfume, and sprinkle with reverent heads: one, blond and ruffling in the wind, sometimes glossy black, studded by the brightness of combs.
All the joy of the ceremony lay in the names that would impose divinity their catechumens to approving murmurs or general laughter.
The imagination of the butler and waiters in some letters he had given all his juice to flatter the passengers with the names of starfish, pink Ocean, zephyr Ecuador, etc.
The old ladies were nymph, nymph Atlantic, Naiad, which made flushed back to their seats, with the double chin quivering, including approving murmurs and somewhat ironic competition.
With his fellow Germans were allowed good innocent jokes to the delight of the audience.
I looked everywhere, but avoiding his eyes meet with Fernando.
A passenger approached the ladies with the cap in hand and gallant air, just as if it were offered to a dance. - When you want ...
Munster was inviting them to a game of bridge.
Had found playmates in those three Americans, convincing them an hour earlier, while witnessed the christening ceremony.
Maud gladly accepted the invitation, as if the bridge was a good excuse to withdraw from importunate presence.
He walked away with his friends after an indifferent greeting Fernando, and he saw her walk without turning his head, without a hint of hesitation and regret.
His legs carried him with an irresistible impulse to the vicinity of the room, and looked at Maud with the cards in hand, frowning and looking hard at their playmates.
By lifting her eyes, saw Fernando framed by the window, staring fixedly and made a gesture of anger, just as if he were confronted with something which shook his nerves and broke his patience.
Fernando fled, suffering the same feeling as if just received a blow on the back ...
He wandered around the ship, one deck to another, to find Isidro coffee on the terrace.
It was not in it any trace of the feast of the baptism means passengers had spread.
Maltrana seemed infuriated by the excesses and hardships of their popularity.
as if I had shipped to make people laugh ...
Believe me, I feel the sadness of a great man convinced of the ingratitude of his people.
And after this statement, accompanied by a comical gesture, Isidro turned to lean against the railing, looking at northern migrants huddled down in the square stern. - For a while I'm here to remind mariners of bygone centuries and their views on virtues of the equator.
And this belief was not only the Spanish explorers, French and The British also adopted, becoming for many years a universal truth. - Past the Azores - Maltrana said - began to depopulate the bloodthirsty beasts the heads and beards of the crew, and get to the line there was one to remember.
This s kind of uncomfortable was not so exclusive property of one people or another.
All those in Europe equally possessed, and even enjoyed the pleasure of kings and entertainment rascuñón hunting in the dark.
Imagine what would those small vessels with crews wood piles and corroded by all sorts of nasty bugs ...
How to reach heat line was that the sailors were going about half naked and take advantage of long calm giving baths, this momentary hygiene exterminate the fierce companions, justifying the belief that dying for lack of acclimatization to move from one hemisphere to another.
The bloodthirsty tiger from the jungles capillaries, carnivorous beast jumping on the tops and hollows in the folds of clothing, had figured for centuries as an interesting character in many literary works.
Cervantes laughed at him and his feigned death in the limit of two hemispheres to tell "the adventure of the enchanted boat," when Don Quixote and his squire floated on the Ebro in a boat without a paddle ...
Look at them: scratch to scratch! ...
He pointed to some immigrants who watched the Ocean thoughtfully, as figures hieratic priestly majesty, wrapped in robes Luengas while his fingers hooked walked by the beard, sunk under the skin, or advancing cap in the folds and folds of the breast. - Let's go - Ojeda said nervously, as if you do not inspire confidence that the height separated from these characters.
Noticed when walking along the deck the shortage of ladies.
Some that were shown for brief times they seemed preoccupied with the search for something important.
Then disappeared, as if an idea they have bought a new or modified data that your bad mood. - They are preparing for the party tonight - said Maltrana -.
Great dance costumes and during the meal masquerades as baptism.
Still bright on the horizon the last solar fires, when the trumpets announced the banquet.
The flags, wreaths of roses, all the trappings of great colorful festivals, adorned the dining room.
No service began were occupied many of the tables.
Many passengers remained in the breakfast area to enjoy before the other of the announced news.
Ladies retarded entry, with the hope that their costumes achieve greater success.
Expected, as well as actresses, that the room had good audience, and their maids or men of the family were in the cabin to the dining room to look around and come back with news.
Each family wanted the others were in front, and let time pass without a decision.
They were passengers in the third course, when they began to present the costume, all at once.
Blushing welcomed the applause and shouts of enthusiasm, and so went to their seats escorted by the family.
The men were also on the masquerade.
Many did not have another nose disguise cardboard or crepe whiskers, keeping them though hindered their food.
Some appeared with big hat, poncho on the shoulders and spurs, it did resonate belligerently.
Some ate between sweat of fear, disguised as dervishes bed blankets.
A German major had put the life jacket that kept all cabin as a precaution regulations.
Locked up like a crustacean in this shell of cork, kept away from the table because of the volume of its container, having to make a journey every time his hands were on the plates in their mouths.
A mock astonishment greeted him with loud applause, and satisfied with this triumph, endured martyrdom, being the first to admire his prodigious inventive.
The maids of luxury cabins ranging from table to table, dressed in peasant Tirol, giving flowers.
Other servants, hawkers dressed in German, offering goodies that were in a drawer on the chest.
A painted black boy with the help descolgábase a rope through the skylight that connected the music room with dining room, and proclaimed, in the style of newspaper vendors, the Aequator Zeitung newspaper is printed on board the press that was used for the printing of menus and lists of passengers.
The tiny leaf repeated on every trip the same jokes and poems dedicated to the passage of the line.
The butler, standing at the entrance to the dining room, coat stand with brass buttons, seemed to preside over the banquet, smiling modestly, as if grateful for the congratulations of the audience silent for good Under the party.
On the tables elevábanse multicolored cones pyramids with surprises.
Threw their diners ends, producing an explosive burst, and emerged wrappers tiny ornaments, butterflies and flowers chiffon, tiny flags, paper hats.
It adorned the breasts of the ladies with these brilliant baubles, all smoking flap looked like a badge of national flag carrier.
Cubríanse heads with the tissue paper hats, combs of birds, mitres Asian, clown hats, contrasting grotesquely with the gesture avid eaters.
After grilling the waiter disappeared, and all the lights went out at once.
This resulted in complete darkness, after a silence of surprise, shouts and whistles.
The malicious mimicked in darkness smacking kisses, others raised howls of animals.
It sounded far away the music and lights twinkled in red and green breakfast room, a line of lanterns carried aloft by the waiters.
This glow, muffled by the glass colors, discreetly lit with soft light.
It was the "march of the torch" of any party German.
The passengers, attracted by the music began to beat time with their knives, plates and glasses.
And among the general ringing, almost drowned out the sounds instruments, the procession paraded: the drum major leading the band, all the servants carrying lanterns, the waitresses dressed as flower girls, and a large number of animals bears, dogs and lions, waiters in good faith, sweating under the fur lining and moved from side to side their heads roaring or barking cardboard.
Two men supported one another invisible marching under a shell that mimicked the leathery skin of an elephant, moving between tables serpentine monster's trunk and ears of a fan.
Other waiters came after holding light dishes, large platters inside which elevábanse ice cream castles in the shape of birds or houses, all under cloches various colors and with a candle in the center.
Several young ladies brought up the rear of big hat, blonde hair loose, who smiled men shamelessly sending kisses.
They were escorting three matrons of honor arms beautiful and majestic walk, white robes and red cap on purple wavy black tresses.
They are recognized by color and heraldic motifs of mantles: the Republic of Brazil, the Republic of Uruguay and Argentina.
Munster required his glasses to better appreciate the novelty.
Isidro, who claimed to know all of the ship, joined amazed ...
But the bold look of one of those beauties who danced to the three republics and the kiss that sent him to the fingertips made suddenly recognize Maltrana his face hidden behind the undulating curls and rouge and powder coating of rice. - Christ!
Look, Ojeda, who makes no mistakes? ...
The troupe moved effeminate among the tables, followed by the astonishment of the ladies and the bold burlesque of men.
Some of them jumped the compliment to the action, pinching the way to the unruly girls, who responded with shrieks of fear and modest splashes.
Suddenly ignited the ceiling lights, masks and animals fled as a coven surprised by sunrise, and only stayed in the dining room with waiters ice trays, starting with the deal.
Ojeda had looked several times a nearby table where he ate alone Mrs.
She was dressed with great elegance and the pale flesh of his neck sparkled more brightly. - It seems worried - Isidro had said at the beginning of the meal -.
Do not look at you, Ojeda, as usual.
Food passed without Fernando managed to find their eyes with the U.S..
She looked around with a distracted air, and avoid putting your eyes on the table nearby.
After the parade, when the general joy was talking to one group against another, the gifts of Munster made him turn his head toward the neighbors.
The jeweler, with mellow courtesy, lifted his glass of champagne in honor of the lady.
Maud answered with a nod, also raising his glass, and not to seem inattentive, repeated movement and then watching Isidro Ojeda.
A courtesy and nothing more.
Munster, proud of the friendship that bound him to the lady on the occasion of the bridge, asked to resume the game.
Before the ball could make a new start in the music room: Lowe husbands were willing ...
She shook her head with an expression of weariness.
No know what to say ...
Fernando glared at her companion.
But this old colored by what stood between him and Maud with his damn bridge? ...
He thought he saw in him a certain expression of petulance, the pride in their budding friendship with the lady who had only been set at Ojeda ...
There would be no bridge: Fernando swore inside.
Maud was dressed elegantly to attend the dance, and would not end the night without the two they had an explanation
