This difficulty would be reasonable if it were an isolated event, wrapped in some obscurity, subject to a thousand different combinations, when there are objections against Christianity is not only unfounded, but even contrary to common sense. ยง IX.
Let him that his madness is the madness of heroism and genius; the inability to become historic event.
To what the senses tell us stands a building as large and high knowledge of all kinds, looking at him is difficult to conceive how this could have grounded in such small bases.
Can not reach the senses comes understanding, knowing the existence of objects insensitive by the sensitive.
The lava spread over an area know us the past existence of a volcano that we have seen, the shells found at the summit reminiscent of a mountain the elevation of the water, indicating a catastrophe we have not seen, some underground work shows that in earlier times benefited a mine there, the ruins of ancient cities show us the abode of men not we have known.
So the way we have an object, and with this understanding comes half the knowledge of others very different.
While noting this passage from the known to the unknown we can not do without Before we have any idea more or less complete, more or less general unknown object, and without at the same time we know that there is some dependence between the two.
So in the examples put forward, but did not know that particular volcano or waves that swept the mountain or to the miners, nor to the inhabitants, despite all these objects were known to me general and its relations with what they offered me the senses.
In the contemplation of the marvelous machine of the universe we would not knowledge of the Creator, but we had causes and effects idea of ??order and intelligence.
And it is by the way, this single observation enough to disrupt the system that are not in our thoughts more than feelings transformed. ยง II.
The dependence of the objects is all that can empower us to infer the existence of one of the other, and thus the whole difficulty lies in knowing this dependence.
If the intimate nature of things were clear to our view, suffice to fix be to find a course all their properties and relationships among them discover which you are linked with others.
Unfortunately it is not, for in the physical order as in the moral, are very scarce and incomplete ideas we have about the founding principles beings.
These are precious secrets carefully veiled by the hand of the Creator; of itself so that the richest and most exquisite nature shelters, sometimes concealed in the most hidden breast.
Because of this lack of knowledge with regard to the essence of things, we often are compelled to guess their dependence on only their coexistence or succession, implying that one depends on another, because there are few or many times together, or because this is after that
