When it comes to found a population or populate a province, after consideration the advantages of its location and terrain, regularly presented two powerful challenges, These are: to persuade or compel the first settlers to occupy the site will intended, and providing capital for the cost of everything that has to be in good common.
For lack of them, are many towns and villages of great antiquity without precise comfort and relief that could have if they did, being necessary to establish the essential place to spill means that other people look with abhorrence, without knowing that they find useful.
But here in these villages, in these circumstances, neither of these two obstacles must be overcome.
The province is well populated with people, and people with swollen streams, which can serve themselves, with most other proportions shall speak in where it belongs, so that I think in all the world could not be found another province with the same resources, if the regulation is verified I will propose.
The people of this department of my office, however to be less proportions as I have said elsewhere, are at present with some funds more than medium, and not counting what may or must in Buenos Aires.
There are people who would not assets community for 100,000 pesos of silver without putting into account the houses, lands, or furniture, but only the cattle, plants, fruits and marketable effects, and least not lower 35,000.
And while it is true that there are other villages in the province that its flow will not to this sum, so is that there are some who outbid a lot, and that none should be with what they have and their proportions can not establish new ones that would like to have many American cities.
So see you if I have reason to say that the materials for this are the most precious work and more plentiful than may be desired.
The context of the entire narrative of this report will undoubtedly persuaded you that the media only to advance the province and take their natural ignorance, misery and despondency where are the communities extinguished, leaving the Indians in full freedom that each one works for their own profit, trading the fruits and effects of their work and industry, and that in all live and be treated like other subjects of the King.
This is the dictates of good reason, and this is what seems to be directed my thoughts.
But, friend mine, for the same story you will know that they are holding the Indians to their communities have been prevented, and prevents the purchase provided the light to see aid and supplies necessary for life and this disability is a powerful obstacle to cross freedom, so that in the meantime are in community, can never acquire the necessary lights for themselves provided the necessary comforts of life, and until they have they seem impossible to cross the freedom not to expose it to total ruin.
As thing evident to all who know that freedom would cross the same that if every man put him in a desert with no companions, and there had to alone provided all the supplies necessary for life, which is the same as put it to perish.
And it seems to you weight, lack of intelligence in all which is to help each other, not knowing how to sell or exchange some goods for others, nor use about the ability of others, reduce the most miserable state, the impossible actual collection of taxes, it would end minoraría and even the cult of the temples, and even disperse the Indians, perhaps causing the total destruction of peoples.
