Cador Fiole that he had forsaken his friend most of his wealth, and gave him to understand that their greatest that would be able to part with it.
That the lady wept, was angry, and then subsided; and as the dinner was longer than the food, speak both with more confidence.
He Azores eulogy of the deceased, confessed, however, that suffered from some small defects in Cador were not.
In the middle of supper Cador complained of intense pain in the spleen, and the lady concerned and scared traxeran you sent all that is perfumed with essences, to test whether any remedy was a against the pains of the spleen; feeling much he had gone already wise Babylon Hermes, and deigning to touch the side where Cador felt such great pain.
Two fingers of the grave makes me sometimes, replied Cador, and there is only one remedy for relief, which is applied to the cost the face of a man who died the day before.
There is more rare, said Cador, the horns of deer that put children to preserve the evil eye.
The latter reason with the waiter a lot of merit determined after the lady.
Finally, he said, if my husband's nose is a little shorter in the second life that the first, not that he has to keep out the angel Asrael, when crossing the bridge Sebinavar, to move from the world of yesterday morning.
Saying this, he took a knife, went near the grave of her husband bañándole into tears, and to cut off the noses Baxo; but Zadig who was lying in the grave, one hand clutching his nose, and diverting the knife with the other, rose suddenly exclaimed, again do not say much bad about Cosrúa, that the idea of ??cutting my nose well they can gamble in moving to the current a stream.
The dog and horse.
Zadig soon saw that, as the book of Zenda-Vesta, if the first month of marriage is the honeymoon, the second is the aloes.
Very quickly saw himself compelled to repudiate the Azores, which had become unbearable, and tried to be happy studying nature.
There be more fortunate, he said, that the philosopher who studied the great book of God in the eyes men.
The truths he discovers are his property, supports and enhances your mood, and lives in quiet, without fear of others, and without the coming of his tender wife to cut off noses.
Steeped in these ideas, retreated to fifth on the banks of the Euphrates, which was not involved to calculate quantas inches of water pass each second Baxo the arches of a bridge, or whether month mouse cubic rain water line more than the ram, or devised to make silk with cobwebs, or porcelain with broken bottles, studying, yes, the properties of animals and plants, and soon grangeó a sagacity that made him play thousands of differences where others saw only uniformity.
A day strolling beside a grove, he saw a eunuch come running from the Queen, accompanied several employees of the palace, all seemed full of anxiety, and ran everywhere like hell they're looking for the most precious thing they have lost.
Mancebo, told him the main eunuch, Did you see the queen's dog?
he said the first eunuch beside himself.
Certainly not, "replied Zadig, or I have seen or knew that the queen had no dog.
Pass that by a quirk of chance had been missed at the same time the hands of a groom of the king the best horse in the royal stables, and were running for plain of Babylon.
Iban behind him the Horse and all his subordinates to not less urgency that the chief eunuch behind the dog, the groom He went to Zadig, and asked if he had seen the king's horse.
That is a horse, 'said Zadig, who has the best canter six feet tall, the tiny hoof, tail and fourth long pole, the snack gold brake is twenty-three carats, and eleven silver horseshoe money.
Nor have I seen, "said Zadig, or I have never heard of him.
Or to the Horse or the chief eunuch was clear that they had stolen the horse Zadig the king and queen bitch, conduxeronle it to the assembly of large Desterham, which sentenced to two hundred lashes and six years in prison.
No sooner had given the sentence, when seemed the horse and the dog, so that judges were in the painful precision to cancel his sentence, he nevertheless condemned Zadig to a fine of four hundred ounces of gold, because he had seen had said Queno having seen.
First paid the fine, and then allowed pleyto defend against the advice of the great Desterliam, where he said this: Astros justice founts of knowledge, mirrors of truth, which lead to the seriousness of Unix the hardness of iron, the brightness of the diamond, and no little affinity with gold, allowed siéndome speak before this August assembly, I swear by Orosmades, have never seen nor respectable dog of the Queen, nor the sacred horse of the king of kings.
The event has been like going to count.
Walking walking in the grove where he later met the venerable eunuch, and the illustrious groom higher.
Observed in the sand the tracks of an animal, and easily met was a small dog.
Long and thin grooves, printed in heaps of sand between the tracks of the feet I made it known that was a bitch, and her tits hung, where I gathered that he had calved a few days to.
Other remains in another direction, which always look flush dexaban sand beside the front foot, showed me that he had long ears, and as the footsteps of one foot were less deep in the sand than the other three, pulled by consequence it was, if I dared to speak, a little bitch coxa of our August queen.
In quanto a horse of the king of kings, the truth is that pacing the sidewalks of the forest, I noticed the signs of the hoofs of a horse, they were all at the same distance.
This horse, dixe, has the perfect canter.
In a narrow road that has no more than two and a half yards wide, was at left and right to sweep the dust in some Parages.
The horse, I guess I have a glue stick and fourth, with its moves to right and to left, has swept this dust.
Vnder trees forming a canopy of two yards high, were freshly fallen leaves of the branches, and knew that he had forsaken down the horse, which therefore had two Yaras.
Your brakes must be gold of twenty-three carats, because, having scrubbed his head against a stone snack I've seen was playing, I did the test.
Finally, brands that have forsaken the horseshoes on rocks other species have proved that I was eleven silver money.
Abode stunned all the judges with astute sense to Zadig, and the news came the king and queen.
In lobbies, rooms, cabinets and did not speak more than Zadig, and King ordered him to be A REFUND OF THE fine of four hundred ounces of gold they had been sentenced since there were few magicians burn opinion as a sorcerer.
They went with great pomp home to the clerk of the cause, sheriffs and prosecutors, to take their four hundred ounces, not save costs by more than three hundred ninety-eight clerks truth is that They asked for a gratuity.
Zadig was looking very dangerous thing to know too much, made firm purpose of not saying On another occasion I had ever seen, and the occasion was not long in coming.
A state inmate escaped, and passed vnder Zadig balconies.
Zadig appealed to friendship and comfort to the philosophy for the ills that had made the fortune.
In a suburb of Babylon had a house furnished with much taste, and there met arts and recreation worthy of a fine man.
In the morning his library was open for all the wise and evening his table to persons of good education.
Force is that it has, said others, when you do not want Zoroaster eat.
In such weak foundations lie at times the most cruel enemy.
Tore it in two leaf memorandum book in which he had written, and pulled the two pieces to a bower of roses, where it was in vain look for them
