I do not want to love me or pursuant to a moral duty, not out of consideration to laws enacted by men.
I want to love me for love, as I love her. "This was impossible.
The ugly is graceful, the coward, human and kind, the fool, full of candor and innocence; the effeminate, worship, the brutal and uncompromising, spirited and loyal, the brash, frank, the low and flatterer, kind and good.
I also cheated me. "Sometimes I glimpsed my mistake, and I was tormented by the suspicion of my unworthiness.
And it haunted me for the sake of myself, of contempt, for I feel it was worth less.
I was tormented because my eyes disappeared entirely reasonable and well founded reason that Beatrice loved me. "But I was blind.
My happiness depended so much love for Beatrice, who, Now for my criticism destroyed any basis wicked that my love could support, closed I the eyes of my soul to not see that that love was collapsing, was lost forever when I needed it to be eternal. "From here my absurd, my unbelievable blindness, when I was usually so suspicious and distrustful. »All Madrid and certainly knows what he says.
I would ignore it, if a non-anonymous accusations had come to give birth to my understanding. "It was a disgrace.
I was passing by a husband suffered and consented.
And yet (humbles me my weakness), I am sorry I have disappointed.
I would be happy to continue in deception and being the scorn of the people so as not to lose faith in it, so to believe that she still loves me. "The telltale letter has made me see what I wanted to see, not realizing it was me who did not wanted to see. "Obviously my misfortune. "I wanted, however, still deny it.
I wanted to persuade me that the letter was a libel.
New evidence tell me not to. "The inextricable link that ties my existence with that of Beatrice is the religion is not the laws.
It would be better to kill her without speaking of reason I have to kill you. "I fled from home if you called me.
At home I do not know what Had I made.
Maybe I would have cried and complained as vile.
Perhaps as the executioner had been mistreated
