The silk industry was ruined the competition that made the French, one after another were closed mounted workshops for over a century old that had sustained industrial supremacy Valencia, and Don Manuel, who despite his effort was good business sense to keep stubbornly fighting with the outside world and suffered huge losses died of a tantrum before that the ruin came to crown his desperate resistance.
Inherited approximately seventy thousand dollars in cash, genres and individual property Friar's children, and as the eldest son remained with the manor house, pleased with his position and willing to increase the inherited, Dona Manuela, to be rich, just thought-out their state of shopkeeper.
For her, the society was divided into two classes: those who go on foot and spend carriage; those at home with large yard wide gate and enter through narrow stairs or dark backroom.
I wanted to climb, jump from the class of outcasts devoted to work to the "decent people", and with the rule and conciseness of the absolute mistress not support replication, her husband explained the future plan of life.
Since the dependent older Antonio Cuadros, was married to Teresa, the maid, and for having some thought nest egg established, which would keep the gift shop and Eugene, who wanted to end his life caught to it like glue.
The transfer price already paid would gradually Antonio, and they lifted the flight immediately to go to make a nest in a large house near the Market a magnificent estate, with wide portal, large patio blocks deep, and on the top floor great rooms; property that the deceased had acquired Fraile for little money, paying thundered a count usurious.
Everything was as ordered by Dona Manuela, and this, a few days, remembered as a dream six-year stay in the tent on the market and can be considered happy limousine ride in the Alameda and having a servant to his orders to send to recaditos new friends, wives and military judges, ladies which, being rich, treated with a patronizing air.
Purgábala wealth as a crime, and his life of idle rentier and walking companion and ceremonies resultábale hell.
Since morning I had to endorse his coat and hat, to be willing to accompany the lady, was heard calling at all hours of awkward because in the closed visits mouth, or if it was opened to release the naivety and openness to remember their origin y. ..
She had commitment to engage great friends, and did not go near his saloon without authority or person known to Melchor solemnly salute him with a knee sombrerazo, flushing many times see the gesture of surprise that those who replied to the reverence of an entity unknown.
He looked great according to his new position.
Manolita loved and did not want to tell the truth about his character, but the wily Don Eugenio not worth pretending. - Look, boy, you fool us.
No, you're not happy ...
You have, as I, blood dealer, and get us out of this counter and our customs, we kills.
The other day he told me his brother.
She has to kill you, and you're on way.
You can not shoot with a life ....
And these prophecies funeral, which, quite frankly, to the Aragonese, the unhappy espeluznaban Melchor, the meeting went slowly.
Don Melchor visibly languishing.
His good humor was gone in June with the colors of his face, a greasy yellow obesity swell his body, and finally, a year after leaving the store, died while doctors know for sure the disease.
It was something liver, heart or stomach; about it agreed not doctors; the only thing was indisputable that fell languidly and without noise, as these birds to whom the traitor loop space starts to lock them in a cage.
It was a dismal mourning of Dona Manuela.
Dona Manuela knew it was not very successful presence in the first ex-boyfriend days of her widowhood.
But in the end it was his cousin, and was so fondly the fatherless Johnny, with such things cheer the little boy knew that he could not go without uncle Rafael.
Who else murmured against such visits was Don Juan, brother austere, sullen and neat righteousness, but his complaints were received so bitterly, that ended up vowing never to put foot in that house.
It was the doctor who owned the land.
Was so accommodating, they entertain the nephew did not hesitate to shed their professional dignity, and the maids heard sounds in the guitar room and the voice of Don Rafael singing the song from its heyday as a student.
First only visited the widow in the afternoon, then continued the interviews, leaving the house at midnight, and finally came a day when it came out.
Don Eugenio and Don Juan were outraged, saying that he knew perfectly well Fraile his daughter, and although the two had little affection for the doctor, experienced some satisfaction knowing that the widow and married cousin just passed the limit set by law.
After three months of marriage had a daughter, Conchita, a year after a boy who They named Rafael, and finally, the youngest, Amparo, last fruit of a love affair that became extinct after rapid and intense flame.
The marriage was conducted shortly after a source of satisfaction for Don Juan, which although he hated his sister was glad of his misfortunes, daughters of unpredictability.
Rafael's cousin, a lover of pleasure angry and forced to suppress their desires in the atmosphere of sordid greed that had brought up, threw himself fearlessly to satiate their appetites to be owner of the fortune of his wife.
Contingency Dona Manuela loving owner made him all of the house, and soon make their tyranny.
Selfish to the brutality, was wasteful for pleasure and ferocious when it came to mean the needs of others.
Found ridiculous the aristocratic tastes of his wife, and removed a despot.
He sold the carriage and horses, and Dona Manuela, demanding that was shown on display with her first husband, and gladly obeyed orders servile the second.
Unaware that the man so miserly in spending of the money threw home beyond, and covering with the veil of hypocrisy, led a life of skull, such as he had dreamed in his youth.
The blindness of the wife lasted a few years.
When he learned the whole truth, had a moment of anger and courageous act of protest, as in giving her hand to Melchor, but it was too late to remedy the evil.
The doctor had played hard, losing thousands of dollars; held dear by pure costly undertook glitz and fun trips throughout Spain with bold fellow Bure.
Dona Manuela's fortune was almost destroyed.
Her husband, loving moments of expansion, when she felt more subject, Tell them started and had to incriminating signatures pay, on pain of seeing their assets seized.
To head to her husband - as she said - he returned to his former charges, the fake show that there was a fortune; contracted, on the other hand, debts and guided by the deceptive sense of honor of the people who are ruined, Instead of selling farms and being launched, preferring to tax their property with mortgages and lie in the arms of usury, seeking overwhelming interest loans.
Rafael cousin's death made Don Juan back to his sister's house and to deign to address in their affairs.
With his keen eye for the practical man, put order in the welter: sold farms, canceled mortgages, paid with hard money lenders despite these, they wanted to see run interest to devour the client, and finally one day he could say to his sister: - Look, girl, you have free and healthy you have left, but I warn you that you are not rich.
You, at most, twenty thousand dollars, plus eight thousand who belong to Johnny, as the inheritance his father.
Now a lot of great order and economy, so you can going.
If you were poor you tend the hand; but you have to eat, and I do not like the wasteful shelter.
No more berlinitas and other expenses which it appears that you do not.
Doña Manuela felt himself impressed by the advice of his brother, and followed them for a long time scrupulously.
Devoted himself to raising their children, ie children from his second marriage, for poor Johnny had always been treated with false affection, with a detour disguised as Dona Manuela wanted revenge on the poor kid to have been owned by his late father.
The faithful and caring husband just appointed him as if the marriage had been a few days, and instead of that skull that both did suffer after death had forged an ideal figure, and if not of its virtues, spoke to all of his talent, painting him as a distinguished scholar, whose science was unable to appreciate the world.
The poor son of Melchior, with his timid and gentle nature and his desire for love, was the pariah of the house.
The doctor, seeing him always quiet, watching her mother with stupid worship stated that the child was so gross as his father, and at best could serve the trade.
And as the boy, for his part, he had great affection and a certain fondness Eugenio Las Tres Rosas, which was where they had spent the first years of his life, hence Johnny, at age thirteen, entered the shop as an apprentice distinguished, with the advantage of eating and sleeping at home.
The two daughters were up to fourteen years in a school and Rafaelito was dedicated to the study, as Dona Manuela v wanted to make it a medical luminary like his father.
These predilections irritated Don Juan, who had felt a brotherly affection for his first brother, tireless worker as he and a friend of savings.
But silent sister was still watching the economic advice and - in his words - no stretch his foot out of the sheet.
But there came a time when the girls have become among girls, while keeping their relationships friendly with her former schoolmates, and Dona Manuela felt the urge to show off of every mother who has marriageable daughters.
Renewed their furniture, left the anonymous dressmakers, and his desire not to walk on foot, if you did not saloon and brainstem as in good times, bought ligerita elegant galley and took as nelet coachman's son's nurse Amparo a barbaric, orchard, who called his condition is not Miss tutear less and forget that was his foster brother. - Raging that stale! - Dona Manuela said, shocked to know the fury with which his brother had welcomed such reforms -.
Don Juan also spoke, and had to hear. - Your mother is crazy - sometimes Juanito said at the door of the Three Roses -.
III The first day of the year, at eight o'clock, Concha y Amparo had left the bed, strange diligence on them, which usually did not rise till ten.
Clothing ligerita despite the season, flew happily in his room, which offered arousal disorder, around the two small beds in immaculate white, in his wrinkled linens kept the heat on young bodies and the perfume of health and life-breathing healthy meats and virginal.
Chirped cheerfully, like birds they attract, but their songs could not be more vulgar. - Where are my boots? - My middle ...
And so the dialogue loose exclamations, cries and protests, while the two youth, in jacket and petticoat, showing every drop pink nakedness, were on one side to another, dazed by the warm and heavy in the room closed.
Then they went to the toilet, a small room where the light from the window, after slipping on beveled moon a large mirror, glass quebrábase in the blue or pink powder compacts and vials of essence.
The piece was not a model of curiosity and gave away the clutter of a house where no counsel.
Kept shell combs his spikes caught in tangles hair, many bottles were chipped, and the white marble had formed clumps by the mass of drops of oil to the waste of powder.
The two girls dropped their hair long and waving like flags; sacudiéronlos making fall on the marble in a shower of metal pins, then, what good sisters, ayudáronse each other in the difficult task of combing a day of ceremony.
The moon clearly portrayed in their heads slightly bluish background of the two sisters, the loose hair and dressed in white, like opera sopranos at the time of going crazy and sing the final aria.
Their faces were no big deal, would have been insignificant but for the eyes, some Valencia real eyes that they ate much of your face, torn, lighting, no background, with insolent curiosity sometimes languid other, and surrounded by the eyecup faint blue aura of passion.
Most, Conchita, twenty-three, was more like her mother.
Had the same stately, and she began to start in the beginning of fat, which made her look older.
At home he enjoyed a reputation for violent temper, and to Dona Manuela treated her with some reservations to avoid his angry explosions, but otherwise was seductive, with its freshness Rubens and meat to the arched lines delatábanse every move under the white cloth.
A minor, Amparo, eighteen years; cute baby's head, mouth, funny, dimpled chin and cheeks, a handful of curls on his forehead and eyes that seemed to smile instead of looking all, revealing the immense happy to be young and the call pretty.
It was the scarf House, Miss stunned to learn of all do not know anything that the street I could not see a ridiculous figure without bursting into loud laughter, which had in their tastes some very formal guy and claimed that he felt pleasure in teasing men, the escaping every moment of living, to go to the kitchen to chat with the maids, enjoy to be his amanuensis, just inserted in the letters to the soldier boyfriend terrible atrocities, I was laughing the whole week.
Profesábanse great affection the two sisters, but this did not prevent sometimes wield Amparo mocking his character from this shell and birth sacase angry impetuosity; conflicts always ended by going small to find mom, crying, with a red cheek slap or a pair of pinching arms.
Sometimes armed themselves for war if one is had white clothes of the other or if they had stolen items of its exclusive membership; but a gust of authority passed through the mother, was slapped, tears and tantrums, the maids laughing in the kitchen, and half an hour all so happy: Shell on the balcony, Amparo ran through the house singing like a lark, and Dona Manuela arrellanábase in his chair with sovereign air just straight administer justice.
Both groups offered a seductive looking in the dresser mirror, bare-chested, with arms in the air and smelling meat cooled by a brave cold water washing.
