I went to the corner because I sent him my matador. "Nah, you know what a gang?
Same thing that ejérsito: disiplina and servility.
The matador rules, and must obedeser.
Among toos are killing this probesita, who spends his days dodging tears as Dolorosa.
You you want to cover the terns of my son, because it gives you to eat. - Nah, you said it, Sena Sorrows; Juaniyo me to eat, that is.
And as I get to eat, I have that obedeserle ...
I designed my matador that must go to the corner ...
Aemás, I was not alone.
Also Stew was, who is a person of Argun Eda and respect, even if a brute.
A bad man who should not yevar Juaniyo in his squad if he had vergüensa.
Do not talk about that drunkard who beats his wife and has starved the boys. - Bueno: Out stew ...
Matron aqueya say I saw, what would hase?
There was a hussy; is the niece der Marquis, a supporter of the teacher, and bullfighters Nah, you know to be right with people who can.
Aluego, in farm er, na!
I am a desente, Sena Sorrows, and hase Nah, you wrong in yamarme that ugly to me endenantes Yamao.
When is the committee and come to consult with one elecsiones day, and council and have CHOCAO this diputaos Nah, you go hand here, you can haser deserts papers? ...
I repeat, na.
Desensia a toas hours ...
And if Potaje Nah, you would like to come, he would say ...
A visit to the country estate of an enthusiastic woman teacher, who wanted to see up close how he lived in the field.
Cones would like to desahogao which came with the breath.
Juaniyo Yo, if it was arguia der farm, put him in the door; and if outside the Juesas pa yamaba you get into the Carsel a liar and evil enemy.
Carmen was still crying, without listening to the angry expressions of banderillero, while Mrs Angus, sitting in an armchair, which will ball up against his boundless obesity, frowned and pressed his mouth and rough hairy. - Caya, Sebastian, and do not lie - said the old woman -.
I know too.
A spree on such a trip indesente the farmhouse, a party of gypsies.
Through design that was with you Plumitas the thief.
He thought that entered in the courtyard, trampling the slabs of marble, a poorly sketched rider, wearing a hat filthy and dismounted from his horse, pointing a rifle and talkative and fearful.
Then it seemed see tricorn, tricorn many bright rubber, mustached mouths and inquisitive, hands writing, and all the crew, dressed in costumes, tied side by side, road prison.
There was no more than desensia
