But Don Eleazar has found his match, while their agents, divided into two gangs operating in the opposite direction, preparing his coup, he did not expect that in this land of paper money, a new issue is small matter, and the tightrope with he had imprisoned his debtor, become loose, the new issue has been done and lo that the decline has taken place more frightening.
He has reason to certain point, demands fair play, as the British fighters.
In the house of the stock, everything is allowed as in war, playing up publicly and covertly to fall; launch a cat, give notice of sensation, ensuring that the war with Chile is a fact that our squad is in a dreadful state, that our army will be defeated if a battle; in short, spread terror, regardless of any kind by patriotism, but double play with guns loaded, no.
But worst of all, my friend, is not it.
The worst thing is that Don Eleazar, taking advantage of his misfortune, because it is capable of fully exploiting and Take advantage of all, has decided not to pay anyone.
A besieging him from starvation, but he will cuts off water and bread, and with the same rope to hang him, he attempts to hang her adversaries. - Means that I am on the street - told the hear to end their relationship. - Oh, no!
No panic: not lose the job. - It alarmed me, Don Benito, by so little - I replied laughing heartily .-- I who I resolve not to return to the desk of Don Eleazar!
I do not add up neither man nor employment. - You do well, my friend, that honors him. - No, Don Benito, and I honor or dishonor me, do not do a quixotic, and would be entitled to it.
Don Eleazar has been good to me, I religiously paid my salary and has had the good sense not to impose their business. - What are you doing? - Do not know, but tomorrow I'll know.
And as a sign I did so, continued shaky - I have observed to date the resolution of your uncle, but I must confess that I have suffered the see you at Don Eleazar.
Such use does not love you, and I do not understand is how Ramon has placed you there ... - My aunt, you know ... - Yes, that governs like a spin, but that is no reason for you to neglect.
I am old, but I have a young soul yet: I'll be your father and your brother at the same time.
I have a bad reputation in the world: women misia Medea hate me because I do not believe in political gods, and men like Don Eleazar also I can go, because I can not do business that they do.
súfreme these aberrations.
Women drive me crazy, so I had the good sense not to go crazy for one: I've gone mad for all and I'm not married with any, I hope not into temptation to do so in the years that I have.
I'm smiling, carefree and frank live without mysteries I take life as it is.
Back in my youth I read a lot, but I was reading one advantage of all that I have done: there is next to the bedside: Rabelais.
When you're my age and you run the world, you'll see he was right: it is the only book help them to die, so I despise the Jesuits.
I have no children, or rather, not I know if I have, because if they knew for sure, do not deny a father, but doubt, you well know that it is better to abstain, for it to take as their own works others, is a minor.
I have no friends of my age: my friends are young people of yours, I live with them, fall in love with them and scandalized this room also with them in Buenos Aires there are many beautiful women and so stupid that the leads.
And at the end, Don Benito wrung me in his arms and against his chest, and I do not could contain the tears that sprang to my eyes.
The next day I showed up at the Don Eleazar, tomorrow.
The courtyard was crowded they whispered and gesticulated with animation: Desktop doors closed.
I went and hit the glass: to open up Don Anselmo, who recognized me, two or three people patio door fell upon the desk with the intention of entering. - Excuse me, can not you go ...-- Anselmo said, and gave almost the door in his face.
And I could see that one of them raised his fist in a threatening manner.
In two words don Anselmo realized my decision to leave the house. - Well, well, have you also been bitten by the tarantula? - I do not bitten any tarantula, nor I, nor I have nothing to do with those who protest outside or against those who shut themselves in, I come to thank Don Eleazar the honor has already made me tell my resolution.
Don Anselmo went on to the next room, which was that of Don Eleazar, and after a while back. - Don Eleazar says that can happen - he said.
I will never forget the picture presented to my sight.
A servant served non-stop Galician dish after dish, and Don Eleazar ate to the severity of a bear who devours his ration.
In a corner of the room, standing, three men witnessed this collation morning in complete silence. - Between you, Don Julio, "We also leave you in the days of trial? ...
I explained the reasons for my resignation, trying to convince him that she was completely foreign trade to the recent disaster, but Don Eleazar, moved, despite the appetite devouring their meats, it was contrived to lament with words that broke their heart. - Well, young man, since you solved it, Let us part, but you will do me some justice day ...
And follow me, sir, follow me to death!
It is not necessary say it is the Progress Club of which I speak, and that dance is a dance perspective July: the great attraction of the season in Buenos Aires. - Are you still in that state told me I ?...-- complicated preparations for his shirt - is one almost! ... - Ah!
I remember you opening. - Ca!
an elegant man is not made, born ...
Look at me - I said - Picture in the middle of room. - Well, be patient, I'm not you ...
And I guess you tend to come on as a woo, look who is a woman so loose and light as the mother ...
and I want to know. - Do not kid with Whitey, and I know that White block and I have a girlfriend ... - Okay, marry it, but it falls to ...
Do not be silly ... - What if my advice? - Do not!
The mother loves you and the mother is the protector of that child. - Oh!
Fernanda known me lad was twenty years old when I was ten or twelve but the daughter ... - The daughter is like the mother, both are women of courage and breakdown, pretty as a dove and dangerous as two wolves. - Tonight will be radiant, are the queens of the dance, Mr.
nothing is complete in the world.
I wandered through my room, I took my gloves, put the half-light gas and left me and my old partner.
It was cold all the devils, but Coupe Don Benito was at the door; lock ourselves into it and started to slide on the rails of the tramway to everyday use.
In five minutes we were on the block from Club del Progreso, we had to wait a few minutes more so that you come to our carriage approaching the turn, and finally got off at the door among a group of men and women coming up the stairs softly upholstered hastily and adorned with flowers and green wreaths.
The entrance is certainly no input Elysee Palace and the ladder is not a marvel of architecture.
However, for the old Buenos Aires who has never left Buenos Aires, or the young provincial who just arrived from the province, the Club is or was at one time, something like a dream mansion whose chronicle is full of prestigious romances and which is not as penetrating to all mortals.
Don Benito knew the house from its foundation and enjoyed it a unique influence.
Al come, young and old greeted him affectionately as an old friend.
The good old, putting his left arm back, took me to the glass booth where we took the overcoats and we consulted a moment the figure on the mirrors.
At that time the orchestra played the last part of the gangs of Carmen ...
Toreador, en garde toreador ...
and Bizet's music is saturated, so to speak, in the very blood of Merimee, distributed the body of the women who made the paintings, the warm tones that the young master been rhyme that strange love poem commoners and low revenge.
The lounge, hybrid, where the refined taste of a clubman race would have much to scratch, disappear before the compact mass of men and women who filled.
My old friend gave me his arm and together we take our place at the Buenos Aires bouquet that way every year in July with the accuracy with which they celebrated an anniversary.
It is a dance club where Progress can be studied in stages thirty years of Buenos Aires social life: there have made their first steps by today's grandparents.
The gilded youth of the center founded 52 years of good tone, mainly Creole, which has not nor ever had the distinction aristocratic English club or one of the chic clubs Paris.
However, being of the Club del Progreso, even back in 70, was chic, as was be corny Club del Plata, with forgiveness after their partners.
The entrance was something hard, did not enter either: he had to be the best whipped cream social and political bourgeoisie to tread the soft carpets of the great room or sit play a game of whist in the classic games of the portraits is at the forefront of the street Victoria.
In this last room, long and cold as a vestibule, which has been papered it a hundred times less than green or light blue and has spent fifty different items casings what's Iturriaga, born a generation which are being very few representatives.
There has bitten the urban gossip revelers players, husbands skulls a dissolute and dissipated youth, and every bite of indignant mom has made havoc of smallpox in the moral portrait of the victims.
The slander of the large village is like slander of the Barber of Seville: the passing of Hurricane VENTICELL and woe to him who is involved in the blast!
The Progress Club has been the pepinera of many public men who have studied in their Banquet constitutional law, literature easy to learn without books, burn the midnight lamp on a chess table, and I do not know why, it strikes me that some of the portraits May the men who witness this group of thinkers, makes a face every time a chicken accompanied by a discourse on freedom of suffrage with a blow that sits on the checkerboard a queen check by the mob of survivors pawns!
At the table reading the Illustrated London and New Revue (Would be almost useless to add des Deux Mondes, if not to talk in the club), the Revue in which M.
of Mazade Article bourgeois occurs at a time and Lanfrey Forcade signed and some French newspapers almost always serve as decoration, as these branches dry rot in forgotten rooms for servants.
There he speaks: in the group of kids happy and spiritual, which falls at 12 pm, repeating the last note of Tamagno, not missing a copy of dense bourgeois gargantuan, gourmet night owl, fattened and enriched by the free womb of his cows that right there made to serve a sausage per night, while the deep disdain Gross happy, sloppy dress, stripped to the ill-content, look what surrounds you with a satisfied apathy, putting his hand to blackish hair and dander that dredging inert mollera with the sharp nail of the index.
Not lacking either the village idiot, Magin decomposed, the candidate of crooks, victim village jokes, crazy ideas about philanthropy, gasping with admiration and blinking with one eye palsy suffering from intermittent, while the pupil of another comes out as the pit of a peach Prisco.
Neither Tenorio suburb that does not change, that is seen today as yesterday, with beads altar and fixed-price items, healthy, tame, inoffensive, good and forgotten mortified by those who still believe that it is fashionable to censure or ridicule of the innocent.
And between this company and colorless Hybrid Memory of a minister, my friend Don Benito, purge and noble whose honesty is confounded by the contemporary positivism sleep a dreamer, he would suddenly explode with noble sarcasm, probably feeling how sterile have been the misfortunes of the past and how fate has dealt unfairly favors its in the present.
But the club is the club that night, violins, laughing under the bowstrings, conveyed the joy and excitement of music unique to every face.
Standing in front of the door that leads to the grand staircase from the dining room, I followed the flight coiled couples impelled by the hot breath of a waltz by Metra.
The dance was at its height, when I heard about a whisper.
Two women in the big world entered the room and couples parted to give way.
Don Benito accompanied a of them, and the other against the strictest rule of our rooms, walking alone on the side.
Don Benito came straight to where I was talking to a group of friends. - Julio! - Told me with the most perfect and aristocratic manners: - Fernanda! - And turning around and pointing to the youngest, he repeated, as any presentation: - White!
I leaned revere and look up, I tuck my partner eighteen years has theater! ... - I think we are old friends - Fernanda told me .-- And as if to reassure, Added: - But you're a man! - Lady ...
And a fine view of Don Benito, almost imperceptible, I extended my arm and White hung him with a frank and sweet abandon
