The Director of cigars, D.
Francisco de Paula Sanz, sugeto adorned with the best circumstances and qualities, was in town by chance, and as a result of the commission I was under his charge for the establishment of this branch moved from its spirit bizarre and tired of the contemplations that were used with the rebels wanted to attack them with their dependent and some neighbors who loved him, and leaving the city with this attempt, day 16 February, 1781 arrived at the foot of the hills of the Punilla, they were housed Indians, who fell immediately to try to present the fight, believing that the small number who opposed them, assured of his party maturity.
Bore so much violence and many that little piece, which consisted of 40 men alone, not enough value for the resistance, and yielding to the increased number and force, was necessary to think the withdrawal, which had all perished by the disorder are that the egecutaron, unless it have come to hold the company of grenadiers militants, unable to prevent lost life in the fray D.
Francisco Revilla, and two riot police who accompanied him in his unfortunate Luckily, it came after Flores although the largest number of people served little diligence, for entering the night.
The gentle and natural genius please the Director Sanz, accompanied by his generosity, made him esteemed of all, less than Flores, who had had some trouble for the different thinking.
Sanz, everything was fire to punish the insolence of the rebels, and Flores, phlegm all circumspection and contemplate, whose conduct, mormurada usually caused lampoons denigrating his honor, called a coward, daring to say, he was affectionately part of the rebellion, and reached both the boldness of the public who expressed their feelings and rude satirical verses with meanings, sent home the same night of the attack of 16, a portion of chicken, not knowing who had been the author of this untimely gift.
The next day the neighbors were submitted in writing, stating they were ready and willing to go after the enemy.
Cried all anticipated his last wreck, cried openly, that failure led them to attack, would come out without the Commander, and as required of so effective as repeated suggestions that increased with the unfortunate event of the Director, determined for 20 of the February attack the Indians Punilla.
Would be at 12 that day, when our troops launched, and arriving at the field was presented to Commanding a pretty sight, which he announced the victory, and it was recognized that a growing number of wives, mixed and confused among the troops, he wished to go forward in function: this rare phenomenon, as flattered the taste, drew tears from that chief, who egercitó all ability to deter dangerous falls short of effort, with which only had already achieved immortal glory, and though they eased the burning, could never achieve withdraw, and remained in the battlefield, or to inspire their presence encouragement to the soldiers, or to serve any hardship relief.
Two in the afternoon when touched to attack the enemy, who was stationed in the heights of three rough and craggy mountains, which lead to dangerous to climb: but this difficulty pawned the value of our people, who were so eager to come to blows, and pursued with heroic courage, the Indians soon suffered the assault, winning gracefully the tops of those steep hills, taking with the edges of the sword to all that did not withdraw his escape leaving the battlefield 400 bodies, with little or no loss on our part, and its free result of the blockade the city in such a short space of time, he could say with Major General Julius Caesar - Veni, vidi, vinci.
Solemnized this festive cheers of victory live the King, and illuminating the city for three nights surrendered to the All-Mighty due thanks, demonstrating the joy with all those attesting signs with love, sincerity of affection.
This destruction of the enemy brought several favorable consequences, and would have been greater if he had advance action: scared because Chayanta province, deposed any concerns, and to check their repentance, delivered to the chief perpetrators were Damaso and Nicolas Catari, Santos Hachu, Simon Castillo and several others who all died in three styles: that this mockery of Divine Providence hopes of offenders, providing fall into the hands of justice, when creating but exempt from its rigor.
This fact shows how convenient it was to win the moment, and work with activity against insurgents, taking the consternation in which they were by the happy event the Punilla, rather than lay down their espunto: for suspicion and distrust of the Commander, and more political than military, made him see a slow detrimental to the cause public.
And faltered in a sea of ??doubt, spent the time doing prejudices, with which conceal their management, which could have changed with repeated tests of loyalty and bravery he had given the residents of La Plata, who just have complained about the concept earned him, because he felt they were unable to sustain offensive operations in the field open without the help of veterans who were expected: it should not be tempted this circumstance, because something has to venture into extremes cases in which no-show another resource.
These arrests led to not a few evils, particularly in the provinces chicha and Lipes, who rose up after that event, because they met the superiority they had, and they manifested such behavior, and were not very formidable Commander and weapons that were in the city of La Plata, where winning even after they were satisfied to return to closed in terms of its premises, without thinking about the remedy of the disasters Agen: to contribute also to have followed the same system, the imperial town of Potosí, who believed so filled with duty to shield their precious mines.
When I was to be held at the home of Commander, D.
Ignacio Flores, with a banquet, great success of the action of Punilla, received the sad news of the horrifying fact occurred in the town of Oruro, which is dismayed by the spirits of all the guests, and filled with bitterness, despite becoming the pleasure that had prevented.
And as one of the most notable occurrences of this general uprising, it can be unpleasant relates to extension, and all the circumstances requiring an event of this nature.
The origin, therefore, and the causes of this tragedy funestísima were been reported in that villa fatalities occurred in the provinces of Chayanta and Ink, with an edict issued José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, in which expressive of all its cruel and ambitious intentions: what, arrived at news of the mayor, D.
Ramon de Urrutia, along with causing extragear in the provinces of Lampa and Carabaya, determined to prevent him for any event.
Companies formed the cholos and neighbors, to discipline in the handling of weapons, allocating different sites for teaching, which he visited twice weekly, and learned like the doctrine of their masters: some certainly did not approve such a measure, or because were addicted to the main rebel Tupac Amaru, whose coming were eager, or more likely, because they were his confidants.
They were attending only those that act to emulate they taught, they were Europeans, and to form various criticisms about its operations, the while fixed insolently opposed to the crown placards, denouncing the government the mayor and other judges.
Among them one day dawned December 25, 1780, in announcing the murder, that after egecutaron with Europeans, and conduct Zaheri D.
Fernando Gurruchaga, ordinary Mayor, who had that year with denigrating insults his person, and justice.
Nicolas de Herrera, often processed sugeto a thief and robber public.
