It was the curiosity, expectation always inspire hostile newcomers.
And the old shepherd moved his head to make efforts to see with their eyes almost dead bold man who dared to do what all the garden was as impossible.
From this meeting arose another reason for anger to the entire garden.
Tomba's uncle could no longer put the sheep on that land, after ten years of peaceful enjoyment of their pastures.
Nobody said a word about the legitimacy of the refusal of the occupant to be the ground cultivated.
All spoke only of the respect he deserved the old minister, a man that in his youth, the French ate raw, who had seen much of the world, and whose wisdom, demonstrated average incoherent words and advice, inspired a superstitious respect to the people of the barracks.
When Batiste and his family were drenched fertile seed the bowels of their land, thought of housing, lack of work more urgent.
It was time to think about themselves.
And for the first time since his arrival in the orchard, land Batiste left to go to Valencia to charge your car every scrap of the city that might be useful.
The man was a tireless ant to search for it.
The mounds formed by Batistet widened considerably with the father's expeditions.
The hump of manure, which was a shade defensively to the hut, grew rapidly, and beyond hundreds amontonáronse of bricks, rotting timbers, broken doors, windows made chips, all demolition waste in the city.
People watched in amazement how quickly the garden and good skill of industrious hackers to fix your home.
The thatched roof of the cabin was suddenly straightened, the ribs of the roof eaten away by the rains, were reinforced and substituted some other, a layer of fresh straw covered the remaining two planes abroad.
Even the little crosses on the ends were substituted by others that worked cucamente Batiste knife, decorating its edges with jagged notches, and there was all round roof that they stood more graceful.
What a way to use the rubble of Valencia! ...
Cracks disappeared, and finished plaster walls, the wife and daughter the whitewashed dazzling white.
The new door and painted blue, it seemed the mother of all windows, poking through the holes in the walls its square faces of the same color.
Under the vine Batiste made a square, paved with red bricks, for women to sew there in the afternoon.
Well, after a grueling week of declines and carries, was cleared of all stones and rubbish that the rascals had crowded orchard for ten years, and again its clean, fresh water rose again in mossy pail with cheerful chirps of the wheel, which seemed to laugh at people with a raucous contour old mischievous laugh.
The man seemed to have with their brawny arms two magic wands that transform all at the touch.
Ten weeks after his arrival, had not yet left their lands half a dozen times.
Always on them, his head between his shoulders and his spine bent, intoxicated in their work, and Barrett's cabin had a flirtatious and cheerful appearance, as never had been held by its former occupier.
The yard, surrounded with rotten hurdles before, now had poles and mud walls, painted white on the edges of chickens running around the blonde and inflamed the rooster, straightening purple head ....
In the square, opposite the barracks, beds blooming dompedro and vines.
A row of pots painted blue chipped pots served on the bank of red bricks, and through the open door - ah, blowhard - there was the Cantarera new white sheets with tiles and green jars belly pan, a set insolent glare and took the view that once ran through the road.
Its purpose was to say two little words to that upstart that was brought to cultivate what was not theirs, a very serious indication that "it was not stupid" and again his land, because there had nothing to do.
But this subject did not come out of their fields, and not thing was going to threaten him at home.
This would "give the body" too, taking consider what might happen next.
Pimento reassuring words to the neighbors, and they continued with the watchful eye Progress of the goddam family, wishing silently that soon came when his ruin.
One afternoon he returned Batiste of Valencia, very happy with the results of his trip.
I did not want to arm home pointless.
Batistet, when there was work in the field, sought occupation going into the city to collect manure.
There was the girl, a Bouncers that arrangement ended the cabin, no good for much, and thanks to the protection of the children of Don Salvador showed that thrilled with the new tenant just to get that support it in a silk factory.
From the next day, Rosetta would be part of the string of girls, waking up dawn, going through all the paths with flowing skirt and the basket to the arm path the city, to spin the silken cocoon between his thick fingers of daughters of the garden.
Batiste Arriving to the vicinity of the tavern Cup, a man appeared on the road leaving a trail immediately and marched him slowly, giving to understand their desire talk.
Batiste was stopped inside regretting not carrying not a bad knife or a sickle, but serene, tranquil, rearing its head round the expression so feared by pressing his family and across the chest the arms of former strongman mill boy.
Known to man, although he had never spoken with him.
The bully was measured with a look at the hated intruder, and spoke with honeyed voice, striving to give his ferocity and malice in a tone of kindly advice.
I wanted to tell you two reasons: it had long wanted, but how to do it, if you never left from their land? - Two rahonetes not més ... [5] [5] - Two razoncitas nothing more ...
And let the couple of reasons, advising him to leave as soon as the land of Barret.
Must believe the men who loved him well, to those familiar with the customs of the garden.
His presence there was an offense, and the cabin almost new an insult to the poor people.
Batiste Pimento smiled ironically as he spoke, and he, at last, seemed confused by the serenity of the intruder, shocked to find a man who felt no fear in his presence. "" Leaving it? ...
but if you seek out tickles, was as brave as they come.
Everyone that gets into your business, and he would rather meet with him without offending anyone. " Then, past the bully, went his way, turning away with a confidence derogatory.
Pimento, accustomed to him tremble all the garden, looked increasingly puzzled by the serenity of Batiste. - Is the Darrera paraula [6] - he cried when he was already at a distance. [6] - Is the last word? - Yes, the Darrera - Batiste replied without turning.
Far away, in the former barracks Barrett, sniffing dog barked near his master.
In his voice trembling with anger, hatred vibrated condensed all of the garden.
IV It was Thursday, and according to a custom dating back five centuries, the Tribunal de las Aguas was to meet at the door of the Apostles of the Cathedral of Valencia.
The clock tower pointing Miguelete called a little after ten, and juntábanse huertanos in little groups or were seated on the edge of the bowl of the font that adorns the plaza, forming around the glass a vibrant garland of blue and white blankets, scarves red and yellow calico skirts or light colors.
Came about pulling his nag with pannier full of manure, content of sampling on the streets, others in their empty cars, trying to soften the guards municipal dejasen them stay there, and while conversing with the old women, young people went into the nearest cafe to kill time before the cup brandy, mumbling his cigar three cents.
All orchard that avenge wrongs had was there, grinning and frowning, talking their rights, eager to drop to the trustees or judges of the seven judges the endless litany of complaints.
Court bailiffs, who had more than fifty years of struggle with this troop insolent and aggressive, placed under the shade of the arched cover parts of old damask sofa, and tended then a low fence, closing the sidewalk space was to serve as room hearing.
The door of the Apostles, old, red, eaten for centuries, spreading their gnawed beauties to sunlight, was a fund worth of the old court was like a canopy stone shelter built for an institution than five centuries.
In the tympanum the Virgin appeared six angels with rigid wings often dawns and plumage chubby, with flaming toupee and heavy curls, playing viola and flutes, reeds and drums.
Running through the three arches superimposed on the cover three wreaths of figurines, angels, kings and saints, canopies sheltering in drafts.
On sturdy pedestals exhibíanse the twelve apostles, but so disfigured, so battered, that I had not known Jesus foot gnawed, broken noses, hands cut off, a row of dummies, which more than apostles seemed ill escaped from a clinic reports showing painfully dies.
Above, at the end of the cover, opened, like a gigantic flower wire cover, escutcheon of colors that gave light to the church, and on the floor at the base of the columns adorned with coats of Aragon, the stone was worn edges and blurred by the foliage friction of countless generations.
In this wear on the cover guessed the passage of the revolt and mutiny.
Alongside these had gathered stones and confused an entire people there were busy in other centuries, screaming and red with rage, the Valencianism rebellious, and the saints of the cover, mutilated and smooth as Egyptian mummies, to look at the sky with broken heads, seemed to be listening even revolutionary union campaign or the gunshot of the Germanies.
He finished the sheriff court and plantóse fix at the entrance of the gate, waiting to the judges.
Iban came and solemn, with the majesty of rich peasants, dressed in black, white sandals and silk handkerchief under the broad hat.
Each carried behind a procession of ditch guards of beggars before the time of seeking justice bias the mind of the court in their favor.
The peasant folk look with respect to these judges come out of his class, whose deliberations admitted no appeal.
They were the masters of water in his hands was the life of families, the food of the fields, irrigation, timely, lack of which kills the harvest.
And the people the extensive river valley cut by the nurturer, as a bristling barbed spine were his channels to the judges designated by the name of the canals they represented.
A dry old man, hunched, whose red hands trembling and covered with scales to rely on arch thickness was Faitanar room, the other large and majestic, with eyes that just if they were under the two handfuls of white hair of his eyebrows, was Mislata, shortly after arriving Rascaño, a young man of ironed shirt and lay round head, and behind them were performing others, up to seven: Favara, Robella, Tormos and Mestalla.
Was there representing the two valleys: the left of the river, the four ditches, which encloses the garden paths Ruzafa with lush foliage that go to extinct within the limits of the Albufera lake and the valley to the right of the Turia, the poetic the Benimaclet strawberries, groundnuts Alboraya and lush gardens are always flowers
