There was a priest of the brief career, studying only the rudiments of Latin, philosophy impaired and some moral Jesuit, but continued the race can, soaking Theodicy, Patrologia, Hermeneutics, canon law and church discipline, up to a doctorate in Theology in all of which eight years elapsed, after which the juvenile was ordered.
There was nothing in his conduct reprehensible.
The people spoke greedy to receive and communicate new to justify the exaltation of spirits, those who could not read, ie the largest number, gathered in circles to hear the relationship in letters or newspapers are made of state of Spain, which resembled have fallen to the Moors, began to act with respect leaders names forgotten, and people who never flaunted its opinion, said frankly that if, in those valleys he heard the cry God, Country and King, will answer to him with enthusiasm.
In the villages, every pulpit was a platform, each priest, a speaker, possessed of righteous indignation, he forgot to praise God by pointing to his enemies with his finger in the gatherings recordábanse exploits another war, narrated a matter of legend, and continuing through the country travelers, stopping the guise of envoys in the villages, they repeated words that were recorded, or phrases of hope in the uprising, and soon.
Even the women stirred the fire, as if you long for the fight, taking in just the lives of their children.
One afternoon, as the sun set, came home from a man Tirso, after conferring with him briefly while, departed in the direction of another nearby village.
The next day, got into a portmanteau Tirso and a small trunk of clothes, and when night fell, accompanied by a farmer from his confidence, he headed to the city in which a servant was waiting outside, who bore luggage.
A few hours later, two gentlemen Don Tadeo and his friends celebrated with an interview he gave him some money, instructions and orders to march to Madrid.
The parish was abandoned, but what of neglecting the health of a few of the service all?
Agent was needed discreet, safe, unknown to be new, and anyone who might suspect: Don Tadeo Tirso appointed, and he took the train to the court.
Why not write your parents ever said what the purpose of your trip.
XII The day before the arrival of Tirso to Madrid, as Don José, Doña Manuela and Leocadia I waited with the satisfaction that the long separation suffered consented, Pepe amused arrange for her brother in her room, moving in the room that he occupied a other smaller and in worse conditions, a cabinet, two hangers, the washstand, two chairs, everything that made up the furniture, saying he stood little at home and also any part would be fine.
Leocadia swept the floor and scrubbed the windows of the room assigned, and the mother prepared clothing bed.
Tirso bound bought a cot, but Pepe took for himself and also gave for his brother's bed, which was iron.
The day before the traveler arrives, when all was willing to receive him, Don Jose, while he slept, he said to Pepe: - My son, however much I argue, I can not guess what the reason for his coming. - I will tell him. - Why not explain it before?
