At ten months of marriage, a girl had Facia, and without having achieved the year, her husband, the people who had disappeared a week ago, came home at night, broken and disheveled; gave two slaps his wife because he affectionately asked how he had gone, where had gone and what was coming, and while threatening to open in channel if anyone had he had not seen hide nor hair from the previous week, made a mess of hastily trinkets he had left at home and with others, it seems, like it was pulling out of wide pockets of his clothes and disappeared without saying goodbye to the house facia and the people lost in the darkness of the mountains ...
After two days of this, came to town a couple of the civil guard and an indictment of Judge of the party asking for him.
It was the theft of a church and a stabbing the poor clerk who tried to prevent ...
Two birds of the gang had already fallen into the trap, and are looking to the third, the captain of her, married the famous baratijero Tablanca ...
and three or four parishes of Spain and the Indies, according to their background was process.
With this coup was shocked the neighborhood, took Don Celso hands to the head, and aged Fifteen years suddenly poor Facia.
The rogue was heard only fugitive who walked by the republics of America, recently escaped from Spain and was given up for dead many years ago or dragging a chain.
Shortly after being abandoned, sad and sorry the hapless Facia, picked it up again Don Celso by love of God, and love of God is also not said a word since then that relates even remotely close to his madness or his misfortune, and his hand was growing Tona girl, ignoring the real reasons for the sadness and bitterness of her mother, and living in the belief that his father had been a good man who, like many others, had gone to "the other side" to improve your fortune, and that she had died without succeeding, after year.
Such is the substance of what he told me Chisco.
This could be explained only on arrechucho that of Facia, and also could not explain, of all kinds, the case even after known the history of the gray woman, who was interesting, was not to get into unscrupulous inquiries, and I went.
VII With two guides so complacent and so experts like mine, soon met the main paths, ravines and gorges, wildlife and flora of the mountains nearest the contour; I lost the fear I instilled the "hints" or discovered along the cliffs, being be noted that there is no way small or large is not a hint continued, and gained the ease and strength of my legs lacked the same principle to support me on uphill slopes than down, ie if he was, because it is the absolute truth in the saying instead, that in this craggy region there is no other plain the room of Don Celso.
No climbed to great heights, because it shows me much tempting of that caste, nor did my rough guide to great lengths to encourage me to overcome the inclinations of my complexion relatively lazy, but why not let meet my little curiosity in the contemplation of beautiful scenery.
Finally, I also met major ports in winter and summer, which send their cattle in the valleys surrounding, and admired the freshness of those brañas ("flocks") in tight, thin grass, real big bald in the middle of dense forests and vegetation powerful.
Each These plaques are, in the ports of summer, a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle, and the winter, building large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of cattle.
Usually, each winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or contiguous parts of the brane.
Some of these winter were already occupied.
At night the cattle eat pinned to the manger, of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time consent, the care of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the village, unlike in summer, during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada", ie, the flock gathered around it.
The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state, where less we thought.
Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless and feel my back a ferocious roar that made me make two turns in the air.
It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older and patched the jokes, he had made one of hers.
Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest precaution when a part is put throw, ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who through the mountains is over, because for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation of things and people, without getting tired of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters, because He did not lose once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopetón.
And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar strains are animals he encounters one going for a walk, even for sites nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world, is not it, with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.
Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that its placidity of the continent.
If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with the other pointed to me, and with an expressive gesture or half word I implied that was down to me.
If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it.
What failed was the hunter, that being so clever as I was in the shooting White did not know where they walked when they had to throw on the run or the flight.
The case is that this stupidity came to spite me, and contributed much to it, rather than looks Chisco syrupy, the brutal laughter that solemnized Chorcos each amendment was their grungy espingardón the failures of my gun.
And so I arrived in mortification, having put my five senses in this business, I got soon, if not the skill of my companions, to behave in a way, other than "amendable" by none I missed shots.
This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt I downloaded the mind of a great weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and has never been told the truth as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all. " Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas, but no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane.
Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending in those bursts of pure pleasure, and called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude scale, from wild boar and deer down.
But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those mountains and other such, and how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at my side, and how happy I listened and I watched him this way ...
and many others, for those without eyes or the rough ears of Chisco witted and his comrade!
Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources in the party My uncle, a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly to the case and the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights of the mountain did not seem to himself.
It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few colorful phrases and the news I asked, not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner, about the great beasts in their hideouts in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets in which they had seen him and As this was related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys made by this or that port during an unbridled "cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts, sometimes at fault and clinging to life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the rest was, for me, the way they "fall" on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right pedestal; that their way of enjoying the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight and even every pore his body, so after this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his eyes through the pages of this immense book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within the rough simplicity of their language, the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed to be well observed and well meaning, the role played in this work of true artist, his painting club, stressing in air and the end of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the humble cassock, gently moved by the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect, eyes sparkling, his hat down over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of this living sculpture ...
None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate the two monsoon how deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest of the parish and man of unquestionable competence as soon as they reached them.
My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level of the innumerable as for "feel natural" need to see reproduced on canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched on the tops of the mountains.
And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.
On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then it was like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised. - What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with the man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint. - Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.
VIII My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my own, leaving appear in it as the careless, to surprise the best in their intimacy.
Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood at Mass the previous Sunday, I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to speak, and even clothing.
All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all women had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed over his chest and kidneys; everywhere and all kinds abounded blond and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square to the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same calm, and in all faces, old and young, you could see the same expression of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing vision of the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened and suspense.
I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood, when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the way: that of their rooms.
Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young.
As a characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru" with beautiful mound.
But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which are not the rough a word is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms of taste so signally classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a conversation between those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.
It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression, undergoes alteration visible by changing places or customs.
It's very common there to migrate during the summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing wood, or those of Castile, or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash.
I spoke with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from him, and did not find the slightest difference that distinguished in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at all, its other neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable signs that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue that brings them, as if they only had eyes heart to see and feel the native homeland.
The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs public and domestic.
I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that Property of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer I drink at home, from where it was, by force of habit, which was very poorly regarded the man who showed instincts' bartenders, "and much worse that was carried away from them, albeit rarely.
