Apolonio's telegram said: "Back in Castrofuerte tell me I'm heir fabulous fortune.
We will live a successful life together .-- Peter. " Bellarmine's telegram said: "I am saved.
Peter has saved me.
Peter himself will take you out there and will bring me at once.
We shall all be happy .-- Anguish. " Bellarmine is maintained with arms outstretched, but now look at the sky, but Apollonius.
Apolonio hesitate a second, nothing more than a second.
Ineluctable force, a requirement of fate also leads with open arms, bottle in hand, and tall, aggressive, to Bellarmine.
Belarmino and Apolonio ...
embrace in a hug quiet, dark, warm and fraternal. - Never have I hated, I swear - says Apollonius, after -.
I've never hated, even if you despised me. - I've never despised - Bellarmine murmurs softly.
This is the first time you speak, and you are treated with spontaneity, because in the mystery chest were close to each other, for many years. - I admire you and envy - Apolonio confesses with a blush. - Me too, I've been envious - Bellarmine says, frankly. - You're like my other half. - Yes, and you my other figurehead. (Figurehead = hemisphere.) - We are united.
What I write dramas now.
You will be my inspiration, as Socrates Sophocles what was, at least, Valeiro and assured me.
Sounds far, the bell that called the refectory. - Concludes fill the bottle - Bellarmine advised. - It's true.
But I assure you it is the first time I do this. - I know.
Van arm through the garden of daffodils, wrapped in golden haze of the sun, which produces a fleeting illusion, as if alleviated the severity of material things. - But we are not dreaming? - Apollonius asks, yearning -.
Barely touch the ground where floor. - Looks like a dream.
Inside the house, the inmates in a row, are waiting to arrive Apollonius and Bellarmine in order to get to the point up to the dining room and pastries. - Where do those crazy walk? - Asks the sister of Dolores.
And out in search of them.
It is not sleep, no.
It is true .-- Y added, and the pair of them: - Thank God you have been reconciled.
The Lord has touched on the heart.
Nothing is more palatable than forgiveness over resentment.
Today, that is a day of glory, I also dare to ask you to forgive me.
For years now, and although the best intentions, I have done suffer.
God forgive me.
Forgive you. - What Nah, you said there, Felicita?
Nah, you is not simple.
Nah, you, unknowingly, and therefore of handling those years ago, has been the deus ex machina of this day the happiest day of our life, Don Pedrito, anguish, Belarmino and mine. - That's right - Belarmino said.
The sister of Dolores, invaded by grief, almost faint, puts his hands to the heart. - Everyone has come when happiness - whispered, as if talking to herself -.
Already incorporated Apollonius and Bellarmine in the two rows of inmates.
And move the rows awkwardly, with bastoneo, coughs and shuffling.
Bellarmine walks, as always: head down, smiling and absorbed in his inner world.
Apollonius, as always, and from his youth, go hispid, erect the skull, slowly and pontifical excellence.
In the arms, ostentatious, leads the bottle of Vichy water, apocryphal, assuming everyone else look with envy that mark of distinction, evidence of wealth and signs of stomach pain.
Modern life is denial of Truth, Good and Beauty, and, conversely, the Truth, Goodness and Beauty are the negation of modern life.
In result, the affiliation in the three categories or waiver to live, or will be taken as a revolutionary and anarchist. "Really, who would Escobar seen so wretched plastic forms, so shabby and filthy, never could guess that the renowned Alligator had professed in the category of Beauty.
Anyway, had to be fatally starve.
But the strange, paradoxical, is that died at home of a butcher named Serapio, who had collected for charity.
The Matachine Free gave a closet with a bunk, where shelter, and some falls, debris or scraps of meat, kind of Cordilla, to eat.
The butcher, so plump and red looked like a beef skinning, was to incorporate more corporeal human body in its most material.
Escobar, yellow, blue, resonant, almost ethereal, spiritualized was the projection of spirit people in their transit through the mud corporeal.
At death, Escobar left wealth of writings, mostly letters and sketches.
I was lucky see them and examine them, before the throw to Serapio trash bin.
Some of the thoughts, expressed in concise form, I was amazed and filled with perplexity.
For example: "The two historical facts harmful to the advancement of pure science and the final rule of culture were the invention of paper and the invention of printing. " "If instead of writing reams of paper to write on a sheet of parchment diminished, deserves to be read then, because they do not write but write what he deserved. " "All public libraries should close." "The most stupid thing I read is this sentence from Carlyle: The best university in these times is a library.
I reply: The best university would be a barracks.
I mean a culture socialized and enforced in the manner of military discipline.
Military discipline is abominable because it is undeveloped.
Modern culture is abhorrent because it is undisciplined.
Nobody has the right to have more culture than it deserves, according to their abilities and social function that is to be used.
In the current state of the culture there that are simple generalísimos ranchers and, conversely, there are miserable ranchers great spark gifted, frustrated men and undervalued, which had been generalísimos own right, if there is proper cultural organization barracks. " It seems to me that in writing the above lines, Escobar thought Belarmino and Apolonio.
As I was reading the drafts of the Alligator, I could only remember the great gift Amaranth Fraile.
What states and what the two characters opposite!
I mention here Escobar's posthumous papers, not because I have reminded Don Amaranth but because they speak of Belarmino and Apolonio, and particularly one who provided me interesting and useful document, which the reader can also take advantage.
Copy everything that came up with Escobar on the two shoemakers, it would be annoying.
Be moving only some outlandish opinions. "Bellarmine had to invent their language because it lacked instruction, reading.
Have read since childhood variety of classical authors How would come to speak and write Bellarmine?
Max Muller repeated countless times, and evidenced by many others, that thought and language are identical.
By the author's style becomes aware of his intelligence, metaphorical style, haughty style, archaic style, cut style, style naked plain style, exquisite style, colorful style, style abstract, etc.., etc., all of them, each in itself, show limited intelligence and lack of thought.
The completeness and merging all of them, dominating every way according to reason thought: Cervantes, the Spanish first thinker. " And later: "The primary quality of the playwright (read Apollonius) is the ability for effective simulation.
This simulation is not skin deep and surface.
The playwright, from the depths of his own soul, begins to pretend to himself, but the more obscure and personal ego remains and inhibited always absent of emotion.
So the playwright is unable to truly love.
There is a paradox of the playwright, is the same as Diderot called paradox of the actor.
The communicates emotion, but that is raised.
To provoke an emotion must be kept cold.
Those who cry in earnest, make you laugh.
The same with the playwright.
The drama created the kind of man that causes love at all women, because he pretends to love, but no love: Don Juan.
The playwright goes through life inventing dramas, dramas discovered.
It would seem that this gift of invention (inventing means to discover) that comes from living playwright drama.
The living do not see the drama drama sees his individual drama.
And if the playwright if he happens to be a victim in a drama vivo, it remains balanced, serene.
Pretend to be an actor forever, and always the spectator, viewer himself.
Such is the paradox of the playwright.
Anyone who drives through life with gestures pathetic accent is a simulator, a playwright in the making.
These men are necessary in the world, because without that failed passion will naturally contagious humanity would end, apathy and wisdom.
Providentially against the playwright is the philosopher (read Bellarmine).
The philosopher is constituted the inverse of the playwright.
On the outside, calm, impassive, in the most secret, burning unquenchable.
The philosopher is a madman preserved in ice.
Because the ice is the great conservative, and to the passions for things like groceries, that once they are removed air and light to get stale, stale.
The philosopher lives all the dramas, never is the viewer.
Feels the pain of others as their own suffering, the pain multiplies it by himself all the pain outside, and so in pain as the alien himself experiences this and that contact embers of the bonfire pain is universal, the drama of life.
The playwright, who suffers its last and shameful emptiness, rushes to the surface, appears to emphatic extent, as the caster, and it spells the passion and frenzy.
Passion Search corrective imagined the intimate apathy.
Moreover, as the inside can not mourn, outside fails to smile.
The philosopher, on the other hand, looking in apathy, in serenity, in the wisdom, a corrective to the overwhelming passion hidden.
The weeping philosopher smile inside and out.
When the philosopher is reached when the drama, the drama is so intense that it feels like to be destroyed, not his own heart, but the whole universe, and no longer exists.
It is the ultimate apathy and indifference ataraxia.
And the playwright needs the philosopher for not be vain or disappear.
Sophocles needs of Socrates, Sophocles and Socrates needs.
The Socratic dialogues are dramatic and sofóclitos dialogues are philosophical background. " Something like that of Socrates and Sophocles Apollonius told him to Bellarmine in the asylum and in quite dramatic circumstances, which makes me believe that Escobar and Apollonius had reached to be friends, and the cobbler was inspired by the theories of Estudiantón.
Be observed that these theories are entirely opposite to those of Don Amaranth.
For Don Amaranth, playwright is entering the individual drama, and the philosopher, who was away from him.
The doctrine of Don Amaranth is refutable, and no less defensible, and another of Escobar.
The error of those who call for a human opinion possesses absolute truth.
Just be true in part, to enclose a powder or a nugget of truth.
When a search engine Gold says it has struck gold, it implies that has taken over all the gold keep the bowels of the earth, but that which has struck gold, some gold.
So true Don may be the Amaranth as Escobar, and between truth and Don Escobar Amaranth extend infinitely countless other truths intermediate, which is what mathematicians call the ultracontinuo.
Irreducible truths as there are so many views.
And singularly I have appealed to science and teaching of these gentlemen, to hide that face Belarmino and Apolonio, and I have had no point of view.
Belarmino and Apolonio have existed, and I have loved.
I'm not saying they have existed in the flesh on the face of the earth have been around for me and for me.
Above I alluded to an interesting and useful document Escobar left among his posthumous papers: is a complete glossary of all words and terms that Bellarmine was served, accompanied the sense that he used them.
I have culled, for convenience, those that reader has already heard Bellarmine, which are appended to this volume.
The vocabulary has been collected by the following lines Escobar Preliminary "Max Müller says that placing the twenty-three or twenty-four letters of the alphabet in all possible combinations would be obtained all the words that have been used in all world languages ??and all have been employed.
Taking twenty-three letters as a basis, the number of words would be: 25,852,016,738,884,976,640,000, and twenty-four basis: 620,448,401,733,239,439,360,000.
Bellarmine did not use such wealth lexical, or even is close to Dante, Shakespeare and Cervantes, which used thousands of words.
Belarmino was about five hundred.
I remember reading somewhere that Racine in his writings 400-voice was not, to be his language so ductile, fine and nuanced. " FIN Valdenebro Valleys, Valladolid.
APPENDIX GLOSSARY OF SOME VOICES BELARMINIANO PET friendly .-- Feeling suspicious, as is done to encourage and cajole some animals.
Comes the kiss of Judas.
GUESTS .-- Man as he lives, because they need to eat to live.
The men were classified according to their behavior.
When you give the gist of things is something you see simple, simple, mild escapadizo, a chisgarabís.
Commercials Discover the profound truth .-- the cause.
Belarmino said the devil is God naked.
JAIL .-- Understanding, to become owner of one concept.
DISPOSAL .-- Run, do light work or clarity of view, to illuminate.
SCHOLASTIC .-- The following opinions of others, as the tail follows the animal's body.
Give importance .-- BILL arbitrary, capricious appreciate what has no price or importance.
CLOTHING .-- The external and superficial.
INSTRUMENTAL .-- The useful and effective.
The opposite is healthy, or hear far from shaking.
Hump ??- Responsibility, because bulky, heavy and obtrusive.
MADRONA .-- Virgin Mother, who conceived by the Holy Ghost.
MAREMAGNUM .-- Ideal, a compendium of all things.
Postema .-- System theory, dead tumor that forms within a living body.
PROHIJAR .-- Love for love will, not by demand of the blood.
PROJECTILE .-- Nonsense, because shoots under design or project, and always causes damage.
RECREATED .-- Uncreated and produces great enjoyment or recreation; applied in the light or hearth.
WATER .-- Vision of unity, cover his eyes.
RIDICULOUS .-- Eccentric, out of its own end.
Greeting comes and says that the knowledge although superficial, is always convenient.
It refers to those who walk around with the same subject, yes is subject.
Light .-- SOLERA ultimate source of light.
Comes from the sun.
TAS, TAS, TAS .-- The death, the last beats: the hammer on the coffin.
TOLE TOLE .-- The life, constant anxiety, the flutter of the passions.
What is right is short and the executive as a block.
CHAPTER ONE .-- Don Guillén and the Pinta.
CHAPTER II .-- Ruera Street, seen from two sides.
CHAPTER III .-- Belarmino and daughter.
CHAPTER IV .-- Apollonius and his son.
CHAPTER V. - The philosopher and playwright.
CHAPTER VI .-- The drama and philosophy.
CHAPTER VII .-- Peter and Angus.
CHAPTER VIII .-- aeterni Sub specie.
