The fight did not end until a road went flying the whip, or left some old barracks, club in hand.
That day the battle had been hard.
It was market day for animals in the river, and carried on the belt, as a thick lump, the burlap bag with the rest of their savings.
The little boy getting worse, shivering with fever in the arms of his mother, who cried to all hours, and visited twice a day by the doctor.
In short, a disease that was going to cost you twelve or fifteen hard, as they say nothing!
The eldest, Batistet, could hardly go beyond their fields.
He still had his head wrapped in rags and face cross-spanked, after the huge battle that morning said on the road with others their age who would like him to pick up manure in Valencia.
All fematers contour against Batistet had joined, and the poor boy could not look the road.
The two small and did not go to school for fear of fights that should support the return.
The father, gloomy and severe glimpses gesture reminded him mutely to be indifferent, because their sentences were an attack on parental authority.
Everything had been discovered.
After the famous fight in the fountain of the Queen, the whole garden spent several days talking about the Rosetta love with the nephew of old Tomba.
The butcher of Alboraya snorted courage against his servant.
One had only to listen to the customers when they chatted at his desk.
All said the same thing: they were surprised that a man like him, religious, honest and without other defects to steal something in the weight allowed to accompany his servant to the daughter of the enemy of garden, an evil man, which he had allegedly been in prison.
And this, in respect of the standard big-bellied, was a disgrace to their establishment, listening to the murmurings of the gossips again enraged, threatening with the knife the timid servant, or rebuked the Tomba to correct the rascal of his grandson.
Total: the butcher dismissed the boy and his grandfather find work in Valencia home of another sharp, praying that no grant him freedom or even on holidays, to no more waiting on the road to the daughter of Batiste.
Tonet went submissive, with moist eyes, as one of the sheep that had so often hauled up the knife from his master.
In the hut was the poor girl hiding in her bedroom to moan, making efforts not to show pain to the mother, who, irritated by so many setbacks, appeared intractable, and before the father, who spoke of it to pieces if she was to have a boyfriend and talk to it the enemies of the contour.
The poor Batiste, so harsh and threatening, so it hurt for all misfortune was the distress of the poor girl, poor appetite, yellow, haggard, making efforts for being indifferent, barely sleeping, which did not stop every morning march time at the factory, with a vagueness in telling pupils that his thinking rolled away, I was dreaming inside at all hours.
At that not trampling certainly made him the evil eye, and so his poor Morrut, the old horse an animal that was like family, which had dragged down by poor roads and trousseau boys in the pilgrimages of misery, he would dribble out in the barn Again, the best accommodation during their long working life.
Behaved like honest person in the worst time when newly established family in the hut, had to plow damn petrified by ten years of neglect, when there to make continuous trips to Valencia in search of the rubble of demolition and old wood; when the grass was not much and the work overwhelming.
And now that front window of the block lay a great field of fresh grass, straight, wavy, all for him now had the table set with that green and juicy tablecloth smelled of glory now fattened, their legs are tapered and rounded his back knotted, died suddenly, without knowing why, perhaps using their perfect right to rest after taking the family afloat.
He lay on the straw one day, refusing to leave, staring with glazed eyes Bastida and yellowish did expire on the lips of love vows and threats of indignation.
It looked like a poor person Morrut; Batiste, recalling his eyes, was often wishes to mourn.
The barracks suffered a concussion, and that unfortunately made the family to forget Pascualet poor momentarily, trembling with fever in bed.
Gentle animal that extending his nose had been coming into the world Almost all children.
Still remember it like it was yesterday, when I bought in the market Sagunto, small, dirty, full of scabs and gore, like a smack of waste.
Was a family member was leaving.
And when some nasty guys came in a car for take your horse to the "Caldera" [16], which become the skeleton of polished bone brilliance and fertilizing compost meats, kids crying, screaming from the door endless goodbye to poor Morrut, going away with stiff legs and head swaying, while the mother, as if I had a horrible feeling, is cast with open arms on the sick child. [16] place where they cremated the dead animals to use their bones.
Recalled to their children when they were introduced in the block to pull the tail Morrut the sweet passivity which endured with all the boys games.
And poor Batiste, thinking occupied by so many misfortunes, shuffling in his imagination sick children, the dead horse, son and daughter Descalabrado his concentrated sorrow arrived at the outskirts of the city and spent the Serranos bridge.
At the end of the bridge, on a plain between two gardens, opposite the octagonal towers hovering over the trees its pointed arches, its corbels and crown their battlements, Batiste stopped, running his hands over his face.
I had to go to the masters, children Don Salvador, and ask to borrow a piquillo to complete the amount it would cost the purchase of a hack that would replace the Morrut.
And since the toilet is the luxury of the poor, sat on a stone bench, waiting his turn came to clean the beards of two weeks, sharp and tough as barbed, which blackened his face.
Surly boys who aspired to be young men in barbershops in the city were there their weapons first, and while inferring tame or village heads cut da trasquilones and peeling, the master was talking to the customers sitting on the bench of the ride, or read a newspaper aloud to the audience, which, with the chin on both hands, listening impassive.
Those who sat in the chair of the torments pasábanles a piece of soap stone cheeks, and rub that rubs until rising foam.
Then came the cruel navajeo, cuts, that stood firmly on the client's face stained with blood.
A little more sounded beyond the big scissors in constant motion, passing and reviewing on the round presumed head of a strapping young man, who was shorn as a black poodle and the height of style: long matted hair on the front and back half a head of closely cropped.
Batiste was shaved quite lucky, as I listened, sunk in the Esparto chair and with closed eyes, reading the 'teacher', made with nasal, monotonous voice, their commentaries and glosses man skilled in public affairs.
No more than three scratches removed and a cut on his ear.
Other times he had been more.
Gave his half-real, and got into the city Serranos by the door.
Two hours later he came out again, and sat on the stone bench, from the group of parishioners, to hear again the teacher while the market was time.
The owners had just paying the piquillo he needed to buy the horse.
Now important was to have a good eye to choose from, the serenity to not be fooled by the cunning gypsies passing before him with their cattle, then a ramp down into the riverbed.
The market should be the most animated.
Batiste came to the confused noise a hotbed invisible climbed the neighing and voices from the bottom of the channel.
Doubted stood still, as you want to delay the moment of an important resolution, and finally decided to descend to the market.
The bed of the Turia was, as always, almost dry.
Some streaks of water, breaks the dams and reservoirs that cool the meadow, meandering curved or islands in a dusty floor, burning, uneven, which looked more like African desert riverbed.
At such times he was all white with the sun, without the slightest taint of shadow.
The cars of the peasants, with their clear awnings, formed a camp in the center of channel, and along the banks of stone set in a row, were the animals at the sale: coceadoras black mules, with bright red shells and legs agitated by nervous restlessness; Dobbins, strong but sad, like serfs condemned to eternal fatigue, looking glassy eyes to all that passed, as if they guessed the new tyrant, and small and vivacious ponies, injuring the dust with their hooves, pulling the tether that kept them tied the wall.
Next to the down ramp were the culled animals: donkeys, no ears, dirty hair and disgusting pustules sad horses, whose skin seemed to pierced with angled the stark skeleton, mules short-sighted, with neck stork all the misery of the market, the castaways of work, which, with leather lined up sticks, stomach contracted and excoriation Swollen bellied flies green and awaited the arrival of the contractor's bullfighting or the beggar, who would know still use them.
Beside streams in the middle of the channel and the banks that had moisture covered with a tiny layer of grass, herds of horses trotted untamed, open air, luenga mane, tail dragging on the ground.
Beyond the bridges, through its arches stone, could be seen herds of bulls, with the legs drawn up, quietly ruminating grass threw them pastors, or walking lazily through the parched ground, feeling the nostalgia of fresh pastures, standing fiercely every time the youngsters are whistle from the parapets.
The animation market is growing.
Around each horse was adjusting the sale formed gesticulating and chattering groups of peasants in shirtsleeves, with a stick ash in the right hand.
Roma, dry, tan, long and curved rails, sheepskin with patches and hair cap, beneath which his eyes shone with a glow of fever, spoke constantly, throwing his breath in his face as if to Buyer hypnotize. - But you look well in the pony.
And the farmer, insensible to the mellows Roma, self-enclosed, pensive and uncertain, looked down, looked upon the beast, he scratched his neck, and just saying to power stubborn: - Well, they do not donate month [17]. [17] - Well, it does not give anymore.
To make workplaces and solemnize the sales we wanted the protection of a sunshade, under a big woman who sold pastries adorned by flies or glasses filled with sticky content of half a dozen bottles on a table lined with zinc
