Rosalie thought he tore a piece of his heart when you were among the ten hard hands with thirst-quenching metal of his friend.
But there was no choice.
Dona Candida became very joyful to see Bringas, who said that felt better, although very weak in the head.
The doctor had examined in the morning and prognosis was favorable.
Even thought he saw something when departed the band ...
What was needed was a lot of rest, patience and take with method and timeliness prescribed medicines. "Who has come?" - Bringas asked sharply. - I think it is Mr.
Torres - said Candida - which has come to ask you. - I have head so weak and yet so upset, I thought I heard counting money ...
Although not want, and although my doctor ordered me not to tamper with anything, I can not provide attention to everything that happens at home.
I have the ear alert, and even when I sleep I seem to not escape me no sound.
She said to him that all diseased brain wisely calls inaction that he must surrender their senses to indifference and rest, that while he was in bed he had not been to make conversation, and that even their children would enter the room.
This was manifested forming, with a deep sigh, and said that I needed more patience and strength of will was to suppress their desire to know everything and give orders.
While this was spoken in the dark bedroom, Rosalie Torres whispered to La Salette.
Great as were the precautions taken to make no noise of money to have twenty hard silver, tin tin was some slight vibrating in the room and spread throughout the house in faint waves to reach the ear subtle Bringas.
Torres was most affected by the disease Your friend, expressed the hope that it was not anything serious ...
The bookkeeper Mompous had a similar attack in the light. "Nothing, that being one day write, he was blind ...
At first thought it was drop serene, but ten days of sale and some medicines was good, though always delicate.
In the bathrooms are finished fifth ...».
cure Bye the above so happy to take your money as afflicted by the misfortune of D.
A Isabelita, which was sad, concerned and not wanting to eat, she was sent home from Candida to place him there all day playing with Irene and other girls in the neighborhood.
Alfonsin was to school, and Paquito, whom her father's illness was very sad, did not leave the house and wanted a bite to eat at lunch.
Candida was the only person who was there a regular appetite. "We need food, even making an effort - said that of Bringas -.
Do not let you go well.
We must take strength to watch and work and take care all ...
The letter breathed joy and satisfaction. "This poor Miracles do not know what is happening to us breaking ...-- Rosalie said the letter -.
Son, go there and give it a moment account of this disaster ...
The seamstress was that day, but the lady saying goodbye was not Mary Magdalene to taffeta, to return next week.
In the afternoon was also Milagros, who felt not have known much before the event to be flying to console his friend.
His grief sincere was not a party to conceal the satisfaction of the lien for the successful settlement of their conflict metal at the critical day.
How and how he had made the arrangement, I would say later, it was not intrude on the occasion of things that did not care ... "And the doctor say? ".
The excellent lady expected that blindness was an uneasiness a few days.
Ask God to heal the man as well, that model of parents ... "How you feel you can not come tonight to my house ...
It'll be the meeting very bright, and as for the buffet will be most wonderful ...
Ya, ya I'll tell you how ...
As they say a secret of importance, told her friend that that would evening dress with a hint of white muslin scarf, lilac, which had placed inset and a jersey Watteau ...
At the last minute had been arranged as a T-shirt he was sent to Paris to San Salomó ...
I thought her hair combed up, wavy large braid around the head and long locks behind ... 'Well, not you mood to hear such rubbish ...
Tomorrow I will come to know and follow our D.
Francisco and counting, counting ...».
I swear I have pity them. " XXII Encouraged them a lot, because when the band rose a little, contrary to orders medical, perceive light, though troubled and painful impression.
Whatever it was, was the belief that the body was not lost and that sooner or later regain the use of that precious role.
Tickling bothered him a lot and vision calenturienta of thousands of points of light or faint rays of metal, mobile, fleeting, Images of the damned and never well execrated hairs retained the sick retina.
With However, its poor man carried my resignation, and asked God what was that you take out the bed, it was great ordeal for him to be lying on his back, scrambled between the sheets burning.
Permitiole the doctor out of bed after three days, but with strict order not to move from a chair and sit still and silent, indifferent to everything and do not receive visits deal or anything, still blindfolded, severely.
Arose, and was installed in Gasparini, in a comfortable chair with pillows.
Do not allow anyone to enter to give talk, or obeyed when pleading with Paquito at night to read him a newspaper.
Respect his departure from domestic issues, little Rosalie was able to achieve, because although he prided leaving the care of it all, could not contain his desire for authority, that authority exercised so well for many years, and each time he remembered the good use he had made of their duties. - Rosalie ... - What is it, son? - What principle you wearing today? - Why do you go about ...? - I have smelled beef stew ...
Do not deny it ...
Now more than ever, we must appeal the tortillas potatoes, artichokes stuffed with sausage, and if you press me, to pluck mutton, not forgetting the cheek.
If you trust Candida and charge the purchase soon will leave by doors.
You know that lady squandered two fortunes in comistrajos ...
Di one thing for lunch yesterday put fried hake. - Is it thought that the doctor send you to take it.
Fear not hear you. - Why do not you, good way to go to dinner at his house?
Do not bring wine, for you know that I was not expense now.
The doctor tells me to take a finger of Jerez, but do not buy it.
If you send Dona Tula the two bottles that I promised, I'll take it, otherwise not.
And with that I bring an eye doctor here, that if he comes to bring, forget it.
God does not want to be precise ...
Yesterday spoke of taking baths.
I shudder to think.
This from the baths is a rant that doctors have invented now to end to squeeze the juice of the sick poor.
In my time there had such baths, so there were no more diseases.
If you talk about bathrooms, I recommend, daughter, put a face, as I put it.
The most unique was that neither in that miserable state had to abandon my good accounting Thiers from home.
While in bed, gave his wife the keys to the drawer where he had money, but since it was raised again wanted to take up the reins of government and exercise that sovereign function, which is the most obvious attribute domestic authority.
Not intimidated by superimposing their blindness and active spirit to the body condition, rose up from its seat, approached the table, felt the furniture to avoid tripping, and opened the drawer Take the drawer where the money was.
Tact had acquired in such a short period education, the fineness in his own private vision, and knew the coins sobarlas weigh them up and only a little.
With the chest on his knees, he was taking and counting to put the race much in the hands of his wife.
As for the dancing master, if he insists on raising more tanks, I do not pay more than what the usual, the rest is on your own.
Do not make me more chicken stock, unless the chef chief send you some.
Delete the fourth chicken or the chicken.
Fortunately I've gotten used not to be a man of fuss.
The broth cooked with good bone and marrow is better than nothing.
Rosalia, not to the contrary, all said Amen.
After removing the everyday of spending money, Bringas stayed a while with the chest on his knees, and raising a false bottom the mueblecillo had, took out an old and kneaded portfolio, whose folds were appearing Some notes of the Bank.
etc.. " Conocíalos by the order they were posted ...
Then put everything in place with respectful pause, kept the ark, and throwing the key is deposited in your left pocket vest.
The lady drove up to put back into the chair.
This door was always closed, as before scrutinizing his treasure sent Rosalie to cast the door latch to keep out anyone.
A week was no deviation from the day of San Antonio, sad time in the house, without the hasten sick much.
There was better, it is true that he had not worsened which at the end of the day is always a consolation.
There was no doubt that the functions optics were kept intact, ie D.
Francisco saw, but the impression was so painful of light in his eyes, that if for a moment he lifted the blindfold, the cruel pain and I felt the heat vivid obligábanle to wear it again.
His wife watched him with a dedication and attention worthy of the highest praise.
She put the pads on the eyelids belladonna when the pains were great, and he rubbed his temples with belladonna and laudanum.
Gave him all calomel at night with light doses of opium when he had insomnia, but nothing put much care as the loving wife admonish him not to ever get up the band; it was the poor man of genius so alive, since he was a little better and lacked time to take a peek into the world, as saying. - By God, man, do not be like ...
You are like children.
I do not know what you are worth the reason and years.
It tells the doctor that nothing in the world will discover, and you engaged in so ...
Thus do not advance anything.
Be patient, that day will come that you take off the black rag and you look at the sun.
But now for some time blind girl, nothing but blind girl.
With a lot of formality, that if you give to open the window, as you say, you amarraré hands. - It's that damn band - Brinker said with a sigh - overwhelms me, I weigh like the bastion of a wall ...
It is true that I suffer a lot when the light hurts me, but also impatience, and especially the dark mortify me horribly ...
It is a comfort to see from time to time some little thing, if only the cavity of the room, with objects deleted confused as it is comforting to see, and certainly if I mistake not this mischievous retina sick, you're wearing a silk robe ...
Augustine who gave you do not waste you had to cut a dress to the girl?
Ainda mais, which is now wearing a color and black currant ...
XXIII Rosalie heard this from the door.
Puzzled at first, soon recovered his composure, and he laughed: - Did not I say that silk robe? ...
Yes, for silk gowns are ...
There you have it you better head out to the window.
In the Camon moved the gown she wore the other very old, it was the generally used ... - Are you here? - Asked Bringas after waiting a while, during which there was in doubt if his wife was present or not. - Here I am ...
I seemed to sense noise and rubbing of fabric ... - Jesus! ...
Arranging dressmaker's there dresses Miracles ...
Paquito, who had just entered the street, sat with his father to tell some anecdotes from running loose and read newspaper.
That afternoon was Milagros I also have gone earlier, demonstrating the health of Mr.
Interest Francisco truly fraternal.
Some ratitos with him, but soon turned her and her farthest room colleague, who was the Furriel.
Marquise never clearly explained to her friend how she had been this happy arrangement of the famous tightness of the day 14, but it must have been a very short term loan, so will later.
The truth is that the dinner was esplendidísima, and a celebrated chronicler of classrooms, with that style is their peculiar eunuch, the praised and exalted to the clouds, using phrases between Spanish and French do not repeat for fear that, reading them, my good readers feel in your stomach like effects of tartar emetic.
When I read Don Francisco the relationship of the party lucida, the good man kept repeating: "Who was the fool, Who would be the fool ...!».
The first few days after the soiree, Milagros seemed very satisfied.
Gradually his satisfaction amenguaba, and around 20 you could note in her sudden attacks of sadness.
It was not on 22 but at times with deep sighs revealed very serious apprehension.
In San Juan and the times of calm were the least, and the Marquise told his friend, very unpleasant secrets.
This is scary hearing such predictions, and saw a cloud coming over the black and stormy pass.
Meanwhile, Milagros affections were so extreme, that Rosalie did not know how thank them.
Often speaking of costumes and fashions, though the taste was not Bringas nothing, while her husband was ill.
Fortunately, the doctor announced a speedy recovery, and to this happy outcome such encouragement took the lady, her spirit began to book no small a hole in all matters relating to the order of elegant clothing.
Freebies Miracles on that sad occasion he came to the soul.
One evening, at parting, said, "Do you know the hat is not going Florian right?
Another day spoke of clothing, with more heat. "The goat's hair, which I have medium do not like.
I will send it tomorrow ...
As you may be necessarily bathrooms with her husband, you can use it there ...
No, I do thank you.
Also I shall get the fichú with green velvet ribbon and a felt cap for you fix it easily.
Today I took the gown seamstress currant ...
That color looks good on only the thick, the fresh faces ...
Rosalia, as we have said, had no like at all, and was stored in Kamon.
Once, when his mind was calm, hopes for good was the doctor, he would shut himself up in that piece to be tested gown, dress, hat ...
Unable to resist temptation, decided to Emilia several arrangements, extending a few things, reforming others completely.
At times, yielding to his passionate desire, out of the Carrion and took two or three laps around the house with all those harness on his body.
For this, waiting for the maid and the children were outside and D.
Francis Gasparini locked in with Paquito.
More than once he was dressed up to the admiration Candida, applying the criterion of such an approval or censorship wise.
The widow always touched felt the fury of applause, and to not give in noisy fuss, Rosalia it was reached with the finger in his mouth, urging her to suppress any expression of astonishment and surprise, lest some subtle ear perceives the Saleta what happened.
and all my lace Valenciennes, Alencon and guipure point.
The few jewels I still may be some day for you ...
I'm lost, I have no choice but to hide, enter a convent, run, or what not ...
If I could enter a convent, would be the best ...
And if God wanted me to carry, what service I would! ...
But I do not know what I mean ...
