Poor, without resources, without valimiento, what could against justice, which only supports the powerful?
But my daughter mine, and if today is not in my power, I assure you it will be tomorrow.
Our soldiers drew strength from its spirit, because the body does not had.
Even the artillery began to falter, and wounded nearly all early left and right, attacking the latter, gave fire to others, and service ammunition was done by civilians.
The French, half raised with the courage of the sailors were able to enable two pieces, and from afar, and taking the mass of white cavalry, firing many shots.
His long career, passing over the Spanish battery, wounding the forefront of my regiment.
It reared up as if it were a single horse collide each other, and the spectacle of two dead companions without a fight filled us with terror.
If our guns came to lack of powder, whether in their souls that bronze was extinguished outrage artificial, which moves and upsets sniff the air, and sweep the floor shakes as lies ahead, it would soon be taken by the brave sailors, and I waited dying disabled by the demeaning nail trifle that destroys a giant pin that Achilles kills.
No, it is possible to look indifferent the spectacle of so sublime effort, oh country, but I confess that I was raging to know the author of that third letter in my hand, and when not to neglect your admirable heroism signature looked and saw the name of Roman, second steward of my unforgettable love, when thought to contain important revelations that role, so I ruled curiosity, that for a moment out of my mind, oh beautiful corner of earth, spent more once to be balance in the world!
As school sponge erases the problem written in chalk on the blackboard to indulge in the game, so it wiped out everything in me to not see more than the following: "Mr.
Luis de Santorcaz: I'll tell you what happened.
Everything is resolved, and now give you shut the door in their noses.
Marquesa de Leiva, to pick up Miss Agnes thought about how legitimate.
I warn you that since I was treated, both want it much, and they crave for deciding to leave the convent.
Countess received your letter, in which he proposed the legitimation by subsequent marriage, he showed his aunt, and she, furious and out of it, asked if I would be disgraced forever wife of such a loss.
Countess cried a little, which is an indication that he still has something of that love, and finally, after many remonstrances, agreed the two not allowing you in your family for any reason.
You know, as recorded in the foundation of this great primogeniture, a major of Spain, having no direct heirs, passes to second-degree straight line, so now it will be the firstborn of Count Rumble.
The present Countess of Rumble, aware of the occurrence of an heiress, announced my housekeeper would enter into a lawsuit, and see you here on the ground that is worked at home both standing.
Finally, the two families agreed to avoid the ruin of a lawsuit, and have agreed on this basis: married to Miss Agnes D.
Marquesa finally solved it in a clever and secure.
The girl has come to an end with right foot in the family.
Unable to justify the mother, because it opposed the law, can not accepted the formula of subsequent marriage, or agreeing not to adopt, not give this right to the inheritance of primogeniture, it was agreed that I will tell you, and that without will surely be filled with admiration.
This bias is for the family business the advantage that Ms.
Inés has been recognized by that ... " A violent strike snatched the paper from my hands.
Encabritóse my horse, and to advance along squad, felt the loud laughter of a soldier who said: "This is not coming to read letters." We ran off the road, and all my colleagues uttered frantic cries of joy.
I saw the gun still, and before a thick curtain of smoke that dissipate allowed distinguish the remains of the marine battalion.
In the French front hung a white flag progress towards our front.
The battle was over.
Confundíanse the various regiments and civilians newcomers to the troops.
People from the nearby town of Bailen went with pitchers and jugs water.
Agrupábanse men and women together to collect the wounded.
The horses traveled proud of the road, and generally confused by the many soldiers, showing their simplicity so happy like this.
The cries of "Long live Spain!, Viva Fernando VII!" Seemed sublime concert that filled the space as before the sound of cannon and the world all tremble with the joy of our victory and the disaster of the French, first hesitation proud of the Empire.
Meanwhile, I ran the camp, looked down, looked at his hands of all the carriages of the guns, the pools of blood, the thousand corners of the floor next the body of a wounded and under the head of the dying horse.
Diego, to avoid litigation that would ruin both families. - What are you talking about there boy? "- Exclaimed with surprise -.
The appearance of scuffle inside, I shook the soul, changed suddenly and completely.
It all came down everything got a different color, and the world was different from my eyes.
I do not know if at that moment I felt the death of my master, or if, on the contrary, overwhelmed the corrupting selfishness in my soul I accepted with joy the disappearance of one who, standing between my ideal and I altered my eyes the balance of the universe, rather than Napoleon's Europe ...
In the midst of delirium of that great victory, one of the most momentous has happened in the world, I remained dumb and my horse carried me from one place to another, according to his will.
Around me the patriotic effervescence of that joy, that feverish enthusiasm, causing loud waves.
There the human person was gone, melting into the beautiful whole society or nation, which was no doubt that touched the ground with shouts of joy.
It was the army to take their positions, the horn drum and summoned all the soldiers, and large numbers of common people, men and women, ran into the streets of Bailen.
Our detachments had spotted columns Vedel advanced general, who came to the aid of Dupont Guarromán, and within walking distance and, a cannon announced to us the presence of a new enemy.
Reding instantly sent an official letter to the French General informing him of what happened, and enemies detained beyond a chapel called San Cristobal, on left the road, going to dance Guarromán.
Soon we saw a French officer who came the people with a trade to Reding and one for Dupont, as in the headquarters of this were already negotiating the surrender bases, we believe certain of not being attacked by the top of the road, because the suspension of arms was agreed affect all the forces that made up the imperial army of Andalusia.
Despite this confidence, several regiments, including Ireland and the most famous of Military orders, both had distinguished himself in battle, took the road ahead Vedel's troops, which at times were coming and taking positions.
My regiment was placed at the eastern entrance of the village.
Would be little more than one when the French Vedel, without waiting for their answer Dupont, opened fire against Ireland, surprising with considerable force.
All wanted to go, not to fight the French, but to pass them to the sword, for violating of war.
But we had to subdue the traitors, precious hostages, which were the remains of the army of Dupont, who were in our power, as a victim handcuffed and the head on the block.
During the confusion that followed the attack, some troops came to fence up the French countryside, and others rushed to the aid of the Irish regiments and order, since a large commitment.
Despite the inferiority of their numbers and positions of our troops, everything announced that going to lock a battle as fierce as the first, and the brave countrymen, as line that the soldiers were burning upon generous desire to die, if need be, on top with an epic late morning glory.
But Providence, as I said, was on our side.
Almost together with the first shots from the onslaught of Vedel, distant gunfire rang, which at first did not know what referring address. - What is that?
Manuel de la Peña, who comes from the Casa del Rey - one that answered exhaust all came from the first battleground.
The third division, sent the sunrise from Andújar by Brown in pursuit of Dupont, had arrived, and the enemy fire was announced by powder dry.
Terrified by this new reinforcement, which would destroy the remains of the army if the armistice Vedel not submit, Dupont strong gave orders to cease fire division Guarromán just coming and the firing ceased.
With this, the nine thousand men underwent Vedel in advance to deal that fit their Commander in Chief.
We, however, weapons, and the entrances of the town continued custody by numerous forces, who were relieved to give us some rest.
When I had left guard, dirigíme to one of the many homes of the people who cured wounded, I put something on the left, where he received a concussion, although slight, stung me a lot.
Then walk back to find my post when a hand feeling on my shoulder, I looked and I had the pleasure of meeting face to face with D.
Paco, the teacher and tutor Don Diego. - What has become of the child?
The Holy Virgin of Araceli, the Fuensanta, the Pillar and the Tremedal encourage us all together!
My legs tremble, Gabriel, and if my master and disciple does not appear, I would not dare to tell the lady. - I look, I saw him shortly before the end of the battle.
Walk and D.
Diego there. - God willing.
