All this was fixed so poetic that the reader, as you know, not to censor Dona Censored light as the people of his place, but in any case, on the contrary: for left rare and pride, because he preferred to live many months of the year separated from her husband to be in Madrid perpetual cause prosaic and economic difficulties, enough to kill the love more robust.
Doña Luz, thus firmly drawn by his own hand and the future of his life, he saw in his soul, but reasons for satisfaction and contentment.
The sweet yearning being a wife and mother moved with forebodings of ineffable tenderness.
An interior light light up his mind, beatified, and it appeared that seeps to the outside, radiated his face and gave her beautiful body greater beauty than ever.
And the fields are covered in the early spring bloom and the sky turns purple and gold when the sun's out, and then showed Dona Luz more graceful and glowing.
His joy was so noble, so generous and so trusting, and this joy divine expression lent itself to her figure was so gentle sympathetic lucky that the censorship was unarmed out, and look, had to bless all mankind.
There was only back in the depths, a small corner where the light does not penetrate well, and where, in a confused way, was like a seed, barely perceptible as a seed of anger and unrest.
Doña Luz, either inadvertently aware of it, by instinct savior, I tried to pull that seed, to drown him germ, so that it does not come from the poisonous grass.
Luz thought about his relationship with P.
anomalous Enrique, in that friendship blaze at the affection that had always shown.
Of course for Dona Luz it could not even remotely have anything in common with love.
But, therefore, his affection for the Father should remain, and demonstrations of this affection should not cease or mitigated, otherwise that she was inclined to believe they were the very essence of what was in his soul future husband, who had acted as fickle and inconstant, that one had not the free, the intact, never given to anyone who treasured caring heart, but something or much of what went before and quitádoselo given to another course.
So, strove Dona Luz, but in vain, as they are, as always, gentle and loving with P.
And, as he saw he could not, as he saw it from touching your soul with the Father, and by the word, and by the look, whereas before it seemed that sprouted heat and magnetic fire, then it was ice, he explained assuming no spirit or force in the human hearts for several affections, and that where one prevails, the other falls and fainting, even of very different social and nature.
The soul of Father went to Dona Luz always clear, transparent and impenetrable, like the sea deep that encircles and embraces the Andalusian coast.
The sun passes through many layers of water and all so full of clarity, but there in the depths, lost and obscures the view, including iris, reflexes, sunflowers and lightning Argentina, and nothing distinguishes accurately and steadily.
The same serenity as sweetly as ever.
Not alter his voice to speak of D.
Nor Jaime D.
In speaking with Dona Luz, showed Father loving former benevolence.
Not a word which even remotely felt a touch of irony, of pique or spite. "Either the father has on himself an unlikely domain - Dona Luz thought - or not loved me ever.
Would see that the suspected Manuela, I heard as full of malicious injury villainy had been at the bottom of my creation ridiculous vanity, which, deepening the issue well, I was flattered instead of angry.
No, no doubt: the good of P.
And it's better that way. " And Dona Luz end with these words, she sighed to vent, as people take off serious burden.
At other times, even more anxious to unload their conscience, to decline all responsibility, although the above reasoning was proven to himself that there was nothing disgusting to leave responsibly, Dona Luz was fading in his memory all favors I had done the Father was taking everything worth and significance to the show of affection had given him, and it was reducing everything to minor proportions of a cold friendship and severe, as it can and must mediate between a student and a teacher, scaring himself or removing any troublesome memories, false in its feel, even the slightest flirtation unconscious on her part.
Meanwhile, the days passed and was approaching wedding, which was to be without any equipment.
Don Pepe Acisclo and Güeto, however, had made a short trip to Seville to buy gifts the bride, each according to his abilities.
The Acisclo was magnificent.
It consisted of a pair of earrings and a diamond brooch, that cost him two thousand dollars.
Pepe The Ghetto was a bracelet that cost ten thousand.
Don Jaime Madrid had instructed some finery and jewels, which should arrive any day.
Don Jaime lives showed impatience, and seemed very much in love, and tried to rush the wedding.
While sighed closer the day, more tender were the parties, their intimate conversations were endless, went out riding together, Dona Luz in his, and D.
Jaime in another very good and beautiful, the property of D.
Acisclo, and also went for a walk on foot, accompanied by Dona Manolita very boasts of being the mediator in this happy partnership.
Fr Henry was always going to dine with D.
Acisclo, but claiming that he had to write or to study, stayed to lunch at his house, where his servant prepared and served Ramon a frugal breakfast.
Also the gathering of night, or have already retired earlier than usual, or as he withdrew the Father, but this was not surprising.
Don Pepe Güeto Acisclo and gave the example.
Certainly the whispered conversation of the couple and their involuntary abstraction of all uninvited onlookers something else.
The doctor D.
Anselmo came and went, staying briefly at the meeting.
No longer disputed and brings out their philosophies, because Dona Luz paid no attention to anything but D.
It was then that the gathering, so busy before, was almost always square.
Anselmo, Pepe and Father Güeto scuttled, and the couple were alone, in his eternal Smalltalk, as I said Dona Manolita; it, which was resigned to do with taste role of owner, the Greyhound Palomo, was put at the feet of D.
Jaime, who had taken much love to know instinctively much she was his mistress, and sometimes the priest D.
Michael, who whispers of the lovers produce the same effect as shouting and speeches of philosophers, leaving you pleasantly asleep, perhaps dreaming of the great role he played to rejoice in that drama, when the couple cast forth blessings
