This inland sea had learned men the art of sailing.
Everyone looked to the waves rather than the sky.
Along the way were blue reached the wonders of life and their entrails were born the gods.
The Phoenicians - Jews stuck to sailors - abandoned their cities in the Mediterranean fornix, to spread mysterious knowledge of Egypt and Asian monarchies along all the edges the inland sea.
Then I replaced the Greeks of the maritime republics.
To Ferragut, the highest honor in Athens was a democracy have been sailors.
All his great men were naval officers. - Themistocles and Pericles - added - were squad leaders, who ruled after sending ships his country.
So the Greek civilization had spread and become immortal, rather than shrink and disappear fruitless, as other inland.
Then, Rome, Rome Earth, not to die under the superiority of Semitic sailors of Carthage, had to teach rowing management and fighting the waves to the farmers of Latium, hardened legionnaires cheeks the cheeks of the helmet, they did not know how to move on stage slippery feet iron masters of the world.
Mare nostrum deities inspired the doctor a loving devotion.
Knew they had not existed, but thought of them as poetic fantasies of natural forces.
The ancient world knew only in the immense ocean hypothesis, giving it the form of a belt water around the earth.
Ocean was an ancient god of long beards and horned head living in an underwater cave with his wife and his three hundred Tethys Oceanides daughters.
Only Aeschylus grave had dared to represent the oceanic green and dark virgins crying around the rock where Prometheus was chained.
Other deities were those of the more affordable inland sea, whose borders were settled the opulent cities of the Syrian coast, the Egyptian cities, which sent sparks into Greece ritual of their civilization, the Hellenic cities, homes for fire that melted clear all knowledge, giving them a way to eternal Rome, mistress of the world, Carthage, the bold geographical discoveries, Marseille, he did participate to Western Europe civilization of the Greeks, poured it down the coast from factory to factory, to Straits of Gades.
A brother of the oceanic, wise Nereus, reigned in the deep Mediterranean.
This son of Ocean was blue beard and green eyes, with bundles of reeds in marine eyebrows and chest.
Fifty of his daughters, the Nereids, took their orders through waves or fiddling around ships, sending the faces of the rowers raised foam her arms.
Zeus was the owner of the land, the fateful Hades reigned in the depths Pluto and Neptune ruled the blue plains.
Nereus, dispossessed monarch, fled to a cave Hellenic sea, to live the calm life the philosopher, giving advice to men, and Poseidon was installed in the palaces of pearl with their white steeds bronze helmets and manes of gold.
His loving eyes were fixed on the fifty princesses Mediterranean, the Nereids, who took names of the colors and aspects of the waves: the Glauca, the Green, the Quick, the Melosa ... "Nymphs of the green depths of fresh faces and button rose-scented virgin that you take the forms of all the monsters that fed the sea, "sang the national anthem in orfeico Greek shore.
And Poseidon to distinguish between all the mermaid of the foam, the white Amphitrite, who refused to accept his love.
The coasts were populated by cyclops like Polyphemus, monsters frightful, the product of their copulations with Olympic goddesses and mortals.
A dolphin complacent running errands back and forth between Poseidon and the Nereid, until, given by the eloquence of this pimp wave jumping, accepted Amphitrite be wife of the god, and the Mediterranean seemed to take on new beauty.
She was the looming dawn pink fingers of the vast space between the sky and sea; noon when numbing warm waters under a cloak of gold restless, the bifurcated foam tongue licking both sides of the bow rustling, the wind full of aromas swells the sail like a sigh of virgin kiss numb the merciful that he drowned, without anger and without resistance, before falling into the abyss.
Her husband - Poseidon on the Greek coast and Neptune in Latin - woke storms while riding in his car.
The helmets of bronze horses created with their trampling waves to swallow ships.
Ferragut the same as if you described what had happened before his eyes.
Sometimes, when I swam around the headlands, as primitive man, feeling surrounded by the blind force of natural powers, he had believed to see the goddess emptying between two rocks, with all their smiling train, after having rested in a sea cave.
A pearly shell was his coach and six dolphins pulling it with trappings of purple coral.
The nymphs, his sisters, beaten the sea with scaly tails, craning their trunks wrapped in the magnificent woman a green hair, whose loops protruded the tops of the breasts with a trembling drop at the apex.
White gulls and pigeons cooing and flapping Aphrodite on cuddling and lovemaking in this kindred delivered to the serene immortal incest, privilege of the gods.
And she, the Queen, watched them from your mobile nude throne crown of pearls and phosphorescent stars drawn from the bottom of their domains, white as the cloud-white sail, white as foam, with no change in its morning glory a wet pink blush, like the varnish on the shells, that colored his mouth and calcañares, the final petal of her breasts and her belly button convex, pearly sea smoothness, which erased the traces of motherhood with the same speed that the circles in the blue water.
The whole history of European man - forty centuries of wars, migrations and collisions races - the doctor explained by the desire to have this sea of ??harmonious framework, to enjoy transparency of its atmosphere and vitality of its light.
Northern men, who need the burning log and booze to defend his life from the jaws of the cold, they thought at all hours in the Mediterranean shores.
All their movements were peaceful or warlike to descend from the shores of the sea ice to the shores of the warm sea.
Craved the possession of the fields where the sacred olive AC severe with his old cheerful vineyard stretches where pine and cypress dome rises its minaret.
Wanted snow dream under the endless fragrant orange groves; owning sheltered valleys where the myrtle and jasmine perfume the salt air; of volcanoes dumb rocks allowed to grow among the aloes and cactus, mountains of its white marble edges down to the bottom of the sea and refract the African heat emitted from the opposite shore.
A North invasions had answered the South defensive wars coming up Central Europe.
And history will continue with the same ebb and flow of waves human fighting men thousands of years to master or maintain blue glass Amphitrite.
The Mediterranean peoples were to Ferragut the aristocracy of humanity.
The powerful Climate had tempered man as anywhere else on the planet, giving it a dry strength resistant.
Tanned and bronzed by the sun and deep absorption of energy from the environment, his sailors went to the state of metal.
Northern men were stronger, but less robust, less acclimated to the ocean Catalan, Provencal, Genoese and Greek.
The Mediterranean sailors were established in every land as if it were their home.
On this sea was where the man had developed their highest energies.
Ancient Greece had become steel human flesh.
An accurate likeness of landscapes and races close to the two coasts.
The mountains and flowers on both sides were identical.
Catalan, Provencal and Italian South were more like the inhabitants of the African coast and the Greek islands with Mexican nationals who lived behind him inland.
The Barbary pirates, Genoese and Spanish sailors and the Knights of Malta were slaughtered relentless on the decks of the galleys, and be conquerors respected the prisoner's life, treating cavalierly.
Barbarossa Admiral of eighty-four, called "my brother" to Doria, his eternal rival, who had about ninety.
The grand master of Malta's hand shook Dragut terrible to see him captive.
The Mediterranean man, fixed on the banks that were born, accept all changes History, like shellfish attached to endure the storms rock.
For him, only important thing was not to lose sight of the blue sea.
Spanish, beating the oar in Liburna Roman, Christian, Saracen ships manned in the Middle Ages, a subject of Carlos V, passed, by a random warrior from the galleys of the cross to those of the crescent, and came to be reis Algiers, wealthy sea captain, making his name famous renegade.
The inhabitants of the coast of Valencia were the Moors in Andalusia, in the eighth century, to bring the war to the bottom of the Mediterranean and seized the island of Crete, naming Heraklion.
From this nest of pirates were the terror of Byzantium, taking by assault Salonica and sold as slaves to patricians and most leading ladies of the Empire.
Years later, when displaced from returning to its shores Candia home, adventurers Valencia created a population in a fertile valley, giving the name of the remote island, which was transformed Gandia.
All types of human force had emerged from the Mediterranean race, thin, sharp and dry such as chert, doing good and doing evil always great, with the exaggeration of burning an unknown nature and extent of the double jump to the greatest extremes of generosity.
Ulysses was the father of all, the hero wise and prudent, and at the same time malicious and complicated.
So was the old Cadmus, with his turban and beard of Phoenician ringed large sea ??robber, who was spreading, of wrongdoing in wrongdoing, the art of writing and the first notions of trade.
In one of its islands Hannibal was born, and twenty centuries later, in another one, the son of a short of litigation lawyer embarked for France, no other baggage than a poor standard cadet, to Napoleon's famous name.
On the waves had sailed Roger de Lauria, knight errant of the plains maritime which sought to dress the fish with the colors of Aragon.
A visionary of obscure origin, named Columbus, recognized for his country to the Republic of Genoa.
A smuggler of costs Liguria was becoming Massena, the beloved quarterback of Victoria.
And the last character this breed of heroes Mediterranean was lost in the fabulous times was a sailor Nice, simple and romantic, a warrior of all oceans and all continents, called Garibaldi, heroic tenor cast on his century reflection of his red shirt, repeating on the remote coast of Marsala epic of the Argonauts.
Ferragut summed up the merits and faults of men of his race.
Some had been bandits and other saints, but none mediocre.
Their companies were much more daring and thoughtful practical.
In them, the hero and the merchant were so united, it was impossible to tell where it ended one and start another.
They were pirates and cruel, but the navigators of the seas Hazy, imitating the Mediterranean discoveries in other continents, did not display sweetest and loyal.
After these talks was Ulysses greater esteem for the old pots and blurred figures that adorned the bedroom of his uncle.
Objects were spewed by the sea, covered jars of mollusk shells, for a burial centuries underwater.
The deep waters of these ornaments were carved stone with strangers arabesques that made them think about art from another planet.
And scrambled with pots that had kept the wine and fresh water from a capsized Liburna had hardened pieces of rope by diatomaceous limestone anchor whose iron grip was broken in red foil.
Several statuettes corroded by salt inspired as much admiration as the boy frigates grandfather.
He laughed and trembled at these biremes Kabir from the Phoenician or Carthaginian grotesque and terrible gods who contracted their covers with a wave of lust and ferocity.
Some of the marine divinities, muscular and bearded, had an air of kinship with his uncle.
This was to be at certain times.
Ulysses had heard some conversations fishermen.
Also saw the rush of women, their eyes of concern when were with the doctor in an isolated spot along the coast.
Only the presence of nephew was easing back to them and contain their step.
The sea went mad from time to time with a burst of fury love.
Poseidon was emerging unexpectedly on the banks to turn goddesses and mortals.
Females were running scared, as are the princesses painted Greek vessels, surprised as you wash your clothes, by the appearance of a newt in heat.
She hated the love between four walls.
Nature needed free as a background for your pleasure, the pursuit and assault, as in the times primitive felt her feet touch the dead while stirring wave on its prey Roar of passion, like a sea monster.
Some nights, at the hour when the fog began to pierce the shadows with their nascent first stab of fire, he felt melancholy, and ignoring the difference in age, spoke his nephew as if it were a co-browsing.
Already have a son like Ulysses
