Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated, and dressed with a certain class for class, income and salary are completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes in distress.
To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in the social hierarchy are two paths, lit by hope, to the acute consideration of Dona Beatriz, which brooded a lot about these things since he left the place, already married.
Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband.
Attributed their lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical, a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was inclined to believe that if she encouraged and spurred the soul of her husband and away from theoretical vague dreams and distractions that led to nothing, it was still possible to see him as Minister of Finance, or at least Director of Monopolies.
The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which stood Beatriz the castle of his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.
Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and who was indebted to have left the place where he drowned, and spaced by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the greatness to serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita, single and free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce complete with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich mining of all property, encumbrances and prosperity.
Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful.
Doña Beatriz I wanted to play fair.
Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess, marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.
Beatriz's pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs, alive and fervent as educated by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that might tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will suggest, in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve wealth, honors and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.
Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio.
He feared to frighten and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition.
Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive the term to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and when it was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose and show the term, if not see him.
With Ines, above all, that was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.
From the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his thinking.
Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours.
Now, what is impossible that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?
With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could marry the Count.
Until his indifference to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.
Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised effort to catch him.
Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken their ambition.
That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached.
She, tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic sleepwalking.
Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.
With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at the Ministry of Finance who their unknown, they talked alone in his poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in the Secretariat. - I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in front of his sister -.
I rave no, nothing is special.
I want it to my husband and my duty to my lie to give life happy, and so I have nothing to find out.
But you, single, young and pretty, is a marvel to resign yourself to this retreat and isolation in which we live.
Braulio is very good, it would be a saint if he were a better Christian; but is a ferret and has its quirks.
And that ignoring the persecution of that Condesito.
I want to take you to the Gardens to see if you distracted, because you seem sad, but what will we do?
We can not go alone Braulio licensed, let alone secretly.
God forbid that I oppose what he commands.
There is, therefore, more resources to wait while Braulio willing and able to join us.
Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the Ministry.
Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday.
Tomorrow we will lead.
You seem almost more younger than me.
We are exposed to a thousand frights ...
to persecute us ...
to disrespect us ...
as the rake the other night. - You exaggerate ...
Count Alhedín not disrespected us.
The poor followed us like a fool ...
had its temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and did well.
It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable in person so many bells and run.
The truth is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful and invulnerable.
My daughter, you gave sight. - Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows.
As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass the time.
Such Once the cause of which we follow for us was not flattering, but offensive, perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of us an idea ... - You can ...
Those hesitations, those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold, born of respect, not contempt.
In addition, a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment in such an absurd hallucination.
Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front, decorating the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.
Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising from his seat and embracing. - How good and how crazy you are! - Ines said.
I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep us women honored. - But I have heard that the libertines serve more to married women and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the terrible frankness of his childlike innocence. - It's not a rule.
I still affirm that there is no rule without exception and in this case, the Count has pursued the spinster. - And why do you affirm? - Because I've seen. - I saw nothing, for not looking. - Mirases not approve.
If you reach look at him you would have followed, but more daring, with less effort. - Then you, you looked, as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you? - For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles to look at, and I I looked as it should.
Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.
Doña Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began to think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans.
It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest mysteries of this rogue world.
Moved by this thought, Beatriz said: - Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch. - Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -.
Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all, because the people I've spent my life sewing, playing with dolls, taking care our old tutor and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio was the Christ Child in the arms, while you were reading, studies and conversations, still reaches me that look in different ways: for example, with affection and indifference. - Yes. - I do not understand is why the wives know that, and do not know why single women. - For single women should not know, because if they do, they should pretend to ignore it, and because they lose a lot if you look through art, not to be so wonderful to look at art that even the most cunning you note. - And tell me, sister, do not it could be that, without reflection, and by virtue of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection, looked silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most skilled? - Everything is possible.
First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock Your love if you do not apply.
Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass soda or not so.
And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom, and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and free and sick known for married. - I think, Beatrice, in order to avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse. - Oh, my daughter!
No phrase meaningless.
In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong.
I miss a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse.
Well good nature was then original sin, for us to trust it. - Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.
In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it, can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.
Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit puzzled Inesita.
Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously.
Resolvióse the end of the second, and said: - Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device and study this I call my natural impulse.
Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the practical and useful.
I deny that science or the art of looking.
For anything you need.
A girl must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret his benevolence and the promise happy.
If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art. - Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the background.
You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being in love and not to be.
You yourself have said.
If the suitor goes from indifferent to love.
