And so I married her, and I've never regretted, because, besides being a good daughter and diligent, helpful, I have in my master acipreste all favor and support.
And always in the year sometimes given in the bottom of a cargo of wheat, for the holy flesh, and when the pair of fine wheaten loaves, leaving the old hose, and Hizon rent a house next to hers.
Sunday and parties almost always eat at home.
But evil tongues, who does not miss shortage, do not let us live, saying I do not know why, and I know why, that my wife veen go and make bed and cooking for him.
And God help them better they are true; {although in this I've always had some time and had taken some bad sospechuela dinners esperalla some Morning and evening until further, and I came to my mind what I love the blind Escalona said horn being seized, even though he always think that the devil me it brings back memories for me malcasado, and did not take advantage} because, if not beyond it WITH THESE pay woman teasing, my lord has promised me that I will comply.
He me talked a long day ahead of her, and said: "Lázaro de Tormes, anyone who pays attention to such bad language, never get ahead.
I say this because I'm not surprised if someone looking into my house to your wife and out of here.
She gets very your honor and hers, and this I promise.
Therefore, do not look at what they can say, but what you get, say to your advantage. " "Sir," I said, I've decided to side of good.
It is true that some of my friends deso have told me something, and yet, for more than three times I have certified that before with me married, had given birth three times, speaking with reverence of VM, because she is ahead. " Then my wife took oaths on so much that I thought the house was caved in on us, and then volumes to mourn and heaping curses upon those who had married with me, in that So I would be dead before I let those words hobiera mouth.
But with me on one side and my lord on the other, so we told him and grant that stopped her crying, with oath that he never did it as I lived all of that, and I rejoiced and there were good that she go in and out, night and day, because I was so sure goodness.
And so we were all three in complete agreement.
Until today, nobody has ever heard us about the affair before, when some feel that means anything of it, I cut them off and say: "Look, if you are a friend, do not tell me of things I regret, that I have for my friend who I Despite it, mostly if I want to make trouble with my wife, which is the thing in the world I I love most, and I love her more than me.
And God gives me all sorts of favors her more than I deserve; I'll swear to God that she's as good a woman as living inside the gates of Toledo.
Who tells me otherwise, I'll kill him. " So no one says anything to me, and I have peace in my house
