And yet we also understood that once, before the Incas reigned in many provinces went as wild men, and some went out to war is to give to others, and ate as now make the province their weapon and other regions, and after Incas reigned as people who had great reason and holy and righteous customs and laws, not only they did not eat this dish, because many have been and it is estimated but they stood to remove this custom with them that they tried, and in such a way that soon completely forgot and threw herself, in all his dominion, which was so great ate and not many years previously.
Those that now have happened, it will show that came notable benefit of the Incas, not to imitate them their past eating aquesta delicacy the sacrifices of men and boys.
Published each other, - still, perhaps, any one of those who presto escriptor throws write it - they killed, there were days of festivals, mill mill or two more children and Indians, and this and other things bear witness that we wake up to these Spanish Indians, meaning that treats these things count, cover up our mistakes and justify higher the ill treatment that we have received any.
That I do not sacrificed and that no Matavan men and children in such sacrifices, but not what is said or far.
Animals and their livestock killed, but human creatures less than I thought, and tired, second tell instead.
So, I have learned from the dried old said that these Incas were cleaned in this sin, and not using other bad habits of eating human flesh, or walk wrapped in public services, nor were messy, before they were corrected to himself.
And if God allowed to have chripstiandad who with zeal, not greed branch, in the past give them a complete picture of our holy religion, people in whom it was printed, SECOND so that now we see the good order that there is work.
But let what has been Indeed, God, Quel know why, and what is done from now on, we implore give your grace, to pay something to people that both we and how little we offended to have been disturbed by us, while Peru and many other leagues Indies d'Spain, and many seas in the middle.
As the city of Cuzco was the principal of all Peru, and she resided most of time the kings had in the same city many of the principals of people who were between all the more astute and prudent, for its directors, for they all say, that before attempt any thing and important, such as communicating with these, an associate their views the most votes, and for the governorship of the city and the roads were safe and nowhere is hiciesen no insults or thefts of the most famous [79] dest, They were always appointed to punish those who were ill, and for this, were always much everywhere.
So they understood the Incas in providing justice, none dared to do mischief or theft.
The riots and conspiracies punished a lot, and more than all, which were already taken by thieves and such, the children and women of whom were aviltados and counted to income between themselves.
In natural things achieved much these Indians, and the movement of the sun as that of the moon, and some Indians said there were four big skies, and all claim that the seat and chair of the great Maker of the world God is in heaven.
I often ask them if quel reach World has to end, laugh, and know little about it, and if something you know is quel what God allows Satan to tell them.
Everyone called Pacha, knowing the back quel sun does, and the waxing and waning of the moon.
It counted the year, which called wadding, and do a dozen moons, taking account of it, and used for turrets small, that now are many of the hills of Cuzco something kept [80] for the quel sun to shade them, fields and understand what they understand more about it.
And these Incas looked a lot in the sky and the signals, which will also be hung them as great soothsayers.
When the stars are, there is great and the screams that make flutter to each other have.
Concluded with some things for my purpose agree to write, then return with grand soon to tell the sequence of the hobo kings to Huascar, and now I that the great, rich and highly appointed Curicancha temple, which was the main all these realms.
And among the Indian public, being the temple as old as the same city of Cuzco; most of Inca Yupanqui, the son of Viracocha Inca, the accrescent in wealth and stopped as chrisptianos was when entered in Peru, and most of the treasure was taken to Caxamarca in Atahualpa ransom, and say instead.
And they say the apricots, which after have happened had the dubious war that the citizens of Cuzco with Chance, agora are lords of the province of Andahuaylas, which as of that victory that treats were Inca Yupanqui stay such an esteemed and appointed lords from all over flocked to serve him, great service by asking the provinces metals gold and silver, because, in those times, had great miners and delicious grains, and finding herself so rich and powerful, remembered ennoble the Casa del Sol, - which in their language called Indeguaxi [Intihuasi], and by another name Curicancha called it, which means golden fence - and acrecentalla with wealth.
And that all who see or read this to know how rich freshly temple was the hobo in Cuzco and the value of those who built and he did such great things, porn here memory, second I saw and heard to many early chripstianos who heard the three [81] who came from Cajamarca, that [he] had seen, though the Indians have both dello and so true, that there is no need another probanza.
Circuit had this house in more than four steps, all surrounded by a strong wall, carved stonework around the building very good with fine stone very well placed and established, and some stones were very large and soperbias, they had no land or mixture of lime, but the bitumen they tend Hazer their buildings and are so well carved these stones which seems not mix or join any.
The stone seemed to be something dark and rough and most excellent [83].
There were many doors, and covers very well made; to mean [84] Wall, a band of gold than two feet wide and four fingers of altor.
The covers and doors were plated plates of this metal.
Further inside four houses were not large carved in this way, and the walls inside and outside plated with gold, and do the same woodwork, and coverage straw was served by tile.
There were two seats on that wall, where the sun shone in dating, and the stones were carved and placed in Sotil holes many stones precious emeralds.
In these seats sat the kings, and if one did so, he was worth death.
At the doors of these houses were put goalkeepers who had charge of looking for virgins, there were many daughters of lords, the most beautiful and betting that they could find; and were in the temple to be old, and if any had knowledge with men, killed or the burying alive, and do the same they made to him.
These women were called virgins, did not understand weaving in and paint over wool clothing temple service and making chicha, which is the wine making, that had always filled with large jars.
In one of these houses, which was the richest, was the figure of the sun, big, made of gold, wrought very first, engastonada many precious stones, and were in it some of packages of the past who had reigned Incas in Cuzco, with a great many treasures.
A radius of this temple were many small dwellings for Indians questa Members service, and there was a cercuito where he brought the white sheep and children and men sacrificed.
They had a garden that the lumps were pieces of gold, and was artificially planted with corn, which were [of] gold, and the cane dello like leaves and pods; and were so firmly planted, although strong winds hiciesen not ripped.
Without all it had made more than twenty gold sheep with their lambs, and the shepherds with their slings and staffs, who guarded, made this metal.
There were lots of jars of gold and Silver and emeralds, glasses, pots and all kinds of vessels, all of fine gold.
On the other walls had carved and painted some bigger things.
The high priest, called Vilaoma [Villac Umu], had his abode in the temple, and priests to the ordinary sacrifices with great superstition, according to its usual.
A holiday he was the Inca general were present at sacrifice, and they made great feasts.
There were inside the house and barns temple thirty silver, which blew the corn and This temple had many provinces who contributed to their service charges.
In some Demon Days was seen by the priests, and gave answers vain and that conformed to the it was intended.
Many other things could be said of this temple, he left, because I think I said enough so that they understand how big thing was, because I try not Argenteria, beads, feathers gold and other things, that if written, would not be believed.
And what I have said, even chripstianos living who saw most of them, who took to the rescue Caxamaca in Atahualpa, but much is hidden by the Indians and lost and buried.
Although all Incas had adorned the temple, in time of Inca Yupanqui was increased so that when he died and Tupac Inca his son, hobo empire, was in this perfects.
Many temples were the hobo in this kingdom of Peru, and some are very old because they were founded before, with many times the Inca reigned, and in the mountain range the high, as in the mountain range (and) of the plains, and reigning Inca, were built again many others where they made their parties and sacrifices.
And why make mention the temples that were in each province in particular, would be something very long and tedious, determined In counting only those who had at most eminent and leading.
And so I say that after Curicancha temple, was the second guaca of the hill Guanacaure Incas, is in sight of the city, and was frequented by them and honored by what some quel say brother of the first Inca was converted in the place of stone, while that came out of Pacaritambo [Pacárec Tampu], as initially counted.
And in this mountain had formerly oracle where the damn devil speaking, and was buried at the large round sum of treasure, and some days they sacrificed men and women, to whom, before they were slaughter, they made them understand that priests had to go to serve [to] the God who worshiped there, back in the glory that they pretended they had with their ravings, and so, holding certainly those who were to be slaughtered, the men became very Galanos and dressed with fine wool garments and gold llaut, and patens, and bracelets, and oxotas with gold belts, and after having heard the parliament of the priests liars they made them, gave them to drink plenty of chicha with great vessels of gold and solenizaban [with] sacrifice songs, publishing them, which, to serve their gods, they offered their lives in such a way, having as happy reprime death instead.
And having good lament these things, were drowned by the ministers, and placed on their shoulders quipes [85] gold and Jarrilla of the same material in hand, buried them round to the oracle in their graves.
And to those canonized saints such had for each other, believing that they were undoubtedly in the sky serving his Guanacaure.
Women also were dressed sacrificed with their fine clothes richly colored and feathered, and golden moles, and spoons, and bowls and dishes, all of gold, and well dressed, well after they have drunk, were drowned and buried, believing them and those who killed, who were to serve his devil or Guanacaure.
And hacíanse great dances and songs, when they made such sacrifices quest.
Had This idol, which was the oracle, with its chácaras, yanaconas, and cattle, and virgins, and priests who took advantage of the most dello.
The third oracle huaca of the Incas was the temple of Vilcanota, well-appointed in these kingdoms, and to where, allowing it to our Lord and God, the Devil had great times to big mouth and spoke for the false priests that serve the idols in it were.
And there was this temple Vilcanota little more than twenty leagues from Cuzco, near the village of Chungara; and was highly revered and respected and offered many gifts and presents, and by the Incas and gentlemen, for the rich men of the counties [of] which came to sacrifice, and had their priests and virgins and fields, and almost every year were made in this temple offerings the capacocha, which is what I will say then.
Large dabase credit to what the devil said for your answers, and at times, they made great sacrifices of birds and cattle and other animals.
The fourth temple estimated and frequented by the Incas and natives of the provinces, was the guaca of Ancocagua, where we also had very ancient oracle held in high veneration.
Was stuck with the province of Hatun Cana, and at times ranging from many parties, with great reverence this demon to hear their responses vain, and had it grand sum of treasures, because Incas and everyone else put them there.
And also it is said that without the many animals sacrificed to the devil, that they had for God, to do the same for some Indians and Indian as well as told that was used in the Guanacaure hill.
And in this temple hobiese wealth is being said, tiénese for truth, because after the Spanish have won the Cuzco over three years, and the priests and chiefs have raised the great treasures all these temples had, I heard that a Spanish named Diego Rodríguez Elemosin (so) guaca Desta took more than thirty thousand pesos of gold, and this has found no more, and still There is news of the buried an immense quantity of silver and gold in parts that no one know, if God does not and never will be taken if it were not for luck or chance.
Without these temples, they had another by such an esteemed and popular as them, and more, who had by name the Coropuna, which is in the province of Condesuyo, in a very big hill covered continues to the winter snow and summer does not go away ever.
And the kings of Peru most major visited this temple, making offerings and to present and those already these, and tiénese very certain, that the gifts and capacocha that this temple was made, there were many loads of gold and silver and jewels buried in parts dello not known, and Indians hid another large sum was to service the idol and priests and virgins, who also had a lot of the temple [86], and as there is so great snow, do not rise to the top, not managing to know where they are so great treasures.
Many cattle had this temple and Chaco Indians and mamaconas service.
It always had people from many parts, and the devil was speaking here more loosely than in the oracles said, because he was unceasingly mill answers, and not in time, like the others.
And even now at this time, by some secret God is said to walk on that side visibly hell, that the Indians would come and Dell Receives grand fear.
And to chrisptianos I heard that I have seen in figure mesmos Indian and appearing to and desaparecérseles in short time.
Sometimes sacrificed much of this prophecy, and so they killed many cattle and poultry, and some men and women.
Without these oracles, had that of Aperahua, where by a tree Troncon replied Oracle, which was found near him much gold, and that of Pachacamac, the Yuncas approaches, and many others, and in the region of Andesuyo, as in that of Chincha and Omasuyo, and other parts of this kingdom, from which I could say more, but, as I said it in the first part [87], which deals with the foundations, I will not desto rather than the oracles, which had more devotion all the Incas with other nations, sacrificed some men and women and many cattle, and to where there was this credit, no human blood was not killed men, but they offered gold and silver.
At guacas who had less, they were like shrines, they offered beads and feathers and other small things of little value.
I say this because the opinion The Spanish have to say that in every temple they sacrificed men, is false; and this is the truth according to what I caught, without pulling or put more of what I understood and for me I have indeed.
Here goes well, that is understood, what the Capaccocha, respect for all was the service of the temples and these and other, and by news that has old Indian they are alive and saw what happened on this, I'll write what I have understood that it true.
