I am these days very heavy.
The rarely seen.
It was not very talkative.
The banker's immense fame the was fascinated.
A third Once, unable to restrain himself, he was looking for the spittoon to put it aside.
They were greeted one by one to the circles.
In every face guard warned that inspired affection. - Here is your mother, Emily.
What I find so disgusting!
mother - he replied, pressing her hand affectionately. - God bless you, son! - Said the widow with a sigh of comic appreciation.
Married youth sat down together near Mariana.
Clementina had left the place and talked with Maldonado's name sounded Pepe Castro many times on his lips.
Cobo meanwhile used the time, making you laugh with their shameless to Pacita, but even trying that we hope to jokes with equal pleasure, he could not.
The girl Calderón, serious, distracted, seemed to meet covertly to what Ramon and Clementina spoke.
Pinedo was up and paid court to the Duke.
And the general, seeing his idol in animated conversation with the young married, fatigued its labyrinthine compliments were not understood, nor their rubbings poetic came to do the same.
The boys smiled looking with love. - I play ...
He and Emilio exchanged a mischievous look.
Irene, she married, she blushed. - You are getting old, Pepa.
This gave him an angry glance between smiling and showing that he had heard and appreciated in the background.
Look, I'm not going to your house because nose when you meet me feel like taking the broom and breaking the ribs of the two ....
This time he put both strongly red.
Then, for the seriousness that was well marked on the face of Emilio, Could you understand that there were damn tired casual grace of those outputs her mother.
The general Patiño, by order of the beautiful lady of the house, put his finger on a button electric bell.
Came a servant, he did love a sign: not five minutes passed without providing any further and after him two trays each with hands filled with cups of tea, pastries and cakes.
Pleasant time of expansion in the party.
All are set in motion and shine in the eyes of animal pleasure which will satisfy an organic necessity.
Esperancita hurriedly left his friend and Ramírez and starts request help with her mother in the task of serving tea to the circles.
Thus, our distinguished councilor is more overcast the face and is withdrawn gradually: that is not insolent Cobo any nonsense you can think to laugh at his expense.
Came time to talk about literature, as always happens in all night gatherings or evening of the capital.
Patiño General spoke of a brand new play with most happy success and put their buts, based mainly on increases scenes color.
Mariana said no way would you see it then.
All agreed anathematize today's immorality displayed by the authors.
They said pests of naturalism.
Cobo Ramirez I had taken and then some sandwiches and had eaten a fabulous amount of buns and biscuits, spoke to the gathering that he had recently read a novel called Le journal d'une dame (in French and all), beautiful, bonitísima, the most spiritual that he had read ever.
For Cobo, in literature - rare case! - He was so spiritual, delicate.
No will come to him with such heavy lotas nove-one where you have the time to a bricklayer stretches to get out of bed (or the cakes and buns that eats a boy good society), nor did he speak of birth and other similar crap.
In the novels should wear nice things, because they are written to please.
This he said with considerable firmness, wheezing to speak like a racehorse.
The entry of a knight neither tall nor short, neither thin nor fat, elevation of shoulders and fucked the waist, low color, black beard so thick and cut that seemed fake, cut literary conversation quickly.
Nothing less than was the minister of Public Works.
So his head was so upright that nearly gave the cerebellum in the back, and his eyes half goodbye and closed between the long black lashes sufficiency and protection lightning to the present.
Up to twenty-two had had his head in his natural position, but from this time, when he was named vice president for civil and canon law at the Academy of Jurisprudence, had begun to rise slowly and majestically as moonlight on the sea in the Royal Theatre stage, that is, short and imperceptible tugs of string.
Then Member of Parliament, another tug.
After the provincial governor, another tug.
Later head of a department; another.
Chairman of the Committee on Budgets; another.
The rope was exhausted.
Although he made crown prince, Jiménez Arbós could not lift his one millimeter big head.
His entry was movement, but not as much as the Duke of Requena.
East, whose face fleshy, sensual, could not hide the contempt he felt for that assembly, ran it though, and you're greeted with amazing performance and servility, taking into account rusticity and coarseness with generally behaved in social intercourse.
This quietly asked tuteándole: - How come in tails? - I will eat at the French embassy. - Are you going home then? - Yes.
This dialogue was imperceptible voice very fast observed by the Duke, who approached Pinedo asked to reserve and making a sign of expression: - Say you, and Pepa Frias Arbós? ... - You have at least two months.
The look she gave him then the banker's widow was not of the quality of the above.
Was now more careful, more respectful and thorough, leaving after a little thought.
Calderón had approached the minister and spoke with compliance.
Salabert did the same.
But character did not want to talk business or perchance it was fearful the famous businessman.
The press was reluctant evil on this business with the government.
Therefore, a few moments, he went after Pepa Frias and began to whisper in a corner of the room.
Clementina was increasingly impatient with some atrocious wishes to leave.
Kept do so for fear of his father to accompany her.
The minister was a few minutes, before handing another few handshakes with the same distraction imposing looking, not the person greeted, but the ceiling of the room.
Then the Duke Pepa Frias took over, showing her as gallant and expressive, as if to make a declaration of love.
The general, watching, Pinedo said: - Look at the Duke, which has been encouraged.
Of fixed he is making love to Pepa. - No - seriously answered the employee -.
What we're making love now is the business of river mines.
The widow announced loudly after he was leaving. - Where are you going, Pepa, at this time? - Asked the banker. - A house Lhardy to order some bologna. - I accompany you. - Come on, you convidaré to take a few cupcakes.
At Duke he was funny treat. - Are you coming, little girl? - She told her daughter.
Clementina still planned to stay a while.
Pepa, while leaving the arm of the banker said aloud, turning to the Present: - Be it known that we are not going away.
Which made them laugh. - Const - Duke said, laughing - that says it for flatter. - To explain that: we have not understood ...-- Cobo Ramirez shouted.
But the Duke and Pepa had disappeared behind the curtain.
Clementina waited five minutes.
When boasted that he could not stumble on the stairs to his father, rose, and claiming a chore forgotten, dismissed as well.
III #'s Daughter Salabert. # Fell forward to the ladder.
To set foot on the street let out a sigh of relief.
A brisk took the Seventh of July, came into the Market Square and then at the Atocha.
Al came here came to his mind the image of the young man had followed her and turned her head uneasily.
Nothing, there was no fear.
At the door of one of the first and better houses in the street, stopped, looked at them both quickly and secretly sides and penetrated in the portal.
He almost imperceptible sign goalkeeper question.
This answered another statement, touching his cap.
Rose as fast, no doubt to avoid encounters importunate, that on reaching the second floor choking her fatigue and put a hand on his heart.
With the other he gave two taps on a door.
Instantly opened quietly, threw himself in with a vengeance, as if chased. - Better late than never - said the young man who had opened, becoming close with care.
He was a man of twenty to thirty years, more regular tall, thin, thin face and right, pink in the cheeks, mustache twisted, pointed goatee and black hair and parties in the middle with a line drawn carefully.
Reminiscent of those soldiers paper that children play, that is, was a military-style sissy.
It also seemed his face that tailors usually put their costumes, and was so nasty and disgusting like theirs.
She wore a pearl-colored velvet robe with many exquisite ornaments wore on her feet slippers of the same gender and color with the initials embroidered in gold.
Warned soon it was one of those men who care with dedication of dressing his person retouching the figure with the same care and delicacy with which the sculptor carves a statue that curling mustache and cosmetic believe him to be fulfilling a sacred and inescapable duty conscience, who are grateful, finally, the Supreme Creator, the graceful presence will have granted them and try as it is given to improve their work. - What an afternoon! - She cried the handsome gentleman directing a sad stare counterclaim.
The lady paid him with a gracious smile, replying at the same time mocking tone: - Never too late if that is good.
And he took her hand and squeezed it gently, and then led him still holding the through runners up a cabinet should be the release of the young.
It was a luxurious room and artistically decorated, the walls lined with dark blue satin curtains, pinned rings to the ceiling by running for a bronze bar, chairs and armchairs in different ways and tastes, a walnut writing table with wrought iron ornaments, next to a locker with some books, two dozen or so.
Suspended from the ceiling by cords silk and attached to the wall there hung some horse harness, chairs of various kinds are common, bastard and outstanding rider in his stirrups, bridles from different eras and countries, whips, sweatshirts fine worsted embroidery, gold and silver spurs, all rich and new.
The hobby horse of the owner of that firm is also betrayed in the hallways, that from the front door leading there, and everywhere hung frames and tables representing wild horses or incidental thereto.
Up to the bureau, the ink, paperweights and letter opener were carved in the form of horseshoes, stirrups or whips.
Through an arc to the columns, not closed by a rich tapestry portiere fact which included a young man with coat and wig of a young woman kneeling before a suit Pompadour stood a magnificent four-poster mahogany bed.
No, you do not you read that or anything ....
Best: I think you would set bad science.
Books dissipate these colorcito so cute you have in your cheeks, you deprive them of agility and strength that ride on horseback, and guides the car ....
Toma - said shedding the hat - you put the hat on the bed carefully.
The young, instead of doing so, grabbed a chair, smoking and mounted it in front of his mistress. - Do you know why I waited so long? ...
As for the happy child, who has followed me today too.
In saying this, he became suddenly serious, a very pronounced wrinkles crossed her pretty face. - It's unbearable! - Added -.
I do not know what to do.
At all times, leave by the morning or Later, I bring that ghost behind me.
I had to take refuge in the house of Mariana.
Dad came, and why not come out with me I waited a little bit to that was ....
