I do not understand why. - I am not opposed, my child.
His mercy is sick. - I sick!
Agramonte field: instead of much confusion, where no one understands.
Water Marketplace: agualoja, houses, refreshing drink made with water, sugar or honey, cinnamon, cloves and some other ingredient.
perch, perch or put varal where falconry birds.
alcarraza: porous clay pot, which seeps water evaporation cools the remaining inside.
icing: white paste of sugar and starch which usually cover several kinds of sweets and snack bars are made in various figurines.
pearls: pearl of irregular shape and small communities, things like the pearls, as dewdrops.
almo: nourishing, invigorating.
Yellow gold coin and especially ounce.
ambigú food, usually at night, consisting of hot and cold dishes that are covers a time table.
Arrente: following the helmet.
adz: woodworking tool consisting of an iron steely and sharp, with wooden short handle.
B Badulaque: informal foolish person.
lip: either from the lips of horses and other animals.
bilorta: vilorta, small iron rings were used in the axis of the carriages prevent the hub of the wheel is out of place.
upside down: punishment of lashes applied to slaves making them lie face down.
Speaker: round piece of straw that puts defense around the wheel hubs car.
Muzzle: black straight out of their country.
bronco: said of the voice and instruments that have sound nasty and rough bushy rough.
ore: waste of anything.
C rafter: upper and lower cross rails that form the framework of the doors and windows.
cap: hair bun or for which you need some filler or artificial, which was used in the time and still today in several Spanish provinces.
cabochon: nail head shaped button that is used for upholstery and decorating.
swap: barter for items of little value.
camuesa: very foolish and ignorant man.
caravel: name used by the slaves to their colleagues or comrades who had come from Africa in the same slave ship, whether men or women.
caradita: caress, slap in the face.
caritate, to: causing envy or jealousy.
carranclán: woolen cloth.
cicerone, who teaches and explains the curiosities of a place, building, etc..
citadel called modern solar.
cochiherviti: hastily, in haste.
doublet: inside of a person.
swing: balance, rocking chair.
Comptroller: official royal honorific equivalent to what in Castilla called seer
