His mule, exhausted, paused at the door, and the Indian landlord met him.
Come along to the traveler, spoke, touched it and turning around, said simply D.
Salvador: - Poor D.
Later, in Peru, I was able to verify the accuracy of the account of D.
Until long ago, were on the roads inside the funeral some mules carrying loads.
The fingerprint is unique, the mule up to his will, there was no other means of transport, and the Indian monarchy during the Inca lived and died on the same piece of land, as the servant feudal, always in charge, by tradition, their race, which in case of death, they confide to his faithful mule, who would sit among his people.
Salvador again saddled his mule and started without delay.
Since then, ever makes efforts to reach those travelers who will precede the land routes.
I stopped a moment to lunch at Consuelo, I saw the famous room in which we last night to come, with Mounsey and the large and diverse company of which I spoke.
In Consuelo came to me ...
to be reported as a memory or least leave my name.
That certainly was not a manual Selected pieces, and more than a dithyramb to the Mountain, or the Magdalena, the spelling was covered face in its abandonment, when it was common sense ...
But the owner of Consuelo not fixed in such trifles, has his album and that was enough.
The path between Consuelo and wineries as hard as I was the worst of the climb.
The heat was stifling, and the sun shining unbearable, I remembered the cry of that official poor prisoner who walked for three days tied to a mule and that at a time desperate looked at the sun and indefinable accent said: Looks like Wise up!
Something was, surely, the hidden hand that fed the lamps of heaven, because, as I walked away from him as he descended, redoubled its penetrating power.
It is possible to form idea of ??such heat without having suffered, the rocks appear swollen, red earth heats the air that burns your face, it irritates the eyes, disturbs the brain.
It feels a desperate thirst nothing soothes, and advances, progress is looking at the Magdalene at the feet, almost within hand, move away indefinitely from the twists and turns of the road.
My horse could not go, the speed of the march and the stifling atmosphere of exhaustion.
Finally, at three in the afternoon, destroyed, came to one of the shacks of Wine, I dropped, leaving the beast to its fate and I asked for water, more water.
The general store forced me to make brown sugar, I thought, first and last time, a delicious drink.
In front of me, his face red as a poppy with eyes raised, was an Englishwoman, something like a nurse or a family servant English Bogotá, locked in conversation with me immediately, and though I, annoyed, irritated at that moment, did not answer a word, found means to tell me he had done it alone all the way from Bogota to Wine because, as the laborers that accompanied it caused more apprehension confidence, gave them money for them to go to drink liquor or cane juice in all the liquor store on the route, where outcome was that lay on the road.
A well rested, I went to the riverbank to see what had vapors, do you know what was my first meeting?
