The Maranon or Amazon is then gradually widening to plunge into the sea.
Administrative reform requires no less tact and prudence.
Being a natural duty of any given society with some sacrifice to take action leading to their improvement and welfare, nothing more just that the use of all means for implement them as appropriate; even if this requires, the imposition of heavy taxes, because otherwise it would be very difficult to cope with the many expenses.
However, little burdensome whether these contributions will be allocated at a rate of more equitable, and moderation and insight appropriate.
As a country advances in civilization, also grow by degrees their burdens; but being so judiciously penetrated the taxpayer of the reasons that determine RAVEL new taxes, you agree to bear more so request, as you enjoy the same as the part that it fits in the sum of social benefits.
Improvements in agriculture, industry and trade of the province is susceptible.
Moxos province has in itself all the elements of improvement, applicable to classes of agriculture, industry and commerce.
I will quote from them, primarily those who can receive A drive new and more productive.
The main object, indeed indispensable for raising cattle, farming, and even for the health, would be the construction of small canals, so easy to open in extremity soft ground.
These channels, serving for the early leak of the marshes, would make the surface were enlarged considerably benefit you.
To increase land suffice to practice here and there some bloodletting, as deemed appropriate to the engineers, in view of the grading.
This measure is perhaps one of the most urgent, because it would contribute to a doubling of resources and to reduce the mortality of the population.
In most of South America, the farms are far behind on measures building for raising cattle.
The animals are abandoned and wander without they never try to secure some comfort.
In Moxos, in Parages intermediate between rivers, the land is entirely devoid of water during the dry, and cattle often resent the suffering that this fact brings them, while in rainy seasons, are forced to seek shelter on the few and narrow Items not invaded by water, compressed and lived there almost lacking food, so is that they painstakingly go down to the marshes to graze part of the day, and return after the close rodeo where they have enough space to lie down and chew comfortably.
Great is because the death of cattle in both seasons, something that very easily would avoid setting up water tanks at some points, and drainage channels in many others.
In those places has not yet entered the art to give help to nature, for which reason Moxos not removed even half the benefits that this land can produce virgin and privileged.
The execution of the improvements just mentioned, then multiply considerably cattle, which make up today's more hundred and twenty thousand heads procrearia each year more than half their number.
Although the breeding of horses would be more appropriate for several reasons, to the province of Chiquitos, we must not lose sight entirely in the province of which we are concerned: on the contrary, it having already more than twenty five thousand horses, it would be useful to take care of their improvement and increasing, what will be achieved more easily, when grazing land dilate with the establishment of drainage channels.
These animals on the plains, wetlands, fortify their vessels as soon as they move over the mountains, where the rocky soil undoubtedly alter their habits.
I say the horse is also applicable to the breeding of mules, industry not yet known, and should be introduced without delay, in order to save the sums of money Every year Bolivia output from the introduction of these useful beasts, brought from Salta, Tucuman, Santiago del Estero, etc.
In 1830 he had already Moxos as seven hundred seventy-four sheep: who cares for little the promotion and propagation of these cattle, wool would be obtained soon enough to provide to the looms, and then, not only would be supplied by the province itself spawned wool merchants carry them, but that it would produce, instead of cotton goods, Wool tected much more advantageous for your business.
In a country whose territory is immense, it could breed more pigs leave alone grazing around the estates, so that without addressing much of them, were multiplied to cope with provisions to sailors on the remote expeditions, salting the effect meat, as practiced in Europe for consumption by the crew of the Navy and shipping.
Bees wax results would also unprofitable, but that for eSCelente have lighting in the province would be sufficient to engage a factory spark plugs, using the fat that is wasted each year in slaughterhouses.
The indigo of various species, grows naturally in less flooded sites, without think of using it somehow.
This plant is abundant particularly in the country of the Yuracarés, and its quality is superior.
The cultivation of vanilla, which is grown wild in the forest interior, very serious advantageous for commerce with Europe, where it makes a huge consumption in spite of their increased cost.
The same goes for the other trees that provide highly valued drugs and spices, such as cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, ginger, etc.
Tamarind plantations renovated, with very little work would yield an abundant harvest would form while beautiful malls in the vicinity of populated areas.
The cocoa is grown and wild in the woods nearby to Trinidad, should stand as that costs nothing at all groves found at every step in the territory of the province, thus preparing for the future, natural income as those of Caupolican.
Coffee is also susceptible to a new drive, and centuplicaria their products with a well-ordered culture method.
The same would happen to corn, rice, etc.
The province Moxos finally be advisable for the cultivation of all species of tropical plants.
The candy cane sprout, especially in those flood plains, with a prodigious force and yield substantial proceeds and when communications between Moxos and Cochabamba La-Paz and be made more easy and frequent, there would be safe and profitable markets for the release of sugars, that today lack these cities, with bring the Cuzco most of those required for consumption, but could not be subtracted instead the coinage of Bolivia to enrich Peru.
Never been used Moxos woods but in small woodworking that Indians are inlaid with mother of pearl, and it may well be drawn from them a party advantage by referring to Europe, or to bring the departments of the mountains, then to be very abundant but are of the highest quality.
The rubber, which grows naturally in the forests, is today an important branch Para trade.
It would be necessary, not only use wild plants, but also make large-scale plantations to take full advantage of this article adds value.
Countless other plants known to dye his virtue, should benefit by them an important branch of the interior and exterior trade.
Cucis motacú palms and trade would give plenty of oil, no more work annually to collect fallen coconuts from the tree, and strategies the substance by machines analogous to those used in Europe for estracion walnut oil.
Thus would take advantage of those fruits that are lost every year, and its oil would serve, and to replace on the tables, after clarifying, the olives, and for lighting, feeding lamps made to order, and whose use is now general in Europe, and for employment it can be done in industry and manufacturing.
