This became our Catalan, and Aragonese lords of that State, and Province, the After thirteen years of war and thereby put an end to all his pilgrimage, and pitched his home enjoying the farms, and women of the vanquished.
Because after that they were without contradiction own everything, most of the soldiers married people are more major and richest of the province, and was founded in it a new state, and Lordship, that our Kings of Aragon felt much, because cattle not their own strength, nor the common treasury of their kingdoms, but for particular men his subjects, very fortunate to have such vassals princes, that the work, expenses, and hazards go on their own, and the fruit of the victories, the conquest of the kingdoms, have been acquired glory, and command and government of them is by the prince in whose States were born.
Were people so lacking in our major, and gentlemen their governor, who asked to Boniface of Verona, one of the men who survived of the battle, which was its captain.
But by parecelle Bonifacio would have the same authority that had Tibaut, refused to admit what was offered.
Two things I find strange indeed in this case, the first verifications Eye for an alien captain and his prisoner, and the second that he did not want be.
Disabused of his will, made to Captain Roger Deslau, and gave him to wife the it had been the Lord of Sola, principal and rich woman.
With this captain was ruled some time that state.
The Turks in the hope of returning to the homeland dexan the service of the Catalans, and the same way they came, back to Gallipoli.
The Turks, and Turkish Greeks saw that the Catalans and Aragonese his companions had finished his pilgrimage, and they were determined to found his seat in that state and life, eager to return to his country, determined to depart from our company, and although they suggested different parties for them to stay, offering villas and resting place could live, and participate equally with them the reward of their victories, nothing enough to stop them, because they said it was time to return to their land, see their friends and relatives, and most found prosperity and wealth so as they had, they wanted to quale that nature was the center of the rest.
With this resolution the Turks were split amicably, and our company Turcopoles the return of their homeland.
Crossed Thracia all without anyone resisted them, cutting down and destroying large inhumanity all the provinces through which they passed.
The Melech Turcopoles with its captain were Christianos, but more in name than in fact.
He would not try new deal to return to service Andronico, or because he doubted not admit it, or because they admitted it would not be suspicious to give them after aseguralle death because they knew that the Greeks and were very offended Prince Andronico, that in the battle that won the Catalans out Apro, they were the first who deserted to Miguel, and after the Vanderas Imperial dexaron Andronico they served, and joined with the Catalans and Aragonese its greatest enemies, and destroyed seven continuous years with them the empire, causes many to fear any reconciliation, that so great offenses are never forgotten
