Holy Week had started, and was the most opportune time to make a visit to the "imperial Toledo ', the ancient capital of a Moorish kingdom, and the Spanish monarchy to early the reign of Philip II.
Although Spain held every major capital quite pageantry of Holy Week, Seville, Toledo and Madrid called in those days mainly to care.
Sevilla excels as a second Rome, doing wonders of ostentation in appearances of religion is confused with the passing of the mundane realities, and the Catholic festival complete with a huge fair, which meets as Andalusia has more rich, most original and distinctive.
From all over Spain flock foreigners, mere walkers and the speculators or traders, to have fun, poke or business in the big city Andalusia.
Madrid shines only on Thursdays and Fridays saints exorbitant luxury accouterments of people, ceremonies, processions courtesans and two simple by train, but they call much attention by the magnificence of the processions that accompany chaired staff of the Queen and her consort.
With regard to Toledo, she has always been the point of reunion of all people do not courtesans who like the big shows and religious contemplation of monuments across the territory of New Castile.
Currently, the influx of foreigners is much higher Toledo, during Holy Week to mark the railway already established, which links to Aranjuez with that city offering many amenities to the locals.
That fact has made Toledo new needs arise, including the establishment of funds and leverage inns In order to provide accommodation to the many travelers who go to see the wonders or at least curious of that unique city.
The train left Madrid, moved quickly ahead of Getafe, Pinto, Valdemoro and Science pozuelos, populations without any particular grace or a total of 10.600 inhabitants played Aranjuez, and then away from the railway line leading to the port of Alicante on the Mediterranean, branching took part of Toledo, who started ahead of Castillejo, through Algodor, isolated station pier serves Peublo surrounding thirteen small, more or less sections of the road.
From Aranjuez to Toledo the scenery is lovely, because the railroad follows the valley the Tagus, on the left bank, approaching, touching sometimes almost on the beach the lazy river.
On one side are as low temper undulating Montes de Toledo, Breast graceful granite hills and sandy clay surface, absolutely naked of natural vegetation, but covered with crops of grain, small olive groves and vineyards, at points less sterile while on the rugged hills or very uneven fields citrus and some herds graze sheep or cows do, which groups contrast on the horizon with rocky peaks that rise here and there on the backs of the highest hills.
Extends across a double belt and shining green, flat and uneven width, wetted by the Tagus, which contrasts most notably, for its rich vegetation and scenic joy, with the bare sandy hills and fields I just mentioned.
White poplar forest and many gigantic trees occur, sometimes alternating with beautiful meadows, where magnificent jump and frolicking foals, the sleek cows and sheep from the offspring robust Selected real estate belonging to, or to several owners who own land in vegas or the banks of the Tagus.
At some points, all the way to Toledo, are rich plantations of herbs, and a queen wherever life-giving moisture to the vegetation, but disastrous for the population for intermittent fevers occur in a few months Tajo spills, which lacks a well defined and deep bed.
The train stops in the valley of the Tagus, at the foot of the eminence, which serves as a seat to Toledo, about a mile from the city.
There take a sort of car-care, still rudimentary, very embarrassing situation when many travelers.
When I arrived to the station it was raining in torrents, and there were no buses that make the journey to the center of Toledo.
I was about to return from there to Madrid nomas, and without the generous gift of a Spanish gentleman who gave me a seat in his private carriage, he could not climb the top of the very poor and atrasadísima imperial Toledo.
Nothing is more rare, but unique in its structure to that city, so full of monuments and memories as devoid of industry and modern vitality.
As in Spain do not travel to seek cities factories and fields of modern style, but by studying a country of very special conditions, Toledo loves the traveler's visit, notwithstanding the odious nuisance do they do life there unpleasant.
Lost in a maze of alleys and byways, but had a guide, I wandered for two hours looking for accommodation in the city.
She was desperate to find a corner which set me, ask after ten or twelve more inns or guesthouses or less overt, when chance allowed me to find a makeshift inn, decent for that matter, but that demanded conformity.
Toledo had in those days four or five thousand guests; and though the city, it has only 17.275 inhabitants, may contain materials in their house twice, it lacks resources and facilities to accommodate it to two hundred guests.
Toledo is, par excellence, the summary of old Spain.
A huge rock or small peninsula shaped mountain rises in a steep and severe on the right bank of the Tagus, which is interrupted narrow valley at the foot of the city south.
Granite hills high rise in a semi-circular cordon south east, surrounding for these sides to Toledo.
Northwest emerges from other similar hills which dominate the Tagus to either side, a narrow tongue of land, a rocky and hilly isthmus, linking with the seat of Toledo.
El Tajo, reaching north of the city and east of the isthmus, rushes like a torrent in the deep open separating the mountain City ESE rocky cord, surrounding the giant based in Toledo, making a circle almost complete, and returns to the north, to seek its own course, licking the west the granite foundations of the isthmus that links the river peninsula with laces Toledo the hills of NO Thus, Toledo is incommunicado topographically everywhere except one, taking sides to the profound depths of the Tagus, which descends very rapidly through rocks great chops almost perpendicular.
Also, on top of the huge rock which lies Toledo, seven eminences or uneven mounds covered with buildings, squares and streets.
The result is that the city looks like a great strength, but its appearance can be covered with the hearing in its entirety, anywhere.
Toledo dominates all contours, but no point dominates Toledo.
To get there, then, to the city by either side is essential, or go through one of the Alcántara bridge and San Martin, or penetrate the door hinges, overlooking the isthmus Northwest.
Anyway, it is necessary to scale or climb the mountain.
And in the city itself, as the seven hills are very uneven terrain, is forced up or down, by any street to be taken in a sort of vicious circle that makes the most bizarre Toledo population.
No idea can be full, without knowing it, like a maze.
The man most expert that of the most prodigious memory locations, were lost in Toledo, without the aid of a guide, to turn the second corner of an alley.
Homes uneven and rough and ancient building boxed all the streets, giving a dark and sinister aspect, as if they walked the rough and irregular paths of a mountain.
Abroad, returning every turn, it is the illusion that expect a Moorish helmet in one of the thousands of crossings that are complicated and linked into the more tangled Grasp.
Wherever paved atrocious irregular embankments, steep slopes, angles and curves indescribable challenging the most able mathematician by the absence of specific figures.
The thousand lanes cross, forked, rounded, squared, confused, surrounding themselves, they stop suddenly end in corners, or extend into the most extravagant passages, tracing a network indescribable.
When you create a 500 meters away have a point, according to what has gone, is in the opposite direction, twenty feet away, completely disoriented.
That city, essentially Moorish detail of this kind, seems to have been combined for ambushes, guerrilla fighting and defenses unexpected and awesome.
The origin of Toledo has no history, because its foundation is attributed to different races, and do not know the precise time of their appearance.
The Romans found very respectable and, give importance and made capital of the province Carpetana.
Conquered by the Goths in the sixth century the capital of their court and their domains.
Dominated the country in the century VIII by the Saracens, was also the seat of the viceroys Moors, and then the capital the powerful kingdom of Toledo.
Finally, recovered in the eleventh century by the Castilian king Don Alfonso VI, was still the capital of the Spanish monarchs, until the sixteenth century moved Philip II his court to Madrid.
From then began to decline Toledo, isolated and without industry despite their status as the metropolis of the Catholic Church in Spain. * * * * * No, but having spent three days in Toledo, which are sufficient for a traveler who is not artist, I could barely pick up fast printing.
Toledo lacks any industry.
Spain crushed the old steel with the same hammer.
