The prison guard was walking in the garlic.
There was only presented, and the soldiers doors would open, releasing all imprisoned comrades.
The giant was thought for a moment, rubbing his forehead as if to help with these Progress rubs his muddled thinking. - Okay - after a long pause said .-- This is a matter to be men, or not to be: getting into the city and what comes out, that or go to sleep.
Shone in his eyes cold resolution, the fatalism of those who resign themselves to be drivers men.
Poured on him the responsibility of a rebellion that had not prepared.
Knew much of seditious movement, and those people who seemed absorbed in the twilight, without being able to explain why he was there. - Comrades! - Shouted imperiously .-- A Jerez those with kidney!
Let's get the our poor brothers prison ...
Salvatierra is there.
The first to approach the makeshift leader, was Trebujena Paco, the bracero rebel dismissed from all the villages, as he walked the field with his donkey selling liquor and revolutionary roles. - I'm going with you, Juanon, as the mate Fernando ahead. - He who is man, and be shy, follow me! - Continued Juanon large screams, no certainly lead to know where peers.
But despite appeals to manhood and shame, most of those gathered is backwards instinctively.
A murmur of distrust, of immense disappointment, elevábase of the crowd.
Most, passed suddenly noisy enthusiasm to suspicion and fear.
Her fantasy of southern, always ready for the unexpected and wonderful, had made them believe in the emergence of Salvatierra and other famous revolutionaries, all mounted on spirited steeds, as arrogant and invincible warlords, followed by a large army which miraculously emerged land.
And instead of this, I spoke to go alone in that city, that drew on the horizon, over the last glow of the setting sun and seemed to wink satanically his eyes red lighting, as drawing them into an ambush.
And the groups began to march in the direction opposite to the city to get lost in the shadows, not wanting to hear the insults and the most exalted Juanon.
These, fearing defections facilitate immobility gave the marching orders. - A Jerez!
Were a thousand city workers, and men-beasts that The meeting had been smelling blood and they could not withdraw, as if instinct urges them superior to his will.
Juanon Next, among the most courageous, walked the Maestrico, the boy who passed night in the Gañanía, teaching reading and writing. - I think we're going wrong - he said to his companion .-- vigorous march blindly.
I have seen men running at Jerez, to warn our arrival.
We expect, but not for anything good. - You will Cayas, Maestrico - said imperiously leader, who, proud of his office, welcomed as the least objection .-- irreverence Cayas you, that is.
And if you fear, as you najas others.
They marched in silence, with bowed head, as if they would attack the city.
Trotting as if he wished to leave as soon as possible to the uncertainty that accompanied them in their career.
The Spaniard explained his plan.
There they join the troop.
They took a long detour to get into the city by a street, as if they were ashamed treading the well-lit wide roads.
Many of these men had been in Jerez very few times, unaware of the streets and followed their conductors with docility a herd, thinking concerns the way out of there if they were forced to flee.
The avalanche was moving black deaf and dumb crowd of steps that touched the floor.
Cerrábanse the doors of the houses, apagábanse the lights in the windows.
And in the stones of the pavement, echoed the shock of breaking a clay pot without that the fragments reached anyone.
Marcasite was that from the balcony of livestock pigs, indignant against that mob, unpleasant for its ordinariness, who dared threaten decent people.
Only a few raised their heads: The others followed later, insensitive to the ridiculous aggression, anxious to reach as soon as possible to meet friends.
Not to hurry, she had been given a spanking by under skirts ...
The column was somewhat reflux to the top of the hill leading to the square of the Prison: The worst site shadow of the city.
Many of the rebels remembered the comrades La Mano Negra: there had given them stick.
The square was deserted, the ancient convent converted in prison had closed all openings, with no light bars.
A huge, dry whiplash shaken the plaza.
Then another and another until nine, which people, still in shock, seemed infinite in number.
It was the guard, made fire before they were put in front of the guns.
Surprise and terror gave some a naive heroism.
But the brothers were hard to ear, and kept shooting.
Suddenly the crowd started in the fear of leakage.
They ran all downhill, cowardly and brave, pushing each other, violated, as if they whipped their backs those shots that were shaking the empty square.
Juanon and more energetic, turning a corner contained the flood of men.
Groups rallied, but smaller, less compact.
They were no more than a hundred men.
But it was useless to look for.
There were only Juanon beside those who were marching from the mountains and grope through the streets, amazed to go from side to side, seeing no one, as if the city were deserted. - Ni Salvatierra is in Jerez, or know anything about this - said .-- I Maestrico to Juanon paece that have us harm. - So I think - said the athlete .-- What we JACER?
Since we're here, let's go to center of Jerez, to Long Street.
Undertook a march in disarray inside the city.
The fact remain locked in their barracks, leaving the city in their hand, they infused the absurd hope that it was still possible the emergence of Salvatierra, in front of the rebel troops.
They arrived without any obstacle to Larga street.
The road was clean transients, but in casinos showed themselves illuminated balconies, the lower floors had no other close to the gates of crystals.
The rebels went to the societies of the rich hate glancing, but not just stop.
And after a brief detention, the parade continued hastily, as if they were to some party and feared arriving late.
But there was to be on the street, they all felt some reluctance to push the gates, as if the crystals were an insurmountable wall.
The long years of subservience and cowardice weighed on the rude people to be against their oppressors.
In addition, they intimidated the light of the high street, wide sidewalks with rows of lanterns, the red glow of the balconies.
Passing the Caballista Circle, crystals appeared after several heads of youngsters.
They were gentlemen who were still ill-concealed concern the parade of strikers.
But to see them pass by, show some irony in his eyes, regaining confidence in the superiority of their caste. - Viva Social Revolution! - Maestrico shouted, as if you ache to go silent the nest of the rich.
They came on their way superseded the Plaza Nueva, and seeing that the head stopped, agrupáronse around him, his eyes questioning. - So now what we do - asked innocently .-- Where do we go?
Juanon put a fierce gesture. - You can Diros wherever you want, what we do pa! ...
And wrapped in the blanket, leaned against a lamp column, remaining motionless revealed an attitude that disappointment.
Improvisábanse heads, leading each comrades in a different direction.
Appeared atomic instinct of the race, unable to undertake anything as a whole, private collective value, and only feels strong and enterprising when each individual can work for inspiration own.
Long Street has been obscured: the casinos were closed.
After the ordeal suffered by the rich, watching the parade threatening, they feared a reculón of the beast sorry for his magnanimity, and all doors closed.
A large group went to the theater.
Had to kill them all: a real drama.
But when he arrived at the door laborers lit they stopped with a fear that had something religious.
Looked out the door several spectators, attracted by the news of the invasion that filled the streets.
One of them, with cape and hat, sir, these men dared to advance to wrapped in blankets, who formed a group outside the theater.
And through the fold of the cloak, appeared strong hands, square, fingernails eaten by the job.
One after another, these men were stroking the palms, appreciating their corns.
Callus was: it was yours.
And threatening weapons again to hide under the covers. - Yes, I am yours - continued the young .-- I am a carpenter, but I like to dress as the gentlemen, and instead of spending the night at the tavern, the step in the theater.
Marched through the streets broad and narrow streets away, in small groups, looking find someone to teach them hands.
It was the best way to recognize enemies of the poor.
But not with tripe or without them, find anyone at her pace.
People saw that armed force was hidden in the barracks, running to stay at home, exaggerating the importance of the invasion, believing they were million men who filled the streets around the city.
A group of five braceros stumbled into an alley with a gentleman.
Were the most ferocious of the band, men who felt a homicidal impatience, seeing that the hours passed without bloodshed. - Hands, teach hands - roared round her, raising her head on the blades square and shiny. - Hands! - Answered the young man in a bad mood, overt .-- Why should I teach?
I do not want.
But one of them grabbed her arms with his claws, and a violent jerk, teach him hands. - They have no calluses! - Dreary cried with joy.
And he made a step back, to fall upon him with greater momentum.
But I stopped serenity the young. - I have no calluses, so what?
But I am a worker like you.
Nor has Salvatierra And for you to be more revolutionary than he is! ...
Salvatierra's name at the top seemed to stop the heavy blade. - Let the boy - said behind them the voice of Juanon .-- I know him and vouch for him.
It is the friend of teammate Fernando, is the idea.
Fermin barbarians left Montenegro with some regret, watching spoiled his pleasure.
The presence of Juanon they commanded respect.
In addition, the bottom of the lane advanced another young.
That would be the idea, a scion of bourgeois, who would retire to his home.
While thanking Montenegro Juanon their timely presence, which saved him from death, verificábase just beyond the meeting of the transient laborers. - Hands, bourgeois teach hands.
The bourgeois was a pale, stunted teenager, a boy of sixteen, with the suit shabby, but with long neck and flashy tie, the luxury of the poor.
Trembling with fear teach her poor thin hands and anemic clerk hands locked daylight hours in the cage of an office.
Crying, to excuse himself with broken words, looking at the pruning shears with eyes of terror, as if mesmerized by the cold steel.
were at work in the balance ... - Won two pesetas, gentlemen ...
Do not hit me ...
I will go home, my mother expected me ...
A howl creepy, while something like a pot broke broken and the girl fell back on the ground.
Juanon and Fermin, shuddering with horror, ran towards the group, seeing in the middle of it the boy, his head in a black puddle that grew and grew, and stretching legs and contracting with the death rattle.
Brutes seemed satisfied with their work. - Mial - said one of them .-- The Apprentice bourgeois!
It dies like a chicken ...
It had been to the casinos, where they were the rich, the real enemies, not only occur to to cry, fearing that breaking windows was his only defense.
Only served to kill a child, a worker like them, a poor lad in desk, he earned two pesetas and perhaps kept his mother.
Fermin came to fear that the athlete falling knife in hand over their competitors. - Aonda go with these brutes! - Roared Juanon premit .-- God or the devil to catch us all and we ajorquen ...
And to me the first, beast, for believing that something worshiped pa.
These escaped too, as if the words of the giants they had returned the right.
Montenegro, finding himself alone in front of the corpse, he was afraid.
Began to crack some windows after the precipitate flight of the murderers and fled, fearing the neighbors catch him next to the dead.
He did not stop in his flight up to the big streets.
There believed to be best kept loose wild beasts, who were demanding that teach hands.
Sounded in the distance a roar that shook the ground, and soon moved to a squadron of lancers trotted down the street long.
Then the end of it, the rows of bayonets gleamed and moved the infantry with rhythmic step.
The facades of the great houses suddenly seemed happy opening their doors and balconies.
The armed forces spread throughout the city.
The lamplight shone helmets riders, the bayonets of the infants, patent-leather tricorn civil guard.
In the gloom stood out the red spots of the troop pants and belts yellow guards.
Those who had held in confinement at these forces, believed the time to scatter.
For a few hours, the city had surrendered without resistance, fatigue in a monotonous waiting for the parsimony of the rebels.
But I had gotten blood.
It took one body, the body that would justify the cruel reprisals, to awaken the authority your dream volunteer.
Fermín thought, with great sorrow, the unhappy writer, lying there on the street, victim exploited even in death, which provided the pretext sought by the powerful.
Jerez began hunting around men.
Platoons of civil guards and infantry line input still kept the streets, while the cavalry and heavy patrols ojeaban ordinary city, arresting the suspects.
Fermin went back and forth without impediment.
Its exterior was Master, and strength hunted armed only with blankets, hats field, the coats are rough all who looked like workers.
Montenegro saw them pass in a row on his way to jail between the bayonets and the rumps of horses, some killed, as if surprised by the hostile appearance of armed force "which was to join them 'others, stunned, not understanding chain gangs how aroused such joy in Long Street, where they paraded for her hours before as victors, not allowing the child abuse
