In one of these days of deep anger roaring life of Josephine ran imminent danger.
When practice was called into the dining room to give her lessons.
Concha settled in his chair and took undisguised delight the fatal chest whale.
The girl went to her trembling as long as you delivered the books.
And I began to recite a chapter of stuttering lips history sacred when it came to interrupt Manin.
He went to his eternal green jacket, short pants, great calanes filthy, shaking the floor with spiked boots.
This dress, archaic in the province, owed much of its notoriety and fame of terrible hunter bear he had seen.
He went with his head down as usual, and sprawled under lintel of the door, asked: - Concha, is not there for what, to eat there? - So much you tighten the gazuza, Manin? - The seamstress replied, laughing.
The village opened his mouth to laugh too. - So help me God, I can not stand a Menut more.
You seem Toos barefooted friars in this house you do not like it comes more than When the time comes. - I, I go there, great glutton, rodent - Concha said posing on the chair and the book dirge with whale and petulant way to the sideboard.
The seamstress was surly, cruel, intractable, but the butler knew of it gathering the few bits of humor that was in the body.
The woo brutally pinched her passing, I said billion gross effrontery to understand that backwards.
And the microscopic maid, who was gentle and nice and in whom the rough character had put down every trace of coquetry, transformed into a priestess of pain, cumene in a fatal and pitiless, he let himself complacently by brute celebrate.
Le amused his daring, his rudeness, his greed and careless insolent manner he had to treat everyone, even the high and mighty lord of Quiñones.
With that foul rudeness, the attitude of daring hunter of wild beasts and bizarre herding had learned to live very pleasing in this world, not calloused hands, broken or the spines back in her village with the farm chores.
Seamstress pulled a plate of cold meat and put it on the rubber of the table, napkin or anything like it, then cut in half a loaf and put it with the necessary bottle white wine glass, next to the meat.
The bear hunter began to devour.
Concha sat down again, and she came and repeated the words he had uttered.
A few moments bang!
a ballenazo and a cry of pain.
Immediately another hit and another cry.
The seamstress was delighted to discover that the girl stumbled more than other times.
Manin engulfed in silence, returning only occasionally eyes marked indifference to the sad scene.
He finished the lesson of sacred history.
Before taking the grammar was a break.
The seamstress began to banter with the butler.
He was an angelic mood. - What about meat? - Rich, rich indeed! - The worst thing is that you will remove the appetite for lunch.
Trembled the room with the laughter of the laborer. - That's it!
And he hit the whale with a tap on the fingers.
He turned to ramming and she gandulote fend off the same way.
He tried to grab her by the waist.
The maiden rose and ran around the room, pretending to be angry. - Do not touch me, Manin!
Look what I call the lady.
But he would not listen.
The grunts and laughter pursued pitching; abrazábala here soltábala there, getting in his cheeks, rough and tough like the skin of an elephant, slapping the home, without showing feeling them.
Creaking furniture, the floor trembled, bells crockery in the cupboards.
Increasingly zalamerón false.
I knew the rogue that this slut was awake irascible and devilish vanity, like all beings human capital and that it was relevant to her belly to keep her happy.
Finally, launching lowing a real beef, got her by the waist and lift in the air.
Finally put it gently on the floor.
The girl, breathless, disheveled, knitting much eyebrows to appear more angry, breathless voice said: - Have you no shame, Manin.
If it were not staring at the house where we are, you pulled the lamp the nose and you broke them by gross and insolentón.
I do not ever say word, because I do not answer. - That!
Shout now, conceited, then did you see God - snoring Manin sarcastically, looking at sideways and rubbing his beard. - If you do not remove from my sight, baldragote !...-- the tiny maid exclaimed, passing her despite flashes of laughter from his eyes.
Manin sat down again to engulf the remaining bread and drink another glass of white.
Josefina while sobbing in a corner, clutching his injured mouth, feeling the cheeks black and blue by the calves.
A chafandina that would not be a bushel acorn, a beast, it saves the comparison.
A woman too so pa it asks. (Pause while cutting another piece of bread and grind it, raising a lump as fist in the right cheek) ...
Come on, if I'd had teachers like you lifting up my to whip the hide would not be an ass, I would call Manin, but Don Manuel, and instead Sudit be a miserable, would walk around giving me important, walking with Altavilla back as the lords hands and reading the newspapers in the casino. (Another pause and another amputation the mud) ...
If you had knowledge, child, you give thanks to God for having put a teacher who is like a glory.
To serve the endin too, for his hands are too thin and feet ready, eh, you?
Concha had been serious again, sitting down and doing an imperious gesture to the girl to approach.
Tocábale the turn of the grammar.
Walked here even worse than ever, séase lack of memory or because they fear the mob.
Began thrashing: a ballenazo now and then another and another and another.
Manin, true to his educational, clapping mouth full, serious cutting, carefully, in geometric pieces of bread before to lead in all seriousness to his lips.
But at the end of the lesson, Concha considered more appropriate punishment each violation, taking into account how badly she had done, it was appropriate to end with a general bashing that comprise all.
He lifted the chair and brandishing a formidable whale said: - Now, for you to study better and you will awaken the senses, making!
Were so many tough blows, the creature, trying to escape that martyrdom, caught with his hands clenched to the skirts of his executioner.
Somehow, perhaps by having hung them unconsciously, that held the tape broke and came to the ground, leaving only the seamstress shirt.
He gave a cry of shame and quickly lifted.
But without stopping to tie the ribbon again, looking deep grudge against the girl stay out of the hands holding them. - Have you done, good, good, good! - Manin said, neatly carving bite to would lead to the mouth.
The creature, paralyzed with terror, not crying.
I do not come here to whip you.
Come on, give me hand for the lead with all ceremony.
The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and Concha, ran around the table and finally took refuge behind the butler. - Manin!
But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady.
The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent and serious.
The cries of the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading to the basement.
Amalia opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter into the interior.
Closed fury, but she ran towards the exit door and took her hand.
The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature she fell to the floor and locked it.
The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint rays of light a porthole open on top.
Now there was no there than empty bottles.
The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice knotted in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong earthquake, fell faint.
After half an hour the groom, who had witnessed the closure, moved by compassion, He approached the door and looked through the keyhole.
He called very softly. - Josephine.
Startled, she screamed and hit the door with all his might not get answered.
Then he hastened to give up part of what was, at the risk of losing their jobs.
Amalia Concha sent the key to see what was happening.
Between her and Paula went to the creature senseless, cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed on the face.
Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's wife rushed to get her into bed.
Took little small to herself, but immediately declared a high fever.
To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia, fertile in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended to believe.
He was between life and death a few days.
Amalia was with eye during disease.
No loss hurt the creature on which he had poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ??losing at once his vengeance.
Just the third days of being in bed Josephine, was reported last night that Fernanda had left in the post-chaise to Madrid, and Luis only take four or five days to meet with it.
Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the news of the death of his daughter cry a little, after the caresses of his beloved wife would forget it.
Love those so long, so alive, there would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and Lancia a poor old woman serving sad scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla.
Before throwing his daughter dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart.
He thought, singular and terrible to tell her husband everything.
Knew what it give of themselves, but for now would cause a scandal.
True, he was paralyzed and could not take revenge into their own hands, but what would happen to not be so arrogant man and punctilious means of returning the wrong which he felt?
She would fall among the ruins, but fall with the traitor like if somehow paid their perfidy.
After much struggle with this thought, not risking to confess by word or write under his signature, sent to D.
Pedro, disguising the letter, an anonymous letter. "The girl you've collected six years ago is the daughter of his wife and a gentleman who frequents home and who you call your friend
