I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership, something that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no mole at sight with a being that makes me a little tingling in interlinings of the heart. "Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.
But all is well and have stipulated this in hours that have begun run to me. "Well, man, come on come over here, and if you can not do it for fun, do it for charity of God. " Least the 'slump' and its consequences, all that my uncle told me this letter to me I was well known, and knew also, what is easily deduced from its earlier low correspondence with us and how little I had told my father, who was his brother Celso a folksy man of few lyrics and excellent heart, acute and somewhat cunning Magin, as a good mountaineer, and more careful cultivation and prosperity of their land and livestock, which the promotion of their affection for the family she had left; sloppiness that sometimes played in an indifference seemed bordering the absolute oblivion.
Unless I knew my uncle in his native land and of our solar house, not so much because of my lack of curiosity about such matters as by the work of one of the most salient weakness of my father.
He further called attention surnames personal conditions of "our", and thus to ask for life and times of any of them, rather than straight answer to the question, perched at the top of the family tree, and crawled from branch to branch to down, not stop to give the least, with the leg of the Cid, if it is satisfied with that.
Their parents could only take in clean, at different times asked news on them, which had been the junction of the house "only" of the Ruiz de Bejos of Tablanca, with those of Gómez de Pomar, the most illustrious of the promise.
On my grandfather was a thing very different.
Our house Tablanca exercised throughout the valley, by virtue of their status amen of noble charity, certain undeniable and patriarchal dominion, and was forced whereabouts of all the notable people who passed by, even bishops.
Just as remember my father had stayed two in it: the de Santander and Leon.
For these and other necessities like chests and cabinets were in good supply of linens and table linens higher abundant solid silver table and up to two damask bedspreads and a crucifix ivory and ebony.
Nothing was there that must not be missing from the house of a family like ours.
But its situation, its form, its extent, its comforts, or short, at most, which was great, with sunny, coat of arms and ancillary.
Ground it was located and its outskirts, the conditions and appearance of landscape, climate, of its resources for life more than animal, the customs of its inhabitants, was idle inquire anything by reports that good sir, that be so paid out of race and put on the horns of the moon the arms of his house and the land they had born only once and very quickly returned to it after having left it, though rule of necessity, as a boy yet.
Went back to the top of all that had heard and read about this empingorotada region of the Cantabrian Mountains, and was to see how they are there, primarily with the Celts, our putative progenitors, and took down then from there to become embroiled hand in hand and as one fan and regular fair price and current family issues, with those tribes untamed, with that fierce Spaniard passed the Alps with Hannibal against Rome fought and defeated Scipio in Ticino.
After talking Augustus and his legions who have come to Cantabria expressly to subject the Roman yoke; that that was our thrust, that "our" value and that "our" attachment to independence, that Caesar had six years to succeed in an endeavor that had seemed to work a few days of the horrors of this barbarous war between inaccessible crags and deep and dark ravines where the water roared inks in the blood of "our" and hardened legionnaires.
No missing as of mothers during the war killed their little ones to not see them slaves to foreign winners, nor the death of so many cross martyrs singing hymns of freedom from curses to the conqueror, and with all this, a number of details about the type and the mores of his heroes, details that I had wanted on the land they inhabit, as it was in my days.
Far from it, leaving only Cantabrians to mix his successors in the epic of Covadonga or the trouble of "Bands" of Castile, and you put here with dithyrambs their illustrious "ancestors", ran with them the five parts of the world to not know where he was, nor I either.
Because on these matters my father was a generous scholarship, but somewhat suspicious, work a greed that came with the truth as with the fantastic, by clinging tenaciously, but purely platonic, things of earth.
In this way I knew it, upon receiving the letter from my uncle, little more is known, by guesswork or by comparison, other fellows who have been "passing" and very quickly.
Meanwhile I had already served thirty-two years for six who was a doctor in both rights, albeit unknowingly, by disuse of them, what they were for those things more than seven that field for my respect, and gave me the high life with the flow that I inherited from my father.
Because my mother did not inherit a penny.
Granada was a very pretty daughter of a judge Hearing of that land.
He met my father walked over there a while, busy mining business, and married her in the overnight.
The judge was a widower and poor, and died two years after the wedding of his daughter.
I owe to God, among other grants, the temperament of a uniquely balanced moods, which allowed me to go through the most dangerous hardships of life, while including the lower strip of skin.
Very few things have touched my soul, and I seldom I have a passion for the best of them.
This has been my greatest fortune in the midst of freedom and abundance in which I lived, being pampered and spoiled child, while I was' son of the family " rich and detached from all constraints when it has no father and mother and declared myself "boy open house. " Under these conditions and a passionate temperament, God knows what had been of me and my money.
Still, not increase the legacy of my father, and even drop him a good chop, because not all the time ran the same for the vile farthing; and I, though without losing sight of how useful it is this ingredient to live at home with the men, there was born to a slave to him and had entrenched interests that were not cheap.
I liked traveling, and traveled extensively in and outside Spain, I liked the so-called "big world" or 'high society', and frequented its halls, theaters, field trips and even fashionable resorts, and sports, I like the Fine Arts, although considered mainly as a luxury item, and buy paintings and sculptures in the exhibition; I liked certain men of politics and literature, not by politicians or by literati precisely, but the resonance of their names and the attractiveness of their conversations and frequented his treatment and accompanied him in his circle and their feasts and gatherings in and revelry ...
I even liked the bullfighters at a distance, and distance grew the friendship of some of them.
All this, and as much more than it follows the law enforced at the end of the day was wear expensive and produce deep, if not hide, at least moral sensitivity, even though it is a boy like me, who aspired to be no box set of the first term, or half-inch lift on the common size of the mass of spectators, and this, not virtue, but by the exigencies of my temperament.
It is very noteworthy that in the hobby more pronounced of all mine, the travel, seduced me much artifice of men that the work of Nature.
As good Madrid, loved to Madrid over all earthly things, and after Madrid, similar to Spain and abroad, the largest and liveliest capitals of the civilized world.
What remained among those, I did not care, and passed on it, to go wherever he went, as insensitive projectile that has given whereabouts from their point of origin.
Then, by drawing in the air with the same finger during each river of her birth in and the bottom of his black cliffs tumble, arrived addressed to the West, and marking three stripes almost vertical, I named the Sakha, the Nansa and Deva, and there I stopped him with thought, telling me himself, "Along with one of the three rivers (I think the Nansa) plus above or below, must walk the site of my elders. "And this just fell for the second time, "the cry of blood" who had in his veins.
As decoration, that I fell in love string of jagged mountains from east to west on the south serve as grandiose setting the wonderful bay, but as habitable land! ...
Such were, peak, peak less, my personal background when I got the letter in which Celso my uncle called me to his side, indefinitely, from the depths and Mountaineer of the Cantabrian region, and yet, no embassy gave me unpleasant impression as might be assumed to take exactly what was said about my way of being and feeling.
Apart from what interested me the physical and moral of my uncle, I was not so in love My way of life, scares me the risks of radical upheaval for some time.
But I could not tell my uncle these things that would hurt a lot in the situation of mind in which he found himself, he entertained his urgent request dispatching evasive polite, claiming that he had business, and targeting "see" without the slightest intention of comply.
Ente Thus, the vision, my way, Tablanca's house, with its mountains and wild animals and their people and their wintry desolation, not a moment away from my eyes, because the pleadings my uncle, more alive, came to touch me deep inside, and what might happen, felt the need to put the case in question, which is as good as the rules experience, as you start to compromise.
The truth is that one day, I received the second to last letter from my uncle, I very comovió deeply, say in the matter of looking within myself why I be so insensitive to agreed charms of nature.
At the edge of the last of this series of them in the center of a small amphitheater of bare hills in their tops, were reborbollando the copious springs emerge from famous river, after briefly haven to orientate in the field and gain breaths from the slopes of their own crib, escapes from there, running around, hiding from light whenever possible, as everyone who does evil to leave soon for his native land, bring the benefits of their waters to foreign fields and unknown people, and pay to inattentive during his tribute to all his wealth to whom you should not be in a good law.
Y to faith, or my eyes deceived me much, or would work very easy and cheap to tackle the runaway a short distance from their sources, and as punishment for his disloyalty, cast him down headlong downhill without giving rest to give point, macerated and in foams, the wrath of its owner and natural lord, the broad and fiery Bay of Biscay.
I should spend too much time meditating on these and other childish things, and taste the memories awoke in me the contemplation of those crystal clear waters that have so as do history and the imagination of poets, because the footman, saving all the usual compliments on his rude courtesy, I noted the desirability of us to continue walk. - Da Grim - obeying said - think of the behavior of this renegade mountain.
I had to decipher the metaphor for the footman to understand me what I wanted to say; and as I had understood, he replied: - Déjeli, déjeli to go in grace and, earlier, before jaz Aonda needed more than here.
Pa meter Malis buya and cause maybe, people have many Rius as estimated by the band here.
Explicóse turn the footman for me to understand, and I became convinced, with examples I became overwhelmed mountain rivers perhaps without why or wherefore, sweeping houses bridges and mills in the highest, and eating in the valleys the land should be watering, that may well be meritorious what had seemed in the Ebro unpardonable.
Certainly not bad, nor explained his side have kept my harsh interesting interlocutor, in whom only I had noticed before.
It was a fine fellow burly, broad and somewhat square shoulders, and wore blue pants with black back half, subject to the waist by a girdle purple, and the low neck shirt, a "lastic" or red flannel jacket.
