Many I saw stones WITH THESE WITH THESE some fences, and it frightens me how, being so large, were as first place .-- When they made the big dances and parties in Cuzco, was made much of its chicha for those women and bebíanla .-- And as so many parties to come to Cuzco, sent to providers to not come out without his permission no gold or silver than entered, and stood by the mesmos governors over the kingdom, and ruled them all with great justice and order.
And because this time he ordered the fortress of Cuzco, say something Dell, as it is right.
The city of Cuzco is built on valley slopes and hills, as written in the first Part of this history [169], and the buildings mesmos out a thick-walled forms, in where they do their fields, and Salian beat each other, which parescian fences, so everything was desto platforms, stronger than towards the city, although it is his nature site, and so I chose the Lords della between so much land.
And as we were doing powerful command of the kings, and Inca Yupanqui had such great thoughts, not attaching that he had been both enlightened and enriched the temple of the sun, called Curicancha, é hobiese made other large buildings, determined that they should do another house of the sun which surpasses the building to what was done there, and that she verifications all things that might have, gold and silver, precious stones, fine clothing, weapons of all that they used, ammunition war, sandals, shields, feathers, animal skins and bird, cocaine, bags of wool, mill jewelry genres, in conclusion, had everything that they could be news.
And this work was begun so proud, that if the monarchy lasted until today, was not finished.
Mandóse that would come from the provinces said twenty thousand men, and that people necessary provisions to send him, and if any adolescent, taking his place another, became his nature, but these Indians resided in work but always limited time and coming others, Salian them, where they felt little work.
They broke the four mill desto rocks and stones taken out, the six mill were bringing the large ropes of Leather and hemp [170], the others were digging the trench and opening the ground, going some short wooden columns and beams for the woodwork.
And to be at his pleasure, these people made their accommodation each moiety itself beside where he had to make the building .-- Today day seem most of the walls of the houses had walked about suppliers watching .-- were made, and great teachers and a lot of delicacy, and so, on a hill which is on the part of North of the city, on top of it, little more than a musket shot, was produced this natural force that called Casa del Sol, and our named La Fortaleza.
Cavos in living rock for the foundation and build the foundation, which became so strong that last as long as hobiere world.
Had, in my view, three hundred and thirty feet long, and two hundred wide.
Had many fences so strong that not enough artillery to and to break them.
The front door was to see how premium was and how concerted the walls to one did not leave the bar to the other, and fencing in these rocks are so large and magnificent, which tires the trial to consider how they could bring and place and who was enough to labrallas because between them are so few tools.
WITH THESE Some stones are wide and twelve feet and longer than twenty, and other thicker than an ox, and all so delicately settled, which between them can not get a real .-- I went to see this building twice: one Tomas Vazquez was with me, conqueror, and other Hernando de Guzman, who was found in the circle [171] and Juan de la Playa [172], and believe that this leyerdes, not anything I tell you what I saw.
And andándolo noticing, I saw this fortress beside a stone than average and had two hundred and seventy spans of round mine, and so high that parescia who was born there, and all Indians say they are tired of this stone in that place, and could not move more than there [173], and some, if not to find itself being carved, I do not believe, though more me affirm that enough to force the men to put there, where will be a witness what were the inventors of great work, as they have already wrecked Spanish and stopped that, which I did not want to see the great fault of those who have ruled in allowed, and a notable thing is hobiese disrupted and broken down, without looking at the times and events that may come and it was better to have it standing and keep [174].
There were many rooms in this force, one above the other, small, and others between soil large, and hacíanse two buckets, one larger than another, wide and well taken, I do not know how expensive, according to cousins ??and the stones are so well made and carved, and underneath ground say there are more buildings.
And they have other things that do not write, for not having as true.
Was commenced to make this force in time of Inca Yupanqui, styled much your child Tupac Inca, Huayna Capac and Huascar, and even now is something to see, it was much more without comparison.
When the Spanish entered Cuzco, the Indians took great treasure della Quizquiz, Spanish and still found [175] one, and he believes there is more della radius of one or the other.
What's this fortress and has been serious Guarco just send preserving [176] memorial to the greatness of this land and even to take them two such forces, as so easily to find them is made.
As these Indians have no letters or tell her things but memory is Dellas old age and their songs and quipos, I say this, because many things vary, saying some one and some another, and not enough human trial to him he could write eScript, but take desto said what they claimed to be more true, for counting.
After these, the Indians say, that as the province of Collao is so great and she had in those days large number of people and dominions of the powerful natural as Inca Yupanqui knew they had entered the mountains of the Andes, believing that there would be dead or would come undone, concertáronse all at once, from Vilcanota forward, to one side and to another, with very great secrecy, rebels and not be under the lordship of the Incas, saying it was all big smallness, their parents having been free and not leaving them in captivity, secured much land and so great a Lord alone
