Michael had fully penetrated the soul of the child: that's why I presented this as a impasse.
Indeed, Maximina opened more eyes expressing surprise; demanded that the young man I swear, and once made the oath, a ray of joy illumined his face. - But how bad are these girls! - Exclaimed, clasping her hands .-- Do not be afraid that God the punishment?
Miguel has sought to persuade them to not believe anything that's to say about him, thousand protests made sincere affection, and managed to get home before dissipating the clouds that veiled his face.
Upon arrival, immediately Maximina despojose blanket and went to the kitchen, where our young followed.
It was an hour very busy for the child: dinner host boys and many preparations required: the maid was responsible only seasoning of the dishes, Dona Rosalia account of the tobacconist.
Maximina lit dining lamp and put the cloth on the table: Miguel's still with his eyes: she lifted occasionally his and sent a smile to show him the confidence he had in his words and how happy he had done with them.
Once set the table, returned to kitchen. - We need to clean the dishes - she said the maid with the bitter tone he always used. - Has he scrubbed V.
And taking a towel, sat down calmly to dry the dishes.
Miguel sat near her. - I will tell VV.
a story - said that taking another cloth for drying dishes and putting Traveling .-- also a friend of mine from China, many years ago, told me he had come evening at a village called Cerdópolis.
As he was inside and was not surprised the name it had, not only pigs were everywhere, in gardens, streets and even inside houses, in short, could not take a step without bumping into any of these animaluchos. - What smell would be there, my mother! - Maxi said. - Atrocious!
It happened that he was taken to the home of one of leaders of the people, but most of the houses, even of the rich, had no more rooms to the kitchen and bedrooms.
The owner introduced him to their daughters, some girls pretty ugly, with eyes bent and feet very young ...
In short, VV.
have already seen some Chinese.
They seemed friendly, and my friend was very pleased with the reception they did.
It was not so happy with the mother, wife of our Chinese.
It was an old woman who was next onion chopping the fire and is now Rufa.
Maxi looked up the cook and then turned to Michael with an expression between naive and malicious, suspecting a joke. - When my friend went to her asking how health was not answered more that hum!
even without looking up.
My friend looked surprised her husband and daughters, as saying, What have I done to this lady to get me this?
But the same him that they, rather than ashamed, looked up to heaven in a gesture of resignation surprised him even more.
They went to dinner, and my friend at dinner and after she tried to win the sympathies, or at least the benevolence of the woman, lavishing directing much attention and often the word.
All to no avail: China's answer with his usual grunt, or all over, with a monosyllable that revealed his temper.
The husband and daughters were happy to make the gesture of resignation and pain that every was marveling once more to the traveler.
When morning rose, the family found very sad and as appalled.
Then asked them why they went forward bad. - The poor mother! "- Said one of the girls. - What happened?
ahead. - What! - Said my friend, believing that the Chinese had gone mad. - Yes, sir, we knew at home this week could not happen.
You, sir, apparently, do not know what happens in this town ...
The Chinese then explained that in that town had a disease, unfortunately very common, cerdofalgia named, and that was the transfiguration of man into a pig.
Hence the vast number of pigs encountered on the streets.
The first symptom of this disease was bad humor: in the first degree, patients could be cured as the consumptive, and Indeed, where one was attacked, were used to return to health thousand kinds of parties and rejoicing, in which the whole family took part.
Some saved, but most passed the second period, called "silence," because they spoke very little, yet in this degree except one another.
But if unfortunately entered the period of the "grunts" time was lost thing: after some time, came the transfiguration.
His wife was and two months he was in third grade.
My friend was stunned and realized why when grunting housewife gestures were all resignation.
At the end of his story Miguel, Maxi made superhuman efforts to contain the laughter that escaped her mouth, seeing what had piqued that Rufa.
At that time Dona Rosalia came another lady of the same trace.
Miguel left to see them hastily and the dish cloth in her hands, lest they should see him busy task as unmanly.
After changing a few words, Maxi, without realizing what he did, he handed two plates saying - No longer are we more than seven.
But the young man, embarrassed and very angry, they are rejected. - Let V. ..
The girl blushed and cried faintly confused: - As in the past helped me! ...
XV "My dear sister: - Michael wrote Julia - I wonder why I stay so long in this little town, and suppose, unwisely, I'll spend most of it in San Sebastian.
Also do some reluctance that I dislike, because they are not good in the mouth or pen from a child as innocent as you are and hope that you remain.
You're wrong on all your hypothesis.
Tickets remain in (and you can start to laugh) because I'm in love my landlady's niece.
It's a girl (still laughing) that bypasses pretty nor graceful, nor has talent, and a good education.
I love what I do not know, perhaps the soul, but not sure.
What I can say is that no woman (except you) as I think so cute, so friendly and so well educated.
Is so convinced of his insignificance, I have done as Jesus Christ; wanting to be the last, high at first.
Has spent two years in a convent Vergara and when I arrived, I was determined to become a nun: now we went to walk the Monji.
This not mean that there was a good religious Maximina, as it is called in any state and condition of life would be good, because that God made.
I spend my times as listening to a fool, when he tells his life as a schoolgirl: the nonadas and childishness of companions, who tells me with great warmth, delight me just as the novel more interesting: I already know all the sisters of the school as if they had given birth, is a sister St.
There is another called Mary Relief of the same age as Maxi, very sweet, very shy, when girls entangled in class, not having the courage to reñirlas or punish, she started to mourn.
But love my girl was the sister San Sulpicio, an Andalusian beautiful, graceful and attractive; four girls were madly in love with her, but which bore the palm and reached to be her favorite after some time, was Maximina, but the sister, who was a apparently little flirty, sometimes took pleasure in showing great coolness mortify or adopting a continent with her severe, until seeing his face saddened, she started laughed and gently tugged his ear, calling it silly.
One day he came up to order move to this sister to another convent, secretly left without saying goodbye.
Finally a more talkative and less well intentioned than the others, it reported sharply, my daughter received a strong blow to the heart, but tried to hold back, because he was ashamed to burst into tears in front of her classmates: this effort on itself cost him dearly, because after a while she felt sick and had to unbutton dress hastily, lest they drown.
Why has my uncle Bernard to say that nothing in life will be helpful.
A hug that you almost smother your brother MIGUEL. " Three days after Julia's reply, which read: "My dearest brother: If for my taste would not write you today because I have to give bad news, but send Mom ...
cartridge in the barrel, fit or not fit.
The news is that we go to Madrid next week, was on Wednesday or Thursday.
For therefore, you know you should get under way soon.
Many feel that tear happiness you feel and say that I do not think.
All life has been a crook beach and do not lease the Tizonazo you carry in the other world.
That poor girl will be well unfortunate if you trust your little words of honey, will soon go to the cemetery of the victims, as Teresa, Paquita, etc., etc.
News as we know that Uncle Manolo marries the widow of yore.
The same one or two need to get new teeth, because they are something Durito.
There you sending a letter by the letter I think of him, I suppose it is giving part of the wedding.
The body of Staff sends me give you memories.
I am not happy but a strong bite in his ear: you know I am a specialist in that field.
Warns when you exit.
JULIA. " Within this came another letter from D.
Manuel Rivera news of his impending marriage.
The seductive former manifested itself in her contrite and eager to reform in terms morals and customs, and announced in concrete terms that he was determined to undergo general laws that govern the destiny of humanity and routed to the infinite spoke of the urgent need felt by the man to have a companion "to help to bear the burden of life, "the sweet and ineffable joys of the home, the mutual sacrifices.
Finally, he called the Supreme Being and begged his help deign bless "his poor hut." Miguel, rather than relent as it should be a good laugh reading it: but the moment was sad and crestfallen to remember that flights should leave within a few days.
The truth was that I was going well and not turn back anything flattering to the bustling life of the court.
Moreover, what feeling so alive experience the poor Maximina!
As the general to-day and had made irrevocable intention to break with it, if While far from being expected to perform, not to suit him do it in an interview do not listen to their complaints romantic quail.
In the melancholic and reflective expression on his face Maximina guessed that something sad was happening.
Then tried to be more cheerful and talkative than usual, in order to dispel their bad mood: vaguely guessed that rejection would fall on her, but to no avail, Michael contrary to his custom, responded to their request seriously. - What you got? - He said at last timidly .-- Are you mad at me? - Why should he be? - Answered, smiling sadly .-- remorse for something you conscience? - I do not ...
Michael was silent a moment, the eyes were perched Maximina tellers with longing for him. - I have to give bad news - he said at his best voice softening.
The child was extremely pale, but not his lips. - I wrote my sister to go to meet with her mom and Santander, and accompany Madrid.
Maxi went silent, bending his head on his chest.
Then it was our Young watch with some trepidation. - Do not be the last time we meet, beautiful - affectionately said .....-- The same will follow wanting in Madrid, and the first chance I got this, I will come to you a visit.
The girl looked up at him struggling to smile. - Now that I'm about to leave you - continued the young - is when I see how has entered my heart ...
Maximina moved several times his head in the affirmative.
Moved by that silence, which showed better than any words that his soul was, the young man took her hand and led gently on the lips for the first time they met, she did not resistance whatsoever.
More and more overcome with emotion, Michael let his soul overflowing; expressed with lively and passionate language he loved her and how happy they would one day be joining her; The promised not to forget a single moment, write often and come to see as he could.
The girl put her hand to her forehead and said in an agitated voice: - The head is leaving me in pain ...
lie a little to see if it happens ..... - What, you have a headache? - Asked Aunt .-- The old song .....
Anda seen to lie until lunchtime, and I'll take the water sedative.
Maxi went to his room and Dona Rosalia was discoursing with Michael, who just listened.
In the afternoon the girl was brought down to the tobacconist, his face was a bit broken.
When they were alone, she said shyly - Do you want a thing I will give you? - You bet!
Because you give me will be my sacred.
Maximina pulled out a silver crucifix hanging from a cord and handed it flushed saying - This gave me the crucifix, Saint-Sulpice sister on her birthday: I will bring it hung the breast for three years without ever removing ...
I promise not to leave him day or night ...
But I'll beg a favor ...
Maximina hesitated, finally took back the crucifix, Miguel lowered his head and Christ was hung on the outside of the vest. - Today - he said with sly smile - is necessary to hide it under his shirt. - No, that you do it.
The lovers were much time together, but spoke little.
Maximina efforts to be made visible serene.
Miguel, guessing these efforts, I felt your love and compassion grow.
Took passage on a steamer that was to leave in the afternoon.
Maximina morning that day manifested almost happy.
However, being in conversation with him in the room, at least it seemed indicate the expression on his face, began to sob loudly.
Michael stroked and comforted in the best terms he could.
After they arranged their luggage, the young man went about saying goodbye to the friends during his stay he had won, and next time to leave and having ear ringing steam whistle, came home in order to leave the status quo.
It is predictable that this upset Michael, who after sending baggage, went with a heavy heart towards the dock, but before he came to a around the church.
As time hurried, ran to suffocate, he saw no trace of Maximina around the temple area.
He left with his head down and went to steam, which was terribly beeping awaiting him.
When he jumped on board, the captain told rudely fifteen minutes ago who stood by him, did not cause any effect rebuke.
He climbed the bridge, at the time starting the ship, saw in the balcony of the house of D.
He put his hand hastily to the captain twin hanging from the railing, and could see his girlfriend crying with a tissue in hand waving.
He took out his pocket and said with emotion.
The afternoon was quiet, cloudy sky, the waters of the small green bay time mirrored confusedly still and the smoke left in the steam wake.
Some other human figures appearing on the balconies and rooftops to hear extended and furious snoring machine.
While the boat did not leave the narrow mouth of the bay, Miguel did not take her twins the eyes, directing them to the balcony where Maximina was sad.
When a rock is the went down, dropped his hands in pain: then wiped her cheeks, which were wet.
XVI Her heart was so full of love, admiration and enthusiasm, which was needed Julita to suffer every day, for some time, the descriptions that he was pleased to goodness, simplicity and innocence of the girl's tickets.
Women do not dislike this kind of confidence: So, far outrun, provocations reported with delight all details more or less childish of those idyllic love, so in keeping with their age and sex.
Miguel refused to show him the portrait.
After many requests, and announcing hard "physically worth little," took him out of a portfolio where he wore. - Well, there's nothing ugly! - Julita said .-- On the contrary, is a very nice face ...
A Michael is enlarged heart, and drew a smile on his lips Bl. - Do you know who looks a little? ...
Mazon Clarita was a very nice young man.
However, Michael is not compromised with the resemblance and even angry. - But do love you, Michael! - Julita said grinning .-- I like that ...
I will show you who you are with the face of an angel of the altarpiece.
From Santander, Miguel telegraphed Tickets, giving news of his arrival.
So I jumped out of train in Madrid, put another telegram and wrote the same day.
Maxi's reply took six to arrive.
The impatience that our young said in these days did laugh his sister.
Contrary to custom, waited at home the postman, and even watching him behind the glass of the balcony and was going to open the door himself.
The letter, which was after all, came in a small envelope, written in beautiful English hand, the letter that was taught in the convent of Vergara and their content was not long or expressive but breathing modesty and candor: llamábale in the beginning "appreciable Miguel" and dismissed as "servant," which made him laugh.
In the reply gave him plenty of rattle with that "Servant," and the girl in the following letters, changed his farewell: the beginning or the "appreciable," and it took more work to change it and at last he ventured to call "Dear Michael." All the letters she read it to her sister.
Julia began to feel lively sympathy towards that girl even younger than her.
One day I gave a print of his prayer book, to be expelled from his party.
Maximina, to acknowledge receipt, there was so moved by this gift, which Julia could not resist the desire to put a postscript in the letter from his brother, giving loving expressions.
The girl answered with other flights; were changed after pictures, and finally, after two months, and were written directly.
By this time the son of Brigadier had cut all its relations with the general's Bembo.
Many efforts that break calligraphic cost: the complaints of the new Ariane came daily in the mail scattered in five or six sheets of fine print: it was necessary answer them: Theseus finally got tired and kept philosophically in his pocket.
Entered and winter, Ariadna returned to Madrid, and not spent fifteen days without the trumpet hawking scandal affair with the secretary of the French Embassy.
Miguel does not wondered nothing this event.
