A winter call attention in Paris newspapers spoke of the beautiful Spanish; their triumphs on the beaches were noisy fashion, tried to ruin an honor for her, and several duels and certain rumors of suicide were around his name a legend environment.
tell me what you look like.
Luis was increasingly sympathetic to that good man, so smooth treatment despite their million, and that his wife was crying even more than him.
That beautiful bird took wing brainless forever caressing with mannequin eyes eternal smile and glassy eyes, the idol of the estate, which stood near hollow head balcony, on which, with infernal glow, sparkling diamonds, wounded by the bluish light of dawn.
The paella "Roder" It was a holiday for the district head of the sudden visit of the deputy, matron Madrid, so powerful for those good people, who spoke of him as the Holy Providence.
There was great paella in the garden of the mayor, a gargantuan feast, entertained by the town band and referred to all women and children, who peered curious behind the walls.
The flower of the district was there: the priests of four or five villages, as the deputy was defender of order and sound principles, the mayors and all that in times beadle choice trotting on the roads bringing Don José minutes unscathed for blemished his white virginity to monster figures.
Among the new gowns and party dresses smelling of camphor and the folds of the ark stood out lenses majestic gold and black tuxedo deputy, but despite all its pomposity, Providence district barely attracted attention.
All eyes were for a man in corduroy trousers and black headscarf, lean, tanned, strong jaws, and beside him a heavy shorty, not changing without wearing seat behind him the old gun, which looked like a stick of his body.
It was the famous Quico Baggins, the hero of the district, a thirty-year Roder exploits the I looked at young people with almost superstitious terror, recalling his childhood, when mothers told to hush, "Coming Baggins!" At twenty he knocked down two matters of love, and then to mount with the shorty, to make Roder's life, the knight errant of the mountains.
More than forty processes were suspended, waiting to be good enough to be caught.
Knight had his outbursts, eating on the mountain which gave him for admiration or fear of the farmhouses, and if he was a thief in the district, soon reached your shorty, he had his honesty and theft did not want to pay others.
To him a man worth less than a stone path, this beast used masterfully all sorts of killing the enemy with bullets, with knife, face to face if they had guts to go after him, waiting and ambushed, if they were so wary and cunning like him.
Out of jealousy had been suppressing the other roders who infested the mountains, in the roads, one today and another tomorrow, had murdered former enemies, and often fell to people on Sunday to leave lying on the square, leaving the mass, mayors or influential owners.
Political passion killed by men who barely knew to ensure the triumph of Don José, eternal district representative.
The beast was without realizing it, a large polyp claw waving electoral Far on the Ministry of the Interior.
He lived in a nearby village, married to the woman who drove him to kill first, surrounded of children, paternal, benevolent and smoking cigars with the Civil Guard, who obeyed orders higher as a result of an exploit had to pretend to be chasing him, he spent some days hunting in the mountains, good pulse entertaining shooter.
We had to see how he cared for the gifted, and notable district paella. "Baggins this piece of chicken; Baggins, a drink of wine. "Even the priests, laughing with a ho ho!
bondadosote, patted him on the back, saying paternally: "Oh Bolsonet, how bad you are!" He was held by that party.
Only because he had stopped at the head of the district Jose majestic on his way to Valencia.
I wanted to reassure and to cease in their complaints, increasingly alarming.
As a reward for their abuses in the elections, had promised him a pardon, and Baggins he was old and longed to live peacefully as a farmer honored, obeyed the Lord Almighty believing in his rudeness that every outrage, every crime, accelerating their forgiveness.
But years passed, it was all promises, and Roder, firmly believing in the omnipotence deputy, contempt or neglect blamed on the delay of a pardon.
Submission trocose a threat, and Don José felt the fear of the trainer to the beast that is rebels.
The Roder wrote to Madrid every week with a threatening tone.
And these letters, scribbled by brute bloody paw, eventually haunt him by forcing to leave the district.
You had to see them after the paella, talking in a corner of the garden, the deputy, obsequious and friendly.
I have recommended to the Governor the province, the Civil Guard says nothing ...
And formulated their claim as soon as Valencian pronunciation in Castilian unintelligible. - You got it, man, you will.
Is in the offing, one of these will be.
It was not as gross as I thought.
Had consulted a lawyer Valencia, who had laughed at him and pardon.
Just kidding: it is not mocked.
Deputy flinch seeing almost lost confidence Roder. - That lawyer is ignorant.
Do you think the government is impossible?
Roder regained confidence little by little on the Member.
Back to his people wanted to take the afternoon, because men like him are only the roads at night when needed.
He was accompanied by the butcher of his people, a fine fellow admirer of his strength and skill, a satellite followed him everywhere.
The deputy fired them with kindness feline. - Farewell, dear Quico - shaking hands said Roder -.
Quiet, will leave soon penalties.
They are good your kids: and tell your wife that I still remember how well I tried when I was in your house.
The Roder and his assistant sat in the tartan of his people, three neighbors who greeted Quico Sinor with affection and a few little boys who passed his hands through his loaded shorty like a holy image.
The tartan advanced tumbling down among the orange groves, orange blossom-laden.
Ditches sparkled, reflecting the gentle afternoon sun, and spent the warm space breath of spring impregnated with perfumes and rumors.
A hundred times he had been promised a pardon, but now it was for real.
Were on the road a couple of the Civil Guard, and greeted her amicably Baggins.
In a revolt appeared a second pair, and the butcher Hastened away in his chair as if he puncture.
There were many couples in such a short path.
The Roder reassured him.
Had concentrated the strength of the district by the journey of Don José.
But just beyond the third pair found that, as above, followed slowly the carriage, and the butcher could not contain himself.
A down right away, to flee across the fields to win the mountain.
If nothing was going with him could return home at night. - Yes, Sinor Quico, yes - said the frightened women.
But Sinor Quico laughed at the fear of those people. - Arrea, Tartaneros ...
And the trap went on, until suddenly jumped into the road fifteen or twenty guards a tag with an old three-cornered hats official front.
Through the windows came the mouths of the guns pointed at Roder, who remained motionless and calm, while women and screaming kids were thrown to the bottom of the carriage. - Baggins, low, or we'll kill you - said the lieutenant.
Roder lowered with its satellite, before setting foot on land they had taken their weapons.
Even he was impressed by the talk of their protector, and no thought of making resistance not preclude his famous clemency to a new crime.
