From there we went to a village of Christians I had to dens of thieves.
It was his captain Juan Reinville, who was then absent, certainly for our good, in the town of San Vicente, with other Christians to fulfill certain adjustments had been made.
These Indians, (with which Christians live in two villages 800) are sugetos the king of Portugal, but below the power of Juan de Reinville, which was very obeyed because India had been in 40 years as governor, made war, and pacified the province and judged that he deserved no better than the government.
When we arrived, was at home of his child, who treated us with much entertainment, and yet a cure for his people rather than the Indians, and because we all came out well, we were very glad, giving thanks to God us safely out of that town.
Author comes out of San Vicente, sailing to Spain, and provides second headwinds port once the Holy Spirit.
From there we went to the little village of San Vicente, which is 20 miles from the background.
Day July 13, 1553 at the port are a Portuguese ship laden with sugar from Brazil and cotton, by Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo schitz factor of Antwerp, who resided in San Vicente, and sent it to John Hulsen, resident of Lisbon, who also was a factor.
He received with love and honor Rosel, requested that I received at the ship, begging the sailors who treat me as his preferred which they did faithfully.
Eleven days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything you need for navigation.
There from the Assumption to San Vicente in Brazil, 376 miles, which we came in six months.
We left San Vicente, San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and at fourteen days at sea, agitated of continuous storms and contrary winds, broken tree ship, knowing where we were, enter the port of the Holy Spirit in Brazil, inhabited by Christians, who with their children and wives till sugar.
There are cotton, large and many clubs from Brazil and other merchandise.
In this sea, especially among Sancti Spirits and San Vicente, and most of all, there are large whales [56] and fish, as big as them, often do great harm, because when sailors go on a ship's skiffs to another, usually come as a herd of whales to fight one another, and overturn the navichuelos, killing people.
They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average French Cuba, because they put their heads under water and again to remove it right away, throwing it, as has been said.
Which had not seen this ever, would think that navigating a lot of rocks.
The author leaves the port of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third and the Azores, sailing to Spain and thence to Flanders.
Take the earth again by storm.
Four months we were at sea, after we left the Holy Spirit, continued sailing without seeing land until the Third Island, where we spent two days, and provide us bread, meat, water and other necessary things fresh.
Obey the king of Portugal.
In fourteen days of sailing we arrived at Lisbon, September 3, 1552, and having been it another fourteen days, and killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which 42 miles far from Lisbon, and arrived in six days.
After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was one night, and went overland in a day at the port of Santa Maria, and another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground.
I found in the bay 25 large Dutch hookers, back to his province: a greater and more beautiful, new and only once had sailed to Spain from Antwerp.
Aconsejábanme the merchants that I embark on it, and adjusted to Henry Schertz, your employer, my journey: for which warned me that afternoon, being in agreement with him that I be warned when leaving.
I got into the ship carrying wine, bread and the like, and some parrots who brought from the Indies.
Out of these twenty-four ships port, we were happy to wind three days, then rose a storm so terrible that we could not continue the journey.
The names in italics are those which, having been adulterated by the author, have become unintelligible.
In the town of the Holy Spirit of Brazil - 58.
Getting rid of a storm by the knowledge of its pilot, and arrived in Buenos Aires 30 days sooner than those who came with him - 26.
Turns to others to Cabeza de Vaca - 37.
Alonso Riquelme marries the daughter of Irala, and why? - 53.
Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Treasurer of the Navy that led Panfilo de Narvaez to Florida - 36.
Advance Rio de la Plata, Santa Catalina comes to how people and what year? - 26.
Send to seek Bastimento two caravels, and lost, saving his people and takes eight to go and get in the Assumption, ground - 26.
Aracaré ago the chief process, and sends him hanged, with the agreement of royal officials and others - 27.
Send to Irala with 2.000 Carios against Tabaré - 28.
And his good fortune makes him embark, and arrives at Mount San Fernando, he fled Payaguá, and arrives at the Sococies - 29.
Reports of other Indians and not finding them in 18 days turns to the Kings - ibid.
Send to Francisco de Rivera with 10 Spanish to recognize and try to discovery, and prevent the water - ibid.
Send to Hernando de Rivera to Xarayes - 30.
And again, he turns, and heaves its people - 35.
Forced him to be satisfied, having failed to your computer - ibid.
Solve the journey itself and do not want to follow the soldiers - 36.
Spanish prohibits the Indians had carried, and hateful, for this and Other reasons wicked - ibid.
Sent to kill the Sococies to the island, and approves its destruction - ibid.
Back to the Assumption, and sick, and why not leave the house in 15 days? - ibid.
Préndenle royal officials to send to Spain - ibid.
Repelled by loyal and ignore them rebels - 38.
Treat the author wickedly - 37.
What made quickly marred by envy and hatred - 29.
Is sent to Spain, riots among soldiers, and Rise of the cavities - 37.
Acquitted by the Council will punish is not strange false witness - ibid.
Hernando de Rivera is news of them, and party to seek, and how they live and preserved and treasures of their land - 32.
It leaves the author - 3.
He returns after 20 years - 61.
Anmuyden, City of Zeeland.
You will discover Indian order of Cabeza de Vaca, and is maize in the Samococis, and into the interior, and arrives at the Cambal - 27.
Tabaré brother - 28.
Processed by Cabeza de Vaca, makes it hang - 27.
And the land rises to avenge - ibid.
Governor is in Corpus Christi - 22.
And in what order - ibid.
Engáñale an Indian and Spanish lost 50 - 23.
Sítianle Indians and falling into a trap of them is dead and people are going to Buenos Aires - ibid.
Navy Pedro de Mendoza.
Turns itself to join the Canaries - 4.
Get to Rio de Janeiro - 5.
And the Rio de la Plata - 6.
Rice on the island of Santa Catalina - 22.
In Carcokies - 49.
As far from the island of Santa Catalina - 26.
His neighbors are divided into factions: head inmate cow Indian rebel - 36.
Besieged by Irala, delivered, fleeing Abreu - 53.
Llamosa and Lambaré by Oyola - 17.
He left 100 men to enter the Payaguá, and in what order - 18.
Attune, Sliding called to chiggers - 50.
In Zemais - 14.
In Xarayes - 31.
In Peyonas - 45.
In Mapais - ibid.
In Barcones - 46.
Sale of Antwerp, Cadiz is about to embark for the Rio de la Plata - 3.
Little hits at distances of land - 4.
Goes against the Querandís with D.
Pedro de Mendoza - 7.
Appointed with six others confidence to go to Santa Catherine Gonzalo de Mendoza - 24.
Saved, returning from a storm on a stick comes to eating roots and San Gabriel - 25.
Huanacos horse came to more than 40 leagues about being sick - 43.
Take 19 Indians in the defeat of the Mbayas - 43.
Irala Ponele sentry in a well, and made many friends - 47.
Indian slaves had 59 - 52.
He is wrong in the names and altered; so it is not easy to understand - 14 56.
Was misinformed about the things of government - 26.
He mocks those who have the alligators, or alligators - 31.
What won the day Xarayes - 35.
Lies far from Cabeza de Vaca - 37.
If you lost sight of Ursa Major on the islands of Cape Verde, or was wrong? - 36.
Irala gives you license and says goodbye to his friends and with 20 Carios arrive in canoes to suberic Sabaya - 54.
Browse the Parana enters the Tupi, and fear he had of the beasts in the deserts - 55.
Defiéndese six Spanish and Indians four days against Sliding, ambushed and fled, remaining root and honey and arrives at the Biesayes - 56.
Sick with the others in Scheverveba, and arrives at a village where a child entertains Juan de Reinville - 57.
Get to San Vicente and Juan Rosel will get well, and recommends to the sailors of a ship that went to Lisbon - 58.
Embarks, and storm returns to port the Holy Spirit - ibid.
Get to Lisbon in four months and goes to San Lucar, and to Cadiz - 59.
Advises the King in Seville land of the Rio de la Plata, and gives them letters Irala - 54.
Adjusts its voyage to Flanders, shipped clothing, and the pattern gets drunk and does not lead - 59.
Sets with another patron, and re-embarks Cadiz to storm - ibid.
Have another very large and arrives defeated the ships, Wight - 60.
Give thanks to God coming to Antwerp, for having escaped so many risks - 61.
Cars possession of the government of Cabeza de Vaca, stolen by royal officials - 26.
Lábranla in the port of the Holy Spirit of Brazil - 57.
Their abundance between San Vicente and Sancti Spirits, in Brazil and how to fight and overturn the smaller ships? - 58.
One of 35 steps was taken in Cádiz - 3.
Irala rafts happened to go to the handsome - 49.
Irala want to escape, and detention provisions, and give news of the land - 46.
Lay siege to Buenos Aires, with others and burned - 9.
In Sococies - 30.
The author comes to them and provided food and other things - 56.
Bogemberg, mountain in Germany similar to that of San Fernando - 19.
Ball, Indians who had a string tied to a pole, to hunt and shoot down the horses - 8.
Drunkenness of Sliding.
Last days and nights - 55.
Abounds in the Holy Spirit - 58.
Huanacos shields of hides.
In imitation of the Indians who use Carcokies - 49
