Unfortunately, the people of Seville are not satisfied with the poetic Platonism of the "gate." Seville as a major commercial port city, and as a treasure of beauties of art and leisure, attracting singularly especially in the Easter and spring, not only to many foreigners but also to the other Spanish provinces.
That great contest of strangers and the beauty of Seville have led to an alarming development of corruption.
That evil is the major cancer Spanish cities.
If Sevilla are interested in the day by the whims of its cobbled streets, narrow and winding, by the splendor of modern houses, hotels and cafes, the magnificence of its arenas, by the majesty or the excellence of its monuments, its industrial activity and a thousand circumstances - during the night, to the double moonlight May and thousands of gas lantern, has a particular charm.
While the gas to shine all the curiosities of stores in the shopping, and lighten the cheerful mob swarmed by paving or the center of the squares and streets - balconies, shutters, the viewpoints and high bars colors (usually blue and green, on yellow walls) were illuminated by the softer light of the moon, projecting shadows on the walls Weird women, leaning over the balcony to see people go in groups constant agitation.
At that time seemed more vivid contrast of various types.
On the one hand made game men of good society, with its broad layers of velvet and tassels around floating and felt hats, hat called in Spain, when not wearing French avocado and black high top hat baptized in Madrid with the nickname outrageous mushroom, while elegant ladies dragging their ornate costumes of shining silk exaggerated in itself, without prejudice to the crinoline, the plague of all occurrences, and boasted its graceful styling and luxurious hair, no more natural than a flower motif, or covered with a wool cap puff of colors, or the silk scarf halter.
Y crossed to his hand, rubbing the English major (filled with wonder and curiosity), or French (noisy and light humor), groups of nice people and my beautiful, most original aspect and smiling.
The majo (bullfighter, or check, or shawl, or semi-artisan) cover all his pride on the buttons his jacket, the merit of his belt and luxury of their spats.
There is such a passion for luxury Andalusian would stop eating three days to save the value of their shining buttoning silver, placed in double rows on the leading edges of the cloth jacket, blue or black and full of the most cute ornaments.
The wide belt, which gives many laps around the waist and chest, down jacket (in the form of dormancy and always open), draws attention for its vivid color (blue, crimson, red, green or yellow), the fineness of silk or wool and weaving, and the grace of the tassels or fringe slopes of the extremities.
Their abundant pin stand freely as two beautiful bushes at the foot of the hat calanes without wings and also adorned with some black silk tassels.
Spats, from which hang tasseled and countless ribbons of the same leather, give it a very original husk.
Add dress to grace the air of smugness, a tone loud, very marked and handsome, his hat tipped over one eyebrow, cigarette in mouth, with spitting by Fang, the great curved blade of acute and springs out, full of carvings and ornaments, half protruding from a pocket or below the band, and stick in hand, not yet fist with a silk or rope handle, and sometimes spinning pinwheel when not serving strut - and you will have the full figure of Seville nice.
As to the manola (type no longer found only in Andalusia or in the representations dramatic and carnivals), far from being scary as the majo is extremely nice.
Always fussy and ingratiating, when in the mood and free from coercion of majo, - cantankerous (is the word) and even contemptuous, when the gallant who speaks does not know to be accepted and displayed vain, - the instincts of independence reveals my beautiful and very pronounced seduction.
His gait is graceful, its provocative and mocking eyes, are destroyed through the beautiful ornaments and brightly colored fabrics; gústale much strutting arm in arm with a handsome, and watch your hair dressing and passion.
When walking is careful to show the dwarf walking shoes an elegant slipper, and discover something the rich calf, can make you lose your gravity to an Englishman.
His costume is pompous, very snug, very high and they blend fabrics always bright colors, especially red and yellow, its simple and elegant headdress, and his chest plump and vigorous palpitation highlighted with black velvet or satin scarf, or the light blanket that wraps around part of the round arm.
The worker in Seville, as I said, has many artistic and business rules in manufacture of a crowd of curious artifacts.
The mere inspection of stores Sevilla is enough to interest the traveler.
So, after leaving the old mansion Don Pedro the Cruel, feels heavy and unpleasant air of the street and takes a sweet printing, but not experienced the sadness that accompanies the traveler to stay away from sites and impressive monuments of the old fortress of Boabdil. * * * * * La Lonja, next to the cathedral, is a beautiful and elegant monument that honors to its architect, the famous Herrera .
