It was like lightning.
However, Ramiro instantly recognized the eyes of Casilda, and instead of stopping, the layer terciose straightened up hastily to the other side.
After missing more than half an hour in the direction of the southeast, without departing from the river, he saw poke a cross between the ridges.
It was the cross in a chapel built on the edge of the abyss.
He approached, and despite deep trouble, let them fall by the surprise box absorbed a moment informing it useful sense of his soul.
Opposite him, on the opposite side, extending from Toledo to the west rising, staggering on the high gray rock roofs, their pale walls, numerous towers.
Smooth and rapid escarpment from the city fell to the bottom of the narrow, old apparently covered crumbly ash, as if the fire of God had been there, destroying all roots and all the seed.
Ramiro religious thought with horror on the slopes of the eternal punishment that reprobates have to climb with your feet and hands, to fall back on the air inflamed and re-climb and fall without forgiveness, without truce indefinitely.
The river flowed at a terrible depth between rusty rocks and wild beasts.
It seemed a River of guilt and atonement, as it forges the imagination to think about hell.
Meanwhile, the village took, with the time, desolate whiteness of bones in the wilderness, and all the city, looking from a distance, through the vibrating shadows, like a city in another world, a city outside of life and time, as anxious as the mysticism and psalms.
In the highest part, outstanding pieces drenched in melancholy reflection Alcázar twilight.
Ramiro overtones penetrate the sacred gathering, sensing a sign, a voice from above.
At that moment the bells of the city burst into touch prayers.
The chimes were entering long distance and moving a song which suggested in the litany of death, and seemed as if the rock that supported the many steeples vibrated at the same time as the box of an organ.
He remembered Ramiro Avila bells, the afternoons of his childhood in the stately tower and his mother, always weeping, always in mourning always moody.
Was redeemed, was purified, but his chest felt hungry and sad, like a stream without water.
He wanted to enter the shrine at the foot of the altar pour their grief deep.
The soil and rocks ranged around, his body, relieved, went to come off, no doubt, of the earth.
Suddenly, a fire, a bolt inflamed, coming above, he entered his chest, immersing for a few seconds in a rich state, enjoyed only with the soul.
Then everything happened.
He thought then that he had been trasverberado as Mother Teresa of Jesus and God just down to him in all his power and mercy, to make testing a sip, just, of the joys that awaited him when his soul, conquering the world, was delivered Finally, with sovereign passion, solitude and penance.
A moment later he returned to the city in search of a convent where he changed clothes Knight by a sackcloth of a hermit.
V Puce dress and holding roughly with the refrain, over his shoulder, the humble backpacks saddled him for the trip the Franciscan Sisters of Penance San Juan, funky Ramiro de Toledo, the next morning, taking over the management of forests noon.
He walked many days, from sunrise to sunset, sipping on his face in streams and eating the crumbs which gave the farmers.
More than a compassionate Walker offered to take her on the rump of his horse, but he smiled and marked in holy dust stronger footprint sandals.
He slept in the yard sales or the roadside, where he took night.
Finally, one morning, after very long trip, came to see from the top of a hill the white city of Cordoba, bathed in the moist and radiant blush of dawn.
It was noted from there, passing by a fruit, the convent of the Sisters of Mount Caramel, and thought that under that roof was near his mother, felt the sobs choked breath.
Without wishing to approach the city and away from the trails, found at last, on the edge of the mountain, a cave hidden by weeds and shrubs.
Was inside a table made of branches of oak without uncorking, an ink orange root, a stool, a hoe and several pots sunk in the mud.
From the top, hung an old suit gentleman, and besides, like two smoked hams, a pair of boots on the way with spurs.
That same night, lighting the lamp she had, and going to bed on a pile of litter to the bottom of the cave, he found himself with the mummified body of an old hermit, that his hands still clutching rosary beads dried.
Ramiro dropping hints knees and raised his arms to heaven, thanking God for having placed, while in his way, the desired shelter and example of that death.
The next day morning, was buried the hermit, and ordered his best inside the dark hiding place, where he had resolved to spend the rest of his life.
Soon a sublime pleasure flooded her heart.
The prayer continues, the total disregard the world and, above all, the arduous and ingenious imposed penance, he did know the ineffable pride of holiness great pride that swelled the soul infinitely and he rose to sublime flight over the miseries of man.
Compared to the admirable anchorites of the Thebaid, and was assured that in times to come would read her story homes and dining halls for the edification of souls.
The nuns of Toledo habíanle put in the bag some books on mysticism.
Driven by those readings, Ramiro was proposed through the three spiritual paths described in treated, and finally achieve possession of the greatest glory he had sought so far by misleading ways.
But the flame of the early days could not be maintained, no longer feel those raptures again that lit up in the crypt of her soul heat lamps that spoke Fray Juan de la Cruz.
The night of cold and darkness fell upon his heart, the gloom and damp of den began to stale, the reading made him insufferable.
The breeze was always delicious and brought from the farms to the perfume of blossoms softened the will and away any idea of ??penance.
Smiles of women, carmine of her lips parted, Blinks malicious, appeared before him in the dark pink or blue in the shade of trees.
Apathy, laziness invincibility began to overwhelm its members as a magic and spirit until he spent most of the day lying in bed hermit, busy counting dimples in the rock or water droplets that fell from the slopes.
Lizards, cockroaches, mice and many insects that were previously unknown, ended up climbing over his body, and he, rather than frighten, maintained complete immobility, to observe about their every move.
He spent weeks without praying the rosary and without going into the city to hear the Sunday Mass and call provisions, as was his custom.
One morning he heard a woman's voice a few steps from the cave: They sing and sing of Roland Oliveros and non of Zurraquín, CA was great barragán.
Song of Roland or Olivero sings and non of Zurraquín, CA was a great gentleman.
It was a double chorus Medrano, Esquire, never tired of repeating.
Another morning, gathering firewood by the outline, found at the foot of a tree a sword cover rust.
Took her to his hideout and frotola strongly with wet sand.
Was a lordly weapon, several silver rings girdled the black leather scabbard, the blade had the mark of Hortunas, the garrison was shed and thin, like a Miranda.
One trivial incident came to tear your laziness.
Since then spend hours sprucing up the sword in the smallest cracks, and was pleased to bring it to light for sun run a flame over the sheet, and wield wield it with force, it blow in the wind.
Since she never went out into the woods that carry it, and sometimes, looking over and Moreover, as if someone might surprise you, bend the tip of the trunk somewhat trees to remember the terrible lunge that had killed Gonzalo.
His blood was roused again, and spirit, inflated again with the wind of honor dream again and praise the triumphs of life and all the deeds that he could have performed by the world.
Hallab an afternoon of September sitting on a high cliff, and pondering the idea shortly to visit her mother when she saw walk up the hill, on a gray mule, a old lean and slender than his head down and looked with singular attention to the grotto.
The man happened again the next morning, looking always with the same curiosity.
Finally, one day when Ramirez came to feel so unbearable torment of hunger, mysterious old man happened to be passing at the time of dusk, carrying forward on the chair a small basket full of loaves and a string of onions around his shoulder.
Ramiro walked toward him, exclaiming: - Give me, by God, an onion and some bread!
Ramiro, then, in a menacing voice and stronger, he repeated: - For the love of God, give me some bread!
He crosses his path, and grasping with a hand brake of the horse, lifted with the other of its bronze crucifix, repeating: - Give me, I say, a few crumbs in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ!
Then the old man bent his body forward and, in reply, spat twice with holy boldness barbaric image of the Redeemer.
Ramiro gave a cry of horror.
His body hesitated fought side by two impulses.
Finally, running with a vengeance to the cave, took the bar and came straight to the man, intending to kill him right there.
In pronouncing these words, Walker took off his broad hat he wore, to discover your head and better show the whole face.
Ramiro experienced great shock.
He had just recognized the mysterious character of the suburb of Santiago, the dedicated Moorish had saved his life, leaving later, as I recall, the Saracen dagger valuable. - Yes, I have begotten you in the haughty Dona Guiomar - continued the old man - and your grandfather preferred Casalla at once with the old Don Lope, in hatred of my race and my belief.
Then, back in Avila, I gave you life a second time, sacándote from the daggers of the believers, and I Castilla expelled as a traitor.
But you, Ramiro, I paid in good coin Christian break your oath and giving to the Inquisition and the wretched Gulina Aixa Aixa the Jarifa, Aixa the holy, that they were thrown into the fire after they have cured and given with much love as you have them!
Tears fell from his eyes and trembling voice, exclaimed at last: - Ah!
I do not want to curse, because a father's curse of Allah is always heard ..; no, I dare not curse ...!
With these words he waved his left hand back, and heavily beaded mules, left fall down all the loaf, then disappeared among the rocks.
The ideas seemed to howl and swirl like the wind in one night gale.
I did not want, do not want to think, and knelt in front of nails to stun, waved his arms in the darkness, puffing furiously as a man alienated by terror; but was increasingly brooding inexorable, more eloquent, more profound.
Sometimes laughing their own credulity, dismissing as absurd greatest words of the Moor; others came to feel fully convinced, and was surprised not to have conceived so far no suspicion among many clues.
Suddenly, the same horror of that uncertainty, he stands on his heels.
Instant thought just crossed his mind.
Get in the stool, picks old clothes and boots hanging from the top of the cave.
A sound currency pocket in breeches.
When he had changed the sackcloth of those clothes from another time and girded sword, left the cave and began to wander at night.
He had no idea that yet another break away without to the sea, another hope that the galleons.
He dreamed of a region of India, where plants, fruits, birds, stars, everything was new to him and nothing will remind old and evil land of his birth, the land where everything was adversity, hex, hexing.
Only then could escape the curse that haunted him perhaps from the womb.
Walked tirelessly pushed as Ashavero, by a mysterious wind that moved the leaves trees, and that he, with all his might, I could not resist.
At night, in sales, seeing him appear with the old suit and beard disheveled, tiptoe over a farmhand hit the cup of wine and crossing himself escaped the corral.
In contrast, day, crossing the villages, the kids made fun of his appearance and he threw behind nutshells and handfuls of dust.
With the money he had found in the breeches bought a mule to shorten the path and a cloak to cover, and thus, after many adventures, was finally the city of Cadiz, in mid-December.
The same day, walking the streets, saw a banner hung from a window company, asked by the captain and told him that he had left the day before to Jerez.
Was going to retire when a soldier who was sitting on a bench, next to the door, said: - If your worship, sir knight, wants to talk to Pablo Martinez, the lieutenant, there will have on your right.
Ramiro turned her face and her astonishment was immense when he saw crossing the street to her house dress page soldier's finery.
Pablillo was barely in Flanders
