But I want to level my thanks to yours, take it in person to see first officer for Heritage and the recommendation was more expressive and effective.
Everything went according to the wishes of both.
So diligent was helpful and good D.
Francisco, that two days have seen him, my issue was resolved.
Two geldings and Bayonne dozen bottles of wine of my own I gave on October 4, her birthday, and even this accuracy did not seem proportionate to the service I had done.
It was common hear this phrase: "I go, I go, to come to me my manager, I do not want him wait.
In 1868 this lady still retained much of its old self and greatness of social rule within five years of O'Donnell.
At that time he ate hurriedly debris flow that gathereth her husband, and there was no day that no one come out of the house jewelry, a box, a cabinet with a mission to bring money to meet the needs domestic.
Conflicts with her landlord, who had six months of rent, I would take if I had space for it.
The reigns of these apurillos saved by paying the arrears of home and offering a room at the top of the Palace, which the unhappy not hesitate to accept ... "I've been in this hole to please His Majesty, and be near her, while I arranged the parts of the terrace ...
Oh, what a postmodern architect! ...
When Fish and I met, and we were honored guide us into the abode of Bringas, they had more than a year of neglect and decay the famous Rafael tables, the table of Tristan and a thousand other treasures that miracle of God were not in museums.
Candida was one of the most constant visits Bringas.
Rosalie felt friendly toward her affection and always listened with submission, conceptualized as leading authority on social matters and in all manner of finery.
In the eyes of Madame Thiers, the last brilliant Candida had left, the weather cleared, flashes of prestige and nobility about the Roman bust stiff and packaging of the illustrious widow.
This aura fascinated Rosalia, who exaggerating their respect for fallen majesties, appeared to take seriously what my manager, my home ...
Candida was expressed on all occasions with ease and security and upside down across the world that gave rise to replication.
He lived in the East Wing, the humble neighborhood of what we have agreed to call the city, but no other resident of this made more visits and spent more time away from home.
All day was spent in house to house, calling for different doors, visiting, chatting, visiting all parts the colossus from the kitchen to the coops, and at night, without leaving the street, came to a temporary hut so rendered as if he had run half of Madrid.
The person over hint of how many lived there, and that the concept of ranked Rosalia immediately below that of the royal family, was the General lived Minio, Waitress more His Majesty's person very distinguished and unblemished by any side that look at her.
The Sanchez Botin are good family, I think a solar lineage Bierzo, and are related, but remote Aransis's family.
On the same day they married two sisters, the Marquis Milagros Telleria, and Gertrude, who was the oldest, with Colonel Mini, which quickly rose in general, winning battles in the ante-palatal courtesans.
There was no birthday of kings or princes that he did not catch a cross, or degree.
When he could not give anything higher in order of militia, two gimped, I graced him with the title of Count Santa Barbara (from a farm that was in Navarra), having a name that whiff powder, tallied well with his job, although it was said of him that he had never smelled more than we spend to save.
The reputation for bravery that had enjoyed was based on very rough.
In the disorder of our ideas can easily become heroes that can hardly write his name.
The truth is that D.
Peter Minio, Marquis of Santa Barbara, was impressive person at a standstill, or by reviewing inspection in the barracks, or military giving screams played by the various Directorates.
The Queen knew them fluently and had a lot of salt.
But not to stir the ashes of this void, whom the Countess said, in the most hidden folds of trust, I was awarded a beast, and let's deal with his widow.
VII It was all so different from the Marquise de Telleria seemed not daughters of the same mother.
Nor did he like, or the condition or the figure, with his famous brother Alexander Sanchez Botin, a man of great means.
The few items that appear adorned they were complemented by another form of human distinction, disgrace, privilege beings to come to perfection.
The two children who inherited the name, rudeness and the General solecisms were two good jewelry.
What happened to them that mother martyr Cavalry to pursue a career is not for cash.
Were five or six years of cruel fighting desaplicación with barbarism and the boys, a strenuous boxing with teachers; and thanks to the name you had and I wrote little notes for each course the Queen, left forward.
And were officers and were in place, when a new series of bitter disappointments the existence of Dona Tula.
Months did not pass without one of his buds do a lot.
Issues, challenges, drunkenness, summary, gambling dens, trapping, were the history of all days, and Mom had to remedy this with the recommendations and disbursements.
Came to feel so tired, that when the eldest, also named Peter Minio, we expressed the desire to go to Cuba, had no strength to oppose her.
The other wanted to marry woman with a bad record.
New battle of the mother, who used to avoid, how resources will allow knowledge of the world and its high position.
This lady said a phrase that stuck in the minds of all who heard it, absurd and painful cry selfishness against motherhood, and if not a paradox, it would be blasphemy against Nature and the human species.
They spoke of children and mothers who wanted them, as well as that were in excessive number. "Ah, children! - Dona Tula said with sad accent -.
That Leopoldito so mischievous monkey that Gustavito as early as sabidillo and sitting, that Luisito so mystical, it seemed an apprentice saint, and especially that Mary, with green eyes and Hellenic profile, extracted from Venus the ruins of Greece, sovereign, living sculpture, what envanecerían mother?
Doña Tula worshiped his nephews.
Were for her children that had not caused any pain to the children of another yours for the inconvenience and thank you.
To Mary, who then turned fifteen, the passionately adored grandmother, mother or twice, and was somewhat spoiled and mimosa.
The beautiful girl was Sunday and Thursday to spend with Dona Tula all day, also used go on Tuesdays and Fridays, and sometimes on Mondays and Saturdays.
The holidays there reuníanse the overall number of girlfriends, including girls from D.
Buenaventura de Lantigua, and These premium, daughter of the famous jurist D.
Which had just received the investiture of women were walking in groups, arm in arm doing trials of formality and quiet and discreet conversation.
Smaller ran, teaching halfway up the leg, and it is safe to say that Isabelita Bringas and niece Dona Candida were the most rattled.
The brief terms that light was crossed on the one hand, the most insipid of improved social language and secondly the naive rantings of primitive societies.
In all these cases is repeated the beginning of the world incessantly, that is, the itching of Creation, wanting.
The playful band of half-formed women invaded the home of Bringas.
Rosalia, joyful be treated with Dona Tula, with Telleria, with Lantiguas, recibíalas with arms open, and regaled with cakes, which had previously brought the pastry palace. "Play, tangled, shouting and confusion that I do not bother" - playfully told Bringas from the window opening, which was submerged in the deep immensity of their hair.
Y they were not made to pray, opened the piano, one of them banging a polka or waltz, and other, hugging each other in pairs, dance, tossing happy, laughing, crying and kissing. "Dance, run, the house is yours, dear girls" - he said without looking away Thiers of the atoms that stuck to the glass, and they took it as the literally running Gasparini dancing and jumps to Saleta went into the Carrion and Columns.
when I was by shuffling Isabelita his wrists, was the beginning and no end.
Precisely Tallud the most were those that were entertained with more rage in this hilarious mock domestic life, dressing and undressing and tow sissies china, clothing babies with glass eyes and moving the stuff of tin kitchen cabinet or a carton.
What seized the attention of all, reaching up to produce rivalry, it was a huge doll that D.
Agustin Caballero Isabelita had sent from Bordeaux, which was a good piece, moving his eyes, he said had mom and dad and joints to be placed in all positions.
Of a creature that there was only one step, suffer.
That clothed him cool afternoon, and when a petulant rumorcillo indicated the proximity of the chicks in the corridor when they heard his laughter in the style of skulls and their voices sounded very close, the previous month had acquired the hoarseness of manhood, the girls stuck their wrist to the high fence of Carrion, and here was the nonsense of them and the innocent fun of them.
For more than D.
Francisco protested the taste I had in seeing his house full of Seraphim ever bothered him.
When I admire the work happening hairy and enracimaban in around the table, the great artist, unable to breathe in that beautiful crown heads, they said, laughing: "Girls, for God's sake, take a little back.
To see no need drowning ...
Care, Gloria, you take me stuck in that hair manga.
Care, Mary, that your breath is thrown into the air these gray ...
Francisco, you will go blind ...».
What story did in the Spring of 68, and on Holy Thursday of that year was one of the days when more uproar.
Don Francisco, sanctifying the holidays, attended high label his cross, and in particular to the religious ceremony in the chapel.
Rosalie also presented himself at the royal purple, judging that his presence was indispensable to the ceremonies they had all the glitz and pomp suitable.
Candida did not go down, apparently "because I was tired of ceremonial "because I did not really dress.
Invited them to come up with a loft deception high saying that from there you could see inside the chapel, and then they locked me until mid-afternoon.
Because they were friends of the clerk, resident of Candida could be placed on the ladder chapel to discern, amidst door ajar, the headpiece of the patriarch and two candles tenebrario off of an altar covered in purple cloth, some chaplains and some bald gentlemen breasts full of crosses and bands, but nothing more.
A little later succeeded see some of the beautiful ceremony of giving food to the poor after washing.
There are the southern wing of the terrace a large glass skylights, protected by networks wire.
Correspond to the main staircase to the Hall of Columns and Guards.
Peering for them, so closely is the curved roof, which are monstrous and crudely painted figures that decorate it.
Angelone and nymphs spread their legs for Scotland enormous riding on clouds that look like gray cotton bales.
In other figures would believe that the effort of his colossal muscle up in the air the roof framing.
In contrast, Flower Carpet, which is deep, tomaríanse by thumbnails.
Crowd of people of all kinds, people in the city, came very early to catch place in the Hall of Columns skylights for the food of the poor.
It enracimaban women with large circles of glass, and as there was no holes, which could be placed in the front, even delivering elbows, enjoyed that pompous royal act of humility that everyone plays as you want.
Strangers, who had been invited as they were so intrusive that they wanted to if all the belvedere.
More Candida, with that authority that he knew clothed at all times serious, sent clear one of the skylights to take free possession of her girls Telleria, Lantigua and Bringas.
Curious spectacle was the Hall of Columns as seen from the roof.
No lifting his eyes table rather than to look astonished those who served them.
Some shed tears of embarrassment rather than gratitude, for its position among the mighty of the land and to the charity of label that favored more was to humiliate that pamper.
If all effort of imagination would not be sufficient to represent Christ in tails, there is no reasoning which can convince us that this comedy palace has nothing to do with Gospel.
The plates were taken at the door, hands raised, for the straight people waiter made in this pious occasion.
Forming chain, ladies and gentle men were going to the very hands of the Kings, who presented them to the poor air of kindness and courtesy, the only sympathetic note in that picture theatrical farce.
But the unhappy not eat, if they were eating had a great hurry to see.
Probably his clumsy hands could not remember how it carries food to the mouth.
Rations placed on the table, a servant was caught them and put in two baskets that had every poor behind from his seat.
Shortly afterwards, when real people and the greatness left the room, out those with her basket, and the chambers of the pastries were waiting innkeepers Madrid or other unique merchants to buy everything for a few dollars.
The duration of the food, the gracious spectators did not stop his talk talkative.
Mary Egyptian, would have liked to be down, with great dress tail, passing trays.
now look at the ceiling ...
Francisco also see, there ...
along the steward of the week.
Next to my mom ... - What a beautiful marquise with mauve skirt and cloak! ...
if you look up, if we look ...
Here we are ... - Each ceremony of this is costing my aunt many headaches and much trouble, because know the recommendations it receives ...
Every day letters and the Marchioness recaditos or countess.
