And lord knows what he is capable of a rich gentleman when is madly in love and keep you from seeing and talking to his beloved torture. - We said goalkeeper more heal quickly.
Sepal: the gentleman is very rich, very grateful and is very much in love.
Goalkeeper scared, shaky, uncertain, it was a long time standing, watching, and the black and the oranges.
After he asked huskily through fear or shame: - What do you call the gentleman? - The child knows, "said Maria de Regla, abruptly walking away.
He remained the keeper thoughtful, as if rooted to the bars of the goal.
Soon we passed the lock to the door, he locked it, and three oranges in each hand he went into the yard of the House of Recogidas.
There was all that can be filled with illusions of a man in love, and hope to a woman afflicted, in the brief interview that he had the keeper with Cecilia.
My only crime love is a lot like a young man who died for me.
This has made me the father of the gentleman from who you talk to me.
You have mercy on a woman unjustly persecuted.
The doorman went away another man .-- Who comes up with a girl brought here like this? - Is asked himself.
The devil, but the evil spirit to tempt and draw from their boxes to the peaceful people.
Here I would like to see the strong men, the same saints. "Resist?
I will do what it wants.
And stay wrong with the Bishop, my protector, will fall from grace, lose the position I occupy in this house.
Two or three days later it returned, and keeper of the collections did not get it wrong.
Brought new claim: that of a private conversation with the prisoner in the prison.
Visits were prohibited inside the house could only speak to those contained in the presence of the guardian at the gate of the goal.
But Mary Rule argued the point with skill, saying, among other things, not surprisingly, the porter will help kill an innocent child sadness, and made complicit in the greatest injustice that had occurred previously in Havana.
That gentleman, lover of the girl, he had very advanced steps to remove closure, and, of course, exclude from its gratitude to all those who had oppressed their adored torment.
Then he added, as if suddenly remembering: - The gentleman gave me for lord these half-dozen ounces of gold, in case the girl needed something to eat, or dress, or any craving ...
This last argument ended up spoiling the rest of virtue or embarrassment of the goalkeeper.
Briefly describe the scene now followed the interview the messenger with the dam.
María Cecilia Rule found in the same position in which said had surprised guardian days before, only this time not the hair that covered part of the back overlooking the entrance to the cell.
You know his mercy Who painted the crescent? - What crescent? - The bears his mercy in the shoulder (with the index touching the girl's left). - This is not painting, is a mole, or rather, a brand I have been there as a result a blow to my childhood. - No, if your worship is really, really Cecilia Valdés I know, that's not the moon, or hit mark: crescent is the grandmother of his mercy he painted and indigo needle before to throw it into the Real Casa Cuna. - Oh!
Should remember me. - No, indeed. - Well, I gave suck to their mercy, first in the Real Casa Cuna, and then for about a year, staying with the grandmother of his mercy, when she lived in the alley in San Juan of God.
Do not know his mercy with tears and sorrow it has cost me his upbringing, not only to me, also my husband.
Yes, your worship has been the cause first and foremost of our misfortunes. - What has happened to Vds.? - I will be banished from Havana twelve years, and my husband is a prisoner in jail.
Le blame the death of Captain Tonda. - So that's how you say!
Although the cause of our misfortunes, his grace is innocent no fault. - How should I not mourn and grieve, if pursued after me unjustly, made of stone scandal of women in this house, harass me with your questions and nonsense, for auction has been you, it says I grew up, and I reproach the misfortunes of you and her husband?
Is there more unhappiness than mine? - When I told him my story, woven with that of his mercy, will be convinced that I have a lot reason. - But who are you? - My name is Maria de Regla, humble servant of his grace, Leonardo Gamboa child slave. - Ah!
Cecilia said standing up and hugging her interlocutor. - Listen!
The child recognizes and embraces me as a child slave Leonardo not the mother's milk as I am of his mercy. - No, I embrace both reasons, especially since his coming is a bringer of salvation for me.
The black crossed his arms and began to contemplate Cecilia face to face.
asked Cecilia. - In my daughter Adela. - Who is this girl? - Milk My other daughter, sister, father and mother of the child Leonardo. - "So much I look like her?
That's what I had told some friends who know her view. - And say that it seems.
But he sins and sin to want to worship as they want.
If you would like as friends or brothers, go, as a man and woman is a sin.
Cecilia asked, surprised.
In loving a man and a much woman, I do not know who has sinned. - Yes, there, child, sometimes you have to sin tight.
On the one hand, he is white, but within Soon it will be of blue blood, because his father is the Count of Casa Gamboa.
And he has a palace to live with that is to be his lawful wife.
And his mercy ...
Sorry, girl, that is so clariosa.
His mercy is poor, has no drop of blue blood and a daughter ...
of the Creche.
You can not be left to marry his mercy. - Everything is to be put on the head.
A good man he is and does what he wants.
And although no, I'm sure the word that has given me. - You can not fulfill it, girl.
In time you will know their mercy.
Not me who is opposed, is another, that's nature are the laws divine and human.
But what do I say?
Tell me, girl, what's in your eyes? - I have nothing in their eyes, "said Cecilia scrubbing innocently. - Yes, I see something in them that is a bad sign.
No, no, she said a hurry. - His mercy and Leonardo child is female. - Do not understand what you said. - Have you ever felt your mercy nausea?
So as a desire to be provocative? - Yes, several times.
More often since I'm in this house.
I attribute that to the shocks and sorrows my unjust imprisonment. - Tate.
The cause of the illness of his worship is another.
If your worship had been born ugly, perhaps does not matter what happens now.
which has no cure, is best forgotten.
Finally, tell the child Leonardo the status of your mercy and safety pin that rush to get the girl in this damn house.
Leonardo Gamboa strongly affected the latest news that Cecilia brought the slave.
Without loss of time, as he had intended it, he focused with his classmate and friend Mayor, who had decreed the arbitrary order of imprisonment, to which he claimed those titles, along with this circumstance.
He also revealed the delicate state secret the girl.
Spilled all over the gold with both hands and had the ineffable satisfaction to see their efforts crowned with success all the way over the last days of the month April.
Cecilia went to his place, despite fierce opposition from his father.
Led prison the house they had rented in the Rue des Dames, by giving cook, servant trust and owner of Mary always rule.
It seemed there was not the happiest man on the face of the earth.
While all this was executed with total reserves of Don Candido, Leonardo hid anything Dona Rosa.
From beginning to end kept informed of the steps being taken, as were given.
And, sorry to say, do not know who was more rejoicing in the outcome of the drama, if your child or the mother.
This raised an insurmountable barrier, she sincerely believed, between the girl and the reckless claims of her husband.
Amid these scenes, displayed Leonardo skill and willpower without example, by great care in fulfilling the conditions of the contract held secret to her mother.
Attended to law classes regularly, and when it came time to graduate, visited one by one doctors to be discussed, mainly to Don Diego de la Torre, who enjoyed very stiff reputation with graduates, he went out to Fray Ambrosio Herrera, Secretary University, who secretly informed that instead of the three tips of hard custom, intended to put three ounces of gold in each cartridge.
That paved the way for reception, and managed to stall the ordinance hood, up to the chair of the lecture hall, get in the crown of the head red biretta, delivering a speech unintelligible in Latin, and obtain the degree of Bachelor of Laws "Nemiña dissentiente [60] April 12 1831.
Satisfied with this side its commitments, he still had time to take formal possession of palace that his father had given him.
Then, with the aim of monitoring numb of it, ran to give a "caradita" to Isabel's paradise Alquízar, and see to conclude with it, if possible, the manner and time of marriage.
Repugnábale highly the idea of ??witnessing for second time, the horrific scenes of wit.
As a guest, it would lack the time together with desire, like love, because if failed to stop loving the terrible punishments blacks there, by a fatal necessity of the institution, could hardly promised that married were abolished.
Leonardo And pray take these reasons for which mere scruples nun friend, now they might be persuaded it would relieve a promise that is no longer interested much his heart, turned to Havana without trying to pave the unexpected inconvenience.
In late August was a beautiful Cecilia girl; event that, far from happy with Leonardo, it seems that only made him feel the full weight of the grave responsibility that had been thrown over in a moment of amorous rapture.
He had not yet fallen so gentle slope of vice sambenito that would make the gala.
Vanished, without a doubt, the enthusiasm with easy coveted possession of the object was only contemptible in quality above.
When love took place shortly shame.
After this was due repentance, and presented at a gallop, much earlier than This was expected, called the cold storage conditions and moral laxity that had tests the young Gamboa.
The first symptoms of change not long in discovering Cecilia with pain came towards rush of jealousy to complicate the situation of things.
This explains the strange behavior of Leonardo with Cecilia, the biggest influence on him vigorously pursued his mother.
Because it was a certainty that if the boy had fled with all the virtues at the early age of 22 years, fleeing the timid pigeon loft struck by lightning, was no less true that warmed her heart still sweet filial marble.
Doña Rosa also had learned from those days true story of birth, baptism, parenting and fatherhood of Cecilia Valdés, told Mary Rule now in order to obtain complete forgiveness of their sins and some help for Dionisio, who was still in close prison.
It would be an atrocity. - Yes, it is necessary, the mother said in a resolute tone.
Isabella no longer loves me.
You have read his last letters.
They do not speak love, speaks only Monji. - Nonsense!
I'll fix the business in two Palotada.
It should get married early on primogeniture, even not for any other purpose than ensuring legitimate succession to the title.
To marry Isabel, I say.
By letter of Don Tomas Don Candido Ilincheta, said Dona Rosa Isabel's hand for his son Leonardo, heir presumptive County Gamboa House.
In response, the alleged bride, accompanied by her father, sister and aunt came to his time Havana and was removed at the home of her cousins, the Misses Gámez.
It was therefore postponed marriage for early November in the picturesque Church of the Angel, because the most decent, if not closer to the congregation itself.
The first of three revelations Regular ran last Sunday in October, fairs past San Rafael.
There were those who communicate with Cecilia's new link next to Isabel Ilincheta her lover.
We disclaim paint the tumult of passions aroused in the breast of the proud and vengeful mulatta.
Suffice it to say that the sheep, in fact, became a lioness.
At dusk on November 10 knocked on the door of an old friend Cecilia, who not seen since his concubinage with Leonardo. - Jose Dolores!
The musician had already turned the corner of Calle de las Damas.
Numerous candles and candles burned on the altar of the church of Santo Angel Custodio.
Some people were standing, leaning on the railing of the broad plateau ending the two stone steps.
On the Street looks up a large group Compostela ladies and gentlemen whose carriages were down.
The couple put the foot on the last step, when a man came by the other side, his hat pulled down over ears, crossed the plateau and ran diagonally to Leonardo, an effort to win before this the south side of the church, where he finally disappeared.
She took the boy on the left hand, gave a muffled cry, wanted to lean on the arm Elizabeth, rolled and fell at his feet, splashing blood on the shiny white silk dress.
Brushing the arm at the scum, he became the knife right way the heart.
CONCLUSION Far from appeasing Rosa convinced that Cecilia Valdés was the daughter of his adulterous half-sister, husband and hence his unfortunate son, that it seemed to turn it into anger divestment and the desire for revenge.
Pursued, then, the girl with real fury, and it was not difficult to make the convict as an accomplice in the murder of Leonardo, a year of confinement in the hospital for Paula.
On these roads came to recognize and embrace daughter and mother, having recovered this trial, as is often the insane, a few moments before his spirit left the wretched human shell.
It makes Isabel Ilincheta, disillusioned would not find happiness or quiet the soul in the society within which happens to be born, retired to the convent of the nuns Teresas or Carmelites, and was professed there after a year of novitiate.
Rosa married to Diego Metieses, strove to replace the older sister in the care of father and aunt, going to dwell with them in the paradise of Alquízar.
Formed the criminal case for killing Dionisio Tonda, did not come to fail but five years after the events recounted here.
The court sentenced him to ten and the popular chain Don Miguel Tacon assigned him to the prison in Havana to the composition of streets.
FIN GLOSSARY A includes: rustic leather footwear that covers the ground beef, fingers and most of foot and secured with ropes or straps.
Agramonte field: instead of much confusion, where no one understands
