The first was from my uncle to ask "Another pillow," and that they spent three of which served as support for his back and head.
As the two women met the mandate and Mullian and arranging the resulting heap for less discomfort for the patient left the bedroom and I Neluco behind him, a sign that I did. - This is for the post - I said, so they would not hear the patient. - So serious is it you? - Ask. - Very serious - he replied -.
Matter of hours or so.
The swelling of the legs, as you have seen, has taken tonight a big increase ...
Natural own and sudden advancement has given the disease, perhaps by the rapid decline that has occurred in the temperature this morning ...
because they do not know if there you noticed that it is cold since dawn, cutting hair.
It was cold in my imagination a sudden scrambling of ideas, and forgetting the sick, I remembered more than the attempt by the three outlaws ready for that night, and so I asked the same avidity Neluco he could do Facia in their "best days" of ghosts and sorrow: - Do you think it will snow? - And the sign - I said Neluco -.
And led me to the door of the laundry, from whose paneled we pass, carried by the icy breeze blowing outside, some flakes were identical to those I had seen start another novel.
So I warned the doctor, and he replied: - But everything will come, and soon, no doubt you.
For the same reason - he said - must be very shelter care of these rooms.
Do not miss it here on the hearth burned so as to keep unchanged the temperature now is in the sick room.
No precaution is to heal, or even improve it, of course, but we must put on our part, for the sake of it, everything is possible ...
Another thing: given what is happening and, particularly, of what might happen in here that you need more people, for reasons On another occasion gave similar, and I tell Mari Pepa to come immediately with his daughter ...
You may also say something to Don Sabas, to make it even prevented.
With little more than this and I did some warnings regarding the patient after passing another little while at his side, he went and I remained Neluco I plunged into the most devilish thoughts.
Satan himself, as a discourse to a conflict to the house, so I had not spun well as it was the one I feared for the night, if baratijero threats were made, or did not come to stop and fix all the deus ex machina of the snow, in the dose that Neluco I had predicted.
Because otherwise, "Virgin my heavenly Mother!" As have said in similar cases the gray woman.
Don Celso, dying perhaps those hours, or perhaps already dead, Lita and her mother at his side, assisting him or praying for him in Facia reproduced paroxysms of distress, three bandits raiding the house, and I, Chisco and Salces Pito, a clean shot with them, ending with the shock of killing my uncle, if still alive, and setting about to die of grief for women, two of which, at least, was I have to defend any risk as I remain a breath of life, a cartridge burn or a grill to wield.
I recently heard by the confession of Facia, I had imagined this picture much easier.
