When the court of Spain sent to explore the accessible parts of the Patagonian coast, and More to the point to establish populations, pilots Varela and Ramirez, who came to board the frigate San Antonio, they were associated Fr Quiroga, whose diary served to P.
Lozano to draft that we published the first volume of our collection.
On his return from this mission, Fr.
the Company was commissioned to map the territory Mission: - vast and difficult work, not just by the nature of the terrain, but because of lack materials and resources.
Despite these obstacles, accepted P.
Quiroga this assignment, and then have determined with accuracy neat geographical position of the thirty towns Missions, and the cities of the Assumption, Corrientes, Santa Fe, Colonia, Montevideo and Buenos Aires, drew his map with the data supplied him edit and relationships unpublished for the missionaries, when it was possible to buy it personally.
This work, which has no more merit in the day as your priority, was published in Rome in 1753, by Fernando Franceschelli intaglio, which, according to the custom of time, added some news on the banks of the Paraguay, and grade standings latitude and longitude, according to the author's observations.
One of the most inaccurate parts of this map is the course of the river Paraguay, and was precisely that the P.
Quiroga had the opportunity to rectify shortly after, when in 1752 he accompanied the Spanish commissioner, D.
Manuel Antonio de Flores, in charge of putting the framework divisive Jaurú's mouth, in compliance with Article 6 of the treaty, set in Madrid in 13 January 1750.
This recognition that only fruit of laborious negotiations, was the last service the government for this religious scholar, and is also the most honored his memory.
In this diary availed D.
Luis de la Cruz Cano Olmedilla for the formation of his large map of America Southern, which was published in Madrid in 1775, and reproduced by Faden in London in 1799, was adopted by Arrowsmith in 1811.
This document would have met the fate of almost all the work of the last Jesuit in these regions, had it not been for the care of P.
Sunday Muriel (or Ciriaco Morelli and struck him in his work called), which was inserted in the appendix to his Latin version History of Paraguay P.
Charlevoix, where we have extracted.
Circumscribed to the duties of their state, P.
Quiroga resigned himself to a secluded life in the College of Belen, where he was intimidated by the decree of suppression of his order in 1767.
Expelled from his adopted country, without being allowed to return to their own, sought an asylum in Italy, where he ended his days, no more comfort than that provided by the religion to a guilt-free conscience.
Buenos Aires, June 1836.
PEDRO DE ANGELIS. * * * DESCRIPTION OF PARAGUAY RIVER. §.
Origin of the Paraguay River, and rivers that enter it, to its junction with the Parana.
The Paraguay River has its origin in a great chain of mountains, which stretches from east to west for hundreds of miles, passing north of Cuiaba.
In this range down to many streams and creeks south, which together form a mighty fine river, which begins to be waterway fifty or sixty leagues above the Xaurú.
And all the Paraguay river, from that mountains to the city of the Seven Streams, where concurs with the Paraná, it is also navigable, even with large ships, but these are not the best to overcome the current for which more apparent are the gigs of oars, launches and all kinds of light xebecs.
From the river Xaurú above does not know that rivers of Paraguay come into consideration, but is to believe that you enter some of the eastern part, because when it comes to Xaurú and plentiful.
The mouth of Xaurú is 16 degrees 25 minutes south latitude, and 320 degrees and 10 minutes in length, counted from the island towards the eastern Fierro.
Comes said river of the west and is navigable by canoe for some leagues.
Below are the Xaurú Paraguay divides into two branches flowing.
Another arm of this same river falls below, and give the Portuguese the name of the Chiana Canal, and he come up with their canoes to sailing Cuyabá Paulistas.
Tacuarí river, which also brings its current eastern part comes in Paraguay by three-neck, all waterways.
The northernmost, where lowering Paulist is 19 degrees.
In the same part of the East with great power comes Mboteteí river at 19 degrees and 20 minutes.
In the southern margin of Mboteteí was formerly a Spanish population, it was called Xerez, which is forsaken by the persecutions they were suffering from the Paulist.
It was this population to thirty leagues from the Paraguay River, at the foot of the great ridge that extends north-south between the rivers Paraná and Paraguay.
In the great floods Mboteteí down by many tacuaras, or very thick reeds, torn from their margins, which are many on the banks of the river Paraguay.
And it is very repairable, which in any the margin of this river, from the Mboteteí above, is not a tacuara.
Then cut out by the liquid rubber, which soon rubber coagulates as seen in the pharmacy
