Pepa does not go unnoticed by this gesture. - Look what a face so clouded currently has Osorio.
Probably the end of the day, I'll be forced to cut their losses, apart from the business. - Sir Duke, I have no guilt - Biggs responded with an English accent -.
I have received instructions. - Instructions are given on the advice of an old fox is in Madrid. - Oh, Duke! - Biggs said, laughing, - Sorro Vieco no, no.
And the discussion continued without the Spanish banker could get anything from English, but leaving quite concerned.
Pepa Frias, deeply agitated, spoke apart with Arbós Jiménez, after learning, asking some bankers, Osorio's business not going well.
However, all assumed it means to meet their commitments.
Its capital was great, and although in recent assessments of stock had experienced heavy losses, did not believe they were enough to cause bankruptcy.
It should be noted that none of these gentlemen operated on differences and Osorio.
Despite warnings from friends and colleagues, could not overcome the passion of the game, which eventually had to lead you to ruin.
Pepa secretly watched him, and with wonderful insight guess women under his cold exterior, quiet, high sea swell.
While Arbós tried to reassure her with the correct phrase, groomed (not even speaking to his beloved dispensed oratorical forms), the widow meditated a plan of salvation.
This plan was to give Clementina alarm and boot the promise of ridding their funds from burning, if who had, anchoring his own dowry.
Trusting a lot in its diplomacy and temperament detached from his friend, serenóse a bit.
Arbós had occasion once again, go see the calm your face, soak in the exceptional gifts with which Providence persuasive God had favored him.
Pepa had the courage to sit and play sitting with Clementina, Pinedo and Arbós.
Crossing The large living room sitting in a corner he saw his daughter and son-in attitude of two turtle doves love.
As had failed sweep of his mind the concern, spake with some asperity. - Yesterday I sent little notes and now have to bring hot water took off!
Apparently, children, you take an odd turn marriage ....
Come, come, separate is not well appear Sobon so in front of people.
Emilio was hurt by that authoritative tone, and with flushed cheeks would respond a descanted his mother, but she passed by, entering the sitting room.
Still everything was muttering pests, saying that he had ever endured and that no legs least now endure her mother, with another portion of sentences that equally strong sadness poured down the face of Irene
