If the lady staring at him, her cheeks lit.
Up to the stage to hello, and sometimes, as required by her, there was one or two acts.
In these Sometimes the lady used to retire to the anteroom and chat with him closely in the shade discrete curtains.
When he got tired, or the scene singing a piece of hard, kept silence the young man turned his back and listened for a while.
Raymond, keeping the ears the echo of your voice and your heart the fire in his eyes, was also quiet, attentive, indeed, music that sounded in his soul, that which came from the stage.
Insurance not be observed, contained alabaster religious attention back to his idol, Tollan the finest and gold around his neck, approached the head under the pretext of better hearing and inhaling the perfume that it followed her, closing her eyes and getting drunk during briefly.
One night, both hit the face at the head of the lady, oh wonder!
is threw his lips brushing her hair braided hairstyles folded down.
After he did was terribly frightened and peered eagerly if he had felt Clementina.
The lady continued unmoved, ecstatic listening to music.
However, his clear and beautiful eyes slipped a slight smile that the young man could not anticipate.
Encouraged with this success, always she brought her hair so far dissimulation and after long preparations and hesitations dared pose the lips on it.
That feeling was so vivid, so rich, that kept many days in the mouth and made him happy.
But one night, or because the lady was angry, or because he enjoyed in mortify a little detachment was treated fairly while was in the box, left him abandoned as she chatted pleasantly Pascuala with one of his young and aristocratic friends.
Poor Raymond was struck with such contempt a horrible way.
Not even had the strength to say goodbye.
Clementina caught him occasionally glances.
When the young nobleman he rose to go, also wanted to do the same.
The lady held by the hand. - No, stay a moment, Alcázar.
And he retired as usual to anteroom and began chatting with the friendliness and openness always.
But when she turned her back to hear the opera, was so upset and confused that not even dare to kiss your hair, but the hairstyle was low and better opportunity than ever.
After a while, Clementina turned suddenly and said quietly: - Why does not kiss you today hair like other nights?
The blood rushed to the heart and was all white a cadaver.
And he had to cling tightly to the chair to avoid falling. - Do not be frightened, man! - Said she posed her hand lovingly over his -.
When I have consented is proof that I disliked.
But seeing as he looked with wild eyes, as if he did not understand, he said nonchalantly and laughing - Does not it figure that I know he loves me a little? - Oh! - Said the young man with a cry compressed. - Yes, I know for some time - continued to decline over the voice and mouth close to his ear -.
But you may not know a thing, and I also love you ....
And a quick glance out to make sure that there were watching, took their hands, and told his breath-fired cheeks: - Yes, I love you I love you more than you can imagine.
Come tomorrow at three in the house.
Clementina did not have the impressiveness of his adoring female.
The violent emotion I had just experienced together with the joy that these words evoked in her chest was disrupted thereby, they began to mourn as a child.
She then pushed into a corner and rose strongly, with its graceful figure covering the space left open the curtain.
His face shone with happiness sorcerer.
If a painter had the fortune to surprise the time and the gift of attaching it to the canvas, could represent, as one until today, Danae receiving the well-known in his prison shower of gold.
Were some tender love and poetic, candid and voluptuous at the same time those of the beautiful lady and the young naturalist.
For she was a sweet resurrection of the impressions of adolescence matured suddenly transformed into happy reality.
Until then he had delusions have resembled each other so much that from the beginning carried inside a germ boredom.
Always remained at the bottom of the heart a feeling of defiance against relationships that are not brought him any strong feelings, even new pleasures.
The now offered an originality that loved it.
Her lover was a child who is almost twice age.
He had begun to worship the resemblance that was with her mother.
All this was funny, original; aesthetic had a background in any of his previous love had found.
In addition, no belonged to the race of dandies and fops with those encountered at all hours in frequented sites, a pattern cut by beings without any spontaneity, with same defects, the same vanity and even the jokes.
Accustomed to Pepes monotony of Castro, each new psychological phase, each shaking with excitement, each dismay or joy or sorrow that he warned in his love on you young man produced a pleasant surprise.
Scrutinizing its spirit, got into it with eager curiosity and both with passionate love.
He confessed, made him a hundred times to narrate and describe their feelings, their memories, their purposes and hopes.
Raimundo always answered with a passionate caress with a wet look that read the infinite passion.
From day one, Clementina alone had familiarly accustomed to these transitions secret lives of women and gallant, now favored the age difference.
Raimundo could not get used to give it the you.
Made efforts to do so, but maybe again to you and treating the conversation continued thus until the lady got angry and scolded him harshly. "No, even though I refused, he regarded it as an old woman.
In everything was casting to see.
Did not have enough insight and sensitivity to understand Raimundo that love was, as in all beings truly sensitive, ecstatic worship rather than desire, voluntary slavery, an estrangement from his own life to live better the queen of his heart.
We must take care, moreover, that had not previously experienced ever such a feeling.
From society for women and no miss him, maybe because in his house was big and exquisite as they can give, tender affection, vigilant, the sweetness of the word, devotion at all times: dedicated in all study and its magnificent collection of butterflies, the meeting was for him to Clementina the revelation of that enchanted world of poetry, that almost everyone appears earlier.
That first breath of Venus to leave the sea foam that repeated the entire universe rang then in his soul and rocked gently.
His soul, he was silent and sad as Nature before the goddess of beauty sigh.
Very few men reach a similar said: have the first woman you love, arrive on time to pick the fruit flavored love.
For Raymond, this inclination shy adolescent yearning and melancholy full of anxieties, merged with the love of manhood, appetizing and sensual.
