Probably the last case of this kind has been to Carmen Marín, "the possessed or Spirit, "during which the archbishop, priests and nuns, who was deeply moved society of Santiago de Chile, in the second half of 1857, and is documented with reports of doctors and priests, by the "Revista Médica de Santiago", October that year.
Under the horse's feet of an angel through it with his spear in the center of the church Villa del Pilar, Paraguay, I have seen a devil in the form of a lizard, bat-winged, barbed seeded, huge big eyes of owl and vulture claws with nails, and I thought with regret in the daytime nightmares and sleepless nights that the sight of such a supernatural monster should lead to the unfortunate children of the village.
We understand then that France, the pupil of the Jesuits in Cordoba, and Lopez, disciples France, could wield with full effectiveness as political terror in a population morally depressed by the religious terror, and it is understood the profound difference between the politics of South America, where massacres and proscriptions were the main instrument of government and politics of North America, where it never occurred to leader resort to any intimidation of their fellow citizens to subjugate or carve prestige, because 200 years earlier bill had been tempered by tolerance infernal horrors diet Christian churches that fed the predestined for heaven.
When the mental capacity of the mass of the population was expanded to scientific culture, the descendants of those same Christians barbarians of yore have been able to retain less more evil and Sermon on the Mount in its intellectual complexion widened, thereby has ceased chronic guillotine.
The same circumstance had ceased their diabolical operation the Puritan witch-burners of New England, and his absence is to be the continuation of the massacres of Jews in Russia and Christians in Turkey. * * * Sarmiento was in our country, contributing more effectively to sweep the Argentine spirit with the spread of lights that public education, that lamentable moral garbage, which is the government for fear of children and adults Cuckoo fear the devil.
Vanished by the growing liberalism medieval religious terrors, has correspondingly ceasing political terrorism, and the Christian devil only retains his immense prestige and vast role that created the visionaries of the Middle Ages, educated aristocratic families in schools of monks and nuns, and in the remote campaigns, by the crass ignorance.
The appalling refinements of cruelty came Christian of that school or spiritual atmosphere of wickedness and supernatural horrors, pending on the existence of the believer as the sword of Dionysus on the head of Damocles.
Because things, facts and ideas do not shock or scandalize us as far as they are monstrous, but the extent to which out of the ordinary, no longer shock us when are or become regular, like the idea of ??original sin and of doom with the devil, purgatory and hell, as with the burning of widows in India, before British rule, as with the eunuchism in Muslim countries, with the Maffia and the Camorra in southern Italy, with bullfights in Spain and lynchings in America.
The influence of indoor environment is analogous to the external environment, and monstrosities imaginary produce the same effects as real, although on a smaller scale, also ranging with the temperament and education of the subject that represents them, see them, know them or hear referred.
When the theological madness became the normal state of European societies, wisdom and human wisdom seemed shocking monstrosities, and the wise sages were imprisoned, hanged or burned by theological scholars.
When you know, with the most complete certainty The dead were roasting by order of God in purgatory and hell, and when this imaginary fact reached in the spirit of the people, by the preaching of the Lord's ministers, the vividness of an actual fact, obvious and visible, through the language the blasphemers with a red-hot iron, torturing those accused of religious offenses and burn alive those convicted were made as regular as it is today the sentencing people to prison or forced labor permanent or being killed in duel the educated man or without mourning for the uneducated, or the burning of black in North America, where they all fall back on that white was burned alive, being probably the idea of ??burning future of white outlaws which downplays the spirit the village to the immediate burning black outlaws in anticipation of the simple divine justice, for the double odium of crime and criminal color. "We can only see out what we have inside," says Emerson, when we are full of spite, stupidity or wickedness, are everywhere, and when we are full devils and ghosts, see and feel them everywhere, because everywhere carry.
And what has always been done with children, as an "educate them in the belief of the seniors, "head has been filled with witches, goblins and demons and the result is that every believer is haunted, possessed or "engualichado" by demons, witches or "gualicho" he believes, and predisposed to believe the other zonceras of the same species, as jettatura and thirteen, verbigracia. * * * The theory of divine powers and demonic powers to the metaphysical explanation of good and evil, has been a prodigious fertility to mislead and disrupt intelligence human.
The fragmentation of the effects, involving fragmentation or grading of the causes, suggested the subdivision and location of these on the people, things, words, in numbers, which came to be so, miraculously good or bad in different miraculously measure; escalonáronse the first angels, saints, virgins, relics, prayers, to the simple holy water, and second in the devils, witches, elves, wizards, to the innocent owl.
Both powers were more fully materialized yet, so there was the smell of health and the smell of the devil, they fell sambenito lot sulfur and ozone, resulting the condensation of oxygen from the air by lightning.
Naturally against particles evil power in spells, damage, spells and curses were enough particles divine power contained in the blessings, baptism, relics and scapulars, or fist in cross as the fist just against jettatura horns or Fourteen against thirteen.
Of the same nature, origin, material, form and structure of the gods monstrously immoral horrible and barbaric savage races, is the devil: scary, seductive, cunning, treacherous, hypocritical, damaging trade, profession perverse, delighting in evil of children and adults, bound by the beliefs of their elders to live in perpetual danger and guard Standing against their tireless pitfalls, especially designed to spoil the good, to take them down, for the condemnation of God, a herd of life sentences, having he reached the absolute impunity of their evil deeds have incurred from further the first in the maximum punishment.
The ubiquitous Christian devil is the Assistant Director of iniquity the epitome of savagery supernatural.
Eternal and indestructible by imaginary construction, rituals and magical ceremonies not are more permanent than a defensive organization against their inexhaustible magic powers; saints and angels are a kind of spiritual gendarmerie also effective to hurt and away, but powerless to kill him, because he's dead.
We believe that impunity of the wicked is demoralizing, but there is bigger and more evil to go unpunished of Satan and his legions, if our leaders have been fierce barbarians, it is because hell and not heaven was the strongest component of the superstitions of his spirit.
Patterns in the atmosphere of barely literate, and completely illiterate servants and workers that passed our childhood, all feared and no one had ever seen God, but all had seen, heard, smelled or felt the devil prowls around the core or at their heels, night in a thousand circumstances or even by day.
Too high, complex and intractable the first, has only fallen from the heights and has been left very rarely seen by the prophets chosen to this end, and there in ancient times, the second, however, eminently democratic, loose and without apparatus on earth, and be seen all over the world figure of man or animal, without ceremony previous state of grace or disgrace, the free sowing fear and terror.
It is these two attributes, terror and fear, a fearful life that depress the spirit, broth fat to make the bold and long harvest produce benefits of any kind for suppliers of condoms, because "there is an ill wind that blows nobody good," as the saying, and that there is both sincerely and ardently propagated and grown by the beneficiaries, especially when they themselves are personally immunized about him, because ideas purest and most sordid interests tend to tie in the depths of the spirit secret links that go completely unnoticed by most sincerely honest conscience.
In time and in the middle when I was a child and gullible, the spiritual condition of the Christian child unit was the time of Rosas, as described by Velez Sarsfield. "I know he lived between terrors "because the current intelligible and religion dealt with demons perverse and incastigables on eternal torments of hell, of martyrs and saints, about good people, who had previously cooked in purgatory to finish to win the bliss with abstinence and the sufferings of his life miserable.
All of the "folk lore", ie all the intellectual and moral material circulating dealt basilisks, salamanders, Salamanca, covens, witches and enchanted maidens on the Mandinga pericana, witches, goblins, ghosts, visions that populate the space to the gullible, and make them anxious the mere absence of light in the darkness of night.
The women of the house that evening rueful gathered to pray aloud, did printing of the besieged busily preparing to repel an attack of night enemy.
The bearing of the allowance to a dying day parade with lighted candles or lanterns, bells ringing in the middle of the street, people bewildered that kneeling to pray sight or sound of eternity spent in the funeral procession led by the priest, and the rest in the mortuary chapel of distressed home, they made the macabre impression capital punishment in the public square, also priests, inmate on death row, and marches funeral, and spectators moved.
Older people tended to be living repertories ridiculous procedures to prevent and to remedy evils and dangers real and imagined.
Well, in fact, the classic way to be a devil with the devil was to get well God, qualify for the Church, join guilds, entrusted to the saints and to provide of relics and indulgences to make more mischief in cold blood and die "quand même" odor of sanctity. * * * In village life, which characterized colonial society, the devil, with all its derivatives, Domestic institutions were ubiquitous and protean, essentially malevolent and haunting.
It was a hothouse of superstitions, by and benefit of a farmer and grower official ancestral fears of withering joy of life in children and good humor adults, to save the soul.
Particularly at night, all unusual incidents were attributed to demonic powers.
A combination of light and shade that imagination lends its preconceived forms, a cat black, a strange dog that appears unexpectedly in search of food waste, a owl food excursion, the terror of a horse, lights and sounds with no known cause everything was attributed to the dangerous presence of unsuspecting souls poacher, and buyer generous souls in trouble, ready to go where they call or name, and close treatment price haggling, startling in its moments of good humor to good people, disguised of "widow" as a few years ago in the Rosary, or "pork", as in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, where she gave birth to the milonga called "Run you run the pig", etc.
As the losing roulette, in Mar del Plata, who attributed his bad luck to the "ducks" or onlookers back, if the milk or cream were cut was because they had been watched by one person from evil eye, if a tree is dried, it was because he had been touched by a person bad blood, capturing snakes and spiders live was a thing of witchcraft, etc.., etc.
Just as the Chinese lit night light in the door of his house, scare away evil spirits, the houses were in the bars of the window or door street a bunch of olive branches or palms blessed to ward off demons, and all places where a man had been killed, without giving him time to repent of his life to save his soul, had a niche, in which lit candles at night, fearful of the souls in purgatory.
The fear of loneliness and darkness, there is no child-educated laity, and afflict children raised "Christian" depressed adults also ignorant and superstitious, with the most dire consequences, such as, eg, the case was referred by me my cousin Roberto Suárez.
At the "The Brush" at the foot of the mountain, in one night dark and stormy winter, were screams of children.
Fourteen pawns present the house, not one, or all together, they were encouraged to accompany him to go to his aid, claiming that should be the same demon who was crying to draw them into a trap, ending by contagion its terrors to him, it was just a teenager and had been educated in Christian the Jesuit school in Havana.
The next day they found, in fact, a poor missing child, nestled in the hollow of an old tree and died of cold. * * * We, who had seen, heard or observed many individuals who told us to be traces or events of the fateful character, just, at last, meet the "Devil" in person and face to face.
It was in the department of San Vicente, today Belgrano, in the province of Mendoza.
A boy neighborhood, which was sent every afternoon to mow grass in a vineyard, taking you back, late at night, for a lonely street, with his pack on his back, asked us to fear acompañásemos to shrink our presence, we could only make us illegally, returning inside the farm that stretched to the aforementioned lane, and penetrating through the partition wall with a neighboring orchard.
A very dark night, my brother, who was in front by the back wall, stops and turning head, I said quietly: "Let us turn, there's the devil." Where?
I say, raising head above their shoulders, to look ahead, and I had barely glimpsed, poncho and hat, one hand on his back in an attitude of taking the knife from the waist and fuming at the mouth, nervousness led us straight to the two slip and fall.
Get up and leave in the middle of the lane, and then the real center of the street as souls who run the devil, to reach almost breathless and trembling with fear at our house to relate what happened, was something of a hurry, which also seemed eternal.
Among the laborers, some suggested that they go together to verify the facts, but eventually none dared, and only the next morning could be seen at the site of the apparition, in a gate closed temporarily with sticks, had been cut with the knife leather restraints that held the horizontal beams and robbed them.
It was easy to infer then, that the thief was smoking, in that circumstance, one of those thick cigarette sting of snuff Tarija, with more sticks than sheet, and that therefore used as a fire sparks fireplace.
That was the time that we experience on a wider scale called stupid and diabolically "the holy terror of hell." When the proportion of acetic acid in wine is very considerable, it is called vinegar and if the same criteria we had to give the past the component name Main spirit and human behavior, we should say that Satan was started end up in America in 1810, the reign of the devil flared superstitious among us from 1820 to 1852, to continue in an increasingly less pronounced to date.
NOTES: [1] Julio Costa. "The President." [2] Alberdi. "Daylight." [3] Martin Garcia Mérou. "Alberdi." [4] Joaquín V.
No. 6. [9] In the city of Rosario, the mortality is 14 0 | 00 sections with work health, reaches in with the hygiene of the Middle Ages the horrific figure of 160 0 | 00 in children under five years - says Dr.
