His mother was satisfied to see him in uniform.
He still had not lost a ship commanded by him.
Also, understand marriage according to family tradition: absolute mistress women inside the house, but reliant on foreign affairs the will of the Lord, the warrior, the head of household, without allowing thoughts or objections on their actions.
In the hot afternoons of the Line, was enough to give an order to shake the torpor brutish of things and beings. "Let the music up and serve refreshments." And in a few minutes Couples whirled along the deck, smiling mouths, eyes lit up in a bright spot of hope and desire.
Midwives will were very distinguished. "You see he is a person well." Waiters and crew made a relationship exaggerated his wealth and his studies.
Some young people who sailed to Europe with imagination in the very hotbed novel, contracted disappointed to learn that hero was married and had a son.
Lonely ladies, lying on a chaise longue, with volume in hand, managed, and saw him, the corolla of her skirts, holding legs in such haste that always left them more exposed.
He who had lived several years, from one end to another of the Atlantic, a rich, lively, fragrant, sometimes by resisting to the vagaries of feminine wisdom, surrendering other with discreet modesty ocean, was now no other admirers the tribe vulgarota Blanes, no other illusions that he suggested his cousin, the manufacturer excited because the great apostles of the party were set on a certain sympathy with the master.
The first thing that looked room was a "no personality", a house that had nothing of him, arranged by the Cleaning maids with neat and lack of logic, constantly changing site of things.
He recalled with nostalgia his cabin small and tidy, where there was no furniture to escape his sight for a box whose contents were not in his memory.
His body slid with disengage from custom, through the passes of the furniture.
She had adapted to all incoming and outgoing angles, such as shellfish flesh is adapted to the inner windings of their shells.
The cabin seemed formed by secretions of his being: it was a shell, a shell that was with him from one end to another of the oceans, heated to high temperatures Tropics, closing with an Eskimo hut caulk the approach to the cold waters.
He inspired a love like he feels the monk by his cell, but this cell was global, and enter it after a storm last night on the bridge or from a fall to land in the various ports, I saw the same thing, with papers and books still on the table, clothes hanging on the racks, still photographs on the walls.
Changed the daily spectacle of sea and land, changing the temperature and the course of stars, the people, huddled in winter coats, white dress in a week and looked to the sky the new star of the opposite hemisphere ...
and your cabin always well, like a corner of a planet apart, insensitive to variations of this world
