(Gopa made a sign to enter, and enters Chandac, bringing on a golden platter's hair its wording.) GOPA (taking into his hands the golden plate and placed on the thalamus .)--¡ many times dear hair, you were still pinned to his head, I kissed my mouth and I caressed my hands!
You are already dead and separated from it.
You are dead because you have no memory and no I remember.
I, too, separated from him like you ripped it as their prime stem, devoid of life, if my life were not his memory.
PRATYAPATY .-- And why not also the hope that return to him?
GOPA .-- Because the memory is real and true, and false hopes and misleading, because the memory Siddhartha evokes for me, love, tender, humane to me, all of it for me, and I for all him while I deny that hope forever Siddhartha, and now only gives me Sakyamuni, and then, when Sakyamuni reach its ultimate victory, to be incomprehensible, most luminous The stars and higher in power than the gods, but less than Siddhartha, a young, beautiful and love.
PRATYAPATI .-- But will the Buddha Siddhartha liberator of men!
GOPA .-- Buddha never be worth it to me what Siddhartha worth.
I deny the freedom that the Buddha give me, and Trucco thousand times that Siddhartha slavery enslaved me.
I cold quiet that the doctrine of Buddha provide me by turmoil and war loving, with caresses, yields, jealousy, lack or even the disdain of Siddhartha, I have disturbed and tormented.
The scene is in the city of Frankfurt on Mein, 1866 years after Christ and 2488 after Buddha.
SEELENFÜHRER and author.
AUTHOR .-- I assure you, my dear doctor Seelenführer, every day I am more delighted to have you made these friendly relations.
Listening to V.
understand the intellectual movement Germany, in its most profound, and therefore that of Europe, because (how not confess it?) north Germany is our science and philosophy, almost from Leibnitz, and especially since Kant.
You live is a summary of what is now known or supposed to knows you are a scholar in the latest fashion.
All this amuses me a lot, because it can not V.
figure how fond I am of the philosophy, but I confess that there are two little things that trouble me.
SEELENFÜHRER .-- Blessed V., who just two little things afflict.
