Your data dildos, their delicious records, which make up the true history book Switzerland, show the urgent necessity to are the other governments of Europe to spread and propagate instruction, without which people can not be free without which people fail, without which no life possible: because the brutalization of the people is the raison d'etre of tyranny, is the support of despotisms.
I have had pleasure in comparing the statistics of public instruction in Switzerland with France, England, Austria and Prussia, and the most remarkable difference is in favor of free Switzerland, proclaims loudly and with incontrovertible eloquence of numbers, the affluent state of Switzerland in the intellectual side, and the superiority that leads to the other towns in the spread of what he everyone should, of instruction, that seeing as the race Governments of some people, it would seem that belongs right to every man, to every citizen.
Governments to spread the instruction, to educate all classes, and to all individuals, not do more than meet his duty to have met some men in society: no is solely for the purpose of paying taxes and supporting the burdens of the nation, the state on the other hand, we must protection, defense of their rights if they are attacked, instruction free, is an essential duty, and agreed to all that is missing Governments that do not practice it, and make a usurpation, and allow the people to not recognize its authority.
Turning now to Switzerland for a necessary digression me paragraph for a moment, just enter that exist in 5.500 Swiss Confederation schools, with those arising in 430.107 1855 disciples.
These two remarkable figures in a town of less than three million people, are sufficient to put on a high and enviable position: these data are relieved of any comment, speak for themselves better than all the phrases.
Hospitals and other charitable institutions are relative to their institutions and developments: charity Christian, the first of virtues, is masterfully understood and practiced in pious establishments Switzerland.
Cuéntanse also many wonderful houses of alienating; to half a league from Berne, stands a majestic building destined to the care and cure of the poor mad: is admirable in every respect, and others like him are I seen in different cantons, the near Bern is ideally located, in front is green and hold lush meadows, an abundant and picturesque woodland surroundings, and you circulating the Alps, with its high peaks.
The government of Switzerland is the only one who can be called truly free, extremely popular.
According to the constitution of 1848, which is venerated and practice, which is a written law, but an accomplished fact, the people are the do all speaking, naturally and by law, in all state affairs.
Local businesses and resolves the council directs each canton, whose members choose the people: general issues of the confederation are likewise entrusted to the people federal assembly, consisting of deputies of all nation, chooses the president and the ministers of the confederacy; As Members are the genuine representatives of the people governance is always popular, as it should be in everywhere.
The presidents of the confederation are elected by only a year: at the end of his teaching, put forth its acts are judged by public opinion, and are removed quiet, entering his successor each year to perform the final judiciary.
The choice of ministers also makes the federal assembly: the powers of the ministers for six years, exercise their charges under the chairmanship of the first citizen of the confederation, present their acts twice a year to view the assembly and finished his powers, returning to its previous condition or are have been re-elected if worthy.
The election of president and ministers are in the most patriotic and peaceful: the Swiss do not know that freedom tumultuous wrongly claiming that other peoples: in Switzerland is public life of all citizens: that most loves justice and freedom, which is closest to the good citizen is elected and voted by the Assembly, which represents the people.
Thus, the governorship of the State meets all desirable conditions for success: all citizens, from the first to last, involved in the management of public affairs, in this way are perfectly guaranteed rights people.
Very modest salaries of public employees lighten the public burdens, and make the Swiss will be free of this disease called empleomania, and how fatal produce results in some towns in Europe.
The president of the confederation, the supreme judge, just status as any sovereign, has six thousand francs salary per year that is the whole period of their position: living modestly, without servants, without carriages, without ostentation, and authority is as respected as the first ruler of Europe, because the authorities in Switzerland is the law.
In Switzerland also have the immense joy of not knowing the standing armies, heavy burden in other towns Europe increased budgets, the economy and makes it impossible makes the reign of liberty.
Swiss all welded, and when the country needs it, gets up in twenty-four hours, a powerful army, which is not paid, and only fight for their country.
This is the exact picture of the Swiss Confederation, dildo for those who love freedom, consoling for the philosopher, for the state to the political.
There are two difficult problems that I am currently in Switzerland, and the only ones that can be offered in contrast to their great progress and remarkable institutions, pauperism, and religious indifference that works its innumerable sects Protestant.
The severe climate, poor extension of the territory, and modest public wealth of Switzerland, explains the pauperism, which exists, not by the law, no way, not because of his organization, but because Switzerland is poor, and because the climate is hard.
Not in its social defects pauperism, no, it is a fatal consequence that can go amenguando, as is done but can not be removed suddenly.
Despite its large number of beggars, and his famous instruction, the criminal statistics is the shortest in Europe, not only compared to larger states, but also with those of less and equal population.
The other is more general, and of great importance for the future of a people.
I entered all the temples of different Protestant communions are in Switzerland, I attended to their ceremonies, I have witnessed their feasts, and in all temples and everywhere I've only found a terrible indifference, worse than the lack of belief: people indifferent to religion could be complete by policy and in morals, and that people would be lost.
Pantheistic philosophy German, so popular in Switzerland, is the root cause of the religious indifference.
Hopefully, this illness goes away, I hope so, and so desires, as a people so great and so wisely ruled, need to be preserved, to believe in God, dispenser of all good, and Father of all peoples.
And here ends my chapter on Switzerland, the people of my predilection and prosperity both of which interested me.
The impression that travelers get to London from time guided Paris, as I did, it's sad, really sad.
The boisterous joy overflows everywhere in the lively capital of France, in a singular contrast with the cold and London gravity reserved.
Upon arriving at Calais or Boulogne, begin to make out the hazy coast Albion.
The journey from Paris to London, which takes place in the very short within twelve hours, it is nice and easy.
Reflecting on the short distance between the two nations, it seems lies that are so pronounced and profound differences: nothing more certain, however: twelve hours away, mean another religion, another language, other customs, other character, other laws, another family, another way of living.
For those who love the study and carefully attempts to collect observations of the life of a village offers, is extremely useful the trip to England.
The English people on the continent has only apologists or detractors: some condemn their civilization, others commend and advocate, not who manages to make a fair trial condemn the bad and applaud what is good.
I do not harbor the pretension to judge with complete accuracy the England nor the nature of this book is accommodated to a detainee study of their civilization, nor have I lived long enough in their breast so that it can assess with full knowledge of the facts.
Nevertheless, and without in any way with the views issued to date on England without distinction prevention, and merely stated in a brief chapter, observations have taken place I do, and I'll trial on England with the same impartiality that I used to deal with the other nations I know.
Or employ hard or issue ratings passionate praise, tell you what I have seen and nothing more.
It is a generally received opinion about, believe that the England march at the head of civilization, not admitting I like theory, is to assume that my views are not accepted by all, I shall unfold however, with security are well founded.
The first thing I hasten to record with satisfaction, is the admirable state of the family in England.
This social institution, so eminent a principal basis people, is wisely understood and organized the other side of the Channel.
The English family, sure foundation of public morality, lives in the order and conditions: with its excellent conditions children good education for society and good citizens for country.
The legislature to organize a family home, with wise economy works for the company, which is its reflection.
In the English family is something I do not want to see, as such laws are somewhat hard the condition of the woman, but in spite of everything, I can not but admire.
Sitting these brief notes I have thought it necessary appropriate, before they lead the reader to England, we shall get going.
I left Paris at eight o'clock in the night train service.
At one am I arrived at Calais, while embarking on first: I made her journey to Dover in two hours, have felt the slightest discomfort.
In Dover we scarcely registered luggage, gave us a document in order to leave England, saw our passports, we recovered the iron road, and at four hours enter London.
And abundant green pastures where grazing numerous flocks of sheep, decorate and embellish the landscape.
Upon entering the huge city, that is, to reach London Bridge Pier, the train leading us, went through among five others who were marching in different directions, all with large number of cars, filled with people.
So prodigious activity, such a large number of railway lines starting from a single point, gives an excellent idea industrial movement of the English people.
Tocoma accidentally enter city Sunday in the nebula, and the impression I got was that experienced all foreigners who come for the first time in such a day; sad, bored.
The Anglican church since the time of reform rules in a special way, prohibits their free fanaticism all life and movement all day Sunday.
Ciérranse the Shops and offices of all kinds, ciérranse the public facilities, everything closes, except for clubs and taverns, where for some time in the afternoon uncover the bottles and open lips.
Contrasts like those I saw in London, does not offer any nation in the world.
On Sunday, the day of silence and recojimiento, where everything is closed, in which no Entertainment, in which anything can be played to the cafes, the I've seen day in the gardens of Cremorne Gardens, the impudence the most blatant: in the same site had no music playground nor had dancing because it was Sunday, but is no less true that notwithstanding the official religion, public women walked by hundreds, offending morality outrageously public.
In London, on Sunday, you must eat bread Eve because it can not be cooked in such a day.
During my stay in London in July 1855 took place famous scene in Hyde Park, new in its genre.
Police groups dissolved delivering many blows and making Prisons: the people on the other hand, was content to whistle to the policemen and resist a little.
The bill that had been submitted parliament, banning the drinks to the people on the day of Sunday, only a week in which it rests, and which has closed libraries and the same crystal palace where could learn something, the bill that denies the people what aristocracy is granted profusely [16], this bill say that village meetings occurred in the park [17], the scenes with the police, and fear of the nobles, was withdrawn before discussed.
The nobility of England, which has the monopoly scandal wealth, power, welfare and royalties all began on that day to know that his reign may end.
The social organization of the English people, their practical life I seen, the thousands upon thousands of barriers that separate you from the aristocracy, these inequalities insulting that there are, those privileges, laws that destroy social equality attack human dignity and flatter the pride of a few, all that old English building, almost feudal, in spite of all make speeches around the world, saying that England march at the head of civilization, may drop a day in chips, to ax revolutionary impulses, impulses to of a movement, perhaps nearest to which almost inevitably everyone thinks.
