Close this place has some sixty olive aranzadas that his father, military as he bought with money earned in the game.
This is the only link that I know, that binds him to this district.
I repeat, therefore, I do not understand their commitment to be our congressman, but I for granted that, once achieved its best efforts, we will return back, send us a walk, and we will not pinch nougat.
As this is precisely my golden dream, silencing the reason for not scare the minions V., I decided to be one of them.
Count V, then, with me D.
Juan Fresco so glad the heart of D.
It was essential that D.
John supported his business, so it would be.
What we wanted was that Don Acisclo alliance, and little he scared the convoluted reasons and ominous forecasts on which it was based and he was careful not to trust anyone.
Only occasionally, while making intemperate praise of integrity, discretion, honesty and wisdom of D.
John Fresco, said D.
Acisclo it was an entity. - "Why says V.
Juan Fresco worth a lot to D.
Acisclo, which, while more hope had, the more he toiled and sleepless because they are frustrated.
The reports had given D.
Juan about the condition of D.
unhelpful Jaime Pimentel, did not fail to mortify.
Already, however, there was no way back, and what suited for now was to defeat D.
Paco, even if this were necessary to make use of the candidate less search nougat, more distracted and worst grower districts have all the kingdom.
Don used to throw stones Acisclo happy, and this neglect of his future deputy, for anyone else would have been a bad, appeared sometimes bright and cheerful colors in the eyes of his ambitious hopes. "If the deputy does nothing - said Don Acisclo for themselves - if not keep your promises, if not reward the labors of the voters, I will come back for them, which will give me reason to understand for myself with the Governor of the province and to the Minister, and be I hereby direct the master real and without that annoying middle of diputadito.
Essentially therefore, is to win a large majority, and show that D.
Acisclo not employees.
The elections were to be in the fall, and during the summer lived D.
Acisclo in a fever activity.
He traveled on horseback all the villages in the district, who were seven, winning votes for his protege and removing partial D.
Up to the district capital was several times, and not unsuccessfully, with the said object.
A few do not influence voters, whom D.
Paco had tied, the untied D.
Being tied up, language is understood in electoral over there, owing money to the great elector.
Acisclo was pompous.
Distributed at least eight thousand dollars to ten percent, with no guarantees that simple notes, thus freeing people tied by D.
Paco, with deed and money lent to fifteen.
Every voter was Villafría before voting in a place nearby, because there was Villafría table.
Don Acisclo got to take off the table of the area and to be given to Villafria population most central and convenient, as he demonstrated.
In Villafría Acisclo Don was sure that would overturn the pot in favor of D.
Tilt the pot or hanging means putting all possible votes to the candidate who is wants to favor.
The voting power of those voters are are on the lists, not be a thousand miles away or in the grave.
And yet there have been occasions when absent and even the dead voted.
The chronicles of that electoral district, when he found D.
Acisclo I was weaving, began to work against, out of lethargy, or better say the careless quiet repose in which their confidence had been up there.
This, of course, was that Don had to redouble Acisclo increasing its activity.
His life was a relentless tissue lectures, excursions to the east or other people, treatment and letters to write and read.
Güeto Pepe became the assistant and secretary D.
Acisclo, and also writing, traveling and in conference.
Manolita Dona Luz and another company were made, abandoned by D.
Güeto Acisclo and Pepe.
The father had intervened only in the early days to try to dissuade D.
Acisclo of to meddle in elections, but D.
Acisclo not let anyone convince anyone, and when recognized and his nephew, retreated, paused, and did not even imply that knew which engulfed his uncle walked welter.
To him pretty upset and laziness and lack of formality of the candidate.
The candidate had promised to visit the district, elections are coming up, and that D.
Jaime no arrived.
His opponent was already installed in the house of D.
Paco, promising jobs for when return to power, it would be soon, selling protection, and conquering minds.
Don Jaime, meanwhile, not only coming, but scarcely deigned to write, except for D.
Acisclo, and that from time to time and laconic style, dry place.
But be that as it may, the set was already committed, to D.
Acisclo was a matter of pride; and although D.
Jaime had been the devil, D.
Acisclo had thrown the rest to get triumphant.
It happened in an incident that was not expected now.
Luz had to agree to everything.
Luz blushed scarlet.
The answer was that Dona Luz was contradictory and confusing.
Was condemned to recognize that she had concealed much less than the complacency with which he heard him, the glad sight caused him, the delight in his conversation he always brought, and she instinctively reckless, but depraved, liked to look beautiful and elegant at all, and particularly people who wanted among which could not fail to include the Father
