This is a glutton, who thinks only of binge well, and believes that God has put the world to enjoy a bueu table.
He is so excessively fat, which every moment seems he is going to burst.
Your doctor is with him little influx Quando makes good digestion, but when they have high-handedly sends ahitera and now has made believe that he had to heal with a basilisk boiled in rose water.
Has promised to give hand to the slave that traxere a basilisk, and you see me I leave they deserve the very high honors, having never been less willing to bump the basilisk that since they have heaven wanted to come back to see you.
Astarte and Zadig Dixéronse quanto then the most generous and passionate breasts could countered inspire affection so long and so much love and so much misery, and geniuses that love led preside reasons of both in the sphere of Venus.
He turned about a fifth of the women Ogul without having found anything.
Zadig was introduced to him, and said to him: the sky Descend the immortal Hygia to dilate your years.
The proposal was accepted, and went to Babylon, Astarte in the company of Zadig's servant, promising that he would ship out immediately a messenger to inform had quanto happened.
No less than his recognition were loving their vouchers, because, as written in the great book of Zenda, the two most solemn times of life is the moment we meet again, and that we parted.
Zadig to the Queen wanted as much as he swore, and Zadig loved the queen more than what he said.
Zadig spoke in this way to Ogul, Lord, my basilisk not eat, that all virtue is you must enter through the pores, I've put in a good swollen wineskin wind and covered with a fine leather, it is necessary that such wineskin empujeis towards me in the air with all your strength, and that I will throw it often, and with a few days and this Diet Exercicio will see the effectiveness of my art.
The first day it was to drown Ogul, and believed that was about to breathe the soul, the latter is less tired and slept most good: at last the eight days regained all the strength, health, lightness, and good humor of his most florid years.
Zadig said to him: Have you played at the ball, and you have not had enough: know that there is no basilisk in the world, that a sober man and always makes Exercicio healthy lives, and how imagined amalgamation is the art of gluttony with health as the Sorcerer's Stone, judicial astrology, and theology of the Magi.
Knowing the quan Ogul first doctor of medicine was dangerous for such a man, collide with the apothecary to send for guild basilisks to the other world: so that having been punished for their good deeds always, was to die for having given health to a man gluttonous.
Convidáronle to a feast, where he ought to poison the second service, but still in the first, received a part of the beautiful queen, and rose from the table, splitting without delay.
He who is loved by a beautiful, says the great Zoroaster, everything goes well in this world.
Received the Queen was in Babylon with that joy with which we always welcome a princess beautiful and unhappy.
Babylon then still seemed something more: the prince had Hircania killed in battle, and the Babylonians declared winners would marry Astarte with which he was elected by the sovereign.
But they did not want first place in the world, was the husband of Astarte and King of Babylon, hanging in tangles and parties, and swore King recognized by the bravest and discreet.
They raised a few miles from the city a vast palisade fencing arenas beautifully decorated, the maintainers will have to submit armed to the nines, and he drew each a separate room where no I could not see or speak to anyone.
It had to run four spears, and those who had the said Beating four horsemen, had then to fight each other: so that the rearward by those who stay the camp was declared the winner of the tournament.
Four days later he back with the same weapons, and hit the riddles proposed the magicians, and if not the successful, there was to be king, but they were to return to running spears until they give a man to come out with victory in both tests, because they were determined not to recognize king to whom it was not the bravest and most discreet.
In all this time were allowed to the Queen communicate with anyone, only gave him license to attend games to cover a veil, but was not consented to talk with any of the suitors, because there were no injustice or valimiento.
This notice was her lover Astarte, waiting for her proven more valuable and discretion anyone.
Zadig departed, praying to Venus to strengthen his spirit and enlighten his understanding, and reached the banks of the Euphrates on the eve of the solemn day.
He then lay his nickname among those of the other combatants, concealing his name and face, as the law required, and came to rest in the room which he had fitted eu luck.
His friend was back Cador in Babylon, having searched in Egypt, he sent his quarto take full plate sent to him by the Queen, and also with her more lush horse of Persia.
Well Zadig saw These gifts are hand of Astarte, and acquired new vigor, new hopes and her love and his boldness.
The next day the Queen sat Baxo a canopy adorned with precious stones, and full and auditoriums of all women and people of all states of Babylon, see dexáron maintainers in the circus.
Set each his nickname at the feet of the high magician sorteáronse, and Zadig was the last.
The first a man presented himself very wealthy, called Itobad so full of vanity as lacking in courage, skill, and understanding.
Persuaded Habíanle his servants to a man as he was to be king, and he had answered them: A man as I should reign.
Habíanle as armed from head to foot, wearing a gold nail guns green, a green plume, and the spear hung with green ribbons.
On the way to govern Itobad his horse, threw himself upon seeing that he had not intended the scepter of Babylon to a man like he the sky.
The first knight that ran throws made him lose his temper, and the second pulled him by the legs of the horse to the ground, legs up, and open arms.
No deigned to touch the third with Lance; but he passed to him grabbed his right leg, and they should give him half-back, threw him down on the sand, the squires of Games went to lift laughing: the quarto fighter takes him by the left leg and throws the other side.
Conduxéronle a thousand insults to his apartment, where according to law had to spend that night and he said, scarcely able to wiggle: What an adventure for a man like me!
Best discharging their obligation to the other champions, there were some who beat two fighters, and a few up to three.
The little gray rearward Zadig, and far removed from the stirrups Donayre to four riders one after another, with this started the fight between Zadig and Otama.
This was bringing arms in blue and gold with a tuft of the same; Zadig those were white.
The mood of the attendees were divided between the knight blue and white: the queen to her heart pounding, making passionate pleas to the ring by white.
Champions gave both repeated twists and turns so lightly, and dodged asentáronse such boats with spears, and remained so strong in his stirrups, that all but the Queen, wished to have two kings in Babylon.
Tired and horses, and broken spears, Zadig used this trick: passes behind the prince, rushes to the rump of his horse, it takes for half of the body, it breaks down on the ground, mounted on the empty chair, and begins to spinning around Otama lying on the ground.
Upgrades Otama enraged, drew his sword, gives a jump horse Zadig the naked cutlass.
Both begin in the new arena and more dangerous battle triumphs now agility, strength now.
Flying in the wind wounded often hit the plumage of their helmets, the nails of their bracelets, the mesh of their weapons.
Sharp edge and are wound to left, right to the head, chest, retiranse, acométense, move away, they hold back; dóblanse like snakes, lions embísterise as: every moment Salfa sparks of blows stick.
Zadig finally takes a breath, stopped, Otama dodges a blow, not given to roam, it breaks down, disarm him, and exclaims Otama: White Knight, to you is because the throne of Babylon.
Was beside herself the queen of joy.
Knight led the blue and white knight, to every one to his room, as they had done with everyone else, provided that commanded the law.
Silent about the came to serve, and they brought them food.
Well if it would be presumed the mute queen who served to Zadig.
Dexáronlos sleep alone until the next day by morning, Quando was the winner had to take his nickname to the supreme magician, to be collated and to know.
Zadig was so tired he slept deeply, because love, but not sleep Itobad I was lying in the quarto immediately: getting up at night and entered the Zadig, picked up his weapons and his nickname, and set their own green in place of them.
Hardly scratched dawn, when presented to the supreme magician proud, declaring that a man as he was the winner.
Nobody expected it, but was proclaimed while Zadig was still sleeping.
He turned Astarte stunned and desperate to Babylon.
Almost everything was empty amphitheater Zadig awoke Quando, and searching for weapons was found with the green instead.
Saw himself compelled to put on them, having nothing else to fall back on.
All quanta people still had in the amphitheater and the circus received him with a thousand insults; all had been placed so, and gave him go to his face, man never suffered such shameful desayre.
Faltóle patience, and turned to saber the mob, who dared to insult, but not wise to be, unable to even see the Queen, nor the weapons claim that he had sent, not to hazard their reputation, and while it was submerged in a sea Astarte pain, he wavered between rage and anxieties.
We walked along the banks of the Euphrates, persuaded to which he had for his star to irremediable wretchedness, and recapitulated in his mind all their misfortunes, from the woman who could not see the wrongs, until their armor.
That I grange, he said, to be awakened later, he had not slept well, was King of Babylon, and possessor of Astarte.
Thus knowledge, morality, the effort never to more that I have earned my misfortunes.
After Exhalóse in murmuring against Providence, and it came the temptation to believe that everything regia a cruel fate than to the good oppressed, and to knights thriving green, that one of his greatest feelings was seen green with those weapons had brought him much ridicule.
He spent a merchant, to whom the - sold very cheap, and bought a long coat and a hat.
This costume was following the flow of the Euphrates, desperate, and accusing in his heart to Providence not Tired of chasing.
Walking, as we said, he met a hermit beard which descended to the stomach.
He wore this a book that I read very carefully.
He stopped and made Zadig a deep bow, to which corresponded the hermit so gentle and so noble that Zadig to the curiosity it came to reason with him.
Was asked what book he read.
The book destination, he said the hermit: you want to read any piece?
He placed in his hands, but even Zadig was Vorse in many languages, could not find a single letter, so qual is increased their curiosity.
If you give me leave to accompany you, "replied the old man, perhaps I can serve you something, that sometimes I have baxar comfort the souls of the unfortunate.
The trace, beard and the book of the hermit command respect in Zadig, and their conversation found top lights.
The hermit talked of fate, justice, morality, the highest good, of human weakness, of the virtues and vices so lively and penetrating eloquence, which Zadig by an irresistible delight was attracted to him and he prayed earnestly that no dexara him until they were back in Babylon.
That same please I beg you, swear to me by Orosmades, whatever it what do you see me, do not you have to separate from me few days.
Jurólo Zadig, and together they followed their path.
That same afternoon they arrived at a magnificent villa, and asked the hermit hosting plans for themselves and the boy who accompanied him.
Introdúxolos at home, with an air of contemptuous generosity a janitor who seemed like a great lord, and presented a servant principal, who taught the chambers of his master.
Him down at the end of the table, without condescending to the owner of that Palace of honor at a glance, but the serve, as to all others, with opulence and sensitivity.
Then they gave water to hand in a basin of gold, studded with emeralds and rubies, brought him to lie down to a sumptuous room, and the next morning he brought the servant to every one a gold coin, and then sent them off.
The master of this house, 'said Zadig on the way, I think it is generous, although somewhat arrogant, and exercising himself with nobility hospitality.
With these words, said that it seemed stiff and swollen with a kind of very long costal brought the hermit, and saw within the basin gold studded with precious stones, that he had stolen.
When noon came the hermit at the door of a very miserable hut where lived an old miser, and asked where it was produced by a few crying.
Received him with harsh face a shabby old servant, and took them to the hermit Zadig to the stable, where they served Aceytuno some bad, some brown bread, and wine vinegar.
The hermit ate and drank with such a good mood as the day before, and then addressing the old servant who did not remove the view of each other because they stole nothing, and gave them haste to go, and they gave him the two gold coins he had received that morning, and thanking him for his courtesy, said: I beg to allow me to talk to your master.
Superb sir, 'said the hermit, I can not but give the most surrendered by the noble entertainment with us you welcomed deign to admit that gold basin short pay my gratitude.
Very nearly fainted with joy the miser, and the hermit without giving him time to return to his astonishment, he broke all haste to his young companion.
Father, Zadig said to him, what do you say what I'm seeing?
seems to me that you do not semejais in all others: have robbed a gold basin adorned with precious stones to a man that you stay with magnificence, and the dais to a miser who indignantly you about!
Son replied the old man, the great man only out of vanity, and flaunt their wealth, host to the foreigners, will become more sane, and exercising himself to learn the miserly hospitality.
Zadig still could not manage if he went to the craziest or the most Men's sane, but such was the domain that Granger had his mind the hermit which also required by his oath he could not but follow.
That evening they came to a house neat, but simple, and where nothing breathed prodigality or parsimony.
He was a philosopher, retired owner of drudgery in the world, cultivated in peace wisdom and virtue, and never bored.
Had particularly liked this building remote lodge, where he received the strangers with a dignity that resembled nothing ostentation.
The same went out to meet the two walkers, rested on a very comfortable room, and shortly after he came in person to invite them to a banquet neat and well served during the qual spoke very good sense to the latest revolutions in Babylon.
Heart seemed addicted to the Queen, and wished that Zadig had been found among competitors to the crown, but men do not deserve, he added, have a king as Zadig.
In the conversation was all that consistent in that were not always the things of this world to like the wise, but living the hermit we did not know the ways of Providence, and that it was mistake in men fail on of a whole, when Vian no more than a tiny part.
Brindóles with money from a naive and noble so that he could not upset: rehusóle The hermit, and told him that he said goodbye to him, because to be assumed for profit Babylon before dawn.
Zadig got frightened cries, and she wanted clogging who commits such a horrendous, but was carried along with it with superior strength the hermit.
Ardia the house, and the hermit who with her partner and was diverted, the burn looked very quietly.
Thank God, he said, is already home to my good host burnt to the ground, do man so happy!
At these words he came to temptations Zadig releasing laughter, say a thousand pranks Reverend Father, to give clubs, and escape, but the repressed all, always dominated by the superiority of the hermit, and he continued until the last day.
Alojáronse the house of a charitable and virtuous widow, had a nephew qual fourteen year-old boy hilarious, and that was their only hope.
Agasajólos as best he could in home, and the next day ordered his nephew who was accompanying the two walkers to a bridge that had recently broken into, and it was a dangerous step.
Solicitous Precedíalos the boy, and when they had arrived on the bridge, the hermit told him, 'Come, my son I want to express my thanks to your aunt, and grabbing the hair you pull the river.
Have you had given me more patience word, "interrupted the hermit know that vnder the rubble of the house to which Providence on fire, its owner has found a huge treasure, know that this young man Providence had drowned by murdering his aunt in about a year and within two to you same.
He was still talking about the Babylonian, when warned that he had no beard and the elderly, and his face is rejuvenated.
Humans, he said the angel Jesrad, unaware of anything failing of all: between all mortals that you were the more you deserve to be illustrated.
Zadig entreated her permission to speak, and said: I do not trust my understanding, but if I must be bold to beg you to dispel a question of mine, tell me if it was better to have amended this boy, and made him virtuous, that drown?
