Do not hesitate, no for a moment the sincerity of your consent.
I am convinced that you would have happily married with the old, that you would have liked, it would have been faithful, would you care that much when he passed, the poor, old to old man, which can not later ....
But, my dear, your consent and those wonderful words you said sprouted in your gratitude, filial affection that I have.
We must not force nature, do not force feelings natural, making love, gratitude, it is necessary, above all, giving each his own age and not endeavor to rejuvenate the venerable old age, or wither the beautiful youth, joining a thing with another off-season.
No, a thousand times no.
You, wanting to be my wife, taming a feeling robust living and lives in your heart, you made a sublime sacrifice.
I thank you, because understand how sincere was the sacrifice, but I do not want to accept ....
They say that I went hero at one time, because that Botero is cakes and fancy bread in comparison This burst of energy that you just saw, my daughter, because this has cost me more fighting, because I know how to make a sacrifice.
Do not quit without a good secure job, a well as delicious, all you promised me your youth, your true love, your merits immense your beauty, daughter ...
For now I'm not boyfriend, I can tell you that every time you go putting prettier ....
In short, my dear, I thought better love and serve you better and better love and serve God, you gave me as a husband and father ....
And I still have nothing better to say.
But no, I do not things by halves.
My heroics, when out of me, are not nonsense.
To make my daughter I want to fill the void in your life, your feelings and make you crown cattle of happiness I want to fill that glass to the brim of your life that little by little has been emptied of their old sorrows, I want to marry the man you love, with that of he and I can assure you that you deserve.
So great was the novelty of that idea, he needed some time to have it by flattery.
Turned pale as death, and thus disturbed the face, that having shame that D.
Benigno surprised it was experiencing very profound impression, lowered his head.
Lamb put the palms of his hands on her temples, and luring, gave him a kiss on the forehead, saying: - Thank God I can give this besillo, to show a material way the love you profess honest, loving father, I wanted to spoil foolishly.
Do not be ashamed what you feel to hear what I say.
With this one kiss quito shame.
But we, we would laugh and answer not go red, "no longer we are engaged, we're not dating. " Sola laughed.
Then he grew serious.
I can not tell in a few words I have spoken with that good sir, but I can tell you is love you a lot like idolatry ....
When this thought began to haunt me brain went to see my man.
I do not know what excitement, what lack of trim and poise found in it.
His talk me loved it.
He found him, as always, loyal and discreet.
But I felt like it was busy too policy, and said, 'odd, are green for you.
I do not want my daughter living on tenterhooks, wondering if they hang or shoot her husband ....
these my visits were skillful explorations and trials to know whether it was worthy or not treasure that I was going to give away, so I revealed my plans ever ...
because he said that a third interview spoke warmly, and he is so spontaneous with me, opened his heart so frankly, I shared his ideas and plans of life with such sincerity that when they I said to my coat, "Yes, we must give it.
They said they had done Carlist .... - He! - Slander and nonsense.
Benigno, not lost or lighter vocal inflection of her lips. - Well ...
In fact, he bought a lot of iron, but the mobile home my trip was to learn of his own mouth, this man you boyfriend ...
know from his own mouth if it was true that he had made Carlist. - What filthy slander! - Sola said earnestly, mistaken for a phrase to inventors of such evil nonsense. - He disabused me remove that doubt ....
because, indeed, the daughter of my heart, if My son goes to the blunder of joining the odious flag and thrown into the field to defend dead religion ....
Fortunately for him, I was convinced that there has never considered joining the order sacristanesca, and when I left the house, said: "Yours, sirrah, you've won you, rascal!
God sends me that you deliver it.
But I opened a crack, I gave him to understand my intentions and the blessed man seemed, as they say, he saw heaven opened, thereby dark eyes shone.
I will come, perhaps, or without, perhaps, will bring you news much pleased him. " - Today is 1.
St October - Sola said, with a quick phrase, as a spark for word from her lips out. - No, that's tomorrow - Lamb said laughing -, I have the Calendar on your finger.
Time is a man who has to deal with much respect.
Look at the calm and the method that walks.
Sometimes it seems that is slow, sometimes it runs like a greyhound, but it is our hope: his lordship never leaves its path.
Tomorrow, dear child, we will go to Madrid. - Me too! - For it is clear.
Then you will understand you, and my role be reduced to prepare some things that are necessary for the wedding ....
Sola answered with the river of tears, did not allow words.
Neither were necessary words. - If you see me mourn - said D.
Benigno, wiping a tear with a heroic gesture - do not think I am poor and distressed.
In my chest do not fit or lad nor envy of mourning frustrated desires.
I am calm and happy, happy.
If I cry is attracting your tears are running mine without knowing why.
I was a bit different from punishment, yes, but I am comforted to know that if my children have lost their second mother, good sister are born, Is not it?
Was beginning to fall afternoon and felt the cool of the Tagus.
Benigno proposed to withdraw home, and leaving the pearl hard, took the rough and winding road. - As the nights grow - Sola said, giving his arm to his father. - Yes, my daughter - said this - and the morning takes a little longer, but comes, do not worry. - I do not remember how long it takes from here to Madrid. - Well, not much.
Well now you have invented in England about treadmills, evil car that goes like the wind, walk, walk ....
I do not know what goes, but if there one from Toledo to Madrid, we would go in two hours. - In two hours!
told me Salvador, who has seen it. - He has seen this machine? - And it has gone. - He has walked on it?
It will be wonderful thing. - Imagine ....
Benigno stopped, and the complacency that produced in him the wonders of the emerging century industry was prepared to give her daughter demonstrative explanations, to which put horizontal stick and ran his fingers over it. - Imagine there on the floor two bars of iron which are in accordance with enormous wheels Car ...
as well as houses.
A little to push them as wheels meet the iron bars, wham!
that runs like lightning. - I understand ...
And will explain D.
Salvador, which has mounted on such vehicles.
That mischief have put the English among a people who call Liverpool and another named Manchester.
Well, I say, there are no horses.
Anyone string of cars is moved by a devilish device or mechanism, which is in heat and steam, and blowing blows, he walks.
I do not know how this is.
explained it to me Salvador, but I have not been understand. - And the way to go here and there will not elsewhere? - Yes, says our friend who is spreading, which in England are doing more of these blessed railroads, and in France, will start putting well. - And in Spain?, Do not do them?
Lamb sighed. - Now going to start a war, if God does not intervene - he said sadly. - Upon completion .... - Maybe start over ....
But, after all, we also have here these paths, although only to sample.
Salvador says he will spread throughout the land, and that even wildest regions that machine will run to blows. - And see here, this caminejo? - Why not? - And we say: "In Madrid ...». - Yes, but that miracle will not happen tomorrow, dear child - Lamb said smiling -.
For now content ourselves with three mules to Peralvillo.
They entered the house, where they found D.
Primitive Lamb, nephew of D.
Benigno, who came to spend a few days in Cigarrales, and brought great news of the Court, including death del Rey.
Dined all a little saddened by the melancholy influence of such news, gloomy comments that accompanied them former militia captain, and the ominous portents he did.
Benigno stated his intention of going to Madrid the coming day, he announced Primitivo with informal pessimism probably find the troops insurrection in the streets, the lawlessness, and the entire village, the Court and the monarchy, given all the demons.
At dawn the next day Sola rose, and opening wide the window from his room overlooking the field, and whose sill climbed the highest branches of the almond balmy air breathed in the morning and looked at the trails, the ground, the tower of the cathedral distinguished, in the distance and amid the dark green of the landscape looked like a cypress stone left to run after their eyes on the floor below to the horizon, yellowish term stony hills and blue, was with her spirit beyond the horizon itself, which returned to sadness.
One might have thought that I missed those iron bars that D.
Benign spoke the previous evening and that, if any, men would imitate the wonderful travel of the birds.
Nothing was in the crooked paths that indicate that the fairies had held last night in those pathways tend metal, miracle of locomotion, incredible own path to be traveled on the wings of spirit, with the feet of the subject.
Peralvillo's car could not take, and had to be underpinned chocolate and pastries for the long and troublesome journey.
Gave one point to the meditations addressing the various necessities of the hour, and when D.
Benigno and she found alone, the hero could not help but ask him what was in their eyes traces of tears, being more favorable circumstances than adverse.
Sola said that he could not sleep all night because the terrible things that had Primitivo and omens was filled with dread mysterious spirit.
It was true that he said, but had also greatly influenced his insomnia abrupt and painful the radical change in their destiny, their ideas all the conversation that she and her protector were worthy to the river bank.
Sola Cordero did not want to hide everything I felt and thought. - I'm so numb since yesterday afternoon - he said - I do not know how I feel.
I spent night imagining or dreaming disaster trips and falls.
I can not convince them that God take me that way now so different from what went before, without having to go right to a very great misfortune.
I was born with ill fortune. - Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D.
Benigno, draining your chocolate -.
We deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God.
That good and bad stars is not very Christian to say. - Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of everything, and this misfortunes.
It is a specialty of mine.
If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors ....
Now with the death of King, it will ignite a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows.
I, ignorant woman, I say that these scholars do not have common sense. - Daughter of my soul - said D.
Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch of philosophy as Jean Jacques Rousseau.
Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.
In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole of his coat.
The heart usually has some guesses as weird ....
Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one thing, and God takes care after giving like ....
And now God commands us not just the scourge of civil war We also sent another, this terrible disease ....
Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic cholera.
On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his body felt cold complacent.
Lamb felt the same. - The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain.
People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly wham!
But this infection does not come Madrid ....
They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules.
Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised to return soon.
Great pity that at this critical time there were no rails Satan! -XVII- On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón being single.
The cute couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano, on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father Carantoña, of the Dominican order, big buddy of the bridegroom.
Attended by people of quality, There was much pomp and worldly church, were distributed alms, and everything was ready for in the neighborhoods of the South remain dilated memory of the event by time.
The sleaze D.
Felicísimo not allowed lunch heading is given, as seemed natural in the bride's house and struck him in his very bearing Pipaón and magnificence.
But most the day was notable altercation with our courteous D.
The newlyweds, believing that if the old man gave no lunch, not deny them his blessing, were beyond very joyful, but the devil, who never rests, had made some news Butcher that morning of traicioncillas of Pipaón and blows that had been infamous the antechamber of Her Majesty the Queen Cristina.
There was the good lord chirping when they arrived spouses, and I wish they had not gone before, because just as a volcano erupts, burst D.
anger Very happy, not in your mouth was bad sounding word or epithet burner.
White stood the blessed agent, such as limestone, and her face causing terror level because seemed ready to break into pieces, dropping each fraction by his side.
In vain did Pipaón apologize in vain tried to apologize Micaelita also love that led day I had, and to Doña María del Sagrario timidly threw a word of peace in the fiery invective.
Were increasing the anger of the stubborn old man replies, and to conclude grandchildren threw into the street, ordering them never to set foot in that house loyalty, and warned to disinherit the best way he could.
The athlete did not play the role of cachetero unworthy at that nasty race household is designated, and all was in that state.
After scolded D.
The good man vented his anger by blowing, blowing strong and repeated and that furious trumpet echoed through the house like the horns of Military Appeals.
There was indeed fragile illusion that walls of the house shaking and the walls of Jericho, because during the coming and going of people at the time of berrinchín, the floor was shaking and so shake so threatening that the expelled gladly took the door.
In the afternoon, they were not yet placated the angry spirits of the church staff, Monsalud Salvador came to see him.
I was very happy with despondency. - I've sent come to you - said taking the foot of a goat and giving him strong thump on the table - to communicate unpleasant news about our friend Mr.
You, hee, hee, he took much interest when that mischief of confinement in jail for Villa, who did not hesitate to come to you, now that the famous warrior the Almighty is in a trance much more dangerous.
Salvador heard these words with evident interest, and after stating that he had not favored Carlist sympathies to Navarro, but by considerations of gratitude and friendship absolutely personal Butcher begged not hide anything that the worthy soldiers of the Almighty happening.
Taking and leaving with the restless hands, this or that paper because his nerves were in complete anarchy, and said: - Will come when these scoundrels, and come, but Christ lives!
Now, under that shadow King, dance on our ribs, but the roles are bartered, hee ....
Just imagine that the brave D.
Carlos went to Navarre to confer with Santos and other brave Thief captains, good people, healthy people, the people of God.
Well, there was a riot of Viana realistic volunteers, by impatience and zeal silly misunderstanding.
The Viceroy 14 Navarre sent against them a column.
as always, but caught D.
Carlos, who was in the Franciscan friary, ji, ji, and together with Thief's nephew and a cappuccino Santos, who caught doing rounds, led him Estella.
Carlos, the nephew Santos capuchinito Thief and the cartridge
