This eager attention embarrassed Osorio's wife, made him feel a disturbance that though slight, sometimes leaving no visible.
As the disease progressed, the effort of Ms Carmen was rising to become mania.
Clementina represented in the moral solitude in which he lived the only bond of love bound her to the ground.
For the same reason that his stepdaughter had always been cold and haughty with all least she had never doubted the sincerity of his affection.
It was enough to compensate the contemptuous indifference he observed in all who approached her.
The horrible suspicion that he had forcibly entered his heart filled him with bitterness.
A kind and loving spirit like his needed to believe in kindness and love.
To tear this latter belief was bleeding in pain.
One evening they were together and alone.
The Duchess, still in his chair, his head thrown back, listened to her read a story devoted stepdaughter, the appearance of the Virgin La Salette.
His thought was not in the case: teníalo hectic, as always, that fatal doubt embittered even more than his poor body condition days.
Staring and divining of approaching the grave, crossed the beautiful front inclined Clementina about the book and confusingly spelled in there without being able to acquire the certainty that craved.
More than once, lifting it's head, was found with this look dull and disconsolate, he promptly dropped his own, a sudden rush of discomfort.
In the soul of the sick was born a desire, a whim rather vivid and searing as those feel the dying.
He wanted his stepdaughter it cool with a sweet word horrible Burn your question caused him.
Several times his lips trembled to ask the question.
Invincible shame stopped. - Leave the book, my daughter: you're tired - said at last.
And his voice from trembling throat acted as a severe sentence. - What will you be heard.
I do not, thank God, I have healthy throat. - God will preserve it, my child, God will preserve it - said the lady with an accent of tenderness staring.
There was a moment of silence. - Do you know what I have said? - Dared to utter later.
And his voice came out so dull that the last syllable barely heard.
Clementina, who was preparing to go on reading, looked up.
The few drops of blood Dona Carmen had already climbed his ruined body was hit in the face and stained slightly red. - I heard ...
In turn, the rich blood of Clementina went hastily to her cheeks and lighted in vivid colors.
Both looked confused for a moment.
The girl exclaimed with energy at the end wrinkling his forehead: - I know who has told you.
And his blood, to utter these words, he fled the face again as an ebb tide instantaneous.
That of his stepmother also focused on his injured heart.
He bent his white and weary head, saying: - If you know, do not pronounce his name. - Why not? - Stepdaughter cried angrily -.
When a parent, for no reason, only for a few miserable pennies injury torments his daughter and his wife, has no right to or whatever you want to be respected ....
Dad is a man who has no love God no more money.
I knew that the will you had alienated me your love ... (If I ever had it ....) - Oh! - Yes, I know very well.
But I never thought that would commit such a vile, slandering that way ....
You will know that I have always wanted more than him ...
I will say more: I have not really loved anyone else that you and my children ....
Break it, yes, your peace and love I care much more than your money ....
The lady's voice quivered with indignation as he uttered these words.
His eyes were fixed in hard vacuum, as if they wanted to see it up in front of his father figure to pulverize.
At that time he spoke with sincerity.
Opaque eyes of Ms Carmen, as he spoke, were glowing with joy.
At the same time seized his hands and kissed her warmly.
Clementina gave a cry of shame. - Oh, no, no, Mom ...
It was one of the few times I cried Clementina emotion and not spite.
But within days, but survived both live in the memory of this tender scene, was also the reason of that had occurred.
Clementina felt ashamed to appear in front of his stepmother.
Some days later, Clementina and her husband, despite the professed unquenchable hatred, held long and frequent conferences.
Clementina said the first she had no other wish than to continue to hold with his father the same relations of affection and respect than before, and that to achieve was willing to do whatever was possible.
Everyone knows my character perfectly ....
Ortega's father Clementina gently pushed into the arms of his father, and although she was less agitated, he finally stopped hugging him, that was a good time tight
