thumb|Tertuliano. Quinto Séptimo Florente Tertullianus, castellanizado como Tertuliano (155-230) fue un líder de la Iglesia y un prolífico autor durante lel segundo siglo del Cristianismo. Nació, vivió y murió en Cartago, en el actual Túnez.Su vidaDe su vida muy poco se sabe, y está basado de referencias de sus escritos y de Eusebio de Cesarea, Historia Eclesiástica II,ii.4, y de San Jerónimo, De viris illustribus cap. 53.Su Padre fue centurión en el ejército Romano en África. El África romana se destacó por albergar grandes oradores, y esta influencia puede verse en su estilo, sus arcaísmos, su gran imaginación, y su temperamento pasional. Fue un académico que recibió una excelente educación. Escribió por lo menos tres libros en griego, de los cuales él mismo cita; pero ninguno se ha conservado. Su especialidad fueron las leyes, y sus métodos de argumentación lo demuestran. Eusebio nos cuenta que él fue un destacado abogado en Roma.Su conversión al cristianismo aconteció alrededor del 197-198, (según Adolf von Harnack, Bonwetsch, y otros), pero sus antecedentes son desconocidos, a menos por conjeturas de sus obras. Tal evento debe haber sido decisivo en su vida, transformando su personalidad; él mismo dijo que el no podría imaginar una verdadera vida cristiana sin tal cambio radical, un radical acto de conversión: "los cristianos se hacen, no nacen". (Apologeticum, XVIII).En la Iglesia de Cartago, fue ordenado presbítero, aunque se casó, y este hecho está bien confirmado por sus dos libros dedicados a su esposa. A la mitad de su vida, hacia el año 207, se separa de la Iglesia Católica, siendo llevado a la secta de Montano. Pero los montanistas no fueron los suficientemente rigurosos para Tertuliano, quién rompió con ellos para fundar su propia secta. La crónica de San Agustin (De Haeresibus, LXXXVI) que dice que antes de morir, Tertuliano retornó al seno de la Iglesia Católica, es improbable.Su secta, los Tertulianistas, todavía se mantenía en tiempos de Agustín, en una basílica en Cartago, pero en el mismo periodo se trasladaron a oriente. Tertuliano continuó su lucha contra la herejía, especialmente con el Gnosticismo; y por las obras doctrinales producidas llegó a ser maestro de Cipriano de Cartago, el predecesor de Agustín, y el fundador de la teología latina.[[Cristología]]Tertuliano considera al Logos de Dios (Sermo o Verbum), como Dios en sentido derivado , por ser de la misma substancia de Dios, Dios que viene de Dios como luz que proviene del sol.Véase la misma cita en latín :No considera al Hijo coeterno con el Padre. El Hijo de Dios no siempre existió, solo a partir de ser engendrado por el Padre. Esto lo demuestra diciendo:Tertuliano al igual que Hipólito de Roma, escribieron contra el Modalismo, doctrina que profesaban Noeto, Práxeas y Sabelio. Estos tres afirmaban que el Padre y el Hijo y el Espíritu Santo, eran la misma persona.Tertuliano escribe refutando a Praxeas:Uno de los textos de soporte de Praxeas era Juan 10:30. Tertuliano contradice su interpretación apelando a sus conocimientos de gramática:Precursor del Trinitarismo latinoEs el primero en usar la palabra latina "trinitas". Él nos dice, con respecto al Padre, al Hijo y al Espíritu Santo:Es, y sigue siendo un tema de debate, el uso de la palabra latina "substantia" que Tertuliano aplica a la unidad entre el Padre, el Hijo, y el Espíritu Santo. Algunos eruditos, como Harnack, afirman que esta palabra significa "propiedad", que viene del significado no filosófico de la palabra griega ουσια (ousía) (http://es.wiktionary.org/wiki/ousia).Entonces, éste sería un término jurídico que denota jurisdicción. Otros le dan el significado de la ουσια primera, a la que Aristóteles llama "substancia primera", que es la "essentia", lo que ha de ser(το τι ην ειναι), que no se puede predicar de otro.(vea su obra: Metafísica). Sin embargo, un estudio detallado, revela que "substantia" en Tertuliano tiene más de un significado, dependiendo del contexto de aplicación, que no esta circunscrito siempre al Aristotélico.Visión de la FilosofíaTertuliano rechazaría a los filósofos paganos.Él lo manifiesta en estas palabras:Sin embargo, esto no significa que Tertuliano no utilizó argumentos de la filosofía para su exégesis y refutación.BibliografíaEnlaces externosWeb sobre el Cristianismo primitivoBenedicto XVI presenta a TertulianoA History of Christian Thought, Paul Tillich, Touchstone Books, 1972. ISBN 0-671-21426-8 (p. 43) y también probablemente la fórmula "tres personas, una Sustancia", del latín "tres Personae, una Substantia" (que a su vez proviene del Griego "treis Hypostases, Homoousios") y también los términos vetus testamentumy novum testamentum. En su Apologética fue el primer autor latino en calificar el Cristianismo como la 'vera religio' y, a su vez, relegó el resto de las religiones y cultos del Imperio a la posición de meras supersticiones. Tertuliano abandonó la Iglesia de Roma al final de su vida para adoptar una postura considerada herética, el Montanismo. Esta es la única explicación para que Tertuliano no haya llegado a ser proclamado santo.VidaOf his life very little is known, and that little is based upon passing references in his own writings, and upon Eusebius of Caesarea, Hist. eccl. II, ii. 4, and Jerome, De viris illustribus (On famous men) chapter 53.His father held a position (centurio proconsularis, "aide-de-camp") in the Roman army in Africa. Roman Africa was notoriously the home of orators, and this influence can be seen in his style, with its archaisms or provincialisms, its glowing imagery, and its passionate temper. He was a scholar, having received an excellent education. He wrote at least three books in Greek, to which he himself refers; but none of these are extant. His principal study was jurisprudence, and his methods of reasoning reveal striking marks of his juridical training. He shone among the advocates of Rome, as Eusebius reports.His conversion to Christianity took place about 197–198 (cf. Adolf Harnack, Bonwetsch, and others), but its immediate antecedents are unknown except as they are conjectured from his writings. The event must have been sudden and decisive, transforming at once his own personality; he himself said that he could not imagine a truly Christian life without such a conscious breach, a radical act of conversion: "Christians are made, not born" (Apol, xviii).In the church of Carthage he was ordained a presbyter, though he was married — a fact which is well established by his two books to his wife. In middle life (about 207) he broke with the Catholic Church and became the local leader and the passionate and brilliant exponent of Montanism, that is, he became a schismatic. But even the Montanists were not rigorous enough for Tertullian who broke with them to found his own sect. The statement of Augustine (De Haeresibus, lxxxvi) that before his death Tertullian returned to the bosom of the Catholic Church is very improbable.His sect, the Tertullianists, still had in the times of Augustine a basilica in Carthage, but in that same period passed into the orthodox Church. Jerome says that Tertullian lived to a great age. In spite of his schism, Tertullian continued to fight heresy, especially Gnosticism; and by the doctrinal works thus produced he became the teacher of Cyprian, the predecessor of Augustine, and the chief founder of Latin theology.WritingsGeneral characterThirty-one works are extant, together with fragments of more. Some fifteen works in Latin or Greek are lost, some as recently as the 9th century (De Paradiso, De superstitione saeculi, De carne et anima were all extant in the now damaged Codex Agobardinus in 814 AD). Tertullian's writings cover the whole theological field of the time — apologetics against paganism and Judaism, polemics, polity, discipline, and morals, or the whole reorganization of human life on a Christian basis; they give a picture of the religious life and thought of the time which is of the greatest interest to the church historian.Chronology and contentsThe chronology of these writings is difficult to fix with certainty. It is in part determined by the Montanistic views that are set forth in some of them, by the author's own allusions to this writing or that as ante-dating others (cf. Harnack, Litteratur ii. 260–262), and by definite historic data (e.g., the reference to the death of Septimius Severus, Ad Scapulam, iv.). In his work against Marcion, which he calls his third composition on the Marcionite heresy, he gives its date as the fifteenth year of Severus' reign (Adv. Marcionem, i. 1, 15).The writings may be divided with reference to the two periods of Tertullian's Christian activity, the Catholic and the Montanist (cf. Harnack, ii. 262 sqq.), or according to their subject-matter. The object of the former mode of division is to show, if possible, the change of views Tertullian's mind underwent. Following the latter mode, which is of a more practical interest, the writings fall into two groups. Apologetic and polemic writings, like Apologeticus, De testimonio animae, Adv. Judaeos, Adv. Marcionem, Adv. Praxeam, Adv. Hermogenem, De praescriptione hereticorum, Scorpiace counteract Gnosticism etc. The other writings are practical and disciplinary, e.g., De monogamia, Ad uxorem, De virginibus velandis, De cultu feminarum, De patientia, De pudicitia, De oratione, Ad martyras etc.Among the apologetic writings the Apologeticus, addressed to the Roman magistrates, is the most pungent defense of Christianity and the Christians ever written against the reproaches of the pagans, and one of the most magnificent legacies of the ancient Church, full of enthusiasm, courage, and vigor. It first clearly proclaims the principle of religious liberty as an inalienable right of man, and demands a fair trial for the Christians before they are condemned to death.Tertullian was the first to break the force of such charges as that the Christians sacrificed infants at the celebration of the Lord's Supper and committed incest; he pointed to the commission of such crimes in the pagan world, and then proved by the testimony of Pliny that Christians pledged themselves not to commit murder, adultery, or other crimes; he adduced also the inhumanity of pagan customs, such as feeding the flesh of gladiators to beasts. The gods have no existence, and thus there is no pagan religion against which Christians may offend. Christians do not engage in the foolish worship of the emperors; they do better, they pray for them. Christians can afford to be put to torture and to death, and the more they are cast down the more they grow; "In the blood of the martyrs lies the seed of the Church" (Apologeticum, 1). In the De Praescriptione he develops as its fundamental idea that, in a dispute between the Church and a separating party, the whole burden of proof lies with the latter, as the Church, in possession of the unbroken tradition, is by its very existence a guarantee of its truth.The five books against Marcion, written 207 or 208, are the most comprehensive and elaborate of his polemical works, invaluable for the understanding of Gnosticism. Of the moral and ascetic treatises, the De patientia and De spectaculis are among the most interesting, and the De pudicitia and De virginibus velandis among the most characteristic.TheologyGeneral characterThough thoroughly conversant with the Greek theology, Tertullian was independent of its metaphysical speculation. He had learned from the Greek apologies, and forms a direct contrast to Origen, who drew much of his theories regarding creation from middle platonism. Tertullian, the prince of realists and practical theologian, carried his realism to the verge of materialism. This is evident from his ascription to God of corporeity and his acceptance of the traducian theory of the origin of the soul. He despised Greek philosophy, and, far from looking at Plato, Aristotle, and other Greek thinkers whom he quotes as forerunners of Christ and the Gospel, he pronounces them the patriarchal forefathers of the heretics (De anima, iii.). He held up to scorn their inconsistency when he referred to the fact that Socrates in dying ordered a cock to be sacrificed to Aesculapius (De anima, i.). Tertullian always wrote under stress of a felt necessity. He was never so happy as when he had opponents like Marcion and Praxeas, and, however abstract the ideas may be which he treated, he was always moved by practical considerations to make his case clear and irresistible. It was partly this element which gave to his writings a formative influence upon the theology of the post-Nicene period in the West and has rendered them fresh reading to this day. He was a born disputant, moved by the noblest impulses known in the Church. It is true that during the third century no mention is made of his name by other authors. Lactantius at the opening of the fourth century is the first to do this, but Augustine treats him openly with respect. Cyprian, Tertullian's North African compatriot, though he nowhere mentions his name, was well read in his writings, as Cyprian's secretary told Jerome.Specific teachingsTertullian's main doctrinal teachings are as follows:The soul was not preexistent, as Plato affirmed, nor subject to metempsychosis or reincarnation, as the Pythagoreans held. In each individual it is a new product, proceeding equally with the body from the parents, and not created later and associated with the body (De anima, xxvii.). This position is called traducianism in opposition to 'creationism', or the idea that each soul is a fresh creation of God. For Tertullian the soul is, however, a distinct entity and a certain corporeity and as such it may be tormented in Hell (De anima, lviii.).The soul's sinfulness is easily explained by its traducian origin (De anima, xxxix.). It is in bondage to Satan (whose works it renounces in baptism), but has seeds of good (De anima, xli.), and when awakened, it passes to health and at once calls upon God (Apol., xvii.) and is naturally Christian. It exists in all men alike; it is a culprit and yet an unconscious witness by its impulse to worship, its fear of demons, and its musings on death to the power, benignity, and judgment of God as revealed in the Christian's Scriptures (De testimonio, v.-vi.).God, who made the world out of nothing through his Son, the Word, has corporeity though he is a spirit (De praescriptione, vii.; Adv. Praxeam, vii.). However Tertullian used 'corporeal' only in the stoic sense, to mean something with actual existence, rather than the later idea of flesh. In the statement of the Trinity, Tertullian was a forerunner of the Nicene doctrine, approaching the subject from the standpoint of the Logos doctrine, though he did not fully state the immanent Trinity. A contraction of two Latin words: tri (three) and unitas (one), tri-unitas (three in one) pointed to God as one God in substance and nature, but three in person — the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. In his treatise against Praxeas, who taught patripassianism in Rome, he used the words, " Trinity and economy, persons and substance." The Son is distinct from the Father, and the Spirit from both the Father and the Son (Adv. Praxeam, xxv.). "These three are one substance, not one person; and it is said, 'I and my Father are one' in respect not of the singularity of number but the unity of the substance." The very names "Father" and "Son" indicate the distinction of personality. The Father is one, the Son is one, and the Spirit is one (Adv. Praxeam, ix.). The question whether the Son was coeternal with the Father Tertullian does not set forth in full clarity; and though he did not fully state the doctrine of the immanence of the Trinity, he went a long distance in the way of approach to itB. B. Warfield in Princeton Theological Review, 1906, pp. 56, 159..In soteriology Tertullian does not dogmatize, he prefers to keep silence at the mystery of the cross (De Patientia, iii.). The sufferings of Christ's life as well as of the crucifixion are efficacious to redemption. In the water of baptism, which (upon a partial quotation of John 3:5) is made necessary (De baptismate, vi.), we are born again; we do not receive the Holy Spirit in the water, but are prepared for the Holy Spirit. We little fishes, after the example of the ichthys, fish, Jesus Christ, are born in water (De baptismate, i.). In discussing whether sins committed subsequent to baptism may be forgiven, he calls baptism and penance "two planks" on which the sinner may be saved from shipwreck — language which he gave to the Church (De penitentia, xii.).With reference to the rule of faith, it may be said that Tertullian is constantly using this expression and by it means now the authoritative tradition handed down in the Church, now the Scriptures themselves, and perhaps also a definite doctrinal formula. While he nowhere gives a list of the books of Scripture, he divides them into two parts and calls them the instrumentum '' and ''testamentum (Adv. Marcionem, iv. 1). He distinguishes between the four Gospels and insists upon their apostolic origin as accrediting their authority (De praescriptione, xxxvi.; Adv. Marcionem, iv. 1-5); in trying to account for Marcion's treatment of the Lucan Gospel and the Pauline writings he sarcastically queries whether the "shipmaster from Pontus" (Marcion) had ever been guilty of taking on contraband goods or tampering with them after they were aboard (Adv. Marcionem, v. 1). The Scripture, the rule of faith, is for him fixed and authoritative (De corona, iii.-iv.). As opposed to the pagan writings they are divine (De testimonio animae, vi.). They contain all truth (De praescriptione, vii., xiv.) and from them the Church drinks (potat) her faith (Adv. Praxeam, xiii.). The prophets were older than the Greek philosophers and their authority is accredited by the fulfilment of their predictions (Apol., xix.-xx.). The Scriptures and the teachings of philosophy are incompatible, in so far as the latter are the origins of sub-Christian heresies. "What has Athens to do with Jerusalem?" he exclaims, "or the Academy with the Church?" (De praescriptione, vii.). Philosophy as pop-paganism is a work of demons (De anima, i.); the Scriptures contain the wisdom of heaven. However Tertullian was not averse to using the technical methods of Stoicism to discuss a problem (De anima). The rule of faith, however, seems to be also applied by Tertullian to some distinct formula of doctrine, and he gives a succinct statement of the Christian faith under this term (De praescriptione, xiii.).Moral principlesTertullian was a determined advocate of strict discipline and an austere code of practise, and like many of the African fathers, one of the leading representatives of the rigorist element in the early Church. These views may have led him to adopt Montanism with its ascetic rigor and its belief in chiliasm and the continuance of the prophetic gifts. In his writings on public amusements, the veiling of virgins, the conduct of women, and the like, he gives expression to these views.On the principle that we should not look at or listen to what we have no right to practise, and that polluted things, seen and touched, pollute (De spectaculis, viii., xvii.), he declared a Christian should abstain from the theater and the amphitheater. There pagan religious rites were applied and the names of pagan divinities invoked; there the precepts of modesty, purity, and humanity were ignored or set aside, and there no place was offered to the onlookers for the cultivation of the Christian graces. Women should put aside their gold and precious stones as ornaments (De cultu, v.-vi.), and virgins should conform to the law of St. Paul for women and keep themselves strictly veiled (De virginibus velandis). He praised the unmarried state as the highest (De monogamia, xvii.; Ad uxorem, i. 3), called upon Christians not to allow themselves to be excelled in the virtue of celibacy by Vestal Virgins and Egyptian priests, and he pronounced second marriage a species of adultery (De exhortations castitatis, ix.).If Tertullian went to an unhealthy extreme in his counsels of asceticism, he is easily forgiven when one recalls his own moral vigor and his great services as an ingenuous and intrepid defender of the Christian religion, which with him, as later with Martin Luther, was first and chiefly an experience of his own heart. Because of his schism with the Church, he, like the great Alexandrian Father, Origen, has failed to receive the honor of canonization.Tertullian is occasionally considered as an example of the misogyny of the early Church Fathers, on the basis of the contents of his 'De Cultu Feminarum,' section I.I, part 2 (trans. C.W. Marx): "Do you not know that you are Eve? The judgment of God upon this sex lives on in this age; therefore, necessarily the guilt should live on also. You are the gateway of the devil; you are the one who unseals the curse of that tree, and you are the first one to turn your back on the divine law; you are the one who persuaded him whom the devil was not capable of corrupting; you easily destroyed the image of God, Adam. Because of what you deserve, that is, death, even the Son of God had to die.”See alsoEnglish translation of Tertullian's writings can be found in volume III of the Ante-Nicene Fathers.FootnotesReferenciasInitial text of article from The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge, Philip Schaff, public domainThis Holy Seed: Faith, Hope and Love in the Early Churches of North Africa Robin Daniel, Tamarisk Publications, 1993. ISBN 0952043505Enlaces externosCatholic Encyclopedia: TertullianTertullian in the 1911 Encyclopedia BrittanicaEarly Christian Writings: TertullianReligious Texts Index: TertullianThe Tertullian Project Latin texts, translations in many languages, manuscripts etc.EarlyChurch.org.uk Detailed bibliography and on-line articles.Jerome's On Famous Men Chapter 53 is devoted to Tertullian.Tertullian QuotesCategoría:Padres de la Iglesia Categoría:Teólogos cristianos Categoría:Escritores en latín Categoría:Patrología Categoría:Nacidos en 155 Categoría:Fallecidos en los años 230ar:ترتليان bg:Тертулиан ca:Tertul·lià cs:Tertullianus da:Tertullian de:Tertullian el:Τερτυλλιανός en:Tertullian eo:Tertuliano et:Tertullianus fi:Tertullianus fr:Tertullien he:טרטוליאנוס hr:Tertulijan hu:Tertullianus id:Tertulianus it:Quinto Settimio Fiorente Tertulliano ja:テルトゥリアヌス ko:테르툴리아누스 la:Quintus Septimus Florens Tertullianus lt:Tertulianas nl:Tertullianus no:Tertullianus pl:Tertulian pt:Tertuliano ro:Tertulian ru:Квинт Септимий Флоренс Тертуллиан sk:Tertullianus sr:Тертулијан sv:Tertullianus tr:Tertullianus uk:Тертуліан zh:特土良