playing in the garden of the manor of his parents, bruce wayne child falls into a cave. assailed by swarms of bats, it appears traumatized. several years later, after the murder of his parents, failed to do justice, he prefers to fly to the far east in search of justice that he never met. the thirst for revenge and resentment grow up in him against the corruption of gotham city. the city can still be saved? the batman series was moribund long: aesthetic kitsch scenario without any credibility, casting agreed ... for the first time, hollywood was able to resurrect a franchise exhausted. the film traces the origins of myth. it shows the genesis of the hero in the most realistic and credible as possible, through his sufferings skinned alive. you'll find everything about batman: why fight there instead of enjoying his life as wealthy? how did he learn to fight? why he created the character of batman? where are its techniques, its arms? how did he create the batcave under his mansion? above all, he reduced my chance to save gotham city from its decay? the most dangerous enemies are those he really believed? batman leaves the cradle of comic books to finally become a real movie, which rings true and touches the soul. the mass media have been deployed servida an excellent scenario. at the helm of this prequel, director christopher nolan has already committed the masterpiece "memento" and the excellent "insomnia". the cast is prestigious: christian bale passing the role of psycho "american psycho" to that of bruce wayne / batman, michael caine plays his loyal servant and helps alfred, morgan freeman in the role of a research &amp; development wayne industry shelved, liam neeson as the initiator of bruce wayne into the secrets of speedy justice, cillian murphy (the hero of "28 days later") plays the troubled psychiatrist, gary oldman, kathy holmes. the music perfectly accompanies the initiatory journey of a young bruce wayne, giving it an aura of poetic and romantic. by far the best batman series. a must see.