a small film crew follows the fire at night to make a report. during a routine procedure in a building, horror moves. rec is a horror film classic, cheap and not so scary. like any good horror film without imagination, it takes time to install an early interest-free. first reef. indeed, the girl who provides the story we quickly slap on the nerves playing the pseudo-journalist, and we want it being killed quickly. cers, because the original award in this film borrows springs blair witch, that everything is filmed by a character. only in blair witch, it worked, especially because there was a refusal of sensationalism (the tension mounted with the little things), but also because there were two cameras and directors have played with making its one and one for adding to the atmosphere. in sum, y'avait the idea behind. unlike in ccc, trying in vain to scare us, we use artificial means completions. the camera shakes constantly camera zooms in and out at will, even in situations where stability is yet logical. similarly, except at the beginning, the camera has no real motivation to shoot continuously, so the premise of the film quickly collapses. this attempt to immerse the viewer is completely missed, and gave birth the opposite result. we note all faults, all the arts, and one leaves the film. yet there was the material to make something successful, because the characters are rather interesting for a movie like this. indeed, at one time, suspicion settled between the characters, and we want to find someone to blame for our misfortunes, each accused in turn by the rest of the group. that would have been able to create a real tension, but the passage remains anecdotal, and it quickly falls into the springs of the usual film that tries to scare never get there. instead, to scare us, the characters have attacks of hysterical fear. personally, i find it unbearable. as in real life, someone who is more capable of acting with her head in a movie like this, we just want to smack him. i think we identify itself more to a character who tries to control his fear, and therefore we would be afraid for him.