foreword. the 19 first installment in the james bond franchise have been published in 2003 on dvd in 2005 for the 20th installment in the saga "die another day". then in 2006 all the james bond were reissued, this new edition was called "ultimate edition". each james bond ultimate edition this included 2 dvds, films had been completely remastered and the result was superb. but with this ultimate edition is restored, the publisher was already preparing to move to high definition. and now that blu-ray is there, should i buy for the second or third time james bond? the ultimate edition dvd was absolutely superb but it is clear that the new blu-ray editions of 11 of the top 20 james bond with sean connery, roger moore, timothy dalton and pierce brosnan are real blu-ray offers a superb picture, far superior to that of the ultimate edition. so i will try to comment on each of these blu-ray but all are of excellent quality i'll probably repeat myself and maybe go for a hardcore fan to someone reading every comment. no, i'm not a hardcore fan, and i speak of defects that can present these blu-ray. "live and let die" on blu-ray. "live and let die" is the eighth film in the series and the first with roger moore in the role of agent 007. it was released in france in 1973. blu-ray again restored the master of ultimate edition. a master restored frame by frame free of any stains or dust. the definition is very good, quality management contrasts allows for deeper blacks. the detail is excellent and the colors are well saturated issued with rich tones and natural. the depth of field is a very high level. as for flaws, we can observe that the level of spades is not always at its highest level, the fault probably a slight abuse of "noise reducer" which tends to smooth the image a bit. "live and let die." enjoyed an excellent work of restoration and transfer, the blu-ray offers us a great show with a picture quality amazing advantage of everything that can provide support high definition quality gain. the sound track english is dts-hd master audio 5.1, french audio track is dts. interactivity is subtitled. audio commentary with sir roger moore. (sous-titré.) audio commentary from director guy hamilton. (sous-titré.) audio commentary by tom mankiewicz. (sous-titré.) * "007 - report of mission: interactive guide on film." * "the bottom of mi6." bond 1973: the lost documentary. (21 min) 1964, roger moore was james bond. (7 min 45 sec) conceptual art live and let die. (1 min 40 sec) credits. (1min 30 sec) * 'files. "on this blu-ray titles bonus following are reversed, does not match the title they wear. i mention the titles as listed on the blu-ray and, incidentally, that the bonus is actually involved. on the set with roger moore: the funeral. (the bonus match is "behind the scenes of live and let die.") in hd. (29 min 45 sec) on the set with roger moore: hang gliding lessons. (the bonus match is "on the set with roger moore: the funeral.") (1 min 40 s) behind the scenes of live and let die. (the bonus match is "on the set with roger moore: hang gliding lessons.") (3 min 55s) * "the ministry of propaganda." trailer. spots tv spots radio. * "the image bank. "