10è chambre, instants d'audience, is a documentary in color 1:45 left in 2004 and filmed in 2003 by raymond depardon on immediate appearances before the 10th criminal chamber of the paris court. during 3 months, raymond depardon has been able entirely to film these hearings, with the agreement of the first president of the court of appeal, judges and persons appearing before the court. this is an exceptional testimony to the daily functioning of justice in france, as if the proceedings are public, it is not possible to film in these conditions for a quasi immediate. in the extra bonus, raymond depardon also wonders if rightly his documentary is perfectly legal, even if he has obtained the permission of the judicial hierarchy and stakeholders. although the presence of cameras (hidden in the documentary) probably modifies the behavior of people (the president may be more attentive than it would in reality substitutes more demonstrative and the defendants concerned to give them themselves a good image), the documentary takes us into a courtroom where justice is dispensed on behalf of the french people for a variety of offenses, and find everyday scenes of a criminal hearing: driving state of drunkenness, insults, opposing functions, theft, etc.. among a large number of small business, raymond depardon has selected twelve cases which appear interesting and / or touching. we become aware of the preventive and educational work carried out very important by the courts. the president has retained much of humanity despite his almost daily confrontation with delinquency. it also confirms that we must never defend himself, especially when you think it has good arguments to present (see the scene of man at opinel), and assistance a lawyer is essential. it would, however, that the judiciary can spend more time per case. the bonus includes 48 minutes of public discussion of the director, first president of the court of appeal and the 10th president of the chamber with the public film le saint-andre-des-arts at the end of a projection preview, an interview with raymond depardon on how he directed the film which is very interesting from a technical point of eview and two unusual scenes tours. a see also raymond depardon, in the same vein, in flagrante delicto, showing the role of prosecutor. this documentary shows that it is very important that justice is public and it deserves to be filmed more widely.