november 1995 marks the eleventh album by bruce springsteen. eleventh yes, but following the complete continuity of his first solo acoustic experience that was the surprising ". 13 years apart to have a new bruce springsteen behind an acoustic guitar and a harmonica incidentally. two differences between these two albums, the first is that bruce springsteen will not play all the instruments involved and the second is that it does not devote himself to a tape 4 tracks. the production takes place in the hands of our artist and that of chuck plotkin with the help of sound engineer toby scott. inspired by the heroes tom joad, hero, original title itself referring to a passage from the battle hymn of the republic (american patriotic song) and the apocalypse of saint john. in short, nothing very pleasing to the key. finished his joyous love affairs and family life at the microphone, bruce springsteen takes over the writing to serve the daily reality of thousands of people. bruce springsteen announces color and incorporates the standard of the low! as he had done "," bruce sings the misery and his compositions are startling everyone in agreement about that springsteen has created a "masterpiece". inspiration is taken with impunity from the vicissitudes of the joad family but transcribed the daily reality of modern life in the mid 90s. immigrants or migrant mexican american to go find a job, find a better life but who ultimately did not materialize. a shining parallel to the depression 29, which marks the return of the lyricist bruce springsteen, but remaining within the scope of hope. voice disillusioned, disenchanted, disillusioned, sad, sad, all on a slow tempo, minimal sound but no less orchestrated where grizzled harmonica, the contribution of the steel guitar and even a violin. the songs follow, succeed and there is pleasure from beginning to end ... a strong album, musically ingenious and poignant. the whole album moving on this line. what else if not futility ... duration: 50minutes - 12chansons