this is not anything to crush a tear after a book. but this is not anything not to confront the world as it is portrayed in this book. america early twentieth century lived at a pace and under banners that we know may be more. quite the contrary, men and women that steinbeck presents vast revolutions in his novel. this writer knows so well we deliver the characters they appear to us quickly familiar, friendly or hostile. figures say that eternal move before our eyes, fathers, son, and these beautiful women as they seem necessary for precedents. mothers absent or pervasive, sisters open and vulnerable. fathers and son, disaia i engaged in this dialogue never in father's original with her first son cain and abel. and intractable confrontation to be the world expressed their trade, and the son successive seek endless road on their way father. but a mere semantic debate has opened the door, and it slips from the requirement to renounce sin, freedom to dominate or not. and in the turmoil of young century, at the dawn of a new world which man will choose a new site (known as the author wrote his book several decades after that time), weapons of all proven and tested. good and evil will speak to all the heads fall under the working time, leaving alive only judges of the color of life. this freedom that americans hold so therefore seems very distant. how to be free because we love? i think the answer lies in dialogue genesic. some have understood god's commandments they would be free so they would not leave the stress of departure, one that leaves every man a debtor since adam committed the original sin. but we can also believe that sin enters a wider context, the man loved unconditionally. it is clear in the book as soon as the child follows a parent strain, it has been expressed (cyrus and adam trask) or that he is the figurative or she has been inspired by the world (samuel and tom hamilton, adam and aron trask), evil is spreading and man is doomed. should we therefore deny pre-existence and take the vessel cap imposed by its shape? is not that what cathy said, and this qu'entama to young caleb? neither one nor the other could not escape the sovereign command. and cathy died frightened and full of remorse. caleb, for his part, and with a final appeal to the wisdom of lee received from his father the right to exceed his sin. the last revolution was probably held at the time, and it seems to me that by his act, adam revives samuel hamilton. let us not forget that samuel, in his lifetime, could well be covered with dirt and wear shabby clothes . the author gives us always be seen as a clear, clean and safe. free, too.