the most ambitious project to complete the piano works of franz liszt at naxos delight lovers of piano we note first the homogeneity of the collection with a moving portrait of each disk volume numbered thematic content, different recording locations (england, united states, hungary, germany, canada) and interpreters more or less known but often high-flying and of any nationality. it will make all its interest when compared to the full completion of the marathon leslie howard at hyperion, certainly as far too monotonous, but in substance and in form and much more expensive! note cons by the dates of records do not always correspond to release dates and the regularity of these into a more disconcerting, but the adventure will last several years, so patience! canadian pianist philip thomson s is "loaded" to save harmonies poetic and religious that we find here "halved" and supplemented by pieces close enough to the overall color of the collection. let us say from the outset, this set remains liszt abandoned in its entirety by the pianists. why? probably because it is wrong to be rubbing shoulders with tracks inspired uneven, ranging from brilliant ( "blessing of god in solitude," "thinking of the dead", "funeral," "love song" ) to worse ( "invocation", "misery," "pater noster") or even downright mawkish ( "ave maria", "anthem of the child when he awoke," "andante lagrimoso) volume 4 of the series drives the point in giving additional 4 "ave maria" in my opinion totally tasteless and 6 consolations of a vacuum-inspired sad. but such was liszt, and these drives have the advantage of representing all facets of its creation. duly noted. in other words, the interpreter's role here is vital to the risk of falling into a deadly dull ... what we invite philip thomson! not to mention the lower parts, with no relief, nothing emerges from an "invocation" not even that loud like a beaten agreement without life, nor a "blessing of god" who does not sing in the middle a tangle of related marks, nor in "funeral" do not bury that person, which is a shame! the pianist likes does this music? we certainly listen to the "song of love" track trap where you can indulge in sentimentality worse, as the piano writing prompts us to do. the sound, flat and dull, is probably largely responsible for the overall impression that emerges from these two discs. too bad. very detailed booklet in french.