i did not expect the platform of critical records from sunday 10 to challenge that record. it is already several months i felt a certain weariness in this replay. rené jacobs is a conductor of great quality: he has repeatedly proven in the past. committed and theatrical, precise and careful, requirement musical work on the exceptional orchestra. this has earned us many records as more and more blatant: giulio cesare, cosi fan tutte, croesus, griselda and seasons, its hard for me (and his record of haydn symphonies with a fabulous oxford). however, his leadership has been a big turning point for: attention to detail at the expense of the great curve now becomes orthodoxy, which is rather harmful in such a directory that requires a large apparent form. i understand his desire to emancipate itself from the past more meaningful to the soli tutti symphony, not conducive to the development of each. but, does that mean we go that far in jupiter? the first movement rhythmic instability point it loses its structure, the andante cantabile cantabile not if it's with hammered too low, the menuet is lively but phrasing too mannered and strings n 't sound so well as usual, something rather surprising from a leader who knows so exalt the most beautiful orchestral sounds so different. finally comes the finale, the most convincing of the symphony. took a tempo enough to put the chief values more clearly the progression of discourse, with dissonances well developed. rarely has it been so visionary. but this is too little to appreciate in its entirety. the prague is treated more equally. the shadows may be too blurred in the original adagio and andante in (which is too chopped and hammered in his statement to sing) because of consistently fast tempos too. the allegro is enthusiastic and remarkably well executed tempo yet demonic, which says a lot about the quality of the phalanx. but there we perceive the shadows and light with much evidence that in some other versions? i think not. a more moderate tempo would surely helped the movement to speak in any ambiguity. comes the final again the movement's most compelling, treated at a tempo mad crazy but perfectly served and the head and the freiburg baroque orchestra. we hear all the traits of humor, shadows and lights more evident than elsewhere. this interpretation was intended to depart from any blueprint. betting half able! by trying too far from the norm, we finally get closer to systematic force. more classicism had vaulted the disc at the top of the discography. both of marginality in the distances. rené jacobs had found a "middle ground" between his brilliant insights and great shape in oxford and the 91st, which means that even today i hear this disc with a renewed pleasure. it may no longer see my deck! too bad for an artist of such a temper!