christopher nolan, despite some talent has really been nothing to do with a scenario as zero. already one can cast the first half hour of film: bruce wayne, become a criminal and vagabond in tibet, met a secret organisaion directed by the great warrior and sage liam neeson who teaches him to become a ninja to kill criminals . yes yes, and it is not the last we spoke chuck norris but batman! after this passage strongly nanar (the difference being that the budget is huge), they attack a film classic and not so bad as batman created his legend and confronts his own demons. but the villain (the scarecrow) is played by a small youngster who is given 17 years to a specialist in psychiatry &amp; engineering crime it passes through. and in addition, the batman's girlfriend is none other than katie holmes, 22 years of thumb is that a super assistant to the prosecutor. well they are young and not at all credible, ok. but they also play very well, even though not all. then it was morgan freeman as gadget provider and the excellent gary oldman as commissioner gordon (although not yet commissioner), not to mention michael caine as alfred, they provide despite the flatness of the dialogue and the 500 shots per minute. christian bale, he was never a great player but he gets involved and does not harm the character. must say stroll dressed in latex must learn to remain unmoved. but what the film is finished once the scenario: imagine you and release the gas from the terrifying scarecrow, a machine that makes microwave is responsible to boil drinking water for the city which contains such poison . and so we see the wicked quietly activate the machine and water pipes burst ... it makes you not curious? bin yes, the evil would have exploded also just seen that the human body is full of water ... it's stupid, but since the 90s everyone knows the microwave oven and how they work. bah there is more to it closely. when we saw liam neeson, dipsticks at least 50 meters to put a beating christian bale and 90kgs of muscle-we risk nothing.