the sanctuary saga draws to a close in the third box of saint seiya. the battle of sanctuary in full swing. the bronze knights have more than nine hours to save the life of saori kido, the reincarnation of athena, crossing the nine remaining houses of the zodiac, all protected by a knight gold to reach room grand pope and force him to withdraw the golden arrow that always sinks a little deeper into the chest of the girl. this third box again during the confrontation between the foul shiryu death mask, the golden knight cancer. more than ever, this story of modern chivalry is carried by an epic that is the best part of the animated (but not the manga, chapter reaching hades do even better while the animated adaptation of it is very irregular, the part of the sanctuary is very good while the parties are inferno and elysion disappointing) and a highlight of the world of manga. this third box we always proposes to (re) discover the episodes of saint seiya in full uncensored as it appeared in japan (with eye-catch and teasers for upcoming episode) with the choice between a reworked vf period (recovery and restoration of vintage recordings, including recordings prior to moving to censorship, editing sound, new recordings of eric legrand for the episode titles and teasers) and a subtitles quality. and, regardless, the choice between the first generic intro french "saint seiya" by bernard minet and the first generic japanese intro "pegasus fantasy", or even chaining immediate episodes without generic intro and end or teaser. the last 25 episodes of the saga are present sanctuary, located on 5 dvds. the cabinet is always excellent. a neat visual, sumptuous illustrations, an excellent booklet with a biography of the composer (musical) in the series of fact sheets on the knight of the swan and the golden knights, an explanation of the twelve signs of the zodiac and the synopsis of final 25 episodes of this arc of the series. only missing: real bonus in the dvd. at the price, it goes from 55 to 65 euros. if the cabinet has actually a dvd extra from the previous, it does indeed only one more episode. it goes wrong anyway. despite that, it's still definitely a quality issue for fans of saint seiya, and manga in general. dvd 9: 49) the prayers of love shunrei 50) the violent anger shiryu 51 ) the lion gold fangs sharp 52) the radius of the great satanic pope 53) a man dies for love dvd 10: 54) the phoenix private wings 55) the divine intervention of athena 56) shaka, the man closest to god 57) shaka opens eyes 58) dying friendship dvd 11: 59) come back to life, knight of the swan! 60) the resurrection of hyoga 61) the surrender or death 62) forward, proud and valiant knight! 63) harmony twelve golden armor dvd 12: 64) knights, i entrust athena 65) the sacred sword shura 66) the day became a star shiryu 67) farewell my master, my friend 68) aphrodite, the knight of beauty dvd 13: 69) roses demonic, the scent of a gentle death 70) the last smile of shun 71) the true face of the grand pope 72) seiya, beat you to remember your friends! 73) states around athena