a book that i would not advise you unless you want to report what may sign a nobel peace prize today ... this is disastrous, terrible, miserable, negative then finally ... it's part of a good feeling, to show that science is the path now required to change humanity. however, you and i both know is false, but worse is their way of showing it ... ahlala. already, they begin with a history of human evolution. rarely have i seen so many stupid things lined up, they would have done better to remain silent. already they use two demiurges in mistaking the meaning of the word ... then they trace the concept of language to -200 000 (probably more millions of years that it is counted) the agriculture -8000 (when we found many traces of earlier agriculture -13 to 000, particularly in the caucasus and the banks of the nile), and then writing to -3000 (i abstain), the greek philosophy to -200 (herodotus, in 600 bc, returned to egypt , reported the words they seemed to share the egyptian priests who were in fear of invalidity of greek philosophy, they were meaningless because the language is too poor, and they had knowledge that their take clumsily), and finally (i stop if i hang them) they give mordernité in the sixteenth century (tush, i bang my head on the wall there ... especially the way they say, "no one knows not how they knew it at the moment, "when we know that pertineant hermetic and alchemical writings, inherited from ancient egypt, translated into greek, were found in the hands of arabs then, who were exploited, and then with the trade, these writings were gradually recovered in florence, venice and then throughout europe. so instead of "discovered" as the book says, "big names" from the time n ' had to translate and repeat what they had read. it is suddenly less prestigious for sure, but need not mean inventing things when you only read.)) finally, the sequence (j must 'shortens), demonstrations are ... absent, the argument ... too. in short, lots of blah, we talk a lot, but not to show we know, but rather distract the reader who had thought we'd show him something. thus, he believes it has succeeded, when in fact it has diverted the topic ... i even found some phrases that ended when it was expected to finally have the proof. it kills it. finally, i read only half there, but it is rather pathetic it all. anyway, should read to understand:) and as i had signed a petition for yves lignon, who was defamed in the previous book charpak and broch, i wanted to see what it could give their nonsense. i was served, i can say ....