satchmo'm a longtime fan and i have every available edition cd that was needed until now to have all of his early work. also, i have fremeaux superb django reinhardt series, so i now they work hard. however, i'm a bit dissapointed with this series. first of all, all of this music has been available before in a variety of ways, so the merit here was precisely to put it all in one sack and make a complete series at last . that's the only reason why someone will not buy these cheap sets of precisely not precisely high fidelity music, not precisely containing "what a wonderful world" and "hello dolly". so, if this was aimed to collectors and music lovers, some of the decisions made here are very hard to accept, and some ommis are hard to believe. for instance, if you call a complete set, you do not begin by excluding the items you dislike. whoever buys a complete multi-disc series wants to have everything and judge for himself / herself. and many unexplainable things are missing from here. these are the ones i noticed: 1) many of louis' recordings with fletcher henderson. all of the master takes, including those which one solo louis and those on which he did, are also already in the french "classics" series. all of the tunes on which he soloed along with their corresponding alternate takes were on the two-volume king jazz series. so, here was the real deal al those putting together and add the alternates for the titles on louis which was not really featured. but the producers of the series fremeaux decided to exclude many alternate takes on louis which soloed, exclude all of those which one he played but did not solo and even, on some cases, the absurdity of issuing a mixture of "half takes" putting only louis' shares on some tunes. extract from 1:37 to 2:50 a tune recorded in 1924 is not precisely a way to preserve history. and even if you'd aprove these criteria, which maybe you would, i still would not call this sets full full gold, even if they discharge themselves in the little words saying they do not intend to end all of louis' recordings. other ommis are less easy to understand: 2) "rockin 'chair" from december 13, 1929 (alternate take also with hoagy carmichael's vocals), issued on the neatwork cd of louis' and alternates also were king louis jazz cd of rare works. 3) "i can not give you anything but love" from march 5, 1929-the longer test pressing that so far appeared on many places, including the sony complete hot fives series. 4) "wrap your troubles in dreams" from november 4, 1931 (alternate take). present on the neatwork cd. these are the mistakes i noticed, but there may be more. i did not check every track of louis backing vocalists. so beware, music is marvelous, but this is far from complete. and concerning the first volume of which contains mucho louis' recordings with king oliver, those should be heard from the off the record 2cd set, which has the best sound ever so far. mr.