thriller limit solely because it is the best selling album of all time would be simplistic, as the cult object that is still beyond the scope of simple musical effort. indeed, when one listens to it, not only is at the crossroads of genres that we found. at the moment this mix that allowed them to set new guidelines for a black music that was looking for new complicity. but also, this very special moment that determined the association of the final artistic product image. from yesterday to today, tomorrow's the future, thriller is a record that reflects his time, while being a visionary. at the time, perfect reflection of a moment so intense, universal, multi-generational and exciting, having entered naturally into the collective memory by many of its titles, this great pop business is primarily a successful man : michael jackson. when we talk about pop, whether it is above all of diversity in question, for this record we tend to add enrichment. for if, primarily, thriller is an object that has managed to fully materialize the mixture of genres as far as r &amp; b and electronics. in a second step in facilitating this cross-breeding, it has also contributed to changing maeurer. freedom of space, but also the final release of the jackson 5 straitjacket for its lead actor, one who passes today for a genuine societal phenomenon, this drive towards which all eyes, past and future remains the mutant offspring of a rare openness. place of sharing in both its expression level than those who were the promoters, the album's moonwalk, clips from mtv and the bidding is a great business machine, whose success does not depend on chance or luck. dancing machine, but most bets won a true combination of skills, so beat it, billy jean, thriller and want to be startin 'somethin, among others, owe their fame to a michael jackson to the fact of his art, others big names are just as committed to their success. while you will be most natural way, quincy jones, rod temperton, dean parks, eddie van halen or toto for the most obvious, however, is the first references to the man in white gloves that will turn our thoughts. namely, james brown, fred astaire, jackie wilson, anthony newly, even marta &amp; the marvelaves. hard rock on beat it, break soul makossa manu dibango borrowed for africa, black and white duet on the girl is mine in a few hymns to the overwhelming power builder, the world seems to have the time together on this disc to celebrate the advent of a new pop messiah. for beyond the case thriller from its unique influence on the early '80s, we note also, if we made the effort, the victory of a man about his past. in a childhood dominated by an authoritarian father, abusive, insulting to make the son a different man under the knife for surgery. double victory, then. those that create the myth, enter a name to pediment of the public's imagination, as posterity, thriller is an amazing theme park where everyone will find, depending on the angle of viewing selected or honey that has always sought, or the misadventures of a young man pursuing his dreams.