1952: first complete recording of tristan and isolde in the studio. the direction is typical of the last furtwängler: the vision is broad and consistent superior, but the building to be monumental, somewhat the sadness of a great castle empty. missing energy prophetic, the flashes, the relentless panic, the dizzying escalation of the 20s and 30. there remains a huge lesson in music and performing, as great a time that clearly indicate that the eye that covers the head partition is not a man's height, but transcendent. in this sense, its direction is opposite to that of böhm in bayreuth in 1966 (dg), which from the orchestral prelude of i interfering in the body of the listener, and especially in his breathing. the furtwängler was not breathing human but superhuman. pemière result: this version is assessed in terms little sensory or emotional. second consequence: the singers are required to impose excessive. not that they lose their breath, but they must sustain the notes longer than they are of no effect, sacrificing the floor to the music. this is particularly the case of white thebom (brengain already hardly significant) in i, where it is often prolong the issue by looking at his watch. the mark of the black bass fafner greindl feels his full face. flagstad is the end of the race for big dramatic soprano, before converting into mezzo. the means are always impressive, but compared to the greatest recordings of performances of the 30s, displaying a voice over the absolute fullness of color and flesh from top to bottom of the range and start to end each sentence. some years after lorenz and melchior, suthaus (tristan) represents, with its contemporary svanholm and vinay, a lower level. today, of course, he would hold a major role, with a voice technically adequate, a dark and interpretation rather intense. the kavalierbariton fischer-dieskau is still a bit young, even slight, but it can not be choosy indefinitely ... the i, with its huge increase in the prelude to the arrival in cornwall, has the stature that furtwängler (only?) could give him. but between a thickened isolde, tristan graceless a lyrical rumination and furtwängler, the ii loses its erotic charge. the iii, in contrast, is consistently the highlight of such an interpretation, a long poem of death, but whose heyday in the liebestod from flagstad is tempered by the interpolated high notes ... lined by elisabeth schwarzkopf. it is still legitimate to ask whether the vision, highly legitimate, protected by furtwängler and highlighting the unifying continuity of the line and the musical phrase, especially in this solo, supposedly carrying the unit of 'universe is not in contradiction with such gerrymandering. the philharmonia orchestra is magnificent, with its iridescent strings and winds its poetic, and the monophonic sound on tape is a clear progress but the brass saturate, and then fade, often.