through this story, hergé removed from the news and guides us to a tale of escape: the treasure hunt. the author gives a more refined captain haddock citing his ancestor. the hut where captain pierces the canvas portrait of his ancestor, we note that both characters are one-level personality. the story begins with a gift, a model ship that tintin will offer his friend captain haddock. but two people, a collector: mr sakharine and another man, barnaby, acting on behalf of little antique fair, the brothers are interested loiseau closely. behold, tintin is a victim of burglary after his visit at the captain and discovers a scroll, but the model ship had disappeared. a table view of the ancestor of captain haddock, tintin notices a resemblance with the ship when available goes to the collector mr. sakharine, thinking responsible for the theft of the artwork. tintin realizes that the artwork stolen from him is not that hold at m sakharine and discovers that the name is that of the ancestor of captain: the unicorn. later, the collector is the victim of a burglary. tintin and haddock go home and find him unconscious. the thomsons go there and try in vain to stop the captain haddock, accusing him of assaulting m sakharine. following the testimony of collector tintin realizes that the other man who was interested in buying the boat. tintin and the captain agreed in meeting him to receive, but a car passes and an attack is committed (by maxime loiseau following a disagreement and fear of betrayal) cons barnabas after showing sparrows (reference to the name family antique) loses consciousness. subsequently, tintin is kidnapped by fake deliverymen and was imprisoned in the cellars of moulinsart, owned by brothers loiseau who use threats to get all the scrolls hidden in a flagpole for each model ship. however, tintin manages to escape and alerted the captain. meanwhile the thomsons join him to arrest the brothers loiseau, following a denunciation of barnabas who escaped death. it is at this moment appears nestor, the servant who will be serving captain haddock. the brothers eventually loiseau by being arrested and handed the scrolls to tintin and haddock who find the key to the puzzle to go in search of treasure. note album in the presence of a pickpocket: mr. filoselle whose flight portfolio will our friends to retrieve the scrolls, plus the tips the police never to fly their portfolio. captain haddock in the story of his ancestor sir hadoque refers to the image of a character imbued unleashed as that of his ancestor, which frightens the caretaker and the locksmith, especially when recounting the victory of his ancestor against the head pirate red rackham. delicious moments throughout this album.