the rupture of 1971, conceived as liberating and fulfilling the four members of free, ultimately proves disappointing. projects of paul rodgers (peace) and andy fraser (toby) abort quickly without the public can actually taste it. paul kossoff and simon kirke manage to release an album, accompanied by the japanese bassist tetsu yamauchi and keyboardist john "rabbit" bundrick. this kossoff kirke tetsu rabbit (1971) scarcely departs from the path started by free this free voice rodgers nor the tasty bass lines of fraser. the unfortunate kossoff continued on his descent into the depths of addiction and downing handfuls mandrax. the growing concern of his three former comrades face of marked impairment of general condition eventually turn into guilt. the break would be responsible in their problems guitarist, despite his earlier drug use. by designating this cause illusory, which is actually an aggravating factor, the trio proclaimed themselves saviors directly brandishing the perfect remedy: the reformation. this project qualifies as legitimately religionnaire therapeutics greeted warmly by the record company, instead of worrying about the ability of kossoff to endure such an undertaking. the free at last (1972) is not nearly as the disastrous assumption that legitimizes its existence. the pain and the inability of paul kossoff seems to infect the entire team to achieve a musically artworks poor and without power. religionnaire spared the anger and disappointment to feel a great pity to listen to tracks that push even further the already extreme softness heard on highway. this execution neurasthenic obviously does no service to some incredibly inspired compositions. the overall weakness of the groove is matched only by the melodic misery that prevails on this disc. a glimmer of hope springs sometimes from time to time when echoes a theme of psychedelic soul dissonant piano on "magic ship", or an embryo of attractive riff on "traveling man", but that hope was quickly dashed by the monotonous evolution and soporific of these securities. strangely, a sample rather sensational emerges from this melancholy assembly for the console religionnaire. the latter indeed found on "little bit of love", the ideal combination of groove and riff before leveraging on "all right now". although more dripping, this tube is beneficial to the thirteenth in the standings english. the album also benefits from a successful result, the religionnaire prefers to attribute the mercy of the public rather than stupidity. faced with the distressing spectacle of paul kossoff who falls asleep in the studio, who can barely stand up on stage, andy fraser took the responsible decision to leave the group to stop the massacre. the guitarist is in turn requested to seek treatment by professionals ...