the wind that shakes the film is directed by ken loach was the most seen in france. does this mean its better? probably not, but it combines the classical form and the virulence of the remarks that sometimes characterizes a certain balance. the tragedy of ireland also seen through the opposition of two brothers experienced scenario but very efficient, which is not as manichean as could do fear the violence of certain scenes (the torture to which the british forces engaged not spared the viewer, even if i do not think it filmed with convenience). the film reaches a certain size through the lyricism of certain scenes and how it dramatizes the dilemmas of his characters. next to this historical film, perhaps not as beautiful as land and freedom even if it is probably a higher bill, there are the last two contemporary films by ken loach ae fond kiss (as obviously less mawkish in vo just as a french kiss) and "it's a free world! these last two films seem to me both remarkable, including ae fond kiss, which was little seen and yet that shows that loach is more nuanced than is sometimes said. the delicacy of touch with which its writer paul laverty and he had considered the difficulties of a mixed couple to live his love unfettered in england today shows that we are far from manichaeism which they routinely tax . a beautiful film, really. on it's a free world ", which seems the most important of the three, i repeat my comments already published on the first separate edition," ken loach has still achieved a remarkable film, and as of usually he has his detractors ferocious. when it was too didactic, they reproached him bitterly, now it is less, he said that he would explain his thoughts. when he was quite the side of the oppressed and proactive in his painting of the collective reaction to having to face the oppressors, it was wrong, but this does not always when it shows the path of angie without diverting and without comment to be outside the character. he was also criticized for not making a film on the grounds that the film, like others, shows a day without relief. how many misunderstandings and bad faith, "this film illustrates once again the ability of ken loach and his scriptwriter paul laverty to be in tune with the way our societies function, and is of course in this context we can say that this action film, which will act on the real and the audience. but these films are highly dramatized, and do not refuse the twists or emotion, even if they do not schedule them as the hollywood machinery. refusing to see how these scenarios are structured, albeit in bringing back the maximum life inside these tight structures, i think is completely wrong on the commodity. moreover, if the film does not judge his character - what would they say if he had done? ! - he does not forget to show how freedom of choice of the individual, real, is limited by the pressure exerted by the system. angie is like all of us, she has the choice to have a conscience and a moral but is it a luxury she can afford, if she has understood and accepted the imperatives of individual success, so well highlighted in the united states, england and now in our beautiful country of france? work more, earn more, make more: the film shows how the circle is vicious but also shows the complexities of human beings and morality. a movie not manichean and exciting, played remarkably, energy, by kierston wareing. a must-see. "