one of the founders films (1960) of modern cinema, "psycho", always appears as an exceptional film as the themes it evokes as for its masterly execution. through a history of theft and murder, hitchcock develops a film of unusual homogeneity in which all elements - story, characters, scenery, music and "figures" - organized around a common reflection on the nature of man and the condition that it is made. under cover of a detective story, it actually leads into the depths of the human soul, putting his film under the sign of ambivalence. duality is at the heart of "psycho" and the structure: double narrative (the story of marion which follows that of norman); dual personality of the two main characters (marion is a used model before breaking the law / norman seems model son before revealing his dark side), double size setting (under the camera "air" of the film begins to shallow marsh final) reinforced by circular shapes of the confinement (headlights and windows of the house bates in the night / apple round of showers and swirling discharge of water from the shower), double theme music of bernard herrmann (a slow tempo first, grave, hesitant alternates with a second movement carrying the folly of unbridled shrill violins). in short, used by actors in tune with his talented orchestra hitchcock visually living hell of the human soul and offers a pessimistic vision of the human condition, struggling vainly to achieve its desires, colliding with his own limitations and prohibitions of society, human beings, in "psycho" locked himself in a prison he built himself and which he realizes too late, as shown in the final image which replaces , superimposed with the face of norman. while "psycho" film about a psychopath, as has often been claimed? basically, it is rather a film about the suffering created by the human condition. film advise that you absolutely do not know yet the film. film to watch again and again several times to grasp all the wealth. and you want to discover a film that offers such a sequence of emotions, fears and turns of events without ever leaving time to take stock of what's happening on the screen and take you to through marion and norman, so deep into yourself. the original version is always advisable, but in this case, the french version is a rare quality, particularly through the french voice of norman's mother - an essential element of the film - much more evocative than the american voice. ps: brian de palma, davis cronenberg and david lynch, among others, have been fed to the cinema of hitchcock.