when you look at the listing of this album, one wonders if wt already has really dared to make a set too short for his public ... if this is not the case, then we well, the cd buyers, who must feel a little aggrieved. only 11 live tracks + 1 unreported. following that, we dwell on each securities ... and again, a little disappointment we say that the choice is pretty easy, too easy even for my taste ... although it starts with a good headline, rarely played live, towards the end, which makes really good. it's nice a title such as this but unfortunately i think that its original version is still very close to it ... and this feeling, i'll find throughout most of the album. indeed, i am not at all enthralled by the acoustic versions of all i need, frozen, the cross, mermories, forgiven, which remain very close to the original versions. basically the group chose as setlist of songs already semi - acoustic basis. i put aside somewhere, pale &amp; caged who are my 3 best tracks on the album and these songs are repeated here (or rather sublimated to somewhere, as usual). but even these 3 tracks, they are based not aggressive enough and easy to bring up to date audio. to this is added titles like stand my ground, what have you done that does not provide for the basic for audio, so there is a beautiful transformation of these 2 tracks ... but the problem is we already have acoustic versions of these 2 pieces on a version of "the heart of everything", so the surprise is not there. the concept of live rattrappe do not these first false since we do not hardly feel the presence of the audience during the songs, and it is between the pieces (except the start of stand my ground) is meant a shy "thank you!" sharon ... so we end on a novel ... yes it is but it is not live ... then there is the sudden transition, the previous song (live) ends, fading in 10 sec on audience applause, and we enchaine immediately with utopia, with its completely different, obviously, since it studio. this piece, utopia, is catchy, sure, but there are worlds away from the wt ... is clearly pop, close to sheryl crow! i do not like sheryl crow! still i'm a fan of the first hour of wt, and i appreciate their evolution over time (although i rather regret the period of mother earth). on a special concert this kind, i would have liked a higher risk-taking they have more than talent. why songs rarely played more and more rock, where the acoustic version would have given a new freshness to songs, like mother earth, jillian, the howling, running up that hill, the truth beneath the rose ... there was something to qlq something truly amazing. i remain a fan, and i appreciate everything so all these pieces (i am still having trouble with utopia), it remains the wt. but this is not a "good" surprise, just a new compilation / live.