when a successor to the illustrious, radiohead is expected to turn and has a lot of pressure on his shoulders. this raises the familiar dilemma: "play safe" by pursuing the same path or surprise by proposing something quite different, even offend and lose some fans along the way? this was the second option was chosen. and bingo, the public and critics, the vast majority adhered and followed this shift less original and courageous he was in the air. indeed, the coup group electro rock ledge is nothing new, it is even a classic. new order, primal scream and u2, in a vein more dancefloor (electronica initiated by the warp label did not exist at the time), there are risky before them, with varying degrees of success. while the structure verse / chorus is here abandoned the guitars and gagged. but hey, they invented nothing so far (they also did not claim. the music, at bottom, is nothing more than mixing, "revivals" and influence more or less digested ). it was therefore a disparate and hard-referenced "post-prog-rock experiment" with a big feature of warp vintage electronica (autechre, aphex twin) and a pinch of mingus. it contains some successes as "the national anthem" with his bass and his shamanic final free jazz, or the aptly named "in limbo", following agreements repetitive in a good atmosphere psyche "druggy". but also titles such anecdotal interlude "treefingers" or "motion picture soundtrack. when imaging group committed global justice, ecological and anti-bush (what audacity! who still supports the former u.s. president except the redneck bruce willis and some illuminati?:)), it is probably honest but too "marketeer" to be honest, and does not prevent the group from seeking sacred fees for a benefit festival arras. subsequently, the oxford quintet released three albums (and) the same stamp, but gradually by reviving the format with pop and guitars. to conclude, we say that radiohead will appeal to "hip" (as opposed to u2 and coldplay, the group thom yorke is not "public." whew, no nomination for nrj awards widget "for too depressed and tortured, not quite glamorous:)) and the teens just curious ears not yet fully formatted fm (radiohead, we like it or not but it's still music, unlike the junk-star academic or dance / r &amp; b). think they hear music innovative and wonderful. by cons, allergic to electronics and / or those with more developed musical culture marble will listen to these complaints unstructured quasi-autism.