for an objective ear musically, it is difficult to understand credit and the esteem in which bruce springsteen, honest toiler rock and roll, propelled in his own defense, i am sure the status icon. musically, this album as in the other, there's nothing stunning, with some songs like "adam ... where to use the term of a prominent commentator, the gimmick here is to mix fader to the beginning of the solo, then send the full pot. the band accompanying rustic does not help matters: clarence clemons, saxophonist howler technically very limited is too far forward (on record and on stage), same for max weinberg, miami steve, occasionally inspired songwriter, guitarist but poor (and this band ...!). as for texts, often highlighted to justified criticism of hagiography sir, is at best overblown and at worst dripping pathos do you want in here. in fact, like many bands, the music is secondary springsteen vehicle image fantasized by the european myth of blue collar, which gives the rock, a priori little "political" a little polish makes it perfectly presentable. the views of our friend and cons republicans for obama (appointments in five years to see what has changed) are in the same direction and add to his aura. the proletarian guard however the sense of reality, see the pharaonic seal required for its passage this summer in britain. springsteen arrived, like so many others, not more talented than him at the right time, in the mid 70s, chernobyl music ( "rock" progressive ... etc.), crowned by the stupid form an equally stupid rock critic, the inept jon landau who has since fallen into the garbage which should never have left. to get an idea of the disaster, he n is only refer to the dvd live in barcelona, where despite a dozen musicians (including nils lofgren, whose one wonders what he's doing there / back tax likely) group hoarse in vain in pitiful attempts. it is true that the concert took place in spain, but still. in comparison, the "dumbbell" (since bruuuuuuuce ...! due to weight) ego, fantasy, southside johnny is better: it swing, and it knocks at least it does not take a thinker. qed.