in the children rifa'a guy sorman explains that those interested in islam has two options: to immerse themselves in the texts of the islamic faith, or go out to meet the muslims there are those for whom "islam is one "and those for whom it is" the sum of muslims. " the test range without hesitation in the second category. on the epistemological point of view, the thesis of sorman (he borrows likely to olivier roy, mentioned in his short bibliography) - the texts are not only count those wearing them - is a truism or a truth-cons. it is a truism to note that the texts do not act by themselves and they need the mediation of individuals, they make their mark, shaping the world. the capital karl marx did not create the ussr alone, it took marxists. but it is a cons-evident truth to argue that texts have no bearing on reality: the ussr would not have arisen if the capital had been written. no marxism without marxism, not marxism without marx's writings. the contrast between the text and those who claim it is not only paradoxical in the case of an essayist as prolific as g. sorman, it is false: the interpreter is important, but the text as it shows some consistency - this is certainly true of the koran, sunnah and fiqh which is also the object - fixed a frame. this framework is more restrictive in the case of islam that the quran is considered divine word (which is not true of the bible). sorman is the interpreter of the twenty muslims that encountered throughout the world, we are interesting remarks are reported. but islam as a coherent voice and millennium, bearing the logos of god, is radically absent. close this qur'an that i can not see! curious respect for islam and its negation as divine word, and as theology. a gilles kepel, sorman borrows the idea of "islamism breathless. the children rifa'a date of 2003, which allows to test a number of predictions which indulges the author. sorman analysis such length the future of the iranian islamic revolution, and its diagnosis is unambiguous: "that out of the islamic dictatorship became a vow majority no doubt. "the iranian youth has become so openly anti-clerical that the mullahs are reluctant to approach the universities in costumes clerk. "what the iranians want the vast majority, the return of religion to the private sphere (...). conclusion: the end of reign, almost biological approaches. "besides the islamic revolution itself was not a religious phenomenon, sorman says, but a political phenomenon, economic and social explanation which has two drawbacks: it is so broad that it explains nothing, and it ignores the cause claimed by all the actors (a point of view "external radical" which is reminiscent of the marxist vision of the crusades): their faith. whether they come back to reality and it will be recalled that two years after the children rifa, the overwhelming majority of votes iranian concerned the nomination of a man who intended - he keeps his word! - radicalize the islamic revolution. so much for breathlessness. from what the islamic texts have no relevance or interest, it follows the logic of guy sorman, that those who argue for a theological reform of islam are beside the point. as taslima nasreen, the apostate sentenced to death (islam leaves little doubt about the penalty hitting the apostate), cons sorman which engages in an indictment that is not devoid of malice. taslima nasreen believes that the oppression of women is from the koran in his book shame, published in 1994, she complained, inter alia, rape of hindu girls by muslims. sorman says that the oppression of women does not stem from islam but from "oppression partiarcale" which characterizes bangladesh and thus it was "the wrong target." "taslima nasreen has committed another odd, troubling," says sorman she has never denounced the rape