the idea of doing a cover album "offset" is absolutely not new, many groups specializing in sixties were times of more savage than the other pop standards of the time: here the purpose is different, since it instead of standing out with the times without any savagery, with a healthy dose of bossa nova, lounge of music and easy listening. incidentally, other groups, like the unspeakable moog cookbook example, playfully distort covers of pop standards, but again with a different spirit. the nouvelle vague project focuses therefore, as its name suggests, the new wave, that is to say, this genre a little catch-all in which we put both the irish punk undertones, the tuxedomoon dandies of crows or cure or sisters of mercy. or, any rock music 78-82 years: they're not alone, that is precisely the time the music more fashionable since already three or four seasons! note also that this disc is distinguished by the elegance of its menu: xtc, undertones, clash tuxdemoon or ... can only be borrowed security training to more dubious (français modern and killing joke) are a little task, but as they say: "there is something for everyone, and new wave seeks to cast a wide net. indeed, the result is appealing, sparkling, right from the first listen! how sweet in the female voices (especially that of camille) ... what sweetness in these arrangements cool ... how exotic these universal rhythms ... but also: what sanitization how insipid! what is a song as "teenage kicks" extraordinary teenage rage in its original version to win a facelift in this sad? although this disc is alluring, not unpleasant music (great success in the evenings sores), you want to scream all the songs are not exactly the "background music"! if so i can allow myself a board to all listeners captivated by this record, then photocopy the contents of titles and you lean forward while on the original: it will cost more, it will take time, it will be less effective in your cocktail parties, but you will then understand what i mean. the pleasure is the price. and it does not fall from the sky, no offense to new wave ...