october 1969, in the showcase stores, a pocket at the sublime ugliness, printed on paper without any fluffy inscription: "in the court of the crimson king" has arrived on earth and nothing will ever be the same again! definitely inspired "scream" by edvard munch, the haunting face of schizoid man (painted by barry godber who died several months later!) will forever mark the spirits. on the plate, the shock after a few sirens and roaring deaf strange voice of greg lake distorsionnée the tone, "21st century schizoid man," perhaps the first hard-rock history! robert fripp has plugged his guitar on a bellows and we balance a hell riff, followed by the sax madman ian mcdonald, bass rumbling lake and battery alien michael giles in unison! it catches its breath and it must be more plays before digesting the ufo. then after the storm, the calm: "i talk to the wind" song chiaroscuro, both entrainant and melancholy voice finally pure greg lake, singing and contrechant totally sublime and cherry on the gift, the masterful and haunting flute of ian mcdonald. drum roll (borrowed from procol harum in "in t was held i"), rising mellotron (purchased moody blues !), shy and sublime melody of robert fripp on guitar, then vocals of greg lake, shivering in the back, "epitaph" deal the final blow: the text of peter sinfield is not "gay-gay" but succumbs to such beauty (the devil?) as 1969 is the year of the moon, "moonchild" invites us home: beautiful melody, winds grandiose arrangements (that's with ian mcdonald!), then three mates fly to introspection onirico-phase which will eventually (and probably unconsciously) designed to anesthetize the listener and make the vamp which is the intro of "in the short" even more brilliant: break monstrous on drums, slick and mellotron choirs from beyond the grave, welcome to king crimson's all there! guitar arpeggios from elsewhere, ride cymbal, given crystalline solo flute hanging stars, strangely muffled drums, break, re-break and fake ending and final lecture. the trip is over and there will be no else: in the first line-up, king crimson will disintegrate after a few months, leaving us orphans forever! robert fripp only resume the helm of the deceased king, greg lake elp leave base, ian mcdonald (main composer for this album and the first true soul crimson) participate in the adventure "foreigner", michael giles and peter sinfield disappear "progressive" rock the world. but that is another story ...