for all fans of british pop (the best in the world, it is useful to recall?), separation of pulp in 2002 has been a real disaster. is that during the previous decade (1992-2002 so) this group completely out of the ordinary has released a series of singles (or, babies, do you remember the first time, common people, disco 2000, this is hardcore bad cover version ...) and absolutely astounding album (intro, his'n'hers, different class this is hardcore, we love life) as breathtaking as different from each other. joy, jarvis cocker, the leader pulp, is back today with his first solo album, and miraculously, he takes things pretty much exactly where he left off at the end of we love life, the last album of his group in 2001. placed in the opening drive after a mini intro music, do not let it waste your time and takes us back to familiar ground (and oh how enjoyment, as did also the excellent opening weeds in for we love life). jarvis cocker, it's not a secret even if the compositions of pulp were signed collectively, was very creative musical force behind the group, and it continues to provide clear evidence then throughout the disc: perverse and irresistible pop (black magic, heavy weather, tonite), pretty ballads ( "baby's coming back to me), songs and majestic worrying (i will kill again, disney time) and certainly the same as most rock he ever composed (fat children and irresistible ah ah), jarvis cocker shows once again the seemingly limitless scope of his talent. now ok, this disc has no absolute pop perfection of different class or the majesty of despair this is hardcore, ok, this disc has a tendency to falter (as we love life for that matter) in the end, ok, we still regret that jarvis has finally abandoned all those little sounds kitsh singling out and embellishing the infernal trilogy intro / his'n'hers / different class. nevertheless. in 2006, which is able to offer us a little pop happiness at this level and this class, with moreover a sound so magnificent? morrissey, yes, but that's about all. all the fans were very good pop so much interest to jump on this disc one last genuine legends of the anglo-saxon music today.