a cult film, scenes of worship, worship music, worship replicas (or enormous or huge ...) glance, the film of the century no less. with that, hard to be disappointed! well sorry to go against the grain but i have not seen great interest in this acclaimed film in every latitude, or how he was able to receive the palme d'or festival cannes 1994, let alone how it could propel tarantino in the firmament of american new wave cinema. the film is a tribute to''pulp fiction'', those cheap novels that were once the rage in the united states, and describes the odyssey of bloody and comical little thugs not very good and lost in the jungle of hollywood through several intertwined stories ... it crosses the fates of two young killers, including one illuminated bible, a couple who shines a café, a gangster married to a cameo, a crafty boxer who loses his watch, pawn shops sadistic an elegant kaid, a dealer ... the film has just the beginnings of history that lead nowhere. we begin by the end, then returns to the beginning with great blows of flashbacks, then jumps to another character, etc.. ok, why not, but all that to get where? well nowhere and this is precisely the problem, it could have something but ultimately it is the great void, the scenario is also inconsistent incoherence. some scenes are extended to bursting, resulting in a film more boring to wishes. to make matters worse, the film is filled with gratuitous violence, the more free the scenes in question have no interest in understanding what that either before or after and do nothing to the film, while being unnecessarily long (mia overdosée drooling eyes returned, threatening to move the bucket from one moment to another. marcellus who is raped by a sadistic cop who thinks he's a biker at daytona beach. marvin who repainted the entire car with his brain exploded from the gun of vincent). oh yes it is worship. that's it i'm for it''disturbing''for''or playing with conventions''! no seriously i really can not believe that this is the famous movie of''aesthetic''which was praised by a whole generation!? in short, this cocktail of violence and humor impaired lacks finesse it looks like just the first film of a student in film school, which has plenty of scenes in the head but failed to organize them into something coherent. ultimately i would not like this movie nanar only one due to a very good soundtrack and excellent game players. it must be said that the cast is actually very good: john travolta, bruce willis, uma thurman, tim roth, maria de medeiros, harvey keitel, who are even better than they manage to get away despite the script exist.