the bootleg series .... after the fabulous falls studio first three volumes, the power struggle between dylan and his fourth of the public and the circus rolling thunder revue of the fifth, here come the volume six: the mutation of a poet singer revolutionary surreal and troubled. recorded on halloween 1964 in new york (i think), this live is fabulous. the public, who still sees dylan as a folk singer that is limiting the songs to protest political message, seen as che guevara. dylan himself is undergoing a profound transformation: the social message songs like blowing in the wind, the times they are-a changing or with god on our side, it is now moving to poetry and disturbed dream of mr. tambourine man or it's alright ma, vein explode with the magnificent desolation row. in short, closer to baudelaire than che. but that night, contrary to the concert volume four (albert hall), dylan went on stage without a band behind him. his public folk preocupa more in form than in substance, is delighted, charmed, aquis completely to his cause. and it is a triumph, either on his old protest songs, the latest accessories and gadgets introverted his fourth album (another side) which then comes out or these new songs not yet recorded at the time, almost no personnne knows: mr tambourine man and it's alright ma dylan, confident face to worship him testifies that the crowd is relaxed, pleasant, cheerful, joking between each song. in addition, he is in form this evening: vocals, guitar, harmonica: everything is mastered with confidence. and when joan baez up some tracks for a duet, the crowd is in ecstasy: the king and queen of folk together just for them. that evening, all these folkeux left the philharmonic hall competitions charm, comfort in iddeah that bob dylan was definitely a pure folk singer who committed would never part of his protest-songs and his folk guitar. dylan himself, back toward the studio to record his first rock album (bringing it all back home) with a power package and start a real thunderclap in the ummah folk and a revelation from the rockers of the era. but that is another story.