after an anthology volume 5 mixed by greg downey, one of the djs that i love most, discover records back in grand style with sixth opus smashing mixed by the dj who is described by paul van dyk as the best producer of 2008, rob stevenson aka activa. recorded in december 2008 to digital society in leeds, this new volume in the excellent series live as is true in reference to uplifting-trance. activa delivers a set while power devoid of any vocal track but also very emotional, with long melodic lines intoxicating to you to cast other spheres! we found obviously all the dj signed on discover like jon o'bir, john askew, tom colontonio, chris hampshire, ben gold and nelson kane which the success of the british label. note also the presence of the biggest trance dj that italy have ever produced, and manuel le saux is not trivial because it has even collaborated with the djs above to achieve the excellent underground anthems vol 2. to go further into details, just look at the tracklist for realizing the exceptional musical selection made by activa. from the start of the set, we literally "sucked" by "dreaming" by jon o'bir and "reflex" manuel le saux which has the merit of putting us straight into the bathroom and get an idea of what awaits us later . activa connecting with discover prods signed in as "vitality" cesar lugo, "life" by ben gold remix by sean tyas and "atlantic city" by tom colontonio. the first half of this set is marked by the very effective remix signed stoneface &amp; terminal on the "vapor trail" by mike emery, a song that haunted me every time i hear it. is followed by "the door" one of the marvels of john askew, the very melodic "the eternal "of hydroid, production activa vandit and remixed by a trifle of seven tracks straight from discover. the deep" ur "activa vs chris &amp; matt kidd takes us into the deepest parts of trance music while chris hampshire &amp; bissen delivers "the vault", a song which is all the rage whenever it is played. the session continues on the beautiful "caldari" neal scarborough &amp; frase then one of the most beautiful of prods colontonio, "mercury retrograde". then we touch at the end of the game and force continues to bring us to our ears without lowering diet with "red trigger" kane nelson and the third track of this colontonio album " faceplant "which signals the end of this session discover. the last piece of the set is the work of impulsive drive with" reload "which closes the delivery dj as it began, ie all power and with considerable energy. after more then an hour and fifteen minutes of pure happiness and an incalculable number of plays still too intense, i think being able to say that this sixth volume is simply brilliant (and not marlène which contradict me) and just place, but then really just behind the fifth installment in greg downey remains for me live as the reference. i conclude simply by noting that rob stevenson made no less than eight remixes on this album and that it's just a shame that we do not have bestowed extra one or two of his prods because it is undoubtedly at present one of the best producers of trance anthems. (pvd was not wrong!)