whenever things are clear: frank miller bored! and yet the fan of comic books that i dream of shaking hands with frank and have him sign all my daredevil. but now, since sin city: yellow bastard, he nuie me ..... this is not the first time that miller encrusted in movies: fun cameos in the sinking daredevil and robocop 2, gutter already less reviewing the robocop 2 said he had the screenplay, and you cry in front of robocop 3 (or was it the 4 ?...) he had "assured" realization. with the success of sin city, batman begins and 300, with directors like rodriguez and snyder prostrating themselves before him offering him squarely co-credited as director (!), crowned by a book of interviews with eisner, author of the spirit, here that miller thinks he is .... we know that in fact, apart from himself but worse ... and here we are with this dvd a bit embarrassing as having a film of elvis, a marvel game, a disc of paris hilton, an interview david lynch or a tale of madonna, brief items from people who have the world at their feet but who ca not enough, since a aaartiste needs to be versatile. adept series black, virtually invented comics "hard boiled," miller wants to give to the spirit in the comedy, why not after all? you also have to something other than the terrible movie superheroes (hancock) with the no less terrible will smith ... except that here the (deep breath ...) jokes are so bad that one is much more close to the batman series with adam west (batman you know, sticking with a flop of sperm and zipp! pammm! poumm! during fights) and the dark knight. oh, it's certainly pretty to look at deuce but it ' is empty, empty of content, intelligence, know-how. the opening scene is interminable, actors samuel jackson heads have never been so bad, the dialogues, the strength of miller bd, have surely been written to the toilet and aesthetic choices are arch-predictable (in fact those of ... yellow bastards and family values), so that neophytes have accused of plagiarism ... sin city .... it was once a visionary comic named frank miller, who before this wipe turnip and comics increasingly fachos and reactionaries (i am ready to debate this point), had artistic ambitions more interesting than make a film just to quell eva mendes and scarlett strutting for him .... (yes i am jealous .... so what?).