i encountered the work of richard brautigan to my 25-26 years when i was in full pursuit of poetry, and my tastes led me more towards the oriental poets including japanese, being particularly fascinated by their simple messages, concise, seeking the truth of the moment rather than the lyrical and somewhat artificial illuminations own to the west. i did not expect much of american poetry, being relatively more resistant to this country and all that emanates, and was therefore surprised to discover "the revenge of the lawn." the book consisted of many texts short symbolizing the perfect compromise between the novel and the poem in prose narrative and surreal. the powerful original texts of these caught my eye and i quickly became in love with this innovative style and humorous. born in 1935 in washington state richard brautigan interested in early poetry. he became famous in the late '60s with the publication of " 'book full of fresh acclaim by the beatnik and hippie generation who found himself in this literature zany and unorthodox. unfortunately, the writer lived and poorly popularity sank into alcoholism. increasingly affected by the paranoia he committed suicide with a revolver at the age of 48 years. his books are published in fifteen languages, and are famous even in japan, a country fond brautigan, who finished detail to seduce me. two of his works are intimately linked to the land of rising sun "and". "i can not help you with a written this book, fairly representative of style and humor writer non-standard "bank complicated problems. i have a bank account because i was tired of burying my money in the garden, and then it happened something else: a few years ago, in burying money, i came across a human skeleton. the skeleton was holding in one hand the remains of a shovel, and the other a coffee can half-decomposed. the coffee can was filled with something that looked like dust rust, and had to be old money, so now i have a bank account. but that either does not work very well, mostly. when i stand in line, there are almost always people before me who have complicated banking problems. and i have to wait and endure the sham crucifixion american financial. it goes something like this: there are three people ahead of me. i have a little check cashing. the operation takes a minute. the check is already endorsed. i'm holding, turned to the cashier. the person that is being used now is a woman in her fifties. she wears a long black coat although he's very hot. she seems very at ease in his cloak, and it just smells funny. i think that smell for a few seconds and realize that this is the first sign of a problem bank complex. then she delves into the folds of his cloak, and pulls the shade of a refrigerator filled with milk turned and carrots last year. she wants to put the shadow on his savings account. she has already prepared the sheet. i looked up towards the ceiling of the bank and i do as if it was the sistine chapel. the old lady struggling violently, then it takes. there are a lot of blood on the ground. she snatched a bite of the ear guards. i guess we can only admire his guts. the check that i have in hand is $ 10. the following two people are in fact only one person. they are siamese twins but they have their own personal checkbook. one of them put $ 82 on its savings account, and the other wants to lead his savings account. the cashier gives her 3574 dollars, and it puts money in your pocket that is on his side of the pants. all this takes time. i looked up towards the ceiling of the bank once more, but i can no longer imagine that this is the sistine chapel. my check is moist as if it had been signed in 1929. the last customer that separates me from the cashier looks completely anonymous. so it anonymous