for a long time since we've seen a series as great and original. i found season 1 on the cable channel showtime in the u.s.. i was flabbergasted. i thought not enough words to describe the series. i thought season 2 would not be as tasty as the main plot was resolved since the entire season 1 is based on research of ice truck killer, which proved in the end the brother (lost) by dexter, our hero serial-killer. after this final so shocking and disturbing, how can we invent another story about dexter and his sister debra? well i was wrong. season 2 offers another fascinating story as full of surprises and twists. as the first reflects the very special atmosphere around dexter and his nights out in miami. but this time he knows dexter is guarded because someone has suspicions. he must be very careful and especially that hides the evidence of his "crimes". i will say no more. with you to discover. if you liked season 1, you'll be pleasantly surprised by this 2nd season. i finished season 3 a few months ago and i can tell you that producers still amazed me. i wonder how the writers are working their imagination to achieve much success in a series that was supposed to last one season. and the saga of dexter is not ready to finish. we were promised the season 4 in the fall (in the u.s. of course). to summarize, in season 2, one finds all the ingredients and good things of the former as the language of deb tasty (not to show less 16 years!), the repeated twists, suspense continuously executions dexter etc. .. side actors, they are all excellent. the characters are among its strengths in the series. dext (michael hall) is equal to itself, deb (jennifer carpenter) is crunchy wish, rita (julie benz) is always so sexy, masuka (lee) just as obsessed. the other, laguerta, batista and especially the excellent doaks sergeant (eric king) makes us want to watch. among the new characters, an fbi special agent played by keith carradine (david's brother) who oversees the investigation of the bay harbor butcher (the butcher of the bay) and will not be insensible to the charms of debra morgan. and the enigmatic, beautiful and sulphurous lila (played by traditional english jaime murray) who claims to be the soul-mate (soul sister) dexter and its damn complicated life. to conclude, one season does not miss. excellent.