and then there were three is the first genesis album without guitarist steve hackett, it has decided to leave after lalbum wind and wuthering 1977. after the departure of peter gabriel in 1975, the group sétait found to 4. now that hackett is gone for dune solo career, (quite interesting, dailleurs) group is found to 3. where? the disc title. this album is also the first to initiate a clear shift to commercial. it contains the first real tube fm group, follow you follow me lalbum also marks a date that quil is (alas) the first album of fairly average group. it shall not be missed, it contains sublime songs, but after the full quality albums a trick of the tail and wind and wuthering especially, needless to say, and then there were three disappoint. let us immediately to the radius of good surprises this disc. lalbum opening onto a song very rhythmic and syncopated (my first listen was vinylesque and jai really thought initially that the disk was scratched, so the pace is swaying, battery level), down and out, and even begins by phil collins saying how happy he is back detre, and how are you?. we move to the second pleasant surprise of running hard, the sublime ballad undertow, one of three classic album, a song worthy of inclusion in the best-of the group (located in the triple dailleurs best-of platinum collection, of well as two other classic disc). three consecutive good surprise, ballad of big, quite playful, near the genesis of the gabriel period. finally, snowbound is, literally, in its poignant chorus. alas, the two following songs will be less strong, less beautiful. burning rope is often described as head doeuvre disk by fans of genesis, but this song completing the first face is too long and repetitive (the chorus) to please completely. as for deep in the motherlode (also known as the go west, young man), est, i think, fairly banal. it takes the visit of good surprises, with the second classical album, the ballad many too many, remarkable and whose chorus gives me goosebumps. finally, the last two titles on the disc, and the lady lies follow you follow me (which tube that title!) are excellent. damage quava these two wonderful songs is a duet of securities more than passable, scenes from a nights dream (inspired by the famous comic strip little nemo in slumberland) and especially missed say its alright joe, by far the worst of the disc. in 53 minutes, and then there were three marks the transition between the genesis and genesis progressive commercial and pop. some tracks still have a progressive side (ballad of big, the lady lies) lensemble but is still pretty darn far from the previous albums. quite nice but not essential, and then there were three will not mark the spirits, although he told his fans (i am not one).