imagine a world without religion, writes the author (scientist), a world without september 11, 2001, no crusade, etc.. we could retort him; imagine a world without science, so no gunpowder, no biological weapons, without nuclear bomb, without a plane ... and therefore without september 11, 2001. it goes far in thinking with blinders ... like richard dawkins wants to do away with god. but like many people, he made two basic errors that result in a book completely off topic. the first error is in the eternal confusion between god and religion. in sum, the errors of men, their evil deeds in the name of god or allah (whatever) are attributed to god or allah. and why not men? does he have done with god? or religion? or two he seems to confuse? the second error is his ignorance of the bible. he has a vision of god as stereotypical and limited than the church. vengeful god, homophobic, who sacrifices his son ... that is to say, old tunes. because he has little or no thought about and studied the bible, the author also seems to ignore, or do not take into account, it was written by several men at a time when we believed in miracles, and where the meaning of events was more important than their actual historical or scientific. hence the contradictions, blunders, sometimes obscure parables. this is not a text to be taken literally, but a text that is studied. as tariq ramadan said, no faith without reflection. a believer, a true, a person is studying, and not, as atheists often think, someone who barricaded himself in mind. stephen dawkins probably also know that the bible is not all about teaching to . in line with the bible, christ's message is authoritative for everything, and it is a message of love, both to men and women and children. what fools are searching the scriptures with a noble justification for their own violence is another problem. this book is not only off-topic, it is also intellectually defective. believing that holds the truth when our reasoning is based only on prejudice is that, paradoxically, closer bigots richard dawkins claims that convert to atheism. the bible is a book she calls accordingly an extensive literature review before passing under the yoke of science.