polyphony and counterpoint are the very essence of baroque music. gould was well understood and known to reveal more playing. it may be affected or not but we can not deny that the foundations of this music exist in gould. this is not a question of taste but of knowledge and technology. in the case of high-profile ms. grimaud and fugue bwv 849 has five votes, for example, imagine a five-voice choir or chorus each would be unable to sing clearly his score ... long before to ask the right questions about the meaning of this music, the basic technique should be resolved. the difficulty in the keyboard music resides in the fact that it contains no indication of tempo or articulation. the few indications frequently taken to the standard are indeed exceptions, and bach wanted something that purpose. in orchestral music for strings and in particular, indications of bowing technique are such ubiquitous reveal precisely the intentions of the composer and help implement the polyphony. this is not the case for the keyboard. it was shown that the composers did not need it. one reason is that often at that time were assigned a string of amateurs or professional musicians but in general had not the importance of kapell meister and other masters of the keyboard instruments. knowledge of these came from extensive study and when they knew decrypt the partition without using information they have considered superfluous. the origin of this music from the protestant liturgy and songs. the joint is supposed to imitate voices. not only that but the reasons they are also associated with this liturgy. so playing a certain pattern, has the time it was understood by all that this was a reference to the cross for example. that is why this music is coded by its very nature. prof. vera nosin moscow has shown that the fugue bwv 849 detaille acceptance by christ to his destiny on the cross. there are three themes: the cross, suffering and destiny. the evolution and significance of themes during the fugue translated this episode. therefore not only play polyphony is essential but it is precisely this polyphony lies the significance of the work. then of course, the soloist may emphasize a particular aspect that the / key specificaly while respecting the time, its style and content of the work and accordingly, different interpretations can co-exist. transforming the polyphony a simple in-and-simple melody / accompaniment returns a homophonic romanticiser and obscure the content, the meaning of this music. when it comes to transcripts, it is not a problem since they are already inherently romantic. those who drive the debate on this site are a mock trial. but when it comes to bach "urtext" (ie the plain text unedited) is a cons-sense. these articulation rules are actually an opportunity for each artist to find and discover unknown aspects in the music so rich. there is a light years of the service offered by this cd ... so much for the solo part. but the orchestral part is no better: without architecture concerto in d minor is a long stretch repetitive. the slow movement is sticky romanticism and final homophonic is a festival of bad taste and poor pianism. on behalf of the "musical diversity" is a commercial hegemony in question: for each disk that pretentious soup sold is understanding other artists is removed, which was reduced to having to measure has this pseudo "reference".