sylvie brunel (sb) is she a creationist? she certainly is a post-modernist: she proclaims "the" planet "does not exist independently of man" (@ 39) and "nature is everywhere a social construction" (@ 80). so what would you call the 4.597 million years of the earth's existence before the advent of the first hominids? sb does not go so far as to claim this was really only five days. but she does provide us "the man is not and will never be an animal" (@ 90), and that humans are more important than animals (eg @ 81ff, 98, 100-101). in effect, sb adopts the bible's view that the planet and all life in it are at the service of man (ch.1; also @ 85), and that man and the planet are coeval. man is separate from his environment, not a part of it (@ 66-68). the claims form part of the book's fundamental premise: the equation of sustainable development (sd) with environmentalism and "conservation". sb is right to fault most companies for using dd as a pretext for capitalism-as-usual, and to suggest that effort should be spent on adapting to global warming (eg, relocation of coastal communities), as well as on prevention. and she is sympathetic in her concern that poor people should have better access to the necessities of life and self-fulfillment. but she's wrong to claim that dd excludes these latter concerns (see, eg, _just sustainabilities_, edited by j. agyeman et al., eds., (mit press 2003)). so her book's basic premise is false. sb's arguments are often mired in overreaching rhetoric and contradictions. she trots out mainstream economists' familiar assertions that "resource material produced" and "intangible resources, [eg] the skills and qualifications of men" can be substituted for natural or material resources (@ 66). is it so easy, then, to use bricks and diplomas as substitutes for food or fuel? she sets up a standoff between the tian'anmen few persons "[who] dare to express their doubts" about global warming against the "2 000 3 000 4 000" scientists mobilized by the ipcc, "the formidable steamroller un (@ 113), and she compares "those who advocate the wisdom of the ancients" to nazis (@ 94-95). sb declared her own faith in technology to solve problems (eg, her confidence that co2-neutral cars that will be developed in china and india, @ 36), but blames others for having this faith (@ 69). she's against anglo-saxon market liberalism (@ 51, 61), and in favor of it (@ 26-29, 90). she ridiculous the claim that global warming can cause both floods and desertification (@ 15), yet later argues that its effects are highly dependent on local geography (@ 119). she decries elitism (ch.3) but condemns traditional societies without any qualification (@ 92). sb ignores some valid criticisms of dd. "sustainable" use various levels of resources are hard to keep track of, and in many cases do not even exist in principle. moreover, perpetual economic growth is not physically feasible on our planet, since the laws of physics show that all economic activity must create thermal or material waste. but rather than refuting - or embracing - the economist who pointed out these limitations, n. georgescu-roegen, sb simply makes the bizarre assertion that his ideas were anticipated by ivan illich (@ 72). although she mentions christian comeliau's 2006 book, "the growth or progress? "in her bibliography (@ 155), she flatly rejects decay (@ 72) - even though comeliau's nuanced point is that decline might be appropriate for, and only for, some rich countries (comeliau @ 10; 292). while some of sb's objectives seem sympathetic and sincere, they are ill-served by her extreme arguments. the absence of any concrete affirmative agenda is also regrettable.