finally we see a cd of studio sessions in march, may and june 1971. these are taken as alternatives unpublished (exceptions: "(...) for lovin'me" "it will not seem like christmas (without you)." these studio recordings from 1971 are not the most popular among presley fans. we can discuss several reasons: 1.la quality songs which none can pretend to reach the top of the hit parade so are they bad? no, most of them are without much contention altogether. they need to listen rather intimate, with headphones and alone in a room away from outside interference. as for christmas songs recorded during those sessions ..... fortunately, the worst did not appear ( "the first christmas, "" winter wonderland, silver bells)! 2. to interpret these songs, presley adopts for the first time a nasal tone and plaintive (moving closer to the country?) which should not. listen to "johnny b . good, "which illustrates my point. the tone he used during much of 1971, with more or less emphasis during the years 1972 and 1973. 3.il lack of spark this artist" presleyenne "that can turn a song of more commonplace in instant classic. or is past passion of 1969 and the motivation of 1970?'s songs that i particularly enjoyed are:" early morning rain "or the emotion is very this. "help me make it through the night" and "until it's time for you to go-version of june 71 -" who are disillusioned and melancholy ballads. "it's only love," "i'm leavin 'that have all both a catchy chorus that turns to obsession (especially for i'm leavin '). finally, "holly leaves and christmas trees" is one of my favorite repertoire of elvis. there for the grace and candor unfeigned. "holly leaves and christmas trees" is almost the same vein. there is also the one we (re) discovered as alternative versions sweep as a cool breeze on the original versions of the benchmarks that we recorded in our head for over thirty years: "fools rush in," "padre," "love me, love the life i lead", "put your hand in the hand," "i'll be home on christmas day-version of june 71. effect "fresh wind" is attenuated for the following songs: "seeing is believing," "bosom of abraham," i've got confidence, "an evening prayer", "i will be true" "it's still here," "a thing called love", "it will not seem like christmas (without you)" is because other alternative versions are already in print throughout the previous years or is because these versions are very close to the "master" original. the song "i'll be home on christmas day of may 1971 and june 1971 includes a couplet in more compared to the published version. finally, there is a song which does not: "if i get home on chrismas day" i like the dialogues on this cd. we remark elvis still alive, but joked at the helm of control recording sessions. on this cd it is great absent: "merry christmas babe" in unedited long version "do not think twice it's all right in long unedited version" the first time ever i saw your face "duet with ginger holladay" the first time ever i saw your face " duet with temple riser and to a lesser extent, "miracle of the rosary" o come all yee faithfull "long version despite the reasons given for non popularity of these sessions in 1971, we must recognize that this cd is very interesting and enjoyable to listen to. the choice of songs available, the dialogues are not foreigners. "building" a thematic cd is definitely a force ftd label. thanks again to ernst jorgensen and his team for this fine work.