as the group proudly displays its uniqueness and defiance of the commercial aspects on acquiring the taste (1971), he chose for his first u.s. release to reverse progressive rock to a more consensual. the savagery hard rock exhilarating first two albums and disappears almost completely in favor of a musical wiser and accommodative focusing softening of jazzy variations. gentle giant will refocus on more traditional instrumentation, preferring keyboards and guitars and somewhat neglecting the waltz strings and brass and most medieval impulses. by bending the rules set by the heavyweights of the genre, the group was deprived of this effect of surprise, which gave him much of its charm. in hopes of finally being recognized by the community, it remains to make the final touches seductive, very popular at the time, masking the lack musical with the powder in the eyes of the concept album. three friends and is presented as a social fable focusing on the very different fates of three old college buddies. the worker full of bitterness ( "working all day"), the psychotic artist and guilt-ridden ( "peel the paint") and businessman extolling its merits ( "mister class and quality?") should not forget that producer tony visconti is more than the game. this space of freedom granted unfortunately occurs at the wrong time, leaving the musicians stop their unrestrained eccentricity. while still instantly recognizable, the music of gentle giant appears here so upset, softened, as emanating from a confined space. despite the diverse and clumsy artifice of studio reverberation, the musicians seem to prisoners, unable to free themselves from this real straightjacket they are imposed. even the most muscular effort as "working all day" serious lack of alertness, the latter revealing a more riff too coarse to excite. the passages and symphonic orchestras are struggling to take the necessary depth in their radiation. in his first game, "peel the paint" is a perfect illustration before develop into a deluge jazzy muscled far more attractive. this second portion and the guitar solo pest is also one of the few memorable passages of the three friends. in this short celebration added those of "mister class and quality?" despite its simplicity and dynamism laborious, and the second half of the title track where the band finally seems about to take off to a symphony poignant, too late unfortunately. if the artistic sacrifices are sometimes necessary for the survival of one group, gentle giant uses it to perfection here. since its release, three friends attracted a larger share of progressive rock fans, allowing the group to begin a european tour. this concept album musically is disappointing and foremost regarded as a disk utility, which by gentle giant bends conventions ultimately a very restrictive public still does not pretend to have ...