the third effort of the posies, who for me remains the best in many fields .... released in the grunge years (rather heavy base rock crossed by a hint of nervositée loaded and intensity), wrongly overshadowed by the crooks of nirvana, this gallettes produced by don flemming full of good vibes ....... this gang has committed two false siamese is unique! they violate the standards of this sacrosanct power pop, they are a vehicle for all their eccentricities, best approached with brio of the delicacy of a big star while in renewing the genre ... because here nothing is predictable in contrast to training (n zuff like enuff, candy ...) and format that remains faithful to the matrix syrupy and formulaic of this current musical ... kenneth and jon, are collecting the critically ill hard as others go to the supermarket complete frigot family, they swear by xtc, the beatles, husker du ..... which portends a very good artists, and then design a unique melodic! frosting on the beater opens with what remains to this day as their only success hexagonal i can dream all day, the alternative to the monster nevermind, the gang of the late kurt cobain who was active on the same side punkisant, n ' was (despite his success "earned") went beyond this image of flayed and songwriter noisy indelicate enough of a melodic point of view! this track tumbling to our ears with heavy, loaded guitars distortion in the recall requirements established by the record companies of the time .. make grunge for sale!! the text sung in two ways shown a great originality, it's pop with accents garages in the visceral energy .... it's true and it feels so ..... they give us the opportunity to believe! lot more raw frosting sounds more american than his predecessor dear 23 (produced by john leckie: the stone roses .... ...) but also more introspective here, everything is in tension in an emergency they dare get rid of this envelope britanique typically velvety, sometimes daring retracted the heaviness of a disillusioned cheap trick .... solar sister, flavor of the month (a passage recounting the hilarious story of taste and family déginglée) are securities péchus most of the work ... the battery knock box, guitars and incandescent psychédélisent always be complementarity between the two channels. .... love letter boxes and door definite part of continuity, the first side ends with burns and shines you or i made an english beurn bund chayne, long instrumental suite that ends with a duel guitar organ .... as an apotheosis trick s'envolle, butterfly loses his balance and eventually a halt! face b. ... in order: earlier than expected, 20 questions, when the mute tongues can speak of same barrel as its neighbor explores the slippery slope and painful this post reagan america. in fact, what you should say is that this disc can not be told in its entirety, but must be treated by theme, it is too rich, too precious and indispensable! one of those, which in case of unavailability in a store you give the right to attack his owner by treating ignard! a masterpiece, which surpasses many contemporary dung as the first weezer, the pixies late and then above all we can to forget the bad impacts of minimalism awkward of all the pop scene britanique indies to smith, then follow him: for indeed this opus is redundant he made our ears bleed and we gently stroked his back! never mawkish or condescending, jon and ken deliver their grail and the genesis of a hybrid genre that never ceases to evolve towards the highest levels of perfection. .. a disk that i will prescribe without prescription!