..... ie the vacuum .... oh certainly not nullissime, reading history, we thought she deserved to be published but is to do everything hay .... the characters are endearing, each with its own destiny but overall it does not go there much and the end is more than disappointing. on the other hand, i'm not sure the show must always sick teenager through the cliche "i'm young, i m'enmer ... i smoke to forget the shit that i'm young and i m'enmer .....". in 1955, james dean, is young and romantic if any, and whose personality was fed generations of rockers, described in these movies with great sensitivity this difficult passage without all fuss'. on the other hand the stories of change are not convincing; question: y 'he had really need this artifice to speak of tolerance because the story could finally take the road without it. on the other hand none of these young people did not revolt or react against this: they are all wet rag passing their time whining while adolecsnce require instead that we fight the evil with evil. finally, in attempting to do serious (the sticker price angouleme 2007 is there to remind ....) and want to apart from the comic who looks 40 years since the themes of change and its rejection (x-men), black hole dark in pedantry and sometimes unrealistic fullest. hundreds of young people disappear, leaving school their home, die at any moment without appearing a shadow of parental concern, police, scientific or institutional. you'd think they were already alone in the world before the mutation appears. in this case they have nothing to lose and all their reactions are completely unjustified. ultimately black hole reads pleasantly library but if you really want a comic in black and white describing the horrors of the human face of changing ruez you about the walking dead, which knows no claim to offer genuine character studies. remember also that films of lynch elephant man in blue velvet through twin peaks knew better than any lecture on the enormity of the condition human ....