all of them are made for us the good news. social media, of course, but it was expected, telerama, wishing to remain in the game but also rock'n folk, france inter, libe, tv entertainment, rustica, pif gadget or even jokes carambar. all you have said you will not spend the summer without succumbing to the charm and revolutionary savior of justice, the new electro duo who reinvented daft punk homework ten years after. on paper, the case is attractive. gaspard augé and xavier de rosnay are well dressed, finally looks good. with a look that belongs only to musicians hype, ie a hair and clothes that would make any quidam absolutely ridiculous but on them, are "hype". these two fanatics who, for over a year, remixed the title of an obscure english group (simian) into a tube in the evenings in paris and then on mtv finally all macumba clubs in the world, are therefore entitled under saviors of electro. to the ear, the case is much more difficult. the single "dance" unlikely tweaking a song for summer camps and rhythmic compressed, released just before the summer was a harbinger of an even more catastrophic album that everything we could think reasonably. what critics there are almost all gone in their chronic jingle like "there will always be grumpy to say that justice, which comes out of nowhere, is a major media coup when they are cute boys" would obviously have put us a flea in his ear. so nobody besides them, little lucky columnists, had heard this album, we already shouted at caballe anti-justice and they threw discredit on potential opponents. the album, -nothing but the title is a concept, man! - then unpacks 12 tracks of electro-winded enough, dominated by rhythmic stuffed with setbacks and breaks exhausting that enslave most musical sequences. the result is a severe shortage of melodies and linearity factual fatigue quickly. in fact the soundtrack of summer, it ends up with a compilation of jingles that will probably support the trailers of tf1 for the summer. .. 2008.