although coverage for a pretty good novel décevant.dracula immortal is as a result of the official self-titled work by bram stoker. written by the great grand nephew of stoker (that's for the family bond) and ian holt specialist vampire count, this would result by the authors aim to restore the original novel in the light of the many adaptations disrespectful of 'work. paradoxically, this result is inspired by certain aspects of the film more than coppola's work stoker.ainsi we learn that the heroine mina harker had an affair with dracula. at no time stoker only alluded to in the original work. the authors intend to give a romantic dimension to vampire beginning a gradual deconstruction of the character of dracula. the intention is to make the character a romantic hero rather than to depict the absolute evil in the form of a vampire.a from there, a story in the chain incohérences.ainsi we learn that lucy westenra died not because the vampire but because of a medical error of professor van helsing. dracula did vampirized that to save his condition mortelle.pages-page narrative goes against the foot of the original work, using towers password password improbables.le story involves the character of stoker himself, certainly original idea was linked to the interests of authenticity artificial and downright unnecessary. with the arrival of the countess bathory, the reader is quickly aware that dracula 's is not the "evil" of history. the authors suggest that stoker himself alluded to the countess bathory in the original work, especially in the chapter entitled "the guest of dracula." jonathan harker discovered the tomb of a countess named doligen gratz. however, a recent "theme" on the arte channel highlighted the first case of "vampirism" recorded by history. he was an austrian countess suspected at the time of be a vampire. the historians claim that clearly would have inspired stoker's character called dracula.la influence erzebet bathory here flows freely ... flatly written, the narration does not inherit the epistolary structure which made any the singularity of stoker's dracula. the result makes little forts.rares moments are moments of suspense unlike the original novel from the first chapter propelled jonathan harker in the supernatural. i remember the newspaper of the prisoner infortunné harker in dracula's castle, the journal of captain of demeter deploring the presence of an invisible creature decimating its crew or that of dr. seward telling the story of the lady in sang.ces times were rich in tension and it frissons.ici is not. we try to feel the magnetism that made all the charm of the work of stoker in vain ... the final ambiguity of the novel leads us to expect a sequel ... not sure whether restoring the work of bram stoker ... i therefore recommend to read the original in the collection include marabout. faivre tony is an "introduction to dracula" quite exciting.