this is an author that deserves its name. above all, the style of this book that pretends to be read as a novel is lamentable. also, if you hope to learn more about the true face of "monsieur jacques", flee this book, you will not learn anything. the author merely reproduces, distort and interpret certain passages of the many traces left by mesrine, whether the death instinct, the famous interview to paris match or her will sound. for the alleged revelations, the reader must be content with the brief account of his feats of arms, adorned here and there adjectives and turns of phrase borrowed from the best hours of the magazine moment ( "barbarian", "cowardly", "shabby ", etc..), but also never objectively substantiate his assertions. while the author constantly seek to denigrate mesrine, he seems unaware that it itself is discredited, it must be read, bring the references the western film and james bond. a belief that the police believed the time was really in a film on the trail of the big bad horrible jacques ... besides, it emerges very clearly from this book that launched the cops in pursuit had an ego at least as exaggerated as that of their game. the only pseudo-revelations in this book are perhaps looking toward life deprived of the author (one guesses, to his sexist comments, some extramarital affairs), an admission of the lip of the scheduled execution (sponsored?) of mesrine and the fact that the author warned the son lelièvre (son billionaire abducted by mesrine) it would be a tax audit. in short, the only real interest of this book is, contrary to what its title might suggest, to present a full and without undue concessions, the war policies raging at the time and which has benefited several times mesrine. finally and most importantly, an inattentive reader will note that the death fell within the criminal actually run mafia (broussard reminding his men before the operation as mesrine's death benefit to justice, the coup de grace in the left temple, the nervousness of men broussard when they learn that they were filmed, etc..). indeed, the reader can not help wondering why, when the man (though not desperate or suicidal) was "housed" by the police, did he not been arrested at his house. the author concludes his book noting that mesrine part of these men that even dead, we must continue to be slaughtered; again is proof that it completely misses the criminal and his goal, because in the end, it is mesrine who won the game. he died as he had announced (the "cowboys" have given reason), his fight against the qhs has been won (no one speaks today of the high-security but dps, particularly detainees monitored ) and its course, the consistency of his speech, his struggles, his social commitment, personality undoubtedly contributed to her myth, with all the dark side that term implies. pace mr nain, failing to be emulated, the sulfur "grand jacques" does not cease to arouse the curiosity of crowds.