start from the dark was a big disappointment, the disc seemed to be an opus john norum solo album of a true europe, nothing reminding the group that i loved so much. secret society takes exactly the same train, and despite still as catchy choruses, one wonders if europe is listening. very heavy, aggressive, in light years from the original discography, leaning more towards what norum was sometimes better in the second part of his career, but also the worst, secret society seems to completely disown the period over radio europe or 1986-1991. it is therefore pointless to seek a piece can be a substitute for the joey tempest has in the past. the most curious is that john norum is credited on three tracks! and so we find this seventh album in europe as the fourth solo album by joey tempest, modeled his approach where the singer had left things with her third opus. it was therefore entitled to many syncopated riffs, peeping into spirit of the underdog or flames. if the tempo seems to be the leitmotif of the single always the pretenders or the energetic "love is not the enemy, a sort of mid-tempo settles soon wish i could believe, ballad failed. one is left with a choir of youngsters on let the children play which had not been false note on the previous album, and second-class securities on the rest of the disc, which could be the second cake from the start dark as it feels the effect of copying and pasting between the two albums. all save more does one devil sings the blues or the calm a mother's son, even if they do not dépareillent overall. a modern touch is felt sometimes as much into music with small keys rl, and in production, where many effects are tempted. ultimately, we are left with a mixed record, finally abandoning europe as we have known at its zenith. i thought this album two years ago was a mistake of course, that was a failed attempt to get tough, but no! europe drives the point in doing anything other than what i expect (hope not to be the only one not hung) and moves on land that is definitely not his ...