a band of young suburban repeat their french lessons, a passage of "game of love and chance" by marivaux, work on the hypocrisy and false pretenses. krimo who do not play in the play, falls in love with lydia and arranged to replace harlequin to approach him. but, as clumsy as shy, he has as much harm to rehearse the play to seduce lydia. presented at the festival du film entre vues 2003 in belfast, "the duck" was awarded the grand prix feature film award and the french public, and was rewarded with six academy awards in cannes 2005. when a film is allocated as many caesars, one can not help wanting to know the reason for such a plebiscite result was a scenario that would stand on a corner of metro ticket, rewarded by the cesar for best screenplay original. a realization handheld camera held by a drunkard, rewarded by the cesar for best director. a movie that dare not show in an evening with pals rewarded by the cesar for best film. the''actors''who go into a spin bestowed oscars for best male and female hopefuls, dialogue worthy of "the quest for fire" with a list of 20 words or less (and yet we must see which ...), and we have by jury caesars nothing less than the film of the year 2005! the scenario, roughly: there's a convict is krimo tiéquar of his race, then it gets off wesh a tasp but it knows how ap tell him that's what his mother wesh lunch then suddenly screw, it begins to make theater as ac believes what is the average wesh but then it calculates the ap you saw it it beats serious race to . the''actors "(which was the first test, except that sarah forestier had some roles to his credit) only play what they are in reality. they spoke of" incandescent "at them ... should not really carry. elkharraz osman, our best new male totally amorphous, drags his carcass and his hangdog face from beginning to end to interpret its role as clumsy lovers. forestry sarah is a vulgarity make hair stand on end. i still preferred sabrina ouazani second best actress, who plays frida. to me the best role is played by carole franck, quite convincing in his role as leftist prof gross stripping.''film''the is used by "actors" who give us close-ups on their mugs and we spit their dialect to a point that it gives a headache. the "dialogues" are sick, it starts and it usually ends up shouting over each other using plenty of "wow the chnek his grandmother wesh then you saw how the bastard what i carot 'woullah the hadim on the koran of mecca qu'j'vais him fuck her mother c'fils a bitch stakhfallah t'as vu: subtitles could be provided for the uninitiated! "the duck" shows a suburban fantasy by bobos who have never set foot. "it happens in the suburbs, it's true!" to see ... among other unrealistic demagogic, girls are equal, respected, dress sexy and talk to boys of equals. the properties are passed to the bleach to give one idyllic setting limits. this child friendly atmosphere between genders, ethnicities and even (it even has a wesh-wesh asian!), this lack of bias m 'have good laugh. frida who gets upset because lydia was late it was so big that it just made me smile. it is true that punctuality is a virtue in the suburbs ... and of course for the fun - the icing on the cake - a roundup of cops who does absolutely nothing, it was just that wesh-wesh to make "victims" so that the public understands the origin of the "malaise of the suburbs. the bad cops by cons are all very white, history of concealing the fact that the first racist suburbanites. the unreal turns outright manipulation. we'll soon have us believe that the only problem of the suburbs is the class struggle ... the pent-up feelings for not going for a buffoon, a lack of vocabulary to express clearly prevents any thought or emotion are the only known fact in the film. "the duck" yet rested on an original idea for deal with