panorama which, indeed, begins earlier, at the time of the dreyfus affair, named after the french officer, a jew accused of treason, and he raged against the passions of more radical anti-semitism. maurice barres on one side, emile zola other. two men, two trends, two thoughts, which determine the next century of philosophical and political in france. or how writers have put their art in the service of a cause, a political camp, and weighed on the minds (remember voltaire's investment on the end of his life). this book imposing michel winock (770 pages excluding appendices) reads wonderfully. it is well written, accessible, and it is especially exciting. it is divided into three parts, dominated by a mentor: the years maurice barres (1862-1923), andré gides years (1869-1951) and years jean paul sartre (1905-1980). thinkers, because at some point in their careers, ideologies have crystallized around these three men there. in this first part, you meet barres, ultra-nationalist, catholic and conservative, and charles maurras and french future action, militaristic anti-semite, an admirer of mussolini, with daudet. but as peguy, claudel, henri barbusse, bergson, valéry, anatole france, and already gides, the creation of the nrf, gallimard ... the dreyfus affair between these men, the separation of church and state, then the great war and its horrors, the peace movement, communism who dream ... so many events that precipitated each behind its ideals. over the years gide (the conformist, to the dismay of his friend claudel) michel winock tells us the twenties and thirties, the quarrels between surrealists (breton, eluard) and marxists radicalization of fascist movements, the attempted coup against the assembly in 1934, the nazi threat, the spanish civil war, and celine montherlant, malraux, martin du gard, bernanos, drieu la rochelle, brasillach. long pages are devoted to the second world war, writers who fall in resistance, physically and / or their works, those who hesitate, procrastinate, those who choose the fascist camp. period black and terribly complex, fully and lucidly made by the author. i discovered jean paulhan, indefatigable editor resistant shade, director of the nrf, replaced by drieu la rochelle, both sworn enemies, but oddly respectful as bound by the literature. purification and resentment, lawsuits, hatred, revenge, but forgiveness. and yet jean paulhan, who wants a detached literary ideologies. unlike sartre, jean paul sartre ..., which requires all soon release the "ideology", the theme of the third party. behind every book, piece, section, behind every word there must be meaningful policy. sartre ubiquitous on all fronts. we found gide and his "back in the ussr, the stalin years, the flamboyance of the cpf who enrolls with a vengeance, the return of christian democrats like mauriac, and then camus, aron, aragon, beauvoir, clavel and again, writers who tore themselves apart, bearing aloft the verb and the insult on tito, hungary, the war in algeria, the leftist movement, 68 ... this book is full of michel winock names of securities, that we know that we know, vaguely, a little better, especially as we thought we knew. it shows that no two opposing camps, but many ramifications, including the right, catholic, secular, center, left, socialist, marxist, some remain in their position a lifetime, and other change ... all those intellectuals who flirted with politics (it's still true today!) are in constant confrontation against each other, friends one day, angry the next day. this book also shows countless magazines, groups, public meetings, publishing houses, associations, newspapers, any event created to impose its power, and is distinguished from the neighboring ... the narrative is chronological, but the careers often intersect and overlap, the author reminds us constantly, so that everything is clear, and he uses short thematic chapters.