i did not have to listen to this album for ten years and in the replay, it brings back my teenage years. that was in 1997, marilyn manson and his metal-industrial consumer (here, i think nine inch nails, which i think was much less thought to a wide audience) invades the landscape, korn consolidates what had begun faith no more, body count, or rage against the machine, and became the spearhead of nu metal. mtv broadcast of independent rock, but what we then called the big beat (the prodigy, the chemical brothers ...) and the metal was not relegated to late hours. so naturally i expected out of the spawn soundtrack fervently. following the concept introduced by the soundtrack to exit a few years ago (on which every song was a collaboration between an artist came and a rap came from the metal / grunge), on the spawn soundtrack we had 14 collaborations between artists of different backgrounds come of electronic music in vogue at the time and an artist came from the rock as we saw on mtv . the casting was very heavy, especially from the rock: tom morello (ratm), metallica, korn, marilyn manson, silverchair ... quite a few names a little older now, but still retain a reputation undeniable. the electronic side, the cast was not bad either, although some artists are just left to rot since, moby, orbital, dj spooky, roni size, goldie, the crystal method ... although more motivated by cash flow as driven by genuine artistic intent, this album does not end in the annals of music had nevertheless broken the barriers between rock music and consumer electronics, today totally barriers missing. as in any compilation bringing large windfalls, they will always find some groups with fewer vendors and labels would enhance, but not necessarily less good (i think of stabbing westward), few groups that do not reasons that sometimes only a teenager can understand (here i think to filter, to which the source of my animosity still incomprehensible to me) and some tracks on space-filling sound that the invention of the cd had allowed easy to zap when listening, in contrast to the tedious fast forward the tape (there i think mansun &amp; 808 state). as always, some cannibalized their employee so that one wonders what was the contribution of a group (again, i think that korn does not leave the dust brothers that some parts of synthetic discrete). even then, i was not fooled and knew full well that most artists had not even met, each doing its part to his side and there was no osmosis and creative effervescent in a studio during the nights (which seems particularly evident on for whom the bell tolls by metallica and dj spooky that is ultimately a drum &amp; bass remix of the song by metallica). but in all this compilation was innovative, it fulfilled its mission, my ears adolescent rebellion found their account, some songs were really good, i tell myself that some groups were truly made to meet (the prodigy associated guitarist of rage against the machine, it could only paste) and then one of the major interests of compilation, it can discover groups that are not even suspected the existence and yet will be to change your musical life, in the 'occurrence, i talk about my discovery of atari teenage riot (here in collaboration with slayer). when i think back to the excitement that gripped me when i heard this song for the first time and musical direction that ensued, i can not help thinking that this title, and by extension all the album is for me a true madeleine of proust. and the film in all this? i saw him several years later, and unlike the movie which i do not remember everything i remember from cons that ultimately means very few songs of the soundtrack the presence of a large number of songs on the soundtrack of movies in which these songs appear