well ... much like pink floyd after waters waters as before ... as i find it quite disappointing this double live! if the tour was a great success, in my opinion the editing of this double album was done by choosing the worst moments of the tour! a wonder they did not want to release a "blooper career of pink floyd! i am convinced that there is in the soundtracks for this tour made infinitely better than those who were selected for release this live. the sound is atrocious, the musicians are not synchronized between them, in money drummer is completely in the soup, throughout the concert we heard several times completely out of improvisations on a guitar accompanist during gilmour solos (which had to grind several teeth!), we sometimes feel they do not flatly repeated before going on stage, at times one wonders even if the piece does not drop curtain before the end ... even if they do not outright stop the concert (the interpretation of another brick in the wall ends in a truly disastrous flop) ... gilmour solos are excellent, but in the second half hour we already feel his touch that he understood that it will not be a good concert and it will simply be "best" to try to forget the disaster that is played behind him, and apart from him ... bassist and saxophonist seem to be the only other musicians really good on this scene! in fact one gets the impression throughout the album from a concert done by bad lovers wanting to try to play the pink floyd! only a few intros and two or three scattered pieces really hooked me to the point of finding the true gilmour of pink floyd. it is far, far away ... to light years of technical and artistic quality of pulse! i will always love pink floyd, either with or without waters (they are two different periods in the life of the group and gilmour has managed a coup after the admirable waters left, just as collins was at the same time managed the bet equally difficult to take genesis after gabriel's departure) ... but frankly this album, i put it away in a bottom drawer for probably forget it forever. i put 5 stars on all other albums by pink floyd ... and it is really an amazing exception: only one poor star!