amelina is my daughter gave me this beautiful book for mother's day. she knows i love some albums for children, and i have a particular fondness for the scarecrows. they appear as heroes in my stories, new sketches. these lonely just waiting to communicate, in fact they are also the souls of the fields. the book cover is very attractive, for its evocative design, its promising title, it sets the tone. at the outset it may be an interesting image reading for children. i liked to make such an exercise with my students. besides all the pages of this album lend themselves admirably. feuilletons gently work: one enters a world of pastoral hues varied, sometimes light, relaxing, just illustrated, sometimes heavy, printed image grossly exaggerated and colorful. the alternation of huge skies, serene shades purple, pink, shot through with rays of white light, and other darker, menacing, sometimes blinding, is in tune with feelings. the spirit enters with pleasure in the great outdoors scenery sometimes pale, ethereal, fades scholars, and sometimes full of bright colors that you are obvious, close-ups you set off in some painful realities, and make you react - the shock of photos, as they say. find me as page 15 with a look of wonder (i know, the pages are not numbered): this tree, lived, against the backdrop of night and moon immense, what splendor! and then all these ubiquitous birds over the pages! no doubt the scarecrow attracts them! looks like they are the ones who write history. what this artist hervé le goff! what a poet! in this book full of tenderness, so i found a dear friend, the bogeyman. for me the scarecrows are not at all bogeymen, but engaging characters who are important in the landscape to which they give life. as hubert ben kemoun, i always knew that the birds did not fear much, maybe just a bit early - we must get to know - but they bind fast friends with them. the author has identified "mentality" of the scarecrow, and illustrator has been very successful in translating the moods that hubert ben kemoun ready to man of straw, which makes us dream of hope. hats off, therefore, these two accomplices, for their fruitful collaboration, for having made a good chemistry in this album that will delight young and old. for my part, it has sunny mother's day 2009, with ameline. if like me you love the scarecrows do not forget to get "the charm of scarecrows" christophe lefebure. an art book filled with gorgeous photos and dotted with pretty words of authors known and unknown, who will fill you with happiness. my grandchildren have found that some were too scary scarecrows, however, is the only downside.