the novel begins with a poor writing vocabulary. the declination of the verb do or see turns to outright laughter. henry bauchau yet succeeded in working out his history through his sincere humanity. humanity about the minutes of the meeting of belgian, opposite the departures of their men, for forced labor instituted by the germans during the last war. a strong emotion in this story, inflated by fear of these creatures with bare hands, against the barbaric army. this truth takes me to the guts with a light transmitted through the sense of panic, helplessness before a bete noire, helmeted, threatening destruction to all within range. humanite about his step-daughter, paula, sales engineer based in vancouver, he wrote her: "it is not turned to be, but to have." it follows hand in hand, accompanying the slow descent into hell, lured by cancer this man-eater. sincere humanity about her boyfriend youth, stéphane mountaineer woodcutter, whose friendship surrounds the novel an atmosphere beneficial to the spread between sweet poetic moments of sadness. resistant belgian stephane l 'man of the woods, quietly done cleaning work at the base, to cut down the high methodical drums round. shadow ss, accomplished work to undermine the men to mow, and serves on the spirits to kill the prisoners. shadow is a prison to him alone. he knows imprison resisters in the cartel of their thoughts, seal bars openings convicted chaining souls to their tormentor tormentor. shadow enters the mind of loud-mouthed, to predict their desire to escape. the narrator finds shadows imprisoned in turn, thirty-six years after the war. his interviews with hospital visits overlap with his beautiful daughter, herself locked in the straitjacket of his illness. the narrator (is it not bouchau henry himself?) continues its investigation into the death of his friend stéphane. the hunter becomes prey. an end psychologist gives the victim of stockholm syndrome, where opress falls in love with her opresseur. the story also chronicles the influence of these stressors (illness or humans) on their victims, "a true hero who enjoys only ", which had, as the ss, require strict discipline in applying this principle:" choose what you prefer that we do not prefer, it is a disease of the mind . passed the point of form, this book is amazing, because man is great.