i must admit that some things left me confused in this movie, including why walt, who apparently never recovered from the korean war and a fierce hatred dedicated to eating rice, including the reason therefore, that prompts him to suddenly discover the hmong culture. i understand that he hates even more gangs, and that the distressed to see the neighborhood become a suburb craignos. i understand also that he is disgusted with his family, who think only what they will do with his property once he is dead, and he does not tolerate disrespect of its grandchildren, i can understand in the light. and when i say "his own" i also think more broadly to the white race, except his old friends with whom verbal jousts are more f-words (although there are a lot of creativity) than words ordinary. anyway, from there to be converted as it does in so little time, i remain perplexed. unless he has realized that for so long, he postponed his hatred on the wrong people, victims (just like him, even if it was not in the same camp) and not the executioners (who give the orders). the story is that of walt, whose house is now in an entirely asian neighborhood in which the rivalry between gangs seriously complicates life. then he just buried his wife, it becomes a day in spite of himself the hero of the neighborhood scaring the gang would take his young neighbor thao, but has mostly made the mistake of walking on his lawn. touched by the sister of the latter it will also take a bad step, he will take under his wing, despite his still young thao and teach him to become a man, both in its sentimental and professional life. condemned by the disease, he goes to the final sacrifice to protect them, without ever managing to reconnect with his family. for me, the real success of this film is the performance of actor clint, who is absolutely brilliant . it is perfect in the role of the loner who let themselves be overcome by his mental and physical suffering, without ever losing his dignity of man, and never waver, even when he is dying, a subject he knows d moreover particularly well.