i have seen a reluctance on 1 (the vf and editing shabby tf1 i still across the throat ...) and later 3. let's be frank: i am not a fan of this series. i think campbell is playing very poorly, even when he gives a voice to the tex avery ... i can not take his game to the music of luca happening again. what emerges from this series - for me - only the making of raimi. i found the remains of an empty mind-blowing, in general, i hate parody that i never considered an art ... major (it will be nice). the pastiche is more interesting. the approach here is it parody? in any case, i have seen during this 2 scroll, a sort of remake of 1, fantastic shots that even the most pulps pulps never dared to develop. i also hope that this is not a tribute to lovecraft. i frankly, this movie made me ill, but viscerally. i could not believe what i saw, i wanted to look at something like a lynch film - all things considered. what i mean is that there is a right to parody the whole panoply of cliches cliches of fantasy. and it's so flat that i dare not even criticize the script. in this, we can make a comparison with braindead. with this latest film, i laughed. here, no. not even a smile, instead of yawning. the game of campbell irritating to me as possible. he went further in terms, it probably wanted, but it causes irritation in the sense that one feels he wants to push us smile (i dare say "laughter"), as a "rape". i find it disgusting the way. so is watching evil dead 2 i asked myself why i had laughed at him braindead either did not include a scenario transcends the base. perhaps because, compared to evil dead 2, braindead developed characters and it was pushed to his delusions graphics - unlike raimi who apparently likes to play with the "surprises" demons "boo!". then, braindead happens all day and night, and jackson featured charismatic characters in their cartoon ... not so severe that it eventually. astonished, i do not understand the enthusiasm for this series to end. and therefore i prefer not to rate this film.