East of Colleville 'Coast Defense Sector 3' was the responsibility of the remainder of the 726th Grenadier Regiment.
The initial assault was to be made by two Regimental Combat Teams (RCT), supported by two tank battalions and with two battalions of Rangers attached.
To the left of the 116th RCT the 16th RCT of the 1st Infantry Division was also to land two battalions with the third following 30 minutes after, on Easy Red and Fox Green at the eastern end of Omaha.
At H+195 minutes two further Regimental Combat Teams, the 115th RCT of the 29th Infantry Division and the 18th RCT of the 1st Infantry Division were to land, with the 26th RCT of the 1st Infantry Division to be landed on the orders of the V Corps commander.The objective was for the beach defenses to be cleared by H+2 hours, whereupon the assault sections were to reorganize, continuing the battle in battalion formations.
However, the other two companies landed to the left of B/743 without initial loss.
Most sections had to brave the full weight of fire from small arms, mortars, artillery, and the heavy interlocking fields of machine gun fire.
Where the naval bombardment had set grass fires burning, as it had at Dog Red opposite the Les Moulins strongpoint, the resulting smoke obscured the landing troops and prevented effective fire from being laid down by the defenders.
They were the only company in the first wave able to operate as a unit.
Nearly all had landed at least a few hundred yards off target, and in an intricately planned operation where each section on each boat had been assigned a specific task, this was enough to throw the whole plan off.Engineer landingsLike the infantry, the engineers had been pushed off their targets, and only five of the 16 teams arrived at their assigned locations.
The draws necessary for the movement of vehicles off the beach had not been opened, and the strongpoints defending these were still putting up a spirited resistance.
Of the 13 DUKW’s being used to carry this unit in, five were swamped soon after disembarking from the LCT, four were lost as they circled in the rendezvous area waiting to land and one capsized as they turned for the beach.
The first battalion to land; 2/18, arrived at the E-1 draw 30 minutes late after a difficult passage through the congestion off shore.
On the 1st divisional front the 18th Infantry Regiment blocked an attempt by two companies from the 916th and 726th Grenadiers to break out of WN-63 and Colleville, both of which were subsequently taken by the 16th Infantry Regiment which also moved on Port-en-Bessin.
The main advance was made by the 18th Infantry Regiment, with the 3rd battalion of the 26th Infantry Regiment attached, south and south eastwards.
The heaviest opposition was encountered at Formigny where troops of the 2nd battalion 915th Grenadiers had reinforced the headquarters troops of 2nd battalion 916th Grenadiers.
The threat of an armored counter attack kept the 18th Infantry Regiment on the defensive for the rest of June 8.
