The Urartians established their sovereignty over all of Taron and Vaspurakan.
He left more than 90 inscriptions by using the Mesopotamian cuneiform scriptures in the Urartian language.
Under Orontids, Armenia at times was an independent kingdom, and at other times a satrapy of the Persian Empire.at its greatest extent under Tigranes the Great.]]Artaxiad dynastyAfter the destruction of the Seleucid Empire, a Hellenistic Greek successor state of Alexander the Great's short-lived empire, a Hellenistic Armenian state was founded in 190 BC, with Artaxias becoming its first kings and the founder of the Artaxiad dynasty (190 BC - 1 AD).
Artaxias took lands from the Medes, Iberians, and Syrians.
All of this goes to show that Artaxias was an ambitious monarch of international stature.At its zenith, from 95 to 66 BC, Greater Armenia extended its rule over parts of the Caucasus and the area that is now eastern and central Turkey, northwestern Iran, Palestine, Syria and Lebanon, forming the second Armenian empire.
Tigranes continued to rule Armenia as an ally of Rome until his death in 55 BCE.
Sohaemus, a Roman citizen of Armenian heritage, was installed as the new client king.HA Marcus Antoninus 9.1, Verus 7.1; Dio Cass. 71.3.The Sassanid Persians occupied Armenia in 252 and held it until the Romans returned in 287.
The scorched-earth tactic had worked, though at a terrible cost to the Armenian people.
Under Russian rule, the area corresponding approximately to modern-day Armenian territory was called "Province of Yerevan".
The Armenian subjects of the Russian Empire lived in relative safety, compared to their Ottoman kin, albeit clashes with Tatars and Kurds were frequent in the early 20th century.During the 19th and early 20th centuries, the ambitious Russians sought out to continue their expansion into Armenian land in order to reach the warm waters of the Mediterranean.
This caused conflict between the Russian and Ottoman Empires eventually culminating in the Russo-Turkish War, 1828-1829.
Provincial villages gradually became towns and towns gradually became cities.
This demographic would change dramatically during and after the Nagorno-Karabakh war.Many Armenians still had nationalist sentiments, although they would very seldomly express them publicly.
Thousands of Armenians demonstrated in Yerevan because of the USSR's inability to address simple ecological concerns.
The Nagorno-Karabakh war pitted Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh, backed by Armenia, against the Army of Azerbaijan.
