Inhabited for millennia by First Nations (aboriginal), the history of Canada has evolved from a group of European colonies into an officially bilingual (English and French), multicultural federation, having peacefully obtained sovereignty from its last colonial possessor, the United Kingdom.
French voyageurs travelled deep into the hinterlands (of what is today Quebec, Ontario, and Manitoba) trading guns, gunpowder, cloth, knives, and kettles for beaver furs.
Encouraging settlement was difficult, and while some immigration did occur, by 1759 New France only had a population of some 65,000.New France had other problems besides low immigration.
The economy was primitive, and much of the population was involved in little more than subsistence agriculture.
Finally the British ordered the Great Upheaval of 1755, deporting about 12,000 Acadians to destinations throughout their North American holdings.
The new British rulers left alone much of the religious, political and social culture of the French-speaking habitants.
They laid out the framework for uniting British colonies in North America into a federation.
The move towards uniting the British North American provinces and territories began out of several of concerns; one was English Canadian nationalism which sought to unite the lands into one country.
However, the Big Three paid little attention to Canada.Conscription legislation was enacted during both wars (though on the initial promise of home-front service only in World War II), leading to increased tension between French and English Canadians.
During his long tenure in the office (1968–79, 1980–84), Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau made social and cultural change his political goal for Canada.1982-1992in 1992 by representatives of the Canadian, Mexican, and United States governments.]]In 1982, the Canada Act was passed by the British parliament and granted Royal Assent by Queen Elizabeth II on March 29, while the Constitution Act was passed by the Canadian parliament and granted Royal Assent by the Queen on April 17, thus patriating the Constitution of Canada.
Previously, the constitution has existed only as an act passed of the British parliament, and was not even physically located in Canada.
The National Energy Program was scrapped and in 1987, talks began with Quebec to officially have Quebec sign the Canadian Constitution.
In 1995, the government of Quebec held a second referendum on sovereignty in 1995 that was rejected by a slimmer margin of just 50.6% to 49.4%.
Despite this a number of high-profile changes occurred to improve aboriginal rights, such as the signing of the Nisga'a Final Agreement, a treaty between the Nisga'a people, the provincial government of British Columbia and the federal government signed in 1999 which resolved land claims issues.
Toronto: McClelland and Stewart, 1987.Brune, Nick and Sweeny, Alastair.
Working People: An Illustrated History of the Canadian Labour Movement (1999)Norrie K.
