Nicholas Rodney Drake (19 June 1948 – 25 November 1974) was an English singer-songwriter and musician best known for his acoustic, autumnal songs.
With Drake on piano and occasional alto sax and vocals, the group performed Pye covers and jazz standards, as well as Yardbirds and Manfred Mann numbers.
The sessions took place in Sound Techniques studio, London, with Drake skipping lectures to travel by train to the capital.
Tension arose between artist and producer as to the direction the album should take&mdash;Boyd was an advocate of George Martin's "using the studio as an instrument" approach, while Drake preferred a more organic sound.
Two months later, he opened for Fairport Convention at the Royal Festival Hall in London, followed by appearances at folk clubs in Birmingham and Hull.
The loss of this key mentor figure, coupled with the album's poor sales, led Drake to further retreat into depression.
His attitude to London had changed: he was unhappy living alone, and visibly nervous and uncomfortable performing at a series of concerts in early 1970.
The sessions took place over two nights, with only Drake and his engineer present in the studio.
The bleak songs of Pink Moon are short, and the eleven-track album lasts only 28 minutes, a length described by Wood as "just about right.
And I think, in some ways, Pink Moon is probably more like Nick is than the other two records."Wood, John.
Pink Moon went on to sell fewer copies than either of its predecessors, although it did receive some favourable reviews.
In Zigzag magazine, Connor McKnight wrote, "Nick Drake is an artist who never fakes.
And that was what their life revolved around, really." He lived a frugal existence, his only source of income being a £20 a week retainer he received from Island Records.
At one point he was so poor he was unable to afford to buy a new pair of shoes.Kent, Nick. "Requiem For A Solitary man".
Robert Kirby described a typical visit: "He would arrive and not talk, sit down, listen to music, have a smoke, have a drink, sleep there the night, and two or three days later he wasn't there, he'd be gone.
In 1979, Rob Partridge joined Island Records as press officer, and commissioned the release of the Fruit Tree box set.
The following year, Dutch director Jeroen Berkvens released a documentary titled A Skin Too Few: The Days of Nick Drake, featuring interviews with Boyd, Gabrielle Drake, Wood and Kirby.
Later that year, The Guardian placed Bryter Layter at number 1 in its "Alternative top 100 albums ever" list.
In 2004, nearly 30 years after his death, Drake gained his first chart placing when two singles ("Magic" and "River Man"), released to coincide with the compilation album Made to Love Magic, made the middle reaches of the U.K.
In many songs he accents the dissonant effect of such non-standard tunings through his vocal melodies.Drake studied English literature while in Cambridge, and was particularly drawn to the works of William Blake, William Butler Yeats, and Henry Vaughan.
