In 1163, Nur ad-Din's most trusted general, Shirkuh set out on a military expedition to the Nile.
Accompanying the general was his young nephew, Saladin.With Shirkuh's troops camped outside of Cairo, Egypt's sultan, Shawar called on King Amalric I of Jerusalem for assistance.
Shawar also opted to once again call upon Amalric for the defence of his territory.
This new alliance gave Nur ad-Din rule over virtually all of Syria and Egypt..]]Saladin's conquestsShawar was executed for his alliances with the Christian forces, and Shirkuh succeeded him as vizier of Egypt.
Nur ad-Din died in 1174, leaving the new empire to his 11-year old son, As-Salih.
Raynald, who had not had a drop of water in days, grabbed the goblet out of Guy's hands.
He took up the Cross at Mainz Cathedral on March 27, 1188 and was the first to set out for the Holy Land in May of 1189 with an army of about 100,000 men, including 20,000 knights.
Konstam, Historical Atlas of The Crusades, 124The Byzantine Emperor Isaac II Angelus made a secret alliance with Saladin to impede Frederick's progress in exchange for his empire's safety.
Richard captured the capital city of Messina on October 4, 1190 and Joan was released.
Richard entered Limassol on May 6, and met with Isaac, who agreed to return Richard's belongings and send 500 of his soldiers to the Holy Land.
He offered to begin negotiations with Saladin, who sent his brother, Al-Adil to meet with Richard.
After their deaths in 1205, her eldest daughter Maria of Montferrat (born after her father's murder) succeeded to the throne of Jerusalem.The failure of the Third Crusade would lead to the call for a Fourth Crusade six years after the third ended in 1192.Accounts of events surrounding the Third Crusade were written by the anonymous authors of the Itinerarium Peregrinorum et Gesta Regis Ricardi, the Old French Continuation of William of Tyre (parts of which are attributed to Ernoul), and by Ambroise, Roger of Howden, Ralph of Diceto, and Giraldus Cambrensis.SourcesDe Expugnatione Terrae Sanctae per Saladinum, translated by James A.
