The Palace of Westminster, also known as the Houses of Parliament or Westminster Palace, in London, England, is where the two Houses of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (the House of Lords and the House of Commons) meet.
The palace lies on the north bank of the River Thames in the London borough of the City of Westminster, close to other government buildings in Whitehall.The palace contains around 1,100 rooms, 100 staircases and of corridors.
St Edward the Confessor, the penultimate Saxon monarch of England, built a royal palace on Thorney Island just west of the City of London at about the same time as he built Westminster Abbey (1045–50).
After the Norman Conquest in 1066, King William I established himself at the Tower of London, but later moved to Westminster.
The oldest existing part of the Palace (Westminster Hall) dates from the reign of William I's successor, King William II.'s 1746 map of London]]The Palace of Westminster was the monarch's principal residence in the late Medieval period.
Renaming it the Palace of Whitehall, Henry used it as his principal residence.
The House of Commons, which did not have a chamber of its own, sometimes held its debates in the Chapter House of Westminster Abbey.
The Commons acquired a permanent home in the Palace—St Stephen's Chapel, a former royal chapel—only during the reign of Henry VIII's successor, King Edward VI.
During the 1910s, however, it became clear that some of the stonework had to be replaced.In 1928 it was deemed necessary to use Clipsham Stone, a honey-coloured limestone from Rutland, to replace the decayed Anston.
Its function was originally a high-level air intake.A small tower is positioned at the front of the Palace, between Westminster Hall and Old Palace Yard, and contains the main entrance to the House of Commons at its base, known as St Stephen's entrance.At the north-eastern end of the Palace is the most famous of the towers, the Clock Tower, which is tall.
The Clock Tower houses a large, four-faced clock—the Great Clock of Westminster—also designed by Pugin.
Victoria Tower Gardens is open as a public park along the side of the river south of the palace.
Black Rod's Garden (named after the office of Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod) is closed to the public and is used as a private entrance.
The Woolsack is used by the officer presiding over the House (the Lord Speaker since 2006, but historically the Lord Chancellor or a deputy).
Other parliaments in Commonwealth nations, including those of Canada and Australia, have copied the colour scheme under which the Lower House is associated with green, and the Upper House with red.as viewed from Parliament Square]]At the north end of the Chamber is the Speaker's Chair, a present to Parliament from Australia.
It was primarily used for judicial purposes, housing three of the most important courts in the land: the Court of King's Bench, the Court of Common Pleas and the Court of Chancery.
In 1873, these courts were amalgamated into the High Court of Justice, which continued to meet in Westminster Hall until it moved to the Royal Courts of Justice in 1882.
The Hall has been used for lyings-in-state during state and ceremonial funerals.
Paintings by William Dyce in the Robing Room depict scenes from the legend of King Arthur.
The walls are decorated by two enormous paintings by Daniel Maclise: "The Death of Nelson" (depicting Lord Nelson's demise at the Battle of Trafalgar) and "The Meeting of Wellington and Blücher" (showing the Duke of Wellington meeting Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher at the Battle of Waterloo).To the immediate south of the Lords Chamber is the Prince's Chamber, a small anteroom used by members of the Lords.
To the immediate north of the Lords Chamber is the Peers' Lobby, where Lords informally discuss or negotiate matters during sittings of the House.The centrepiece of the Palace of Westminster is the octagonal Central Lobby, which lies immediately beyond the Peers' Lobby.
The official residence of the Speaker stands at the northern end of the Palace; the Lord Chancellor's apartments are at the southern end.
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) classifies the Palace of Westminster, along with neighbouring Westminster Abbey and St.
Overseas visitors may only tour Parliament during the summer recess.Summer opening: tours are available during a two-month period during the summer when Parliament is not sitting.
