| Type = Cultural | Criteria = i, ii, vi | ID = 83 | Region = Europe | Year = 2008 | Session = 3rd | Link = http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/83 The Palace of Versailles, or simply Versailles, is a royal château in Versailles, in France's Île-de-France region.
The Grand appartement du roi occupied the northern part of the château neuf and Grand appartement de la reine occupied the southern part.
For the next decade, under the direction of Eugène-Charles-Frédéric Nepveu and Pierre-François-Léonard Fontaine, the château underwent irreversible alterations (Constans, 1985; 1987; Mauguin, 1937; Verlet, 1985).
At this time, the ground floor of the aile du Nord was converted into a gallery of French history from the 17th century to the 19th century.
During the reign of Louis XIV (until 1689), a solid silver throne stood on a Persian carpet covered dais on the south wall of this room (Berger, 1986; Dangeau, 1854-1860; Josephson, 1926; 1930; Verlet, 1985).The original arrangement of the enfilade of rooms was thus:Salon de Diane (Diana, Roman goddess of the hunt; associated with the Moon)This room originally served as the west landing of the Ambassadors’ Staircase and formed the main entrance to the grand appartement du roi.Salon de Mars (Mars, Roman god of war; associated with the planet Mars)Salon de Mercure (Mercury, Roman god of trade, commerce, and the Liberal Arts; associated with the planet Mercury)Salon d’Apollon (Apollo, Roman god of the Fine Arts; associated with the Sun)Salon de Jupiter (Jupiter, Roman god of law and order; associated with the planet Jupiter)Salon de Saturne (Saturn, Roman god of agriculture and harvest; associated with the planet Saturn)Salon de Vénus (Venus, Roman goddess of love; associated with the planet Venus)The configuration of the grand appartement du roi conformed to contemporary conventions in palace design (Baillie, 1967).
However, owing to Louis XIV’s personal taste and with the apartment’s northern exposure, Louis XIV found the rooms too cold and opted to live in the rooms previously occupied by his father.
It was transformed and used as a throne room; the rings that originally supported the canopy that was suspended over the throne are clearly visible in the photo.Grand appartement de la reine Forming a parallel enfilade with that of the grand appartement du roi, the grand appartement de la reine served as the residence of three queens of France — Marie-Thérèse d’Autriche, wife of Louis XIV, Marie Leczinska, wife of Louis XV, and Marie-Antoinette, wife of Louis XVI.
Occasionally, this room served as a theater for the château.Grand cabinet — this room was transformed into the salon des nobles.
In 1689, in order to defray the cost of the War of the League of Augsburg, Louis XIV, in December of that year, ordered all the silver furniture and all articles of silver at Versailles&nbsp;– this included chamber pots&nbsp;– to the mint to be melted (Dangeau, 1854–1860).Clearly, the silver furniture alone represented a significant outlay in the finances of Versailles.
Instead, using the left little finger, they had to gently scratch on the door, until they were granted permission to enter.
