Though only lightly armoured and with a high profile, it stayed in service until the end of the war and proved to be a quite successful tank destroyer.DevelopmentAfter the first German experiences with the newer Soviet tanks like the T-34 or the Kliment Voroshilov tank during Operation Barbarossa, the need for a ''Panzerjäger'' capable of destroying these heavily armoured tanks became clear.In February 1942, the Alkett (Altmärkische Kettenwerke GmbH) arms firm of Berlin designed a tank destroyer using their recently developed Geschützwagen III/IV which as its name indicated used components of both the Panzer III and Panzer IV tank.
Weight considerations meant that the amount of armour which could be used for the fighting compartment was limited, the crew were only protected from blast and small arms.This model was presented for approval to Adolf Hitler in October 1942 and entered production in early 1943.
It had numerous official designations, such as 8.8 cm PaK 43 (L/71) auf Fahrgestell Panzerkampfwagen III/IV (Sf) or 8.8cm PaK43 (L/71) auf Geschützwagen III/IV (Sd.
Kfz. 164), though it was also known as the Panzerjäger Hornisse (in English "Hornet") During the first half of 1943, a new model of the Hornisse was introduced into production.
All the vehicles were named 'Nashorn' by Hitler's orders.Total production of the Hornisse and Nashorn amounted to some 494 vehicles, of which most were built in 1943.
As a Panzerjäger, it was soon replaced by the newer German tank destroyers, like the Jagdpanzer IV and the Jagdpanther.
However, production continued, though at a slow pace, into 1945.There are two Nashorns on display in military museums: at the United States Army Ordnance Museum and at the Kubinka Tank Museum.Combat serviceThe Hornisse/Nashorn was issued to the schwere Panzerjäger-Abteilungen ("Heavy Antitank Battalions"), with which six would eventually be equipped: schwere Panzerjäger Abteilung 560, 655, 525, 93, 519 and 88.
Its tungsten carbide–cored sub-calibre round, Pzgr. 40/43, was capable of penetrating 190 mm of rolled steel armour at a 30° angle of impact at a distance of 1,000 m.
The gun's tremendous performance enabled Nashorn to engage enemy tanks while they still were out of range themselves.The Hornisse/Nashorn made its debut during the Battle of Kursk, where they performed well.
Like all German vehicles armed with PaK 43 or KwK 43, Nashorn could punch a hole in the front plating of any Allied armoured vehicle.
