However, other geographers placed the frontier between the Astures and the Cantabri more eastwards: Julius Honorius stated in his Cosmographia that the springs of Ebro river were located in the land of the Astures (sub asturibus).
The Chronica Albeldense, in narrating the happenings of Covadonga, stated that Regnum Asturorum divina providencia exoritur: "Divine providence brings forth the King of Asturias."Establishment]]The kingdom was established by a nobleman, Pelayo (lat.
Pelagius), who had returned to his country after the Battle of Guadalete where he was elected leader of the Astures and founded the Kingdom of Asturias.
The most commonly accepted hypothesis for this battle (epic as described by Christian chronicles, but a mere skirmish in Muslim texts) is that the Moorish column was attacked from the cliffs and then fell back through the valleys towards present day Gijón, but was attacked whilst in retreat by the retinue and nearly destroyed.
In this place, particularly in Santa Cruz Dolmen, the ritual burials of the surrounding regions' chieftains were performed.
Such practices survived the Roman and Visigothic conquests to a point that still in the 8th century king Favila was buried there, in the same place were the corpses of ancient tribal leaders had their final rest.
Beatus refuted this theological position, championed by such figures as Elipandus, bishop of Toledo.The adoptionist theology had its roots in Gothic arianism, which denied the divinity of Jesus, and in Greco-Roman paganism, with examples of heroes like Herakles who, after their death attained the apotheosis.
James gained support during the reign of Alfonso II when the Galician herit Pelayo claimed to observe mysterious brightness during several nights over the wood of Libredón, in Iria Flavia diocese.
From this moment on, Santiago de Compostela became one of the three sacred cities of Christianity, together with Rome and Jerusalem.
Other scholars, like Constantino Cabal, highlighted the fact that several Galician places, such as Pico Sacro, Pedra da Barca (Muxía) or San Andrés de Teixido, were already in Pre-Roman times draws for Pagan pilgrimage.
The Virgin Mary, disguised as a pilgrim, is said to have visited that village and asked for food and shelter from every house of that village.
In front of him, the mysterious guest started to cry, and her tears became flowers when they reached the floor.
On the other coast of the Biscay Bay, in Brittany, there are traditions related with the city of Ker-Ys, situated in the Douarnenez gulf, in lands claimed from the sea and protected by a dam.
The Asturian monarchs often took the Jewish kings of the Old Testament as their models.]]There are also myths about the Asturian Monarchy that are rooted in Jewish and Christian traditions rather than Pagan ones: the Chronica ad Sebastianum tells of an extraordinary event that happened when king Alfonso I died.
While the noblemen were holding a wake for him, there could be heard celestial canticles sung by angels.
