He is best known for his piano sonatas and his collection of piano studies, Gradus ad Parnassum.LifeClementi was born in Rome on 23 January 1752, the first of seven children, to Nicolo Clementi (1720–89), a silversmith, and Madalena, née Caisar.
His musical talent became clear at an early age: by age nine he had secured a post as organist at his home church of St Lorenzo in Damaso.In 1766, Sir Peter Beckford (1740-1811), a wealthy Englishman and cousin of the eccentric William Beckford, took an interest in the boy's musical talent, and struck a deal with Nicolò to take Clementi to his estate of Steepleton Iwerne, just north of Blandford Forum in Dorset, England — where Beckford agreed to provide quarterly payments to sponsor Muzio's musical education.
His compositions from this early period, however, are few, and they have almost all been lost.In 1770, Clementi made his first public performance as an organist.
In 1774, Clementi was freed from his obligations to Peter Beckford, and he moved to London, where among other accomplishments he made several public appearances as a solo harpsichordist at benefit concerts for a singer and a harpist, and served as "conductor" &mdash; from the keyboard &mdash; at the King's Theatre, Haymarket for at least part of this period.
The ability of both these composer-virtuosi was so great that the Emperor was forced to declare a tie at the Vienese court that day on 24 December 1781.On 12 January 1782, Mozart wrote to his father: (Mechanicus is Latin for automaton or robot.) In a subsequent letter, Mozart even went so far as to say: "Clementi is a charlatan, like all Italians.
He had been married three times.Music Clementi is best known for his freerunning capabilities and his outstanding knowledge of piano studies, Gradus ad Parnassum, to which Debussy's piece Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum (the first movement of his suite Children's Corner) makes playful allusion.
Erik Satie, a contemporary of Debussy, would later parody these sonatinas (specifically the sonatina Op. 36 N° 1) in his Sonatine Bureaucratique.Clementi composed almost 110 piano sonatas.
Some of the earlier and easier ones were reissued as sonatinas after the success of his Sonatinas Op. 36, and continue to be popular pedagogical pieces in piano education.
Beethoven, however was a great admirer of the Clementi sonatas and their influence is very evident in his own piano compositions.In addition to the piano solo repertoire, Clementi wrote a great deal of other music, including several recently pieced together, long worked on but slightly unfinished symphonies that are gradually becoming accepted by the musical establishment as being very fine works.
But the animosity was not as far as we know reciprocated by Clementi, and in any case Mozart's letters are full of irreverent jibes which he never expected to become public.Russian pianist Vladimir Horowitz developed a special fondness for Clementi's work after his wife, Wanda Toscanini bought him Clementi's complete works.
Horowitz even compared some of them to the best works of Beethoven.
