However, there is an undated autobiographical fragment written by Steiner, referred to in a footnote in his autobiography in German (GA 28), that says, "My birth fell on the 25th of February 1861.
He derived his epistemology from Johann Wolfgang Goethe's world view, where “Thinking… is no more and no less an organ of perception than the eye or ear.
In 1882, one of Steiner's teachers at the university in Vienna, Karl Julius Schröer, suggested Steiner's name to Professor Joseph Kürschner, editor of a new edition of Goethe's works.
It is, however, often difficult to trace influences upon his thinking, and "Steiner maintained that his philosophy was an integrated whole that came from direct spiritual insight."The Anthroposophical Society and its cultural activitiesThe Anthroposophical Society grew rapidly.
In 1919, the Goetheanum staged the world premiere of a complete production of Goethe's Faust.
by right-wing nationalists.Reacting to the catastrophic situation in post-war Germany, Steiner had gone on extensive lecture tours promoting his social ideas of the Threefold Social Order, entailing a fundamentally different political structure; he suggested that only through independence of the cultural, political and economic realms could such catastrophes as the World War be avoided.
Ellic Howe: The Magicians of the Golden Dawn London 1985, Routledge, pp 262 ff The figure of Christian Rosenkreutz also plays an important role in several of his later lectures.The School of Spiritual Science of the Anthroposophical Society, founded in 1923 as a further development of his earlier Esoteric School.
In thinking about perception (the path of natural science) and perceiving the process of thinking (the path of spiritual training), it is possible to discover a hidden inner unity between the two poles of our experience.
Thinking can be a free deed; in addition, it can liberate our will from its subservience to our instincts and drives.
He suggested that human society had been moving slowly, over thousands of years, toward articulation of society into three independent yet mutually corrective realms, and that a Threefold Social Order was not some utopia that could be implemented in a day or even a century.
Toronto Slavic Quarterly No 1 - Summer 2002.
University of Toronto, Academic Electronic Journal in Slavic Studies.Anthroposophical medicine From the late 1910s, Steiner was working with doctors to create a new approach to medicine.
Steiner was convinced that the quality of food in his time had degraded, and he believed the source of the problem was chemical farming's use of artificial fertilizers and pesticides, however he did not believe this was only because of the chemical or biological properties relating to the substances involved, but also due to spiritual shortcomings in the whole chemical approach to farming.
The essence of being "Christian" is, for Steiner, a search for balance between polarizing extremesp. 102-3 and the ability to manifest love in freedom.Divergence from conventional Christian thoughtSteiner's views of Christianity diverge from conventional Christian thought in key places, and include gnostic elements.Johannes Hemleben, op.
See also p. 98, where Hammer states that - unusually for founders of esoteric movements - Steiner's self-descriptions of the origins of his thought and work correspond to the view of external historians.ScientismCritics such as the Swedish professor of the history of religion Olav Hammer have critiqued as scientism Steiner's claim to use a scientific methodology to investigate spiritual phenomena based upon his claims of clairvoyant experience and his placing "spiritual science" above the natural sciences.
B16)Rudolf Steiner introduced by Owen Barfield.Skeptics DictionarySteiner biography by Gary LachmanFurther interestSee photos from Motzstraße 30, Schöneberg, Berlin, where Rudolf Steiner lived from 1903 to 1923.Steiner's astrological birth chart Category:Rudolf Steiner Category:20th century philosophers Category:Alternative education Category:Anthroposophy Category:Anthroposophists Category:Austrian dramatists and playwrights Category:Austrian philosophers Category:Austrian spiritual writers Category:Austrian Theosophists Category:Austrian architects Category:Educationists Category:Esoteric Christianity Category:Expressionist architects Category:German-language philosophers Category:Modernist architects Category:Spiritual teachers Category:University of Rostock alumni Category:Western mysticsbs:Rudolf Steiner bg:Рудолф Щайнер cs:Rudolf Steiner da:Rudolf Steiner de:Rudolf Steiner es:Rudolf Steiner eo:Rudolf Steiner fa:رودولف اشتاینر fr:Rudolf Steiner ko:루돌프 슈타이너 hr:Rudolf Steiner it:Rudolf Steiner he:רודולף שטיינר hu:Rudolf Steiner nl:Rudolf Steiner ja:ルドルフ・シュタイナー no:Rudolf Steiner pl:Rudolf Steiner pt:Rudolf Steiner ro:Rudolf Steiner ru:Штейнер, Рудольф sq:Rudolf Steiner sk:Rudolf Steiner sl:Rudolf Steiner sr:Рудолф Штајнер sh:Rudolf Steiner fi:Rudolf Steiner sv:Rudolf Steiner tr:Rudolf Steiner zh:魯道夫·斯坦納
