Set in a painstakingly researched world closely mirroring our own, the series has continued as a favourite of readers and critics alike for over 70 years.The hero of the series is Tintin, a young Belgian reporter.
Hergé also had a great understanding of the mechanics of the comic strip, especially pacing, a skill displayed in The Castafiore Emerald, a work he meant to be packed with tension in which nothing actually happens.Hergé initially improvised the creation of Tintin's adventures, uncertain how Tintin would escape from whatever predicament appeared.
Work was halted on Land of Black Gold, and the already published Tintin in America and The Black Island were banned by the Nazi censors, who were concerned at their presentation of America and Britain.
Hergé had usually allowed the stories to develop to a length that suited the story, but with paper now in short supply, publishers Casterman asked Hergé to consider using smaller panel sizes and adopt an arbitrary length of 62 pages.
Tintin in America (1931–1932)4.
The Seven Crystal Balls (1943–1948)14.
Tintin in Tibet (1960)21.
Haddock is a hard drinker, particularly fond of Loch Lomond whiskey, and his bouts of drunkenness are often used for comic effect.Hergé stated that Haddock's surname was derived from a "sad English fish that drinks a lot." Haddock remained without a first name until the last completed story, Tintin and the Picaros (1976), when the name Archibald was suggested.
These were heavily informed by the cultures evident in Hergé's lifetime.
Hergé later dismissed the failings of this first story as "a transgression of my youth".
The story will be taken from among the twenty-three Tintin books published between 1929 and 1976.DocumentariesTwo documentaries have been made about Tintin and his creator Hergé.I, Tintin (1966), a French documentaryTintin and I (), by Danish director Anders Høgsbro Østergaard in 2003, a co-production of companies from Denmark, Belgium, France, and Switzerland.
Magic-Strip.Michael Farr Tintin: The Complete Companion, John Murray (2001) ISBN 0-7195-5522-1&quot;Faces of the week&quot; by Andrew Walker, BBC Magazine, 16 December 2005, retrieved 27 January 2005Further readingExternal links[http://www.tintin.com/ Tintin official site][http://www.tintinologist.org/ Tintinologist.org - Tintin fan site]Tintin Books A discussion of Tintin[http://lakrabo.tripod.com/ Tintin in different languages]Fictional flags in the Tintin stories[http://www.intertintin.com/ Intertintin : Tintin - Kuifje publications by country.][http://www.objectiftintin.com/ Tintin fan site] The original Tintin (includes photo of Robert Sexé)- Category:Tintin Category:Belgian culture Category:1929 introductions Category:Comics publications af:Die avonture van Kuifie ar:مغامرات تان تان frp:Tintin ast:Tintín bn:দুঃসাহসী টিন‌টিন br:Troioù-kaer Tintin ca:Tintín cs:Tintin da:Tintin (serie) de:Tim und Struppi et:Tintin el:Τεντέν es:Las aventuras de Tintín eo:Tinĉjo eu:Tintin fa:ماجراهای تن‌تن و میلو fr:Les Aventures de Tintin et Milou gl:As aventuras de Tintín ko:땡땡의 모험 id:Petualangan Tintin is:Ævintýri Tinna it:Tintin he:טינטין la:Titinus lb:Tintin nl:De avonturen van Kuifje nds-nl:Tuufke ja:タンタンの冒険旅行 no:Tintin nn:Tintin pl:Tintin (seria) pt:As Aventuras de Tintim ru:Приключения Тантана si:ටින්ටින්ගේ වීර ක්‍රියා simple:The Adventures of Tintin fi:Tintti sv:Tintin th:แตงแตง vi:Những cuộc phiêu lưu của Tintin tr:Tenten'in Maceraları wa:Tintin (binde d' imådjes) zh:丁丁歷險記
