The southern regions of Bavaria and Swabia share many dishes among them and with their neighbours to the south, Switzerland and Austria.MeatPork, beef, and poultry are the main varieties of meat consumed in Germany, with pork being the most popular by a substantial amount.
Fried onions are a common addition to many meat dishes throughout the country.
Canned beer is available, but its consumption in public has the reputation of alcoholism.Wine is also popular throughout the country.
East Frisians traditionally have their tea with cream and rock candy ("Kluntje").Popular soft drinks include Apfelschorle, apple juice mixed with sparkling mineral water, and Spezi, made with cola and an orange-flavored drink such as Fanta.
Apples, plums, strawberries, and cherries are used regularly on cakes.
The best friend of pot-roasted meats or mushroom ragout.Schäuferle: An entire pork (or, in some cases, Lamb) shoulder roasted in a fairly cool oven over long period so that the meat is extremely tender with a crunchy crust.
Accompanied by a side salad, dumplings and red cabbage or less commonly Sauerkraut.Hochzeitssuppe ("wedding soup"): A spicy meat broth with bread dumplings, liver dumplings and finely sliced pancakes.Lebkuchen (gingerbread): The most famous German gingerbread is, again, from Nuremberg and traditionally only available at Christmas, although tourist demand means that Lebkuchen are available in some form practically all year round.Karpfen: Carp, fried.
Not to be confused with the American hot dog "Frankfurter".Apfelwein (dialect: Ebbelwoi or Äppelwoi), wine made of apples, somewhat comparable to Cider and French Cidre though dryer and more sour-tasting.
The ensuing dough is baked as small, less than palm-sized pancakes and eaten hot with sugar and cinnamon, or with fruit, whipped cream, vanilla ice cream etc.Leipziger Allerlei: Vegetable dish consisting of peas, baby carrots, white asparagus and morels.
The cuisine of Upper Lusatia also differs from central Saxony and is more related to the (former) cuisines of Lower Silesia and Northern Bohemia.
While cooking with wine (as is typical in the wine-growing regions of Franconia and Hesse) was known, the lack of good wine on the East German market reserved this for special occasions.
Many of the more expensive restaurants used to serve mostly French dishes for many decades, but they are increasingly turning to a more refined form of German cuisine since the 1990s.ReferencesExternal linksGerman Food GuideEating the German wayGerman food recipiesGerman CuisineBavarian Food Guide*cs:Německá kuchyně de:Deutsche Küche es:Gastronomía de Alemania fr:Cuisine allemande ko:독일 요리 id:Masakan Jerman he:המטבח הגרמני hu:Német konyha nl:Lijst van Duitse gerechten ja:ドイツ料理 pl:Kuchnia niemiecka pt:Gastronomia da Alemanha ru:Немецкая кухня fi:Saksalainen keittiö th:อาหารเยอรมัน uk:Німецька кухня
