At its heyday, the Pale, which included the new Polish and Lithuanian territories, had a Jewish population of over 5 million, which represented the largest concentration (40 percent) of world Jewry at that time.Between 1791 and 1917, when the Pale officially ceased to exist, there were various reconfigurations of its boundaries, so that certain areas were open or shut to Jewish settlement, such as the Caucasus.
Similarly, Jews were forbidden to live in agricultural communities (as well as in Kiev, Sevastopol and Yalta), and forced to move to small provincial towns, fostering the rise of the shtetls (from Yiddish שטעטל shtetl "little town/little city", from שטאָט shtot "town/city"; cf.
This led to the virtual disappearance of Jewish life in the area of its once greatest concentration.Life in the PaleLife in the shtetls (Yiddish שטעטלעך shtetlekh "townlets/little towns/little cities"; דאָרף dorf "village", דערפֿער derfer "villages") of the Pale of Settlement was hard and stricken by poverty.
A sophisticated system of volunteer Jewish social welfare organizations developed to meet the needs of the population, following the time-honored Jewish tradition of tzedakah (charity).
Though pogroms were staged throughout the existence of the Pale, particularly devastating attacks occurred from 1881–1883 and from 1903–1906, targeting hundreds of communities, killing thousands of Jews, and causing tens of thousands of rubles in property damage..]]A positive outgrowth of the concentration of Jews in a circumscribed area was the development of the modern yeshiva system.
Until the beginning of the 19th century, each town supported its own advanced students who learned in the local synagogue with the rabbinical head of the community.
The quotas in the capitals were slightly increased in 1908 and 1915.Despite the difficult conditions under which the Jewish population lived and worked, the courts of Hasidic dynasties flourished in the Pale.
Thousands of followers of rebbes such as the Gerrer Rebbe Yehudah Aryeh Leib Alter (known as the Sfas Emes), the Chernobyler Rebbe and the Vizhnitzer Rebbe flocked to their towns for the Jewish holidays and followed their rebbes' ''minhagim'' (Jewish practices) in their own homes.The tribulations of Jewish life in the Pale of Settlement were immortalized in the writings of Yiddish authors such as humorist Sholom Aleichem, whose stories of Tevye der Milchiger (Tevye the Milkman) in the fictional shtetl of Anatevka form the basis of Fiddler on the Roof.
Because of the harsh conditions of day-to-day life in the Pale, some 2 million Jews emigrated from there between 1881 and 1914, mainly to the United States (see History of the Jews in the United States).
However, this exodus did not affect the stability of the Jewish population of the Pale, which remained at 5 million people due to the high birthrate.During World War I, the Pale lost its rigid hold on the Jewish population when large numbers of Jews fled into the Russian interior to escape the invading German army.
On March 20 (April 2), 1917, the Pale was abolished by the Provisional Government decree, On abolition of confessional and national restrictions (Об отмене вероисповедных и национальных ограничений).
A large portion of the Pale, together with its Jewish population, became part of Poland (see History of the Jews in Poland).
