 | birthplace = Portchester, Hampshire, England | occupation = Novelist, comics writer and screenwriter | nationality = English | ethnicity = Jewish | period = 1980s–present | genre = Comic books, Fantasy, Horror, Science fiction | influences = Douglas Adams, Jorge Luis Borges, Ray Bradbury, James Branch Cabell, Lord Dunsany, G. K. Chesterton, Harlan Ellison, C. S. Lewis, H. P. Lovecraft, Michael Moorcock, Alan Moore, J. R. R. Tolkien, Gene Wolfe, Roger Zelazny,"Gaiman Interrupted: An Interview with Neil Gaiman (Part 2)" conducted by Lawrence Person, Nova Express, Volume 5, Number 4, Fall/Winter 2000, page 5.Dave Sim, Clive Barker | influenced = Susanna Clarke | notableworks = The Sandman, Stardust, American Gods | website = http://www.neilgaiman.com/ Neil Richard Gaiman ()Author Name Pronunciation Guide - Neil Gaiman (born November 10, 1960Comics Buyers Guide #1636 (December 2007); Page 135) is an English author of science fiction and fantasy short stories and novels, graphic novels, comics, and films. His notable works include The Sandman comic series, Stardust, and American Gods. The extreme enthusiasm of his fans has led some to call him the "rock star" of the literary world.Author Neil Gaiman Inspires Starstruck Fans, Columbia Daily Spectator, Oct. 1, 2008 http://www.columbiaspectator.com/node/55992He lives near Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, in an "Addams Family house". &quot;I thought,&quot; says Gaiman, &quot;you know, if I'm going to leave England and go to America, I want one of those things that only America can provide and one of those things is Addams Family houses.&quot;&lt;/ref&gt; He is married to Mary T. McGrath and has three children, Michael, Holly and Madeleine. BiographyEarly lifeGaiman's family is of Polish Jewish origins; after emigrating from the Netherlands in 1916, his grandfather eventually settled in the Hampshire city of Portsmouth on the south coast of England and established a chain of grocery stores.&lt;/ref&gt; His father, David Bernard Gaiman, David Gaiman quote: &quot;It's not me you should be interviewing. It's my son. Neil Gaiman. He's in the New York Times Bestsellers list. Fantasy. He's flavour of the month, very famous.&quot;&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;&quot;Head Bars Son Of Cult Man.&quot;, ''The Times'', [[London, England]], [[13 August]], [[1968]], p.2 col. c. [http://cosmedia.freewinds.cx/media/articles/tim130868.html (convenience link)], [http://www.xenufrance.net/media/uk/uk-press-many-articles-times.pdf Alternate.]&lt;br&gt;A headmaster has refused the son of a scientologist entry to a preparatory school until, he says, the cult &quot;clears its name&quot;. The boy, Neil Gaiman, aged 7, (...) Mr. David Gaiman, the father, aged 35, former South Coast businessman, has become in recent weeks a prominent spokesman in Britain for scientology, which has its headquarters at East Grinstead.&lt;/ref&gt;worked in the same chain of stores; his mother, Sheila Gaiman (née Goldman), was a pharmacist. He has two younger sisters. After living for a period in the nearby town of Portchester, where Neil Gaiman was born in 1960, the family settled in 1965 in the West Sussex town of East Grinstead when his parents moved there to work for the Church of Scientology, of which his father was a prominent member. Gaiman lived in East Grinstead for many years, from 1965-1980 and again from 1984-1987."East Grinstead Hall of Fame - Neil Gaiman", East Grinstead Community Web Site. Gaiman was educated at several Church of England schools, including Fonthill School (East Grinstead), Ardingly College (1970-74), and Whitgift School (Croydon) (1974-77)."Neil Gaiman". Exclusive Books.Journalism, early writings, and literary influencesAs a child and a teenager, Gaiman grew up reading the works of C.S. Lewis, J.R.R. Tolkien, Michael Moorcock, Ursula K. Le Guin, Lord Dunsany and G. K. Chesterton. He later became a fan of science fiction, reading the works of authors as diverse as Samuel R. Delany, Roger Zelazny, Robert A. Heinlein, Harlan Ellison, H. P. Lovecraft, Thorne Smith, and Gene Wolfe.In the early 1980s, Gaiman pursued journalism, conducting interviews and writing book reviews, as a means to learn about the world and to make connections that he hoped would later assist him in getting published. He wrote and reviewed extensively for the British Fantasy Society. Neil Gaiman - About Neil&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; His first professional short story publication was "Featherquest", a fantasy story, in Imagine Magazine in May 1984, when he was 23.Neil Gaiman - About Neil&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 1984, he wrote his first book, a biography of the band Duran Duran, as well as Ghastly Beyond Belief, a book of quotations, with Kim Newman. He also wrote interviews and articles for many British magazines, including Knave. In the late 1980s, he wrote Don't Panic: The Official Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Companion in what he calls a "classic English humour" style. Following on from that he wrote the opening of what would become his collaboration with Terry Pratchett on the comic novel Good Omens, about the impending apocalypse.[http://www.scifi.com/sfw/issue345/interview.html Science Fiction Weekly Interview]After forming a friendship with comic book writer Alan Moore, Gaiman started writing comics, picking up Miracleman after Moore finished his run on the series. Gaiman and artist Mark Buckingham collaborated on several issues of the series before its publisher, Eclipse Comics, collapsed, leaving the series unfinished. His first published comic strips were four short Future Shocks for 2000 AD in 1986-7. He wrote three graphic novels with his favorite collaborator and long-time friend Dave McKean, Violent Cases, Signal to Noise, and The Tragical Comedy or Comical Tragedy of Mr. Punch. In between, he landed a job with DC Comics, his first work being the limited series Black Orchid.ComicsGaiman has written numerous comics for several publishers. His award-winning series The Sandman tells the tale of Morpheus, the anthropomorphic personification of Dream. The series began in 1989 and concluded in 1996: the 75 issues of the regular series, along with a special and a seven issue coda, have been collected into 11 volumes that remain in print.In 1989, Gaiman published The Books of Magic (collected in 1991), a four-part mini-series that provided a tour of the mythological and magical parts of the DC Universe through a frame story about an English teenager who discovers that he is destined to be the world's greatest wizard. The miniseries was popular, and sired an ongoing series written by John Ney Rieber.In the mid-90s, he also created a number of new characters and a setting that was to be featured in a title published by Tekno Comix. The concepts were then altered and split between three titles set in the same continuity: Lady Justice, Mr. Hero the Newmatic Man, and Teknophage.Teknophage-neilgaiman.info They were later featured in Phage: Shadow Death and Wheel of Worlds. Although Neil Gaiman's name appeared prominently on all titles, he was not involved in writing of any of the above-mentioned books (though he helped plot the zero issue of Wheel of Worlds).Gaiman wrote a semi-autobiographical story about a boy's fascination with Michael Moorcock's anti-hero Elric for Ed Kramer's anthology Tales of the White Wolf. In 1996, Gaiman and Ed Kramer co-edited The Sandman: Book of Dreams. Nominated for the British Fantasy Award, the original fiction anthology featured stories and contributions by Tori Amos, Clive Barker, Gene Wolfe, Tad Williams, and others.Asked why he likes comics more than other forms of storytelling Gaiman said “One of the joys of comics has always been the knowledge that it was, in many ways, untouched ground. It was virgin territory. When I was working on Sandman, I felt a lot of the time that I was actually picking up a machete and heading out into the jungle. I got to write in places and do things that nobody had ever done before. When I’m writing novels I’m painfully aware that I’m working in a medium that people have been writing absolutely jaw-droppingly brilliant things for, you know, three-four thousand years now. You know, you can go back. We have things like The Golden Ass. And you go, well, I don’t know that I’m as good as that and that’s two and a half thousand years old. But with comics I felt like — I can do stuff nobody has ever done. I can do stuff nobody has ever thought of. And I could and it was enormously fun.”Ogline, Tim E.; &quot;Myth, Magic and the Mind of Neil Gaiman&quot;, Wild River Review, November 20, 2007.In January 2009, Gaiman will write a two-part Batman story for DC Comics to follow Batman R.I.P.. It will be called "Whatever Happened to the Caped Crusader?" a play off of the classic Superman story "Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?" by Alan Moore.CCI: DC One Weekend Later - Gaiman on &quot;Batman&quot;, Comic Book Resources, July 27, 2008SDCC '08 - More on Gaiman-Batman with Dan DiDio, Newsarama, 27 July, 2008DC at Comic-Con ’08 Mike Marts, Newsarama Video, 27 July 2008===Novels and film=== Gaiman also writes songs, poems, short stories, novels, novellas, and screenplays. He wrote the 1996 BBC dark fantasy television series Neverwhere, which he later adapted into a novel, and cowrote the screenplay for the movie MirrorMask with his old friend Dave McKean for McKean to direct. In addition, he wrote the localised English language script to the anime movie Princess Mononoke, based on a translation of the Japanese script.He cowrote the script for Robert Zemeckis's ''Beowulf'' with Roger Avary, a collaboration that has proved productive for both writers.Neil Gaiman and Roger Avary: Shaping Beowulf's story, video interview with stv.tv Gaiman has expressed interest in collaborating on a film adaptation of the Epic of Gilgamesh.He was the only person other than J. Michael Straczynski to write a Babylon 5 script in the last 3 seasons, contributing the season 5 episode "Day of the Dead".In 2005, his novel Anansi Boys was released worldwide. The book deals with Anansi ('Mr. Nancy'), a supporting character in American Gods. Specifically it traces the relationship of his two sons, one semi-divine and the other an unaware Englishman of American origin, as they explore their common heritage. It hit the New York Times bestseller list at number one.&quot;There's a first time for everything&quot;, Neil Gaiman's journal, 28 September 2005See List of works by Neil Gaiman.AdaptationsGaiman has also written at least three drafts of a screenplay adaptation of Nicholson Baker's novel The Fermata for director Robert Zemeckis, although the project was stalled while Zemeckis made The Polar Express and the Gaiman-Roger Avary written Beowulf film.Several of Gaiman's original works have been optioned or greenlighted for film adaptation, most notably Stardust, which premiered in August 2007 and stars Robert De Niro, Michelle Pfeiffer and Claire Danes, directed by Matthew Vaughn. A stop-motion version of Coraline is slated for a 2009 release, with Henry Selick directing and Dakota Fanning and Teri Hatcher in the leading roles.In 2007 Gaiman announced that after ten years in development the feature film of Death: The High Cost of Living would finally begin production with a screenplay by Gaiman that he would direct for Warner Independent. Don Murphy and Susan Montford are the producers, and Guillermo del Toro is the film's executive producer.Seeing Ear Theatre performed an audio play of "Snow, Glass, Apples," Gaiman's retelling of Snow White, which was published in the collection Smoke and Mirrors in 1998.BlogIn February 2001, when Gaiman had completed writing American Gods, his publishers set up a promotional web site featuring a weblog in which Gaiman described the day-to-day process of revising, publishing, and promoting the novel. After the novel was published, the web site evolved into a more general Official Neil Gaiman Website.Official Neil Gaiman WebsiteGaiman generally posts to the blog several times a week, describing the day-to-day process of being Neil Gaiman and writing, revising, publishing, or promoting whatever the current project is. He also posts reader emails and answers questions, which gives him unusually direct and immediate interaction with fans. One of his answers on why he writes the blog is "because writing is, like death, a lonely business."Neil Gaiman's journal, 2/11/2008The original American Gods blog was extracted for publication in the NESFA Press collection of Gaiman miscellany, Adventures in the Dream Trade.To celebrate the 7th anniversary of the blog, the novel American Gods was provided free of charge online for a month.As of late July 2008, Neil Gaiman announced that he is taking a break from blogging. From his July 14 blog post. I think we're approaching a blog holiday ...I've been posting more or less daily since 2001 -- 2,741 blog posts so far, according to Blogger and 1,158,002 words ... and I'm starting to feel like it's time to stop blogging for a bit and recharge my batteries... At this point, I think I'll definitely take Clarion off, and possibly longer. ===Friendships=== Gaiman maintains friendships with several celebrities outside the comic book and science fiction fields, including:author Terry Pratchett, with whom he collaborated on the novel Good Omens (It is not uncommon to see Terry Pratchett in the acknowledgements in Gaiman's books, and Gaiman in Pratchett's.)singer/ songwriter / performer Amanda Palmer, with whom is he collaborating on an art book to be released as a companion piece to her debut solo album, Who Killed Amanda Palmer.singer Thea Gilmore.actor/comedian Lenny Henry (A fan of Black Orchid who pitched the idea that eventually became Neverwhere to Gaiman.)"Gaiman Interrupted: An Interview with Neil Gaiman (Part 2)" conducted by Lawrence Person, Nova Express, Volume 5, Number 4, Fall/Winter 2000, page 2.Jonathan Ross and his wife Jane Goldman (Who appear as 'themselves' in Gaiman's short story "The Mysterious Disappearance of Miss Finch" which was included in his Fragile Things collection, having initially appeared in the English/UK edition of Smoke and Mirrors. Ross plays himself in Gaiman's short film A Short Film About John Bolton, and Gaiman appears in Ross's documentary In Search of Steve Ditko)illusionist Penn Jillette of Penn &amp; Teller (Who has mentioned Gaiman on his Free FM radio show, and appeared in the Gaiman-written "Day of the Dead" episode of Babylon 5.)director Terry Gilliam (whom Pratchett and Gaiman teased by agreeing to sell him a film option for Good Omens for one groat)author Kim Newman, helping develop the outline for (and originally planning to coauthor) his ''Anno Dracula'' seriesAnno Dracula: The Backgroundauthor Diana Wynne Jones, whom he met at a conference. They have been friends and fans of each others' work since then.Friendship with Tori AmosOne of Gaiman's most commented-upon friendships is his friendship with the musician Tori Amos (A Sandman fan who became fast friends with Gaiman after making reference to "Neil and the Dream King" on her 1991 demo tape, and whom he included as a character (a talking tree) in Stardust.)Tori Amos, "Tear in Your Hand," Little Earthquakes also mentions him in her songs, "Tear in Your Hand" ("If you need me, me and Neil'll be hangin' out with the dream king. Neil says hi by the way.") "Space Dog" ("Where's Neil when you need him?") "Horses" ("But will you find me if Neil makes me a tree?") and "Carbon" ("Get me Neil on the line, no I can't hold. Have him read, 'Snow, Glass, Apples' where nothing is what it seems"). He also wrote stories for the tour book of Boys for Pele and Scarlet's Walk, a letter for the tour book of American Doll Posse, and the stories behind each girl in her album Strange Little Girls. Amos penned the introduction for his novel Death: the High Cost of Living, and posed for the cover. She also wrote a song called "Sister Named Desire" based on his Sandman character, which was included on his anthology, Where's Neil When You Need Him?.Neil Gaiman is Godfather to Tori Amos's daughter http://journal.neilgaiman.com/2004/11/listening-to-unresolving.asp&lt;/ref&gt; Tash, and wrote a poem called Blueberry Girl for Tori and Tash http://journal.neilgaiman.com/2007/07/blueberry-girls.html&lt;/ref&gt;. The poem has been turned into a book by Charles Vess http://greenmanpress.com/news/archives/185&lt;/ref&gt;. He read the poem aloud to an audience in San Francisco on Oct 5, 2008 during his book reading tour for The Graveyard Book.http://journal.neilgaiman.com/2008/10/chapter-six-in-san-francisco-yesterday.html&lt;/ref&gt;.S. Alexander Reed has written about the intertextual relationships between Gaiman and Amos's work. Reed does close readings of several of Gaiman's allusions to Amos, arguing that the reference to Amos happens as the texts expand and broaden their focus, and that Amos serves to disrupt the linear flow of the narrative. He reads this disruption in terms of psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan's idea of the mirror stage, arguing that the mutual referentiality serves to create an ideal vision of the reader-as-fan that the actual reader encounters and misrecognizes as themselves, thus drawing the reader into the role of the devoted (and paying) fan. The essay also contains a fairly thorough list of known references in both Gaiman and Amos's work.Reed, S. Alexander. "Through Every Mirror in the World: Lacan's Mirror Stage as Mutual Reference in the Works of Neil Gaiman and Tori Amos." ImageTexT 4.1. http://www.english.ufl.edu/imagetext/archives/v4_1/reed/LitigationsIn 1993, Gaiman was contracted by Todd McFarlane to write a single issue of Spawn, a popular title at the newly created Image Comics company. McFarlane was promoting his new title (as well as combatting criticism of his own scripting skills and gaining stellar creative input into his new universe) by having guest authors Gaiman, Alan Moore, Frank Miller, and Dave Sim each write a single issue.In issue #9 of the series, Gaiman introduced the characters Angela, Cogliostro, and Medieval Spawn. Prior to this issue, Spawn was an assassin who worked for the government and came back as a reluctant agent of Hell but had no direction. In Angela, a cruel and malicious angel, Gaiman introduced a character who threatened Spawn's existence, as well as providing a moral opposite. Cogliostro was introduced as a mentor character for exposition and instruction, providing guidance. Medieval Spawn introduced a history and precedent that not all Spawns were self-serving or evil, giving additional character development to Malebolgia, the demon that creates Hellspawn.As intended (and legally allowed)See Judge Shabaz's ruling for the legal reasoning: "As a co-owner, McFarlane was not violating the Copyright Act by unilaterally publishing the jointly owned work, but, as in any other case of conversion or misappropriation, he would have to account to the other joint owner for the latter's share of the profits.", all three characters were used repeatedly throughout the next decade by Todd McFarlane within the wider Spawn universe. In papers filed by Neil Gaiman in early 2002, however, he claimed that the characters were jointly owned by their scripter (himself) and artist (McFarlane), not merely by McFarlane in his role as the creator of the series.Listen to the "Oral Argument," List of Documents in case: 03-1331 : Gaiman, Neil v. McFarlane, Todd. Accessed September 22, 2008See also the official decision by Judge John Shabaz in The United States Court of Appeals For the Seventh Circuit Nos. 03-1331, 03-1461. Accessed September 22, 2008 Ironically, disagreement over who owned the rights to a character was the primary motivation for McFarlane and other artists to form Image Comics (although that argument related more towards disagreements between writers and artists as character creators).See Khoury, George, Image Comics: The Road To Independence (TwoMorrows Publications, 2007), ISBN 1-893905-71-3 As McFarlane used the characters without Gaiman's permission or royalty payments, Gaiman believed his copyrighted work was being infringed upon, which violated their original, oral, agreement. McFarlane initially agreed that Gaiman had not signed away any rights to the characters, and negotiated with Gaiman to effectively 'swap' McFarlane's interest in the character MiraclemanSee Judge Shabaz's ruling: "A tentative agreement was reached that... Gaiman would exchange his rights in Medieval Spawn and Cogliostro for McFarlane's rights in another comic book character, Miracleman." (McFarlane believes he purchased interest in the character when Eclipse Comics was liquidated; Gaiman is interested in being able to continue his aborted run on that title) but later claimed that Gaiman's work had been work-for-hire and that McFarlane owned all of Gaiman's creations entirely. The presiding Judge, however, ruled against their agreement being work for hire, based in large part on the legal ruling that "copyright assignments must be in writing."Judge Shabaz, Official ruling, as per "Schiller & Schmidt, Inc. v. Nordisco Corp., 969 F.2d 410, 413 (7th Cir. 1992)"The February 24, 2004 ruling ultimately upheld an earlier, October 2002&quot;Gaiman in Stunning Victory over McFarlane in Spawn Case: Jury Finds for Gaiman on All Counts,&quot; by Beau Yarbrough, October 3, 2002. Accessed September 22, 2008, district court ruling granting joint ownership of the characters to Gaiman and McFarlane. On the specific issue of Cogliostro, presiding Judge John Shabaz proclaimed "The expressive work that is the comic-book character Count Nicholas Cogliostro was the joint work of Gaiman and McFarlane-their contributions strike us as quite equal--and both are entitled to ownership of the copyright".See Judge Shabaz's ruling for similar statements on Angela and Medieval Spawn.This legal battle was brought by Gaiman and the specifically-formed Marvels and Miracles, LLC, which Gaiman created in order to help sort out the legal copyrights surrounding Miracleman (see the ownership of Miracleman sub-section of the Miracleman article). Gaiman wrote ''Marvel 1602 ''in 2003 to help fund this project.&quot;Marvel's &quot;1602&quot; Press Conference,&quot; by Jonah Weiland, June 27, 2003. Accessed September 22, 2008 All of Marvel Comics' profits for the original issues of the series went to Marvels and Miracles.Gaiman is a major supporter and board member of the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund.&quot;Neil Gaiman Talks Sandman, CBLDF on NPR,&quot; September 19, 2003. Accessed September 22, 2008AwardsGaiman received a World Fantasy Award for short fiction in 1991 for the Sandman issue, "A Midsummer Night's Dream" (see Dream Country). (Due to a subsequent rules change disqualifying comics for that category, Gaiman is the only writer to win that award for a comics script.)He has won the Comics Buyer's Guide Award for Favorite Writer for the years 1991-1993, and received nominations from 1997-2000. His work on The Sandman was awarded the Favourite Comic Book Story for 1991 and 1994.Gaiman was awarded the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund Defender of Liberty award in 1997.The illustrated version of Stardust won the Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature 1999.In 2000, The Sandman: The Dream Hunters was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Related Book and won the Bram Stoker Award for Best Illustrated Narrative.American Gods won the Hugo Award for Best Novel 2002, the Nebula Award for Best Novel 2002, the Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel 2002 and the Bram Stoker Award for Best Novel 2001. It is among the most-honored works of fiction in recent history.Coraline won the Hugo Award for Best Novella 2003, the Nebula Award for Best Novella 2003, the Locus Award for Best Young Adult Book 2003 and the Bram Stoker Award for Best Work for Young Readers 2002.In 2004, his short story "A Study in Emerald" won another Hugo (in a ceremony the author presided over himself, having volunteered for the job before his story was nominated). Also in 2004, The Sandman: Endless Nights won the Bram Stoker Award for Best Illustrated Narrative and The Sandman: Season of Mists won the Angoulême International Comics Festival Prize for Scenario.In 2005, Marvel 1602 won the Quill Book Award for Graphic Novels.Anansi Boys won him a second Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Adult Literature in 2006. The book was also nominated for a Hugo Award, but Gaiman asked for it to be withdrawn from the list of nominations, stating that he wanted to give other writers a chance, and it was really more fantasy than science fiction.Gaiman has won 19 Eisner Awards for his comics work.From the comics fans in the rec.arts.comics* newsgroups, Gaiman won the Squiddy Award for Best Writer five years in a row from 1990 to 1994. He was also named Best Writer of the 1990s in the Squiddy Awards for the decade.In 2007 he was awarded the Bob Clampett Humanitarian Award.The Bob Clampett Humanitarian Award&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 2007 Gaiman was presented with the Comic-Con Icon award at the Scream Awards.References in popular cultureWhere's Neil When You Need Him? is a tribute CD to Gaiman consisting of seventeen tracks performed by various artists who are fans of his work. The album's title was taken from the song "Space Dog," by Tori Amos. Tori became a long-time friend and collaborator of Neil Gaiman after she first made a reference to him in the 1991 song "Tear in Your Hand" from her album Little Earthquakes. She continues the tradition, mentioning Gaiman in her song "Horses" on the album Boys for Pele  and in "Carbon" from her album Scarlet's Walk.On Babylon 5, the alien species, the Gaim, were named after Gaiman by their creator, J. Michael Straczynski.In the video game Star Wars: Rebellion, one of the planets in the "Large Galaxy" mode is called Neelgaimon.In SimCity 2000, if you query a library and click "Ruminate" a prose about cities' personalities is attributed to Gaiman.Literary allusionsGaiman's work is known for a high degree of allusiveness. Meredith Collins, for instance, has commented upon the degree to which his novel Stardust depends on allusions to Victorian fairy tales and culture,Collins, Meredith. "Fairy and Faerie: Uses of the Victorian in Neil Gaiman's and Charles Vess's Stardust." ImageTexT 4.1. http://www.english.ufl.edu/imagetext/archives/v4_1/collins/ while other writers have commented extensively on his use of allusions.See particularly Rodney Sharkey, James Fleming, and Zuleyha Cetiner-Oktem's articles in ImageTexT's special issue on Gaiman's work: http://www.english.ufl.edu/imagetext/archives/v4_1/#Articles. Particularly in The Sandman, literary figures and characters appear often - the character of Fiddler's Green is modeled visually on G.K. Chesterton, both William Shakespeare and Geoffrey Chaucer appear as characters, as do several characters from within A Midsummer Night's Dream. The comic also draws from numerous mythologies and historical periods. Such allusions are not unique to Sandman.Clay Smith has argued that this sort of allusiveness serves to situate Gaiman as a strong authorial presence in his own works, often to the exclusion of his collaborators. Smith argues that this creates a sort of game to reading Gaiman, where the reader is expected to identify references not to broaden their own knowledge, but to deepen their appreciation of Gaiman's authorial presence, and, inevitably, to further invest time and money in Gaiman's works. Smith, Clay. "Get Gaiman?: PolyMorpheus Perversity in Works by and about Neil Gaiman." ImageTexT 4.1. http://www.english.ufl.edu/imagetext/archives/v4_1/smith/BibliographyNeil Gaiman has written many comics and graphic novels, as well as numerous books and short stories. He has also created a number of audio books, a TV miniseries, and the scripts for several movies.See alsoList of fantasy authorsList of horror fiction authorsList of science fiction authorsNotesReferencesNeil Gaiman BibliographyExternal links Neil Gaiman's personal web siteNeil Gaiman's weblogOfficial site for children's books with Dave McKean (US publisher)Official site for children's books with Dave McKean (UK publisher)Official Gaiman clothing lineNeilGaimanBibliography.comneilgaiman.info: The Neil Gaiman wikiBook and audiobook reviews at FanLit.netA Study in Emerald by Neil Gaiman, Free Audio Story    Category:Old Ardinians Category:Old Whitgiftians Category:2000 AD creators Category:British expatriates in the United States Category:British people of Polish descent Category:Cthulhu Mythos writers Category:Eisner Award winners Category:English bloggers Category:English comics writers Category:English fantasy writers Category:English horror writers Category:English Jews Category:English novelists Category:English science fiction writers Category:English screenwriters Category:English short story writers Category:Graphic novelists Category:Harvey Award winners Category:Hugo Award winning authors Category:Literary collaborators Category:Nebula Award winning authors Category:People from Hampshire Category:Worldcon Guests of Honor Category:Stardust Category:The Sandman Category:The Books of Magicbg:Нийл Геймън ca:Neil Gaiman cs:Neil Gaiman da:Neil Gaiman de:Neil Gaiman et:Neil Gaiman es:Neil Gaiman fa:نیل گیمن fr:Neil Gaiman hr:Neil Gaiman it:Neil Gaiman he:ניל גיימן lt:Neil Gaiman hu:Neil Gaiman nl:Neil Gaiman ja:ニール・ゲイマン no:Neil Gaiman pl:Neil Gaiman pt:Neil Gaiman ru:Гейман, Нил sr:Нил Гејман fi:Neil Gaiman sv:Neil Gaiman tr:Neil Gaiman uk:Ґеймен Нейл Річард zh:尼爾·蓋曼