 | location = Moscow, Russia, Soviet Union | occupation = Film director | yearsactive = 1964-present | website = http://konchalovsky.ru | baftaawards = Andrey Sergeyevich Mikhalkov-Konchalovsky () (born August 20, 1937 in Moscow) is an acclaimed Russian filmmaker.BiographyBorn as Andron to an aristocratic family of Mikhalkovs with centuries-old artistic and aristocratic roots, he changed his first name to Andrei and took his maternal grandfather's surname as a pseudonym. He is the brother of Nikita Mikhalkov and the son of Sergei Mikhalkov.He studied for ten years at the Moscow Conservatory, preparing for a pianist's career. In 1960, however, he met Andrei Tarkovsky and co-scripted his movie Andrei Rublev (1966).His first full-length feature, The First Teacher (1964), was favourably received in USSR and screened by numerous film festivals abroad. His second film, Asya Klyachina's Story (1967), was suppressed by Soviet authorities. When issued twenty years later, it was acclaimed as his masterpiece. Thereupon, Konchalovsky filmed adaptations of Ivan Turgenev's A Nest of Gentle Folk (1969) and Chekhov's Uncle Vanya (1971), with Innokenty Smoktunovsky in the title role. His epic Siberiade upon its 1979 release was favourably received at Cannes and made possible his move to the United States in 1980.His most popular Hollywood releases are Runaway Train (1985), based on Kurosawa's original script, and Tango &amp; Cash (1989), starring Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell. In the 1990s Konchalovsky returned to Russia, although he occasionally produced historical films for U.S. television, such as the spectacular The Odyssey (1997) and the award-winning remake, The Lion in Winter (2003).Konchalovsky's latest full-length feature, House of Fools (2003, with a cameo role by Bryan Adams playing himself) set in a Chechen psychiatric asylum during the war, won him a Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival.Personal lifeKonchalovsky has been married multiple times. His first wife was Kazakh actress Natalia Arinbasarova, with whom he has two sons: Yegor, born January 15, 1966, and Stepan. His second wife was Irina Kandat. His third wife was Viviane Godet, with whom he has a daughter, Alexandra Mikhalkova, born October 6, 1971.After he came to America, while being jobless, he lived with Shirley MacLaine, then left her for Nastassja Kinski, who helped him secure a contract with producer Menahem Golan for Maria's Lovers.http://www.fictionbook.ru/author/konchalovskiyi_andreyi/nizkie_istiniy/konchalovskiyi_nizkie_istiniy.html#TOC_id2592862.His current wife is the Russian actress Yuliya Vysotskaya.ReferencesExternal linksAndrei Konchalovsky Fan Club  Category:1937 births Category:Living people Category:Russian-Americans Category:Russian-American writers Category:Soviet film directors Category:Gerasimov Institute of Cinematography alumni Category:Russian screenwritersbg:Андрей Кончаловски de:Andrei Sergejewitsch Michalkow-Kontschalowski es:Andréi Konchalovski fr:Andreï Kontchalovski it:Andrej Sergeevič Michalkov-Končalovskij nl:Andrej Kontsjalovski ja:アンドレイ・コンチャロフスキー pl:Andriej Konczałowski ro:Andrei Koncealovski ru:Михалков-Кончаловский, Андрей Сергеевич fi:Andrei Kontšalovski tr:Andrei Konchalovsky