  The Cullinan diamond is the largest rough gem-quality diamond ever found, at 3,106.75 carats (621.35 g or 1.3698 pounds).A carbonado found in Brazil weighed more than 3,600 carats (720 g), but no gem-quality material could be extracted from it.The largest polished gem from the stone is named Cullinan I or the Great Star of Africa, and at 530.2 carats (106.04 g) Overview of the different Cullinan diamonds was the largest polished diamond in the world until the 1985 discovery of the Golden Jubilee Diamond, 545.67 carats (109.13 g), also from the Premier Mine. Cullinan I is now mounted in the head of the Sceptre with the Cross. The second largest gem from the Cullinan stone, Cullinan II or the Lesser Star of Africa, at 317.4 carats (63.48 g), is the fourth largest polished diamond in the world and is also part of the British crown jewels, as it forms a part of the Imperial State Crown. Both gems are on display at the Tower of London, as parts of the Crown Jewels of the United Kingdom.HistoryThe Cullinan diamond was found by Frederick Wells, surface manager of the Premier Diamond Mining Company in Cullinan, in what is today known as Gauteng, South Africa, on January 25, 1905. The stone was named after Sir Thomas Cullinan, the owner of the diamond mine.Sir William Crookes performed an analysis of the Cullinan diamond before it was cut and mentioned among others its remarkable clarity but also a black spot in the middle. The colours around the black spot were very vivid and changed as the analyzer was turned. According to Crookes this pointed to internal strain. Crookes: Diamonds (1909) Page 78 Such strain is not uncommon in diamonds.The stone was bought by the Transvaal government and presented to King Edward VII.Goodchild: Precious Stones (1908) Page 140 Crookes: Diamonds (1909) Page 77 (A photo of the rough Cullinan, marked as number 17, is facing page 80.) It was cut into three large parts by Asscher Brothers of Amsterdam, and eventually into some 11 large gem-quality stones and a number of smaller fragments. At the time, technology had not yet evolved to guarantee quality of the modern standard, and cutting the diamond was considered difficult and risky. In order to enable Asscher to cut the diamond in one blow, an incision was made, half an inch deep. Then, a specifically designed knife was placed in the incision and the diamond was split in one heavy blow. The diamond split through a defective spot, which was shared in both halves of the diamond. Crookes: Diamonds (1909) Page 79AnecdotesIn 1905, transport from South Africa to England posed a bit of a security problem. Detectives from London were placed on a steamer ship that was rumoured to carry the stone, but this was a diversionary tactic. The stone on that ship was a fake, meant to attract those who would be interested in stealing it. The actual diamond was sent to England in a plain box via parcel post, albeit registered mail.Cullinan &amp; Cullinane Family Genealogy Project Website dealing with all Cullinan family members including Sir Thomas Major Cullinan after whom the diamond was named.The story goes that when the diamond was split, the knife broke during the first attempt. "The tale is told of Joseph Asscher, the greatest cleaver of the day," wrote Matthew Hart in his book Diamond: A Journey to the Heart of an Obsession, "that when he prepared to cleave the largest diamond ever known, the 3,106 carat (632 g) Cullinan, he had a doctor and nurse standing by and when he finally struck the diamond and it broke perfectly in two, he fainted dead away." It turns out the fainting story is a popular myth. Diamond historian Lord Ian Balfour wrote that it was much more likely he opened a bottle of champagne, instead.Rumours abound of a "second half" of the Cullinan diamond. According to Sir William Crookes the original, uncut diamond was itself "a fragment, probably less than half, of a distorted octahedral crystal; the other portions still await discovery by some fortunate miner." Crookes thus indirectly indicates that the original, larger crystal broke in a natural way and not by a man-made cut. Others have speculated that before Frederick Wells sold the diamond to Sir Thomas Cullinan he broke off a piece which sized in at about 1,500 to 2,000 carats (300 to 400 g).See alsoList of famous diamondsFootnotes tags-- External linksThe Cullinan – a detailed account with picturesThe Monarchy Today: Cullinan I diamondThe Monarchy Today: the Sovereign's Sceptre with Cross  Category:Named diamonds Category:Crown Jewels of the United Kingdombg:Кулинан de:Cullinan es:Cullinan eo:Cullinan fr:Cullinan (diamant) it:Cullinan (diamante) he:קולינן ka:კულინანი nl:Cullinan ja:カリナン no:Cullinandiamanten pl:Cullinan pt:Diamante Cullinan ru:Куллинан sl:Diamant Cullinan sr:Кулинан (дијамант) fi:Suuri Afrikan tähti sv:Cullinandiamanten uk:Кулінан