 The John Hancock Center at 875 N. Michigan Ave. in Chicago, Illinois, is a 100-story, 1,127-foot (344&nbsp;m) tall skyscraper designed by structural engineer Fazlur Khan of Skidmore, Owings and Merrill. When completed in 1969, it was the tallest building in the world outside New York City. It is the third-tallest skyscraper in Chicago and the fifth-tallest in the United States, after the Sears Tower, the Empire State Building, the Bank of America Tower and the Aon Center. When measured to the top of its antenna masts, it stands at 1,500&nbsp;feet (457&nbsp;m). The building is home to offices and restaurants, as well as about 700 condominiums and contains the highest residences in the world. This skyscraper was named for John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, a developer and original tenant of the building.The 95th floor has long been home to a restaurant, the latest tenant being "The Signature Room on the 95th Floor." While patrons dine, they can look out at Chicago and Lake Michigan. The Hancock Center's observation facilities (called the Hancock Observatory) compete with the Sears Tower's Skydeck across town. The Hancock Center is in a commercial district, while the Sears Tower is in the financial district. The Hancock Center 94th floor observation deck displays exhibits about the city of Chicago. Maps explain the view in each direction and a special meshed-in area allows the visitors to feel the winds 1,030&nbsp;feet (314&nbsp;m) above ground level. The 44th-floor sky lobby features America's highest indoor swimming pool.Emporis.comDesignOne of the most famous buildings of the structural expressionist style, the skyscraper's distinctive X-bracing exterior is actually a hint that the structure's skin is indeed part of its 'tubular system'. This idea is one of the architectural techniques the building used to climb to record heights (the tubular system is essentially the spine that helps the building stand upright during wind and earthquake loads). This X-bracing allows for both higher performance from tall structures and the ability to open up the inside floorplan (and usable floor space) if the architect desires. Original features such as the skin have made the John Hancock Center an architectural icon. It was pioneered by Bangladeshi-American structural civil engineer Fazlur Khan.The interior was remodeled in 1995, adding to the lobby travertine and textured limestone surfaces. The elliptical-shaped plaza outside the building serves as a public oasis with seasonal plantings and a 12-foot (3.7&nbsp;m) waterfall. A band of white lights at the top of the building is visible all over Chicago at night and changes colors for different holidays.The building is a member of the World Federation of Great Towers. It also has won various awards for its distinctive style, including the Distinguished Architects 25 Year Award from the American Institute of Architects in May 1999.==Other facts==  . Lake Michigan is seen in backdrop]] Including its antennas, the John Hancock Center has a height of 1,500&nbsp;feet (457&nbsp;m), making it the third-tallest building in the world when measured to pinnacle height (after the Sears Tower and Taipei 101)The John Hancock Center was erected on the site of Cap Streeter's 19th century steamboat shanty. The area is called Streeterville after him, and consists of landfill reclaimed from the lake.Construction delays due to a credit crunch in 1967 left the tower truncated briefly as construction was halted.The building's first resident was Benjamin Gingiss, one of the founders and owners of Gingiss Formal Wear. He lived in the tower until his death.On December 18, 1997, comedian Chris Farley was found dead in his apartment on the 60th floor of the John Hancock Center.Jerry Springer, host of The Jerry Springer Show, lives on the 60th floor of the building. Prior to Chris Farley's death, the two lived in adjacent residences.On March 9, 2002, part of a swing-stage (hanging scaffold for window washing & exterior repairs) fell 43 stories after being torn loose by wind gusts around 60 mph (100 km/h), crushing several cars and killing three people in two of them. The remaining part of the stage swung back-and-forth in the gusts repeatedly slamming against the building, damaging cladding panels, breaking windows, and sending pieces onto the street below.On December 10, 2006, the non-residential portion of the building was sold by San Francisco based Shorenstein Properties LLC for $385 million and was purchased by Goldman Sachs. Shorenstein had bought the building in 1998 for $220 million.An annual stair climb race up the 94 floors from the Michigan Avenue level to the observation deck called Hustle up the Hancock is held on the last Sunday of February. The climb benefits the Respiratory Health Association of Metropolitan Chicago. The record time as of 2008 is 9 minutes 38 seconds.Best Buy has signed an agreement to locate a flagship location along the Magnificent Mile in the Hancock Center.Position in Chicago's skylineSee alsoChicago architectureList of buildingsList of skyscrapersList of tallest buildings in ChicagoList of tallest buildings in the United StatesWorld's tallest structuresList of tallest freestanding structures in the worldReferencesExternal linksWeb site of the &quot;Hancock Observatory&quot;Emporis listingEntry in greatbuildings.comWeb site of the &quot;Signature Room&quot; restaurant   Category:1969 architecture Category:Skyscrapers in Chicago Category:Skyscrapers between 300 and 349 meters Category:Office buildings in Chicago, Illinois Category:Condominiums in Chicago, Illinois Category:Residential skyscrapers in Chicago, Illinoisbg:Джон Ханкок Център cs:John Hancock Center de:John Hancock Center et:John Hancock Center es:John Hancock Center eu:John Hancock Center fr:John Hancock Center it:John Hancock Center he:מרכז ג'ון האנקוק ka:ჯონ ჰენკოკის ცენტრი lt:John Hancock Center nl:John Hancock Center ja:ジョン・ハンコック・センター no:John Hancock Center pl:John Hancock Center pt:John Hancock Center ro:John Hancock Center ru:Джон Хэнкок Центр simple:John Hancock Center sk:John Hancock Center fi:John Hancock Center sv:John Hancock Center th:ตึกจอห์นแฮนคอค์กเซนเตอร์ vi:John Hancock Center tr:John Hancock Merkezi zh:約翰漢考克中心