Jive is a dance style in 4/4 time that originated among African-Americans in the early 1940s. It is a lively and uninhibited variation of the Jitterbug, a form of Swing dance.In Ballroom dancing, Jive is one of the five International Latin dances. In competition it is danced at a speed of 44 bars per minute, although in other cases this is reduced to between 32 and 40 bars per minute.Many of its basic patterns are similar to these of the East Coast Swing with the major difference of highly syncopated rhythm of the Triple Steps (Chasses), which use straight eighths in ECS and hard swing in Jive.HistoryJive (or the correct term jitterbug jive) is named after a 30's Mickey Mouse cartoon where Mickey and Minnie danced a country style jitterbug. The name came from Jitterbugs being the dancers and Jive meaning 'fake'. But, the dance steps are actually derived from country dancing. The turns and overhead moves are a direct descendant of some very old English country dances where couples cross over in a diagonal. Jive actually has nothing to do with the Lindy Hop, Charleston or any other body lead dance of the time, this is due to the dance being hand lead rather than body lead as in all the other swing dances of the 30's and 40's. Real 30's jive dancing features smooth, sliding footwork whereas later the footwork was not as smooth due to the dancers lifting their feet so as not to trip on rough floor boards or the local rough country entertainment establishments. American soldiers brought these dances to Europe around 1940, where they swiftly found a following among the young. After the war, the boogie became the dominant form for popular music. It was, however, never far from criticism as a foreign, vulgar dance. The famous ballroom dancing guru, Alex Moore, said that he had "never seen anything uglier". English instructors developed the elegant and lively Jive, danced to slightly slower music. In 1968 it was adopted as the fifth Latin dance in International competitions.The modern jive in the 1990's-present, is a very happy and boppy dance, the lifting of feet work and the bending of hips often occurs.Basic stepThe basic step (Jive Basic) is an 8-step pattern.Leader:Counts 1 2 - Rock step: left foot step back, right foot replaceCounts 3 a4 - Chasse to the leftCounts 5 a6 - Chasse to the rightThe follower's steps are mirrored.==See also==Hand JiveModern JiveSkip jiveExternal linksJive Videos - videos of Jive performancesJive-Dance.com - Information about Jive, Jive music & songs and where to take Jive lessons.Category:Ballroom dance Category:Latin dances  Category:Swing dancesbg:Джайв ca:Jive cs:Jive de:Jive et:Džaiv es:Jive fr:Jive hr:Jive it:Jive he:ג'ייב nl:Jive pl:Jive pt:Jive ru:Джайв sk:Jive fi:Jive (tanssi) sv:Jive tr:Jive zh:捷舞