Annaba (, formerly Bône, historically Hippo) is a city in the northeastern corner of Algeria near the river Seybouse and the Tunisian border. It is located in Annaba Province. With a population of 258 058 (2002 estimate), it is the fourth largest city in Algeria. It is a leading industrial centre in eastern Algeria.Prehistory and HistorySee Hippo Regius for Classical and Ecclesiastical historyThe vicinity of Annaba has yielded evidence of very early hominid occupation at Ain el Hanech, near Saïda (ca. 200,000 B.C.), including artefacts that show remarkable tool-making craftsmanship. Other archaeological finds include tools in the Levalloisian and Mousterian styles produced by humans (Homo sapiens) well before 100,000 years ago, similar to those in the Levant. According to some sources, prehistoric Algeria was the site of the most advanced development of flake-tool techniques in the Middle Stone Age (Middle Paleolithic). Tools from this era, starting from at least as early as 85,000 B.C., are called Aterian after the site Bir el Ater south of Annaba. These tools are marked by a high standard of workmanship, great variety, and specialization. See Prehistory of Central North Africa.Annaba, which was called Hippo Regius during Roman times, was probably founded by the Phoenicians in the 12th century BC. It was a centre of early Christianity. Augustine of Hippo was bishop here from 396 until 430. The city has buildings from its Roman, Christian, and Muslim eras.During French rule, the city was known as Bône. It was one of the main European settlements, having a sizeable pied-noir minority. One famous pied-noir from Bône was Alphonse Juin, a Marshal of France and a former NATO Central Europe Commander.EducationOne of Annaba's most notable educational institutions is Annaba University. As of 2004, there are over 40,000 students enrolled (http://www.annaba-univ.dz.org).http://www.visoterra.com/images/original/Visoterra-annaba---vue-d-helicopter-6414.jpgTransportation and industryAnnaba is served by Rabah Bitat Airport, an international airport whose IATA airport code is AAE. Annaba has rail links to the Algerian cities of Constantine and Algiers.TourismAnnaba is known for its beautiful beaches and amazing family night life. Most tourists are from France and Italy.External links Annaba City Annaba  Category:Cities, towns and villages in Algeria Category:Annaba Provincear:عنابة bn:আন্নাবা ca:Annaba cs:Annaba da:Annaba de:Annaba et:Annaba es:Annaba eo:Anaba fr:Annaba gl:Annaba - سياحة id:Annaba it:Annaba lt:Anaba mk:Анаба nl:Annaba (stad) ja:アンナバ no:Annaba nds:Annaba pl:Annaba (miasto) pt:Annaba ru:Аннаба fi:Annaba sv:Annaba uk:Аннаба zh:安纳巴