The Vespidae are a large (nearly 5,000 species), diverse, cosmopolitan family of wasps, including nearly all the known eusocial wasps and many solitary wasps. Each social wasp colony includes a queen and a number of female workers with varying degrees of sterility relative to the queen. In temperate social species, colonies usually only last one year, dying at the onset of winter. New queens and males (drones) are produced towards the end of the summer, and after mating, the queens hibernate over winter in cracks or other sheltered locations. The nests of most species are constructed out of mud, but polistines and vespines use plant fibers, chewed to form a sort of paper (also true of some stenogastrines).The subfamilies Polistinae and Vespinae are composed solely of eusocial species, while Eumeninae, Euparagiinae, and Masarinae are all solitary; Stenogastrinae contains a variety of forms from solitary to social.In Polistinae and Vespinae, rather than consuming prey directly, prey are masticated and fed to the larvae, and the larvae, in return, produce a clear liquid (with high amino acid content) which the adults consume; the exact amino acid composition varies considerably among species, but it is considered to contribute substantially to adult nutritionHunt, J. H., I. Baker, and H. G. Baker. 1982. Similarity of amino acids in nectar and larval saliva: the nutritional basis for trophallaxis in social wasps. Evolution 36: 1318-1322. Image:European wasp white bg.jpg|European wasp Image:Cocoon 2 750px.jpg|A hornet nest Image:Cocoon 3 750px.jpg|A different angle   Image:Yellowjacket nest 1 sjh.JPG|''Polistes'' nest Image:Yellowjacket nest 2 sjh.JPG|Another angle Image:Yellowjacket nest 3 sjh.JPG|Another angle   Image:Vespa tropica sec.jpg|''Vespa tropica'' from India Image:Wasp stripping wood.jpg|''Dolichovespula media'' (a European tree wasp) stripping wood from a fence for use in nest construction External linksEvolutionary history of social behavior in VespidsVespidae of the world - Iconographic workStunning photographs of Vespidae (and other insects) in flightReferencesCategory:Vespoideaar:زنبور gn:Káva ca:Vèspid de:Faltenwespen es:Vespidae fr:Vespidae ko:말벌과 hr:Ose it:Vespidae ka:კრაზანისებრნი hu:Valódi darazsak nl:Plooivleugelwespen no:Stikkvepser pl:Osowate pt:Vespidae ru:Осы бумажные fi:Ampiaiset