 Cherokee (ᏣᎳᎩ, Tsalagi) is an Iroquoian language spoken by the Cherokee people which uses a unique syllabary writing system. It is the only Southern Iroquoian language that remains spoken. Cherokee is polysynthetic.The Cherokee dialect spoken by the inhabitants of the Lower Towns in the vicinity of the South Carolina-Georgia border had r'' as the liquid consonant in its inventory where the contemporary Ani-kutani (ᎠᏂᎫᏔᏂ) dialect spoken in North Carolina and the Oklahoma dialects contain ''l. As such, the word "Cherokee" when spoken in the language is expressed as Tsa-la-gi (pronounced Jah-la-gee, Cha-la-gee, or Cha-la-g) by native speakers. The language also lacks p'' and ''b.PhonologyCherokee only has one labial consonant, m''–which is relatively new to the language–unless one counts the Cherokee ''w a labial instead of a velar. In the case of p'', ''qu is often substituted (as in the name of Cherokee Wikipedia, Wi-gi-que-di-ya).ConsonantsThe consonant inventory for North Carolina Cherokee is given in the table below. The consonants of all Iroquoian languages pattern so that they may be grouped as (oral) obstruents, sibilants, laryngeals, and resonants (Lounsbury 1978:337). Obstruents are non-distinctively aspirated when they precede h''. There is some variation in how orthographies represent these allophones. The orthography used in the table represents the aspirated allophones as ''th, kh, and tsh. Another common orthography represents the unaspirated allophones as d'', ''g, and dz and the aspirated allophones as t'', ''k, and ts (Scancarelli 2005:359–62).+ North Carolina Cherokee consonantsLabialAlveolarPalatalVelarGlottalObstruentst'' &nbsp; ''tskSibilantsLaryngealsh'' &nbsp; ''Resonantsmn'' &nbsp; ''lywVowelsThere are six short vowels and six long vowels in the Cherokee inventory. As with all Iroquoian languages, this includes a nasalized vowel (Lounsbury 1978:337). In the case of Cherokee, the nasalized vowel is a schwa, which most orthographies represent as v.FrontCentralBackClosei'' &nbsp; ''iːu'' &nbsp; ''uːMide'' &nbsp; ''eːv'' &nbsp; ''vːo'' &nbsp; ''oːOpena'' &nbsp; ''aːDiphthongsCherokee has only one diphthong native to the language:ai &nbsp;Another exception to the phonology above is the modern Oklahoma use of the loanword "automobile," with the  sound and  sound of English.ToneCherokee has a robust tonal system in which tones may be combined in various ways, following subtle and complex tonal rules that vary from community to community. While the tonal system is undergoing a gradual simplification in many areas (no doubt as part of Cherokee's often falling victim to second-language status), the tonal system remains extremely important in meaning and is still held strongly by many, especially older speakers. It should be noted that the syllabary does not normally display tone, and that real meaning discrepancies are rare within the native-language Cherokee-speaking community. The same goes for transliterated Cherokee ("osiyo," "dohitsu," etc.), which is rarely written with any tone markers, except in dictionaries. Native speakers can tell the difference between tone-distinguished words by context.GrammarCherokee, like many Native American languages, is polysynthetic, meaning that many morphemes may be linked together to form a single word, which may be of great length. Cherokee verbs, the most important word type, must contain as a minimum a pronominal prefix, a verb root, an aspect suffix, and a modal suffix. Consider the following verb:+ Verb form ge:gag-e:-g-aPRONOMINAL PREFIXVERB ROOT "to go"ASPECT SUFFIXMODAL SUFFIXFor example, the verb form ge:ga, "I am going," has each of these elements. The pronominal prefix is g-, which indicates first person singular. The verb root is -e, "to go." The aspect suffix that this verb employs for the present-tense stem is -g-. The present-tense modal suffix for regular verbs in Cherokee is -a.The following is a conjugation in the present tense of the verb to be. Please note that there is no seperate plural form in the 3rd person. The dual form serves both the dual and plural functions.+ Full conjugation of Root Verb'''-e-''' goingSingularDual incl.Dual excl.Plural excl.Plural incl.1stgega - I'm goinginega - We're going (you + I)osdega - We two are going (not you)otsega - We're all going (3+, not you)idega we're all going (3+, including you)2ndhega - you're going'sdega - you two are going--itsega - you are all going3rdega - (s)he/it's going-anega They (2+) are going--Notice that tranlation is the present progressive (at this time I am going). The Cherokee language differentiates more clearly the difference between the progressive and the habitual (I go), more so than the Western Indo-European languages.The forms gegoi, hegoi, egoi represent "I often/usually go", "you often/usually go", and "he often/usually goes" (respectively).Verbs can also have prepronominal prefixes, reflexive prefixes, and derivative suffixes. Given all possible combinations of affixes, each regular verb can have 21,262 inflected forms.Writing systemCherokee is written in an 85-character syllabary invented by Sequoyah (also known as George Guess). Some symbols do resemble Latin alphabet letters, but with completely different sound values; Sequoyah had seen English writing, but didn't know how to read it.Due to the polysynthetic nature of the Cherokee language, new and descriptive words in Cherokee are easily constructed to reflect or express modern concepts. Some good examples are di-ti-yo-hi-hi (Cherokee:ᏗᏘᏲᎯᎯ) which means "he argues repeatedly and on purpose with a purpose". This is the Cherokee word for attorney. Another example is di-da-ni-yi-s-gi (Cherokee:ᏗᏓᏂᏱᏍᎩ) which means the final catcher or "he catches them finally and conclusively". This is the Cherokee word for policeman.Many words, however, have been adopted from the English language – for example, gasoline, which in Cherokee is ga-so-li-ne (Cherokee:ᎦᏐᎵᏁ). Many other words were adopted from the languages of tribes who settled in Oklahoma in the early 1900s. One interesting and humorous example is the name of Nowata, Oklahoma. The word "nowata" is a Delaware word for "welcome" (more precisely the Delaware word is "nu-wi-ta" which can mean "welcome" or "friend" in the Delaware language). The white settlers of the area used the name "nowata" for the township, and local Cherokees, being unaware the word had its origins in the Delaware language, called the town a-ma-di-ka-ni-gv-na-gv-na (Cherokee:ᎠᎹᏗᎧᏂᎬᎾᎬᎾ) which means "the water is all gone gone from here" -- i.e. "no water".Other examples of adopted words are ka-wi (Cherokee:ᎧᏫ) for coffee and wa-tsi (Cherokee:ᏩᏥ) for watch (which led to u-ta-na wa-tsi (Cherokee:ᎤᏔᎾ ᏩᏥ) or "big watch" for clock).Language driftThere are two main dialects of Cherokee spoken by modern speakers. The Giduwa dialect (Eastern Band) and the Otali Dialect (also called the Overhill dialect) spoken in Oklahoma. The Otali dialect has drifted significantly from Sequoyah's Syllabary in the past 150 years, and many contracted and borrowed words have been adopted into the language. These noun and verb roots in Cherokee, however, can still be mapped to Sequoyah's Syllabary. In modern times, there are more than 85 syllables in use by modern Cherokee speakers. Modern Cherokee speakers who speak Otali employ 122 distinct syllables in Oklahoma.+ Drifted Otali Sequoyah Syllabary MappingOtali SyllableSequoyah Syllabary IndexSequoyah Syllabary CharSequoyah Syllablenah32Ꮐnahhna31Ꮏhnaqua38Ꮖquaque39Ꮗquequi40Ꮘquiquo41Ꮙquoquu42Ꮚquuquv43Ꮛquvdla60Ꮬdlatla61Ꮭtlatle62Ꮮtletli63Ꮯtlitlo64Ꮰtlotlu65Ꮱtlutlv66Ꮲtlvtsa67Ꮳtsatse68Ꮴtsetsi69Ꮵtsitso70Ꮶtsotsu71Ꮷtsutsv72Ꮸtsvhah79Ꮿyagwu11Ꭻgugwi40Ꮘquihla61Ꮭtlahwa73Ꮹwagwa38Ꮖquahlv66Ꮲtlvguh11Ꭻgugwe39Ꮗquewah73Ꮹwahnv37Ꮕnvteh54Ꮦteqwa06Ꭶgayah79Ꮿyana30Ꮎnane33Ꮑneni34Ꮒnino35Ꮓnonu36Ꮔnunv37Ꮕnvga06Ꭶgaka07Ꭷkage08Ꭸgegi09Ꭹgigo10Ꭺgogu11Ꭻgugv12Ꭼgvha13Ꭽhahe14Ꭾhehi15Ꭿhiho16Ꮀhohu17Ꮁhuhv18Ꮂhvma25Ꮉmame26Ꮊmemi27Ꮋmimo28Ꮌmomu29Ꮍmuda51Ꮣdata52Ꮤtade53Ꮥdete54Ꮦtedi55Ꮧditi56Ꮨtido57Ꮩdodu58Ꮪdudv59Ꮫdvla19Ꮃlale20Ꮄleli21Ꮅlilo22Ꮆlolu23Ꮇlulv24Ꮈlvsa44Ꮜsase46Ꮞsesi47Ꮟsiso48Ꮠsosu49Ꮡsusv50Ꮢsvwa73Ꮹwawe74Ꮺwewi75Ꮻwiwo76Ꮼwowu77Ꮽwuwv78Ꮾwvya79Ꮿyaye80Ᏸyeyi81Ᏹyiyo82Ᏺyoyu83Ᏻyuyv84Ᏼyvto57Ꮩdotu58Ꮪduko10Ꭺgotv59Ꮫdvqa73Ꮹwake07Ꭷkakv12Ꭼgvah00Ꭰaqo10Ꭺgooh03Ꭳoju71Ꮷtsuji69Ꮵtsija67Ꮳtsaje68Ꮴtsejo70Ꮶtsojv72Ꮸtsva00Ꭰae01Ꭱei02Ꭲio03Ꭳou04Ꭴuv05Ꭵvs45Ꮝsn30Ꮎnal02Ꭲit52Ꮤtad55Ꮧdiy80Ᏸyek06Ꭶgag06ᎦgaInternet usageFor years, many people wrote transliterated Cherokee on the Internet or used poorly intercompatible fonts to type out the syllabary. However, since the fairly recent addition of the Cherokee syllables to Unicode, the Cherokee language is experiencing a renaissance in its use on the Internet.Cherokee language in popular cultureThe theme song "I Will Find You" from the 1992 film The Last of the Mohicans by the band Clannad features Máire Brennan singing in Cherokee as well as Mohican.See alsoCherokee (people)Iroquoian languagesNative American LanguagesSyllabaryReferences.Pulte, William, and Durbin Feeling. 2001. Cherokee. In: Garry, Jane, and Carl Rubino (eds.) Facts About the World's Languages: An Encyclopedia of the World's Major Languages: Past and Present. New York: H. W. Wilson. (Viewed at the Rosetta Project)Scancarelli, Janine. "Cherokee Writing." The World's Writing Systems. 1998: Section 53. (Viewed at the Rosetta Project) NotesFurther readingBruchac, Joseph. Aniyunwiya/Real Human Beings: An Anthology of Contemporary Cherokee Prose. Greenfield Center, N.Y.: Greenfield Review Press, 1995. ISBN 0912678925External links  Cherokee (Tsalagi) LexiconCherokee.org Dikanesdi (Lexicon)Echota Tsalagi Language ProjectCherokee New Testament Online Online translation of the New Testament. Currently the largest Cherokee document on the internet.[http://texashistory.unt.edu/permalink/meta-pth-6105 Exploration of the Red River of Louisiana, in the year 1852 / by Randolph B. Marcy ; assisted by George B. McClellan.] hosted by the Portal to Texas History. See Appendix H, which compares the English, Comanche, and Wichita languages.Unicode ChartOffical Cherokee Font (Not Unicode-compatible) Category:Cherokee languagebg:Черокски език ca:Cherokee (llengua) cy:Cherokee (iaith) de:Cherokee (Sprache) es:Idioma cheroqui eo:Ĉeroka lingvo fr:Cherokee (langue) ko:체로키어 it:Lingua cherokee lt:Čerokių kalba hu:Cseroki nyelv mk:Черокиски јазик ms:Bahasa Cherokee nl:Cherokee (taal) ja:チェロキー語 no:Cherokesisk pl:Język czirokeski pt:Língua cherokee qu:Tsalaki simi ru:Чероки (язык) fi:Cherokeen kieli sv:Cherokesiska chr:ᏣᎳᎩ ᎧᏬᏂᎯᏍᏗ tr:Cherokee dili zh:切羅基語