The Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) is a wading bird in the ibis family Threskiornithidae.This is the most widespread ibis species, breeding in scattered sites in warm regions of Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and the Atlantic and Caribbean region of the Americas. It is thought to have originated in the Old World and spread naturally from Africa to northern South America in the 19th century. This species is migratory; most European birds winter in Africa, and in North America birds from north of the Carolinas winter farther south. Birds from other populations may disperse widely outside the breeding season. , Bharatpur, Rajasthan, India. ]] The Glossy Ibis nests colonially in trees, often with herons. It is also gregarious when feeding in marshy wetlands; it predates on fish, frogs and other water creatures, as well as occasionally on insects.This species is 55-65 cm long with an 88-105 cm wingspan. Breeding adults have reddish-brown bodies and shiny bottle-green wings. Non-breeders and juveniles have duller bodies. This species has a brownish bill, dark facial skin bordered above and below in blue-gray (non-breeding) to cobalt blue (breeding), and red-brown legs. Unlike herons, ibises fly with necks outstretched, and often flocks fly in lines.Sounds made by this rather quiet ibis include a variety of croaks and grunts, including a hoarse grrrr made when breeding.The Glossy Ibis is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.References Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernHandbook of the Birds of Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa: The Birds of the Western PalearcticField Guide to the Birds of North America, 4th EditionGallery Image:Glossy Ibis (Plegadis falcinellus) at Bharatpur I IMG 5376.jpg| at Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, Rajasthan, India. Image:Glossy ibis.jpg Image:Glossy ibis1.jpg External linksBirdLife Species FactsheetIUCN Red ListGlossy Ibis Information with photographs and sound from the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology.Glossy Ibis videos on the Internet Bird CollectionGlossy Ibis Information and Photos from South Dakota Birds and BirdingGlossy Ibis Information from eNature.comField Guide Photo Page on FlickrCategory:Plegadis Category:Wading birds Category:Birds of the United States Category:Birds of Australia Category:Birds of Armenia Category:Birds of Bangladesh Category:Birds of Brunei Category:Birds of Cambodia Category:Birds of Indonesia Category:Birds of Malaysia Category:Birds of Burma Category:Birds of Pakistan Category:Birds of the Philippines Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of Thailand Category:Birds of Trinidad and Tobago Category:Birds of Turkey Category:Birds of Vietnam Category:Birds of Zambia Category:Birds of Zimbabwe Category:Birds of Africa Category:Birds of Southeast Asia Category:Birds of South Australia Category:Birds of Western Australiaaf:Glansibis bg:Блестящ ибис de:Brauner Sichler dv:ކަޅު ބުޅިތުންބި el:Χαλκόκοτα es:Plegadis falcinellus eo:Bruna ibiso fr:Ibis falcinelle it:Plegadis falcinellus la:Plegadis falcinellus lt:Rudasis ibis hu:Batla nl:Zwarte ibis ja:ブロンズトキ no:Bronseibis pl:Ibis kasztanowaty pt:Íbis-preto ru:Каравайка fi:Pronssi-iibis sv:Bronsibis tr:Bayağı aynak