 | operating system = Mac OS X, Windows Vista, Windows XP and Windows 2000 | genre = Photo Post-Production | license = Proprietary | website = Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Homepage Adobe Photoshop Lightroom is a photography software program developed by Adobe Systems for Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows, designed to assist professional photographers in managing thousands of digital images and doing post production work. It is not a file browser like Adobe Bridge, but rather an image management application database which helps in viewing, editing, and managing digital photos (including those on backup DVDs).HistoryIn 2002, veteran Photoshop developer Mark Hamburg began a new project, code-named “Shadowland”. The new project was a deliberate departure from many of Adobe’s established conventions. 40% of Photoshop Lightroom is written using the Lua scripting language. Hamburg chose Phil Clevenger, a former associate of Kai Krause’s, to create a new look for the application.Photoshop Lightroom’s (LR) engineering talent is based largely in Minnesota, comprised of the team which had already created Adobe’s ImageReady application. Troy Gaul, Melissa Gaul, and the rest of their crew (reportedly known as the “Minnesota Phats”), along with Hamburg, developed the architecture behind the application. George Jardine, a skilled photographer and previous Adobe evangelist, rounded out the early team, filling the Product Manager role.Beta developmentOn January 9, 2006, an early version of Photoshop Lightroom, previously just called Lightroom, was released to the public as a Macintosh-only public Beta, on the Adobe Labs website. This was the first Adobe product released to the general public for feedback during its development. This method was then later used in the development of Adobe Photoshop CS3. Further Beta releases followed. Notable releases included Beta 3 on July 18, 2006, which added support for Microsoft Windows systems. On September 25, 2006, Beta 4 was released, which saw the program merged into the Photoshop product range, followed by a minor update on October 19, which was released as Beta 4.1.Official releaseOn January 29, 2007, Adobe announced that Lightroom would be shipping on February 19, 2007. US list pricing was set at $299. The UK retail price was £199.Lightroom 1.1 update was released on June 26, 2007, update 1.2 was released on 15 September 2007, update 1.3 was released on November 15, 2007, and update 1.4 was released on March 14, 2008. Release 1.4 was taken off line on 19th March 2008 because of serious bugs that could alter the original images; release 1.3.1 was put back. Update 1.4.1 was released 10th April 2008.A 30-day trial of Lightroom 1.4.1 is currently available. Lightroom v1.x.x is not updated when an upgrade to v2 is installed; a complete new program is installed and requires a new serial number.Version 2.0Adobe Photoshop Lightroom 2.0 Beta was advertised in official emails from Adobe in April 2008. New features include:Localized corrections (edit specific parts of an image)Improved organization toolsMultiple monitor supportFlexible printing options64-bit supportThe official release of Lightroom v2 was on July 29th 2008, along with the release of Adobe Camera Raw v4.5 and DNG Converter 4.5. Adobe has added DNG Camera Profiling to both releases. This technology allows custom camera colour profiles, or looks, to be created by the user and saved. It also allows profiles matching the creative styles built in to cameras to be replicated. Adobe released a complete set of such Camera Profiles for Nikon and Canon models, in addition to basic Standard Profiles for all supported makes and models, through Adobe Labs, at the same time as the Lightroom v2 release. This technology is open to all programs compliant with the DNG file format standard.FeaturesUnlike traditional image editing software, Photoshop Lightroom is focused on the following workflow steps:Library - image collection review and organization - similar in concept to the 'Organizer' in Adobe Photoshop ElementsDevelop - non-destructive RAW and JPEG file editingSlideshow - tools and export featuresPrint - layout options and preferencesWeb - automatic gallery creation and uploadThe Develop mode has a number of presets for colour correction/effects. Apart from the regular presets, there are a huge number of presets available for free download on the internet, which makes it a very useful tool for professional photographers.See alsoComparison of raster graphics editorsReferencesExternal linksAdobe - Photoshop LightroomReview of Lightroom v2 with examples, on dPhotoexpert.comPhotoshop Lightroom Category:Photo software Category:Image organizers Category:Raster graphics editors Category:Lua programming languagear:أدوبي فوتوشوب لايت رووم da:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom de:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom es:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom fr:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom it:Photoshop Lightroom lb:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom nl:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom ja:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom pl:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom pt:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom zh:Adobe Photoshop Lightroom