The Nile monitor (Varanus niloticus) is a large member of the monitor lizard family (Varanidae).Nile monitors grow to about 1.5 to 2 meters (4.5 to 6.5 feet) in length. They have muscular bodies, strong legs and powerful jaws. The teeth are sharp and pointed in juvenile animals and become blunt and peg-like in adults. They also possess sharp claws used for climbing, digging, defense, or tearing at their prey. Like all monitors they have a forked tongue, with highly developed olfactory properties.Their nostrils are placed high on the snout, indicating that these animals are highly aquatic, but are also excellent climbers and quick runners on land. Nile monitors feed on fish, snails, frogs, crocodile eggs, birds, small mammals, large insects, and carrion.In Southern Africa they are commonly referred to as "leguaan", from the Dutch for iguana.RangeNile monitors live throughout Africa except for desert regions. They have also been introduced to Florida.NAS - Species FactSheet&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In June 2007, they were sighted in and near Sanibel, Florida. In July 2008 one was spotted in Homestead, FL.Homestead Air Reseserve Base home to diverse array of wildlifeOne 6' long monitor was found in Oregon in September 2008.http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20080908/ap_on_fe_st/odd_big_lizardCaptivityNile monitors require experienced care as pets and are not recommended for beginners; nevertheless they are often found in the pet trade.Nile monitors need a very large cage, as they can reach lengths of over seven feet in adulthood. Because of their large size, adults are likely to require custom-built quarters. Soil, sand, or bark chippings can be used as substrate. The enclosure should contain things to make a suitable habitat such as rocks, driftwood, plastic plants or hollow logs. A water dish large enough for the lizard to soak in should be used. Nile monitors have a tendency to defecate in the water dish, so clean it whenever soiled or at least daily.Nile monitors should have a daytime temperature gradient of about 80-90°F (27-32°C) and a night time temperature of about 78-80°F (26-27°C). A basking spot of 140 F should be provided at least 12 hours a day. A thermometer can be used to verify the temperature. The humidity should be moderate.This species is very hardy in captivity when properly maintained. Wild caught animals should be checked for internal parasites. The Nile monitor has a very aggressive temperament with a powerful bite and a lashing tail and therefore is very dangerous. If raised with regular handling and a positive view of its keeper, a Nile monitor can to some extent be tamed. "There are few lizards less suited to life in captivity than the Nile monitor. Buffrenil (1992) considered that, when fighting for its life, a Nile monitor was a more dangerous adversary than a crocodile of a similar size. Their care presents particular problems on account of the lizards' enormous size and lively dispositions. Very few of the people who buy brightly-coloured baby Nile monitors can be aware that, within a couple of years, their purchase will have turned into an enormous, ferocious carnivore, quite capable of breaking the family cat's neck with a single snap and swallowing it whole."  (Bennett, D. 1995. Little Book of Monitor Lizards, Viper Press, Aberdeen, UK)References  Category:Monitor lizards Category:Reptiles of Africa Category:Megafauna of Africa de:Nilwaran es:Varanus niloticus fr:Varan du Nil lt:Nilo varanas ln:Mombámbé hu:Nílusi varánusz nl:Nijlvaraan ja:ナイルオオトカゲ no:Nilvaran pl:Waran nilowy