 Malachite is a carbonate mineral normally known as "copper carbonate" with the formula Cu2CO&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;(OH)2. This green-colored mineral crystallizes in the monoclinic crystal system, and most often forms botryoidal, fibrous, or stalagmitic masses. Individual crystals are rare but do occur as slender to acicular prisms. Pseudomorphs after more tabular or blocky azurite crystals also occur. Occurrence and historical usesMalachite often results from weathering of copper ores and is often found together with azurite (Cu3(CO3)2(OH)2), goethite, and calcite. Except for its vibrant green color, the properties of malachite are similar to those of azurite and aggregates of the two minerals occur frequently together. Malachite is more common than azurite and is typically associated with copper deposits around limestones, the source of the carbonate.Large quantities of malachite have been mined in the Urals. It is found in the Democratic Republic of Congo; Zambia; Tsumeb, Namibia; Ural mountains, Russia; Mexico; Broken Hill, New South Wales; England; Lyon; and in the Southwestern United States especially in Arkansas and Arizona. In Israel, malachite is extensively mined at Timna, often called King Solomon's Mines. Archeological evidence indicates that the mineral has been mined and smelted at the site for over 3,000 years. Most of Timna's current production is also smelted, but the finest pieces are worked into silver jewelry.Images Image:MoreMalachite.jpg|Malachite from the Democratic Republic of Congo Image:Malachite Zaire.jpg|A polished slice of Malachite Image:Malaquita2.jpg|Malachite Image:Azurite with malachite and others.jpg|Malachite crystals atop blue azurite, with brown cuprite on the white kaolinite Image:Malachite-unit-cell-3D-balls.png|Ball-and-stick model of malachite's unit cell Image:Polished-Malachite2.jpg|Polished Malachite Etymology and historyThe stone's name derives (via Latin and French) from Greek molochitis, "mallow-green stone", from molochē, variant of malachē, "mallow". Malachite was used as a mineral pigment in green paints from antiquity until about 1800. The pigment is moderately lightfast, very sensitive to acids and varying in color. The natural form was being replaced by its synthetic form, verditer amongst other synthetic greens. It is also used for decorative purposes, such as in the Malachite Room in the Hermitage, which features a large malachite vase (unknown scale). "The Tazza", one of the largest pieces of malachite in North America and a gift from Tsar Nicholas II, stands as the focal point in the center of the room of Linda Hall Library.ReferencesHurlbut, Cornelius S.; Klein, Cornelis, 1985, Manual of Mineralogy, 20th ed., John Wiley and Sons, New York ISBN 0-471-80580-7Mineral GalleriesWebmineral dataMindatVirtual tour of the Malachite RoomSee alsoaventurinedioptase Category:Carbonate minerals Category:Copper minerals Category:Hydroxide mineralsbs:Malahit br:Malakit ca:Malaquita cs:Malachit de:Malachit et:Malahhiit es:Malaquita eo:Malakito eu:Malakita fr:Malachite gl:Malaquita ko:공작석 hi:ताप्रांगीयिज it:Malachite he:מלכיט la:Malachites lt:Malachitas hu:Malachit nl:Malachiet ja:孔雀石 pl:Malachit pt:Malaquita ro:Malachit ru:Малахит sk:Malachit sl:Malahit fi:Malakiitti sv:Malakit th:มาลาไคต์ vi:Malachit tr:Malahit uk:Малахіт zh-yue:石綠 zh:碱式碳酸铜