  In computing, a hyperlink is a reference or navigation element in a document to another section of the same document or to another document that may be on or part of a (different) domain."An electronic link providing direct access from one distinctively marked place in a hypertext or hypermedia document to another in the same or a different document"Hyperlink: retrieved September 12, 2008, from hyperlink http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/hyperlinkOften abbreviated to "link". Hypertext (meaning "more than just" text) is a form of text typically published on websites that provides a richer functionality than simple text documents by enabling the reader to explore interesting links to other web pages linked to specific words or images within the page. Typically the words or image will be relevant to the linked page, for example Wikipedia home page, but badly designed or malicious sites may use obscure links or obfuscated links which make it hard to work out where the link will take you. A site that uses a lot of these obscure links is said to use "Mystery Meat navigation".Embedded linkAn embedded link is a navigation element included as part of an object such as hypertext or a hot area.Example: The first word of this sentence: ("Example") is a navigation link embedded in a text object -- if the word is clicked, the browser will navigate to a different page.Inline linkAn inline link displays remote content without the need for embedding the content. The remote content may be accessed with or without the user selecting the link. Inline links may display specific parts of the content (e.g. thumbnail, low resolution preview, cropped sections, magnified sections, description text, etc.) and access other parts or the full content when needed, as is the case with print publishing software. This allows for smaller file sizes and quicker response to changes when the full linked content is not needed, as is the case when rearranging a page layout.Hot areaA hot area (image map in HTML) is an invisible area of the screen that covers a text label or graphical images. A technical description of a hot area is a list of coordinates relating to a specific area on a screen created in order to hyperlink areas of the image to various destinations, disable linking via negative space around irregular shapes, or enable linking via invisible areas. For example, a political map of Africa may have each irregularly shaped country hyperlinked to further information about that country. A separate invisible hot area interface allows for swapping skins or labels within the linked hot areas without repetitive embedding of links in the various skin elements.Random accessedRandom-accessed linking data are links retrieved from a data base or variable containers in a program when the retrieval function is from user interaction (e.g. dynamic menu from an address book) or non-interactive (e.g. random, calculated) process.Hardware accessedA hardware-accessed link is a link that activates directly via an input device (e.g. keyboard, microphone, remote control) without the need or use of a graphical user interface.Hyperlinks in various technologiesHyperlinks in HTMLTim Berners-Lee saw the possibility of using hyperlinks to link any unit of information to any other unit of information over the Internet. Hyperlinks were therefore integral to the creation of the World Wide Web.Links are specified in HTML using the &amp;lt;a&gt; (anchor) elements.XLink: Hyperlinks in XMLThe W3C Recommendation called XLink describes hyperlinks that offer a far greater degree of functionality than those offered in HTML. These extended links can be multidirectional, linking from, within, and between XML documents. It also describes simple links, which are unidirectional and therefore offer no more functionality than hyperlinks in HTML.Hyperlinks in other technologies Hyperlinks are used in the Gopher protocol, e-mails, Text editors, PDF documents, word processing documents, spreadsheets, Apple's HyperCard and many other places.How hyperlinks work in HTMLA link has two ends, called anchors, and a direction. The link starts at the source anchor and points to the destination anchor. A link from one domain to another is said to be outbound from its source anchor and ''inbound'' to its target.The most common destination anchor is a URL used in the World Wide Web. This can refer to a document, e.g. a webpage, or other resource, or to a position in a webpage. The latter is achieved by means of a HTML element with a "name" or "id" attribute at that position of the HTML document. The URL of the position is the URL of the webpage with "#''attribute name''" appended — this is a fragment identifier.When linking to PDF documents from an HTML page the "attribute name" can be replaced with syntax that references a page number or another element of the PDF, for example page=pageNo - "#''page=386''".Link behavior in web browsersA web browser usually displays a hyperlink in some distinguishing way, e.g. in a different colour, font or style. The behaviour and style of links can be specified using the Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) language.In a graphical user interface, the appearance of a mouse cursor may change into a hand motif to indicate a link. In most graphical web browsers, links are displayed in underlined blue text when not cached, but underlined purple text when cached. When the user activates the link (e.g. by clicking on it with the mouse) the browser will display the target of the link. If the target is not an HTML file, depending on the file type and on the browser and its plugins, another program may be activated to open the file.The HTML code contains some or all of the five main characteristics of a link:link destination ("href" pointing to a URL)link labellink titlelink targetlink class or link idIt uses the HTML element &quot;a&quot; with the attribute "href" (HREF is an abbreviation for "Hypertext REFerence"Tim Berners-Lee, Making a Server (&quot;HREF&quot; is for &quot;hypertext reference&quot;)) and optionally also the attributes "title", "target", and "class" or "id":&lt;a href="URL" title="link title" target="link target" class="link class"&gt;link label&lt;/a&gt;Example: To embed a link into a Page, blogpost, or comment, it may take this form:The prosecution of Taiwan sexuality researcher and activist Josephine HoIn 2000, British Telecom sued Prodigy claiming that Prodigy infringed its patent () on web hyperlinks. After litigation, a court found for Prodigy, ruling that British Telecom's patent did not cover web hyperlinks. CNET News.com, Hyperlink patent case fails to click. August 23, 2002.When linking to illegal or infringing copyrighted content the law of linking liability is currently considered a grey area. There are examples where sites have been proven liable such as Plaintiff Intellectual Reserve vs Utah Lighthouse Ministry, Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Reimerdes, and Comcast vs. Hightech Electronics Inc WebTVWire.com, Linking to Infringing Video is probably Illegal in the US. December 10, 2006., and there are examples where sites have not been proven liable for linking, for example Perfect 10 v. Google Inc.See alsoObject hyperlinkingOverlinkingUnderlinkingInternal linkHTML elementXenu's Link Sleuth — checks Web sites for broken hyperlinksReferencesExternal linksA Brief History of the HyperlinkLinks &amp; Law — Overview of legal issues and court rulings involving linkingThe Expert's Guide to Using HyperlinksCategory:Hypertextar:رابط تشعبي ca:Hipervincle da:Hyperlink de:Hyperlink es:Hiperenlace fr:Hyperlien ko:하이퍼링크 hr:Poveznica it:Collegamento ipertestuale he:היפר קישור csb:Lënk kk:Еренсілтеме la:Nexus lv:Hipersaite lb:Hyperlink hu:Hiperlink nl:Hyperlink ja:ハイパーリンク no:Hyperlenke nn:Hyperkopling nds:Link pl:Hiperłącze pt:Hiperligação ro:Hyperlink simple:Link sr:Хиперлинк fi:Hyperlinkki sv:Hyperlänk th:ไฮเปอร์ลิงก์ uk:Гіперпосилання wa:Hårdêye (Daegntoele) zh:超連結