 , identified with Mars, after whom Tuesday is named.]]    Tuesday is the third day of the week between Monday and Wednesday.Origins of the nameSee Days of the week for more on naming conventions.PlanetaryThe name comes from Middle English Tiwesday, from Old English Tiwes dæg, named after the Nordic god Tyr, who was the equivalent of the Roman war god Mars, and Greek god Ares.In Latin, it is called Martis dies which means "Mars's Day". In Romance languages except Portuguese, the word for "Tuesday" is similar to the Latin name: mardi in French, martes in Spanish, martedì in Italian, dimarts in Catalan, and marţi in Romanian.The surviving Celtic languages preserve the Latin names,MacBain, Alexander. An Etymological Dictionary of the Gaelic Language. Gairm Publications, 1982 reprint of 1896 original. although none of these languages are descended from Latin. Tuesday is dé máirt in Irish, Meurzh in Breton,Dicts.info Breton to English to Breton Dictionary dydd Mawrth in WelshWelsh-English / English-Welsh On-line Dictionary, University of Wales, Lampeter and Dimàirt in Scottish Gaelic.MacFarlane, Malcolm. The School Gaelic Dictionary. Eneas MacKay, Stirling, 1912. English-Gaelic Parliamentary Dictionary, published by the Scottish Parliament, 2001. Stòr-dàta Briathrachais GàidhligThe English and Scandinavian names are derived from the Nordic god Týr (Old English Tiw):Old Frisian: tîesdeiModern West Frisian: tiisdeiOld English: tíwesdægAnglo-Norman:Middle English: tíesdæi, tywesdai, twysdayEarly Modern English: towesday, Twesdaie, Tyisday, Tiseday,Modern English: TuesdayOld High German: zîestagMiddle High German: zîstagAlemannic German: ziischtigOld Norse: týrsdagrSwedish: TisdagDanish: TirsdagNorwegian: Tirsdag or TysdagIcelandic: TýsdagurThe German word Dienstag, as well as Low German Dingsdag, Deensdag and Dutch Dinsdag (from the 13th century, MHG dinsdag, dinsedag, dincetag, dinstag, dingstag) is probably due to interpretation as dies judicii (thing day) or dies census in popular etymology (Grimm). Another possibility is direct derivation from the god referred to by the Romans as Mars Thingsus, the god of the Thing,VERCOVICIVM, Hadrian's Wall Fort and Settlement retrieved April 14, 2008 who could likely be Tyr, as well.Temporini, Hildegard and Wolfgang Haase. Aufstieg und Niedergang der römischen Welt. Walter de Gruyter, 1986. ISBN 3-11-010050-9. Page 77. http://books.google.ca/books?id=24V88LbLUL4C&amp;pg=PA77&amp;lpg=PA77&amp;dq=thincsus&amp;source=web&amp;ots=9jgfL0qk_I&amp;sig=x2JCIbQs4rUa9uo-yDRVEsMg0W4&amp;hl=enThe speech of Old Bavaria, also from the 13th century, used ertag (erihtag, erehtag, erchtag, erichtag, erntag), from which Jacob Grimm in Deutsche Mythologie postulated Ear as an epithet of Ziu.Grimm 1875–78, .In most of the Indian Languages as well as Nepali and Urdu the word for Tuesday is Mangalwar, with Mangala being the Sanskrit name for the planet Mars.NumericalPortuguese uses numbers instead of pagan names and so their word for "Tuesday" is terça-feira (the third day).The Russian word for "Tuesday" is vtórnik, meaning "second"; that is, counting Tuesday as the second day of the week.Quakers traditionally referred to Tuesday as "Third Day" eschewing the pagan origin of the English name "Tuesday". This has also been the custom in Iceland since about the 11th century when Jón Ögmundsson changed it to Þriðjudagur, meaning "Third Day".Religious observancesIn the Eastern Orthodox Church. Tuesdays are dedicated to Saint John the Baptist. The Octoechos contains hymns on this theme, arranged in an eight-week cycle, that are chanted on Tuesdays throughout the year. At the end of Divine Services on Tuesday, the dismissal begins with the words: "May Christ our True God, through the intercessions of his most-pure Mother, of the honorable and glorious Prophet, Forerunner and Baptist John…"Cultural referencesIn the Greek world, Tuesday (the day of the week of the Fall of Constantinople) is considered an unlucky day. The same is true in the Spanish-speaking world, where a proverb runs: En martes, ni te cases ni te embarques, meaning, "On Tuesday, neither get married nor begin a journey." For both Greeks and Spanish-speakers, the 13th of the month is considered unlucky if it falls on Tuesday, instead of Friday. In Judaism, on the other hand, Tuesday is considered a particularly lucky day, because in the first chapter of Genesis the paragraph about this day contains the phrase "it was good" twice.In the Thai solar calendar, the day is named for the Pali word for the planet Mars, which also means "Ashes of the Dead" http://www.thai-language.com/id/131679; the color associated with Tuesday is pink.In the folk rhyme Monday's Child, "Tuesday's child is full of grace".In the short-lived animated show The Xs, the daughter's name is TuesdayIn business, particularly office work, one study has shown that Tuesday is usually the most productive day of the week.Tuesday is most productive day - Silicon Valley / San Jose Business Journal:&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Common occurrencesUnited States and CanadaTuesday is the usual day for elections in the United States. Federal elections take place on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November; this date was established by a law of 1845 for presidential elections (specifically for the selection of the Electoral College), and was extended to elections for the House of Representatives in 1875 and for the Senate in 1914. Tuesday was the earliest day of the week which was practical for polling in the early nineteenth century: citizens might have to travel for a whole day to cast their vote, and would not wish to leave on Sunday which was a day of worship for the great majority of them.In the United States and Canada, most home video and audio releases for purchase or rental occur on Tuesdays. Since this policy began, there have been very few exceptions to this common release day.Astrology In Italian, Tuesday is "Martedi", associating it with the planet Mars Greek God of War Ares and the signs Aries and Scorpio. Tuesday is also associated with the dwarf planet Pluto - Greek Hades God of the Underworld and, little known, he is also the God of Justice. (Not to be confused with Hell/the Devil). People born on Tuesdays are claimed to show the qualities of Aries, Scorpio, Mars/Ares, and Pluto. Pluto and Mars are the governing and guiding planets for the star sign Scorpio. This marries Tuesday with ideas of strife, battles to be won and pressing issues and jobs to get sorted. It is not a day to relax. This same meaning can be seen in the Spanish "Martes" and the English "Tuesday" ("Tyr's day.") In India, Tuesday is called "Mangalvar", for the Vedic planet Mangala or Mars. So as this day is called Mangal in Urdu. Tuesday is considered one of most inauspicious weekday among non-Muslim nations in South Asia. Wedding, oath-taking, assuming office, starting business are usually avoid on Tuesday, because of claimed natural malevolence associated with Mars.However, if one wanted to turn this into a positive, one could use the energies of Mars/Ares, Pluto/Hades to fight battles (both internal and external) including those involving matters of justice, and learn from and move through that which needs to be done and faced full on. And as Pluto (still a full planet in astrology) is the planet that deals with the deepest, innermost matters of the soul - the yearnings, the desires, the innermost fears, mental and emotional baggage and clutter - Tuesday can also be seen as a day to rid yourself of clutter, physical and emotional and become lighter, both physically and mentally, to lead a more rewarding, joyous and fulfilling life.Named daysBlack Tuesday, in the United States, refers to October 29, 1929, part of the great Stock Market Crash of 1929. This was the Tuesday after Black Thursday. The crash is said to have marked the start of the Great Depression.Patch Tuesday is the second Tuesday of every month when Microsoft releases patches for their products. Some system administrators call this day Black Tuesday.Shrove Tuesday (also called Mardi Gras - fat Tuesday) precedes the first day of Lent in the Western Christian calendar.Super Tuesday is the day many American states hold their presidential primary elections.Tuesday is also known as the new Thursday among certain groups of New York influencersSourcesGrimm, Jacob. 1875–78. Deutsche Mythologie. Fourth ed., curated by Elard Hugo Meyer, 3 vols. Berlin: F. Dümmler. Reprinted Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1965.References Category:Days of the week Category:Eastern liturgyaf:Dinsdag als:Dienstag am:ማክሰኞ ang:Tīwesdæg ar:ثلاثاء frp:Demârs ast:Martes gn:Ara'apy az:Çərşənbə axşamı bn:মঙ্গলবার ba:Шишәмбе be-x-old:Аўторак bar:Ertig bs:Utorak br:Meurzh (deiz) bg:Вторник ca:Dimarts cv:Ытларикун ceb:Martes cs:Úterý co:Marti cy:Dydd Mawrth da:Tirsdag de:Dienstag et:Teisipäev el:Τρίτη myv:Вастаньчи es:Martes eo:Mardo eu:Astearte ee:Brãɖagbe fa:سه‌شنبه fo:Týsdagur fr:Mardi fy:Tiisdei fur:Martars ga:Máirt gan:禮拜二 gd:Di-Màirt gl:Martes ko:화요일 hy:Երեքշաբթի hi:मंगलवार hr:Utorak id:Selasa ia:Martedi is:Þriðjudagur it:Martedì he:יום שלישי jv:Anggara kn:ಮಂಗಳವಾರ ka:სამშაბათი kk:Сейсенбі kw:Dy' Meurth ky:Шейшемби sw:Jumanne ht:Madi ku:Sêşem lad:Martes lo:ວັນອັງຄານ la:Dies Martis lv:Otrdiena lb:Dënschdeg lt:Antradienis lmo:Mardí hu:Kedd mk:Вторник ms:Selasa my:အင်္ဂါ nah:Huītzilōpōchtōnal nl:Dinsdag nds-nl:Diensdag ne:मंगलवार ja:火曜日 nap:Marterì no:Tirsdag nn:Tysdag nrm:Mardi oc:Dimars uz:Seshanba km:អង្គារ pms:Màrtes nds:Dingsdag pl:Wtorek pt:Terça-feira ksh:Dinnßdaach ro:Marţi qu:Atipachaw ru:Вторник sco:Tysday sq:E marta simple:Tuesday sd:اڱارو sk:Utorok cu:Въторьникъ sl:Torek so:Talaado sr:Уторак sh:Utorak su:Salasa fi:Tiistai sv:Tisdag tl:Martes ta:செவ்வாய் (கிழமை) roa-tara:Martedìe tt:Sişämbe te:మంగళవారము th:วันอังคาร vi:Thứ Ba tpi:Tunde tr:Salı bug:Salasa uk:Вівторок ur:منگل vec:Marti fiu-vro:Tõõsõpäiv wa:Mårdi vls:Diesndag yi:דינסטיק yo:Ọjọ́ Ìsẹ́gun zh-yue:星期二 cbk-zam:Martes bat-smg:Oterninks zh:星期二