 linkPiero Scaruffi  linkRolling Stone  linkQ  link| Chronology = The Beatles UK | Last album = Please Please Me(1963) | This album = With The Beatles(1963) | Next album = A Hard Day's Night(1964) | Misc = yellow and black label.]]With The Beatles is The Beatles' second UK album, recorded four months after the band's first album and released on 22 November, 1963.The album features eight original compositions (including the first by George Harrison) and six covers, mostly of Motown and R&amp;B hits. Most of the songs from the album were released in the United States as Meet the Beatles! on 20 January 1964, and the remaining that weren't, were released on their next U.S. album, The Beatles' Second Album.The LP had advance orders of a half million and sold another half million by September 1965 — making it the second album to sell a million copies in the UK (the first being the South Pacific soundtrack). It stayed at the top of the charts for 21 weeks, displacing Please Please Me, so that the Beatles occupied the top spot for 51 consecutive weeks. It even reached number eleven in the "singles charts" (because at the time UK charts counted all records sold, regardless of format).On 26 February 1987, With The Beatles was officially released on CD, as were three other of the Beatles' albums, Please Please Me, A Hard Day's Night, and Beatles for Sale. Having been available only as an import in the US in the past,the album was also issued domestically in the US on LP and cassette on July 21, 1987.Track listingAll tracks credited to John Lennon and Paul McCartney, except where noted.Side one"It Won't Be Long" – 2:13"All I've Got to Do" – 2:04"All My Loving" – 2:09"Don't Bother Me" (Harrison) – 2:29"Little Child" – 1:48"Till There Was You" (Meredith Willson) – 2:16"Please Mr. Postman" (Georgia Dobbins, William Garrett, Freddie Gorman, Brian Holland, Robert Bateman) – 2:36Side two"Roll Over Beethoven" (Chuck Berry) – 2:47"Hold Me Tight" – 2:32"You've Really Got a Hold on Me" (Smokey Robinson) – 3:02"I Wanna Be Your Man" – 1:59"Devil in Her Heart" (Richard P. Drapkin) – 2:27"Not a Second Time" – 2:08"Money" (Janie Bradford, Berry Gordy) – 2:47CreditsAccording to Mark Lewisohn:Lewisohn, M. (1988). The Beatles Recording Sessions. The Official Abbey Road Years (1962-1970). New York: Harmony Books. ISBN 0-517-57066-1. John Lennon: lead, harmony and background vocals; rhythm and acoustic guitars; harmonica and handclaps; nylon-string acoustic guitar on "Till There Was You"; Hammond organ on "I Wanna Be Your Man" and tambourine on "Don't Bother Me".Paul McCartney: lead, harmony and background vocals; bass and handclaps; piano on "Little Child" and claves on "Don't Bother Me".George Harrison: lead, harmony and background vocals; lead and acoustic guitars; handclaps; nylon-string acoustic guitar on "Till There Was You".Ringo Starr: drums, tambourine, maracas, handclaps; lead vocals on "I Wanna Be Your Man" and Arabian loose-skin bongo on "Don't Bother Me".George Martin: additional arrangements, producer and mixer; piano on "You Really Got a Hold on Me", "Money (That´s What I Want)" and "Not A Second Time".Norman Smith: engineer and mixer.Robert Freeman: cover photograph.Chart positionsSinglesBillboard charts]] (North America)YearSongChartRank1964"All My Loving"Billboard Hot 100451964"Roll Over Beethoven"Billboard Hot 10068NotesExternal linksBeatles comments on each songRecording data and notes on mono/stereo mixes and remixes  Category:The Beatles albums Category:1963 albums Category:Parlophone albums Category:Albums produced by George Martin Category:Number-one albums in the United Kingdombe-x-old:With the Beatles ca:With The Beatles cs:With The Beatles da:With the Beatles de:With the Beatles et:With the Beatles es:With the Beatles eo:With the Beatles eu:With the Beatles fr:With the Beatles ga:With The Beatles ko:With the Beatles it:With the Beatles he:With the Beatles lv:With The Beatles hu:With the Beatles nl:With the Beatles ja:ウィズ・ザ・ビートルズ no:With The Beatles nn:With The Beatles pl:With The Beatles pt:With the Beatles ru:With The Beatles simple:With the Beatles sr:With the Beatles fi:With the Beatles sv:With the Beatles tl:With the Beatles tr:With the Beatles uk:With The Beatles