Saint Remigius (; ; ; ; ; and ), was Bishop of Reims and Apostle of the Franks, (c. 437 – January 13, 533). St Remigius effected the conversion to Christianity of Clovis I, King of the Franks, on Christmas eve, in the year 496, one of the turning points in the success of the Roman Catholic Faith and a climactic moment in European history.LifeRemigius was born, traditionally at Cerny-en-Laonnois, near Laon, Picardy, into the highest levels of Gallo-Roman society. He is said to have been the son of Emilius, count of Laon (who is not otherwise attested) and of Celina, daughter of the Bishop of Soissons, which Clovis had conquered in 486. He studied at Reims and soon became so noted for his learning and sanctity, in addition to his high status, that he was elected Bishop of Reims in his twenty-second year, though still a layman.Catholic Encyclopedia: &quot;St. Remigius&quot;The story of the return of the sacred vessels (most notably the Vase of Soissons), which had been stolen from the church of Soissons testifies to the friendly relations existing between him and Clovis, King of the Franks, whom he converted to Christianity with the assistance of Saint Vedast (Vedastus, Vaast, Waast) and Saint Clotilde, the Burgundian princess who was wife to Clovis. Even before he embraced Christianity, Clovis had showered benefits upon Remigius and the Christians of Reims, and after his victory over the Alamanni in the battle of Tolbiac (probably 496), he requested Remigius to baptize him at Reims (December 24, 496) in the presence of a large company of Franks and Alamanni: according to Saint Gregory of Tours, 3,000 Franks were baptized with Clovis.The legend of the ampulla of holy oil that was used to anoint the kings crowned at Reims originated after St Remigius' time, with Bishop Hincmar of Reims.King Clovis granted Remigius stretches of territory, in which the latter established and endowed many churches. He erected bishoprics at Tournai; Cambrai; Thérouanne, where he personally ordained the first bishop in 499; Arras, where he installed St. Vedast; and Laon, which he gave to his niece's husband Gunband. In 530 he consecrated Medardus, Bishop of Noyon. Remigius' brother Principius was Bishop of Soissons and also corresponded with Sidonius Apollinaris, whose letters give a sense of the highly cultivated courtly literary Gallo-Roman style all three men shared.Book IX, p. viii , 1896, in front of the Cathedral of Reims]] The chroniclers of "Gallia Christiana" record that numerous donations were made to Remigius by the Frankish nobles, which he presented to the cathedral at Reims.Though Remigius never attended any of the church councils, in 517 he held a synod at Reims, at which after a heated discussion he converted a bishop of Arian views. Although St Remigius's influence over people and prelates was extraordinary, upon one occasion his condoning of the offences of one Claudius, a priest whom Remigius had consecrated, brought upon him the rebukes of his episcopal brethren, who deemed Claudius deserving of degradation. The reply of Remigius, still extant, is able and convincing.Few authentic works of Remigius remain: his "Declamations" were elaborately admired by Sidonius Apollinaris, in a finely-turned letter to Remigius, but are now lost.Book IX, p. vii Four letters survive: one containing his defence in the matter of Claudius, two written to Clovis, and a fourth to Bishop Falco of Tongeren. The "Testament of St. Remigius" is apocryphal. A brief and strictly legendary "Vita" was formerly ascribed to Venantius Fortunatus. Another, according to Jacobus de Voragine, was written by Ignatius, bishop of Reims.Jacobus de Voragine, The Golden Legend, October 1: "St. Remigius."  A letter congratulating Pope Hormisdas upon his election (523) is apocryphal, and "the letter in which Pope Hormisdas appears to have appointed him vicar of the kingdom of Clovis is proved to be spurious; it is presumed to have been an attempt of Hincmar to base his pretensions for the elevation of Reims to the primacy, following the alleged precedent of Remigius."Philip Schaff, &quot;The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge,&quot; entry by A. HauckA Commentary on the Pauline Epistles (edited Villalpandus, 1699) is not his work, but that of Remigius of Auxerre.Encyclopaedia Britannica'' 1911   St Remigius' relics were kept in the Cathedral of Reims, whence Hincmar had them translated to Epernay during the Viking invasions and thence, in 1099, at the instance of Pope Leo IX, to the Abbey of Saint-Rémy. His feast is celebrated on October 1.   See alsoVase of SoissonsSaint Abran, hermit of BrittanyExternal links[http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/12763b.htm Catholic Encyclopedia: St. Remigius]Philip Schaff, &quot;The New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge,&quot; entry by A. HauckReferencesJacobus de Voragine, The Golden Legend, October 1: "St. Remigius."[http://www.catholic-forum.com/saints/str15001.htm Of the life of St. Remigius] Category:Patron saints of France Category:437 births Category:533 deaths Category:Bishops of Reims Category:6th century bishops Category:Frankish saints Category:Frankish people Category:6th century Christian saintsde:Remigius von Reims es:Remigio de Reims fr:Remi de Reims fy:Remigius fan Reims it:Remigio di Reims li:Remigius hu:Szent Remigius nl:Remigius van Reims ja:レミギウス pl:Święty Remigiusz ro:Remi din Reims ru:Святой Ремигий scn:San Rimiggiu