  In biochemistry, a receptor is a protein molecule, embedded in either the plasma membrane or cytoplasm of a cell, to which a mobile signaling (or "signal") molecule may attach. A molecule which binds to a receptor is called a "ligand," and may be a peptide (such as a neurotransmitter), a hormone, a pharmaceutical drug, or a toxin, and when such binding occurs, the receptor undergoes a conformational change which ordinarily initiates a cellular response. However, some ligands merely block receptors without inducing any response (e.g. antagonists). Ligand-induced changes in receptors result in physiological changes which constitute the biological activity of the ligands.OverviewThe shapes and actions of receptors are studied by X-ray crystallography and computer modelling, which have advanced the understanding of drug action at the binding sites of receptors.  Depending on their functions and ligands, several types of receptors may be identified:Some receptor proteins are peripheral membrane proteins.Many hormone and neurotransmitter receptors are transmembrane proteins: transmembrane receptors are embedded in the phospholipid bilayer of cell membranes, that allow the activation of signal transduction pathways in response to the activation by the binding molecule, or ligand.Metabotropic receptors are coupled to G proteins and affect the cell indirectly through enzymes which control ion channels.Ionotropic receptors contain a central pore which functions as a ligand-gated ion channel.Another major class of receptors are intracellular proteins such as those for steroid and intracrine peptide hormone receptors. These receptors often can enter the cell nucleus and modulate gene expression in response to the activation by the ligand.Binding and activationLigand binding is an equilibrium process. Ligands bind to receptors and dissociate from them according to the law of mass action.:\left\mathrm\right \cdot \left\mathrm\right\;\;\overset\;\;\leftcomplex\right(the brackets stand for concentrations)One measure of how well a molecule fits a receptor is the binding affinity, which is inversely related to the dissociation constant Kd. A good fit corresponds with high affinity and low Kd. The final biological response (e.g. second messenger cascade or muscle contraction), is only achieved after a significant number of receptors are activated.If the receptor exists in two states (see this picture), then the ligand binding must account for these two receptor states. For a more detailed discussion of two-state binding, which is thought to occur as an activation mechanism in many receptors see this link.Constitutive activityA receptor which is capable of producing its biological response in the absence of a bound ligand is said to display "constitutive activity."  The constitutive activity of receptors may be blocked by inverse agonist binding. Mutations in receptors that result in increased constitutive activity underlie some inherited diseases, such as precocious puberty (due to mutations in luteinizing hormone receptors) and hyperthyroidism (due to mutations in thyroid-stimulating hormone receptors). Psychostimulants act as inverse agonists on dopamine receptors.For the use of statistical mechanics in a quantitative study of the ligand-receptor binding affinity, see the comprehensive article Vu-Quoc, L., Configuration integral (statistical mechanics), 2008.  on the configuration integral.[[Agonist]]s versus [[Receptor antagonist|antagonist]]sNot every ligand that binds to a receptor also activates the receptor. The following classes of ligands exist:(Full) agonists are able to activate the receptor and result in a maximal biological response. Most natural ligands are full agonists.Partial agonists do not activate receptors thoroughly, causing responses which are partial compared to those of full agonists.Antagonists bind to receptors but do not activate them. This results in receptor blockage, inhibiting the binding of other agonists.Inverse agonists reduce the activity of receptors by inhibiting their constitutive activity.Peripheral membrane protein receptorsTransmembrane receptorsMetabotropic receptorsG protein-coupled receptors These receptors are also known as seven transmembrane receptors or 7TM receptors, because they pass through the membrane seven times.Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (Acetylcholine and Muscarine)Adenosine receptors (Adenosine)Adrenoceptors (also known as Adrenergic receptors, for ''adren''aline, and other structurally related hormones and drugs)GABA receptors, Type-B (γ-Aminobutyric acid or GABA)Angiotensin receptors (Angiotensin)Cannabinoid receptors (Cannabinoids)Cholecystokinin receptors (Cholecystokinin)Dopamine receptors (Dopamine)Glucagon receptors (Glucagon)Metabotropic glutamate receptors (Glutamate)Histamine receptors (Histamine)Olfactory receptors (for the sense of smell)Opioid receptors (Opioids)Rhodopsin (a photoreceptor)Secretin receptors (Secretin)Serotonin receptors, except Type-3 (Serotonin, also known as 5-Hydroxytryptamine or 5-HT)Somatostatin receptors (Somatostatin)Calcium-sensing receptor (Calcium)Chemokine receptors (Chemokines)many more ...Receptor tyrosine kinases These receptors detect ligands and propagate signals via the tyrosine kinase of their intracellular domains. This family of receptors includes;Erythropoietin receptor (Erythropoietin)Insulin receptor (Insulin)Eph receptorsInsulin-like growth factor 1 receptorvarious other growth factor and cytokine receptors....Guanylyl cyclase receptorsGC-A & GC-B: receptors for Atrial-natriuretic peptide (ANP) and other natriuretic peptidesGC-C: Guanylin receptorIonotropic receptorsIonotropic receptors are heteromeric or homomeric oligomers  Medical Physiology, Boron & Boulpaep, ISBN 1-4160-2328-3, Elsevier Saunders 2005. Updated edition. Page 90. . They are receptors that respond to extracellular ligands and receptors that respond to intracellular ligands.Extracellular ligandsReceptorLigandIon currentNicotinic acetylcholine receptorAcetylcholine, NicotineNa+, K+, Ca2+ Glycine receptor (GlyR)Glycine, StrychnineCl-  HCO-3 GABA receptors: GABA-A, GABA-CGABACl-  HCO-3 Glutamate receptors: NMDA receptor, AMPA receptor, and Kainate receptorGlutamateNa+, K+, Ca2+ 5-HT3 receptor]]SerotoninNa+, K+ P2X receptorsATP]]Ca2+, Na+, Mg2+ Intracellular ligandsReceptorLigandIon currentcyclic nucleotide-gated ion channelscGMP]] (vision), cAMP and cGTP (olfaction)Na+, K+ IP3 receptor]]IP3]]Ca2+ ATP]] receptorsATP]] (closes channel)K+ Ryanodine receptorCa2+Ca2+ The entire repertoire of human plasma membrane receptors is listed at the Human Plasma Membrane Receptome (http://www.receptome.org).Intracellular receptors Transcription factorsnuclear receptor:Steroid hormone receptorVariousIonotropic receptors (IP&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt; receptor above)sigma&lt;/sub&gt;1&lt;/sub&gt; (neurosteroids)G protein-coupled receptors Gobeil F, et al. (2006) G-protein-coupled receptors signalling at the cell nucleus: an emerging paradigm. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2006 Mar-Apr;84(3-4):287-97. PMID 16902576 Role in Genetic DisordersMany genetic disorders involve hereditary defects in receptor genes. Often, it is hard to determine whether the receptor is nonfunctional or the hormone is produced at decreased level; this gives rise to the "pseudo-hypo-" group of endocrine disorders, where there appears to be a decreased hormonal level while in fact it is the receptor that is not responding sufficiently to the hormone.Receptor RegulationCells can increase (upregulate) or decrease (downregulate) the number of receptors to a given hormone or neurotransmitter to alter its sensitivity to this molecule. This is a locally acting feedback mechanism.Receptor desensitizationLigand-bound desensitation of receptors was first characterized by Katz and Thesleff in the nicotine acetylcholine receptorY. Sun, R. Olson, M. Horning, N. Armstrong, M. Mayer and E. Gouaux. (2002) Mechanism of glutamate receptor desensitization Nature 417, 245-253S. Pitchford, J.W. Day, A. Gordon and D. Mochly-Rosen. (1992) Acetylcholine receptor desensitization is Regulate by activation-induced extracellular adenosine accumulation. The Journal of Neuroscience, 1.311): 4540-4544. Prolonged or repeated exposure to a stimulus often results in decreased responsiveness of that receptor for a stimulus. Receptor desensitization results in altered affinity for the ligand. Receptor desensitization can modeled by a two-state model that also predicts that antagonists combined with agonists can prevent receptor desensitization Lanzara, "Optimal Agonist/Antagonist Combinations Maintain Receptor Response by Preventing Rapid Beta-1 adrenergic Receptor Desensitization" Intl. J. Pharmacol., 1(2): 122-131, 2005.&lt;/ref&gt; See this link [http://www.bio-balance.com/Graphics.htm for detailed molecular descriptionDesensitation may be accomplished byReceptor phosphorylation.G. Boulay, L. Chrbtien, D.E. Richard, ANDG. Guillemettes. (1994) Short-Term Desensitization of the Angiotensin II Receptor of Bovine Adrenal Glomerulosa Cells Corresponds to a Shift from a High to a Low Affinity State. Endocrinology Vol. 135. No. 5 2130-2136Uncoupling of receptor effector molecules.Receptor sequestration (internalization).In immune system The main receptors in the immune system are pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), Toll-like receptors (TLRs), killer activated and killer inhibitor receptors (KARs and KIRs), complement receptors, Fc receptors, B cell receptors and T cell receptors.  Lippincott's Illustrated Reviews: Immunology. Paperback: 384 pages. Publisher: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; (July 1, 2007). Language: English. ISBN-10: 0781795435. ISBN-13: 978-0781795432. Page 20 See alsoSignal transductionNeuropsychopharmacologySchild regression for ligand receptor inhibitionK&lt;sub&gt;i&lt;/sub&gt; DatabaseWikipedia:MeSH D12.776#MeSH D12.776.543.750 --- receptors.2C cell surfaceReferencesExternal linksIUPHAR GPCR Database and Ion Channels Compendium  Category:Cell biology Category:Cell signaling Category:Membrane biology Category:Receptorsar:مستقبل (كيمياء حيوية) cs:Receptor da:Receptor de:Rezeptor es:Receptor celular fr:Récepteur (biochimie) it:Recettore he:קולטן nl:Receptor ja:受容体 pl:Receptor pt:Receptor (bioquímica) ro:Receptor (biochimie) ru:Рецептор sk:Receptor sl:Receptor (biokemija) fi:Reseptori (biokemia) sv:Receptor th:รีเซพเตอร์ uk:Рецептор (біохімія) zh:受体