  The Japanese Experiment Module (JEM) (Japanese: Kibō きぼう, Hope) is a Japanese science module for the International Space Station (ISS) developed by JAXA. Once complete, it will be the largest single ISS module. The first two pieces of the module were launched on space shuttle missions STS-123 and STS-124. The third is scheduled for launch on STS-127 in 2009.ComponentsKibō consists of four primary components:Pressurized ModuleThe Pressurized Module (PM) is the core component. It is a cylindrical shape and contains twenty-three International Standard Payload Racks (ISPRs), including ten dedicated to science experiments.Exposed FacilityThe Exposed Facility (EF), also known as "Terrace", will be located outside the port cone of the PM (which is equipped with an airlocked hatch). Experiments are fully exposed to the space environment.Experiment Logistics ModuleThe Experiment Logistics Module (ELM), now is in orbit and includes two sections:The Japanese Experiment Logistics Module, Pressurized Section (ELM-PS) –- also called the JLP –- is a pressurized addition to the PM. The module is a storage facility that provides stowage space for experiment payloads, samples and spare items.The unpressurized (external) section (ELM-ES) will serve the EF. It is intended as a storage and transportation module.Remote Manipulator SystemThe Remote Manipulator System (JEMRMS) is a robotic arm, mounted at the port cone of the PM, intended to service the EF and to move equipment from and to ELM. The RMS control console was launched in the ELM-PS. The main arm was launched with the PM. The "Small Fine Arm," which attaches to the end effector of the main arm, will be launched with the ELM-ES.Launch sequenceAs of June 2008, NASA plans to launch the entire JEM complex in three flights:On 2007-03-12 the Experiment Logistics Module Pressurized Section (ELM-PS) arrived in Kennedy Space Center (KSC) from Japan. It was stored in the Space Station Processing Facility until launched into orbit aboard  as part of the STS-123 mission. At first the ELM-PS was connected to a temporary location into Harmony Module (Node 2) and later, on 6 June, 2008, was moved to its final destination into the PM's upper section.On 2003-05-30 the Pressurized Module (PM) arrived in KSC from Japan. It was stored in the Space Station Processing Facility until launched into orbit aboard  as part of the STS-124 mission. On 3 June, 2008 the PM was connected to the Harmony Module.The Exposed Facility (EF) and ELM-ES are planned for launch on STS-127, possibly in April 2009. The ELM-ES will be brought back to Earth at the end of the mission. The EF and ELM-ES arrived at KSC on 24 September, 2008.SpecificationsKibō is the largest single ISS module.Pressurized ModuleLength: Diameter: Mass: Experiment Logistics ModuleLength: Diameter: Mass: Planned experiments on KiboMAXI X-ray astronomy from 0.5 to 30 keV   SMILES observes and monitors very weak sub-millimeter wave emission lines of trace gas molecules in the stratosphere   CALET Observation for high energy. Launch 2012 through HTV, Mass: 2500 kgThe CALET project for investigating high energy universeReferencesExternal linksISS at JAXA siteKIBO at JAXA site360° panorama inside the KIBO module Category:ISS components Category:Japanese space programbg:Японски експериментален модул cs:Kibō da:Kibō de:Kibō es:Kibo fa:آزمایشگاه فضایی کیبو fr:Japanese Experiment Module ko:키보 모듈 it:Japanese Experiment Module lv:Kibo modulis hu:Japanese Experiment Module nl:Japanse Experiment Module ja:きぼう no:Japanese Experiment Module nn:Japanese Experiment Module pl:Kibō pt:Módulo de Experiências Japonês ru:Кибо (модуль МКС) sk:Kibó fi:Kibō zh:日本實驗艙