  The Illusionist is a 2006 period drama written and directed by Neil Burger and starring Edward Norton, Jessica Biel, and Paul Giamatti. Based loosely on Steven Millhauser's story "Eisenheim the Illusionist", The Illusionist tells the story of Eisenheim (Norton), a magician in turn-of-the-20th-century Vienna.The film premiered at the 2006 Sundance Film Festival, opened the 2006 Seattle International Film Festival, and was distributed in limited release to theaters on August 18, 2006, eventually expanding nationwide on September 1.SynopsisThe film begins in medias res as Chief Inspector Uhl (Giamatti) recounts the story of Eisenheim for Crown Prince Leopold, following Uhl's visit to the theatre to arrest Eisenheim during what appears to be necromancy passed off as a magic show.Eisenheim was born the son of a cabinetmaker in Austria-Hungary. One day when he was a teenager, Eisenheim (played as young man by Aaron Johnson) meets a traveling magician along a road. The magician performs several tricks for him and then, according to various accounts, both the magician and the tree he was sitting under vanish. Eisenheim becomes obsessed with magic tricks after this.He also falls in love with Sophie, the Duchess von Teschen (Biel, played as a young lady by Eleanor Tomlinson), a noblewoman well above his social class; her parents have hired Eisenheim's father as a cabinetmaker. Young Eisenheim makes Young Sophie a unique marquetry puzzle locket, which if twisted correctly reveals a small, hidden photograph of Eisenheim. Although the two are forbidden to see each other, they meet in a secret hideout chamber in the woods, where Eisenheim tells of his plans to go to China to learn more magic and Sophie promises to go with him. On the day that they are going to leave, however, the police come looking for Sophie. The two hide in the secret room and Sophie begs Eisenheim to make them both disappear. He is unable to fulfill this request and the two are separated.Eisenheim leaves his village to travel the world; he perfects his magic and returns 15 years later as a master illusionist. He meets Sophie at one of his performances, when she is volunteered by the ruthless Crown Prince Leopold as a reluctant participant in a trick. He soon learns that Sophie is expected to marry the Crown Prince, who purportedly has a history of abuse towards women. Eisenheim and Sophie, having recognized each other, meet privately, whereupon it is revealed that Sophie still has the locket he made for her years ago. After humiliating the Crown Prince during a private show, Eisenheim finds his hit performance shut out of Vienna. When Sophie comes to offer him help, the two consummate their relationship and realize that they are still in love. They plan to flee the Empire together; but first, Sophie points out, something must be done to stop Leopold, who, she reveals, is planning a coup d'etat to usurp the Crown of Austria from his aging father, the Emperor Franz Joseph I, while using his engagement to her to win the Hungarian half of the Empire as well. She also knows that the Crown Prince will view her as disposable if she leaves him for another man, and that he will have both her and Eisenheim followed and killed in order to protect his ego.Leopold finds out from Uhl, who was following the couple, that Sophie has met with Eisenheim. While drunk, Leopold confronts Sophie and accuses her of being a whore. She tells him that she will not marry him or have anything to do with his plan. When she attempts to leave, he appears to murder her in the stables with a sword cut across her neck. Unfortunately, Leopold's royal status makes any accusations against him unthinkable, despite an existing belief among the people that Leopold has murdered a woman in the past. As Eisenheim plunges into despair and the citizens of Vienna begin to suspect Leopold of Sophie's murder, Uhl observes Eisenheim's actions more closely on behalf of Leopold.Wracked with grief, Eisenheim prepares a new kind of magic show, using mysterious equipment and Chinese stagehands. Eisenheim purchases a run-down theater and opens a new performance. During his show, Eisenheim apparently summons spirits, leading many to believe that he possesses supernatural powers.Leopold decides to attend one of Eisenheim's shows in disguise. During this show, Eisenheim summons the spirit of Sophie who says someone in the theater murdered her, panicking Leopold. Uhl pleads with Eisenheim to stop, but Eisenheim refuses. Finally, Leopold orders Eisenheim's arrest, but when Uhl tries to arrest him during a live show, Eisenheim's body fades and disappears.Inspector Uhl first searches for Eisenheim at his house. There he finds a folio labeled "Orange Tree," the name of one of Eisenheim's illusions which had intrigued Uhl. Thinking he will find the solution to one of the magician's most famous tricks, he opens it to find empty pages except for a scrap of parchment showing how to open the locket Eisenheim had given Sophie when they were young.At this point, we return to the first scene of the movie. Uhl reveals to Leopold that he has found evidence which links the Crown Prince to Sophie's murder: a jewel from the prince's sword and Sophie's locket that Eisenheim gave her when they were children. After ordering, then begging Uhl to keep silent, Leopold discovers that Uhl has already informed the Emperor and the General Staff of Leopold's conspiracy to usurp the Austro-Hungarian throne. As the Army arrives at his Palace to arrest him, Leopold shoots himself in despair after angrily justifying his plans to overthrow his father, saying that there were "a million voices screaming to be heard", and that nothing would get done.In the next scene, Uhl is shown leaving the Imperial Palace. After he takes a few steps, a boy runs up to hand him a folio labeled "Orange Tree." This time, the "Orange Tree" folio is filled with plans detailing a geared mechanism to make the tree "grow". Uhl demands to know where the child obtained the folio; the child reveals that Eisenheim had given it to him. Uhl spots Eisenheim wearing a disguise and follows him to the train station. After the chase, a montage shows Uhl piecing together how Eisenheim faked Sophie's death and framed the Crown Prince. And while one may think that Uhl would be enraged at Eisenheim, he is actually very much amused. Meanwhile, Eisenheim is seen walking up to a house in the country where Sophie is waiting for him.CastActorRoleEdward NortonEduard Abramovich aka EisenheimAaron Johnson]]Young Illusionist (Eduard Eisenheim)Paul GiamattiChief Inspector Walter UhlJessica BielDuchess Sophie von TeschenRufus SewellCrown Prince LeopoldEddie MarsanJosef FischerJake WoodJurkaEleanor TomlinsonYoung SophieFilming locationsAlthough the film is set in Austria, it was filmed mostly in the Czech Republic. The city of Vienna is represented in the movie by those of Tábor and Prague, while the scenes set in Eisenheim's childhood village were shot in Český Krumlov. The Crown Prince's castle is actually the historical fortress of Konopiště (located near Benešov), formerly the home of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. All other shots were at Barrandov Studios in Prague.ReceptionAs of August 272007 the film has earned worldwide box office receipts of $87,372,631, including $39,868,642 in the United States, beating over its $17 million budget.The Illusionist (2006)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Since it has been released on DVD, it has earned another $35.99 million in rental revenue (as of May 6, 2007).The Illusionist (2006) - DVD / Home Video Rentals&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The Illusionist received mostly positive reviews. Rotten Tomatoes classified it as 75% "certified fresh" with 173 reviews (as of September 172008).The Illusionist - Movie Reviews, Trailers, Pictures - Rotten Tomatoes&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Jonathan Rosenbaum's review in The Chicago Reader praised Paul Giamatti's performance of "a character who feels sympathy for the magician but owes allegiance to Leopold and is therefore divided and compromised ... Giamatti’s performance is subtle, expressive, and richly nuanced."Chicago Reader: Movie Reviews&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Stephen Holden, in his review for The New York Times, praised Edward Norton's role, which, according to him, "perfectly fits his disturbing inscrutability".The Illusionist - Movie - Review - New York Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Variety wrote that Jessica Biel "is entirely stunning enough to fight to the death over."The Illusionist Review - Film Reviews-Sundance 2006, Entertainment - Variety&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Director of Photography Dick Pope earned a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Cinematography.Historical linkEisenheim's portrait of the Emperor (the Crown Prince's father) seen in the palace performance scene closely relates with that of Franz Joseph I of Austria. His nephew was Crown Prince Archduke Franz Ferdinand. Franz Ferdinand's wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, carries the same name as the first female character in the film, Duchess Sophie von Teschen. Historically, the Duchess of Hohenberg and the Austrian Crown Prince Archduke Franz Ferdinand were together assassinated on 28 June 1914. The assassination is a significant historical event as it is widely credited as the trigger to the outbreak of the First World War.The film was also clearly inspired by the actual Mayerling Incident of 1889. The historical Crown Prince (named Rudolf and not Leopold) had killed his mistress and committed suicide soon afterwards, in what was considered a suicide pact, and there had never been any suggestion of his plotting a coup; the malevolent plots attributed to Crown Prince in the film have no base in history.Variation from original storyThe original story on which the movie is based does not include the artifice of the protagonist framing the Duke for murder. The protagonist gets away with a serious crime and yet is made to seem justified in this film. That the Chief Inspector smiles in wonder as he figures out the ruse mirrors the intended audience reaction.TriviaThe locket Eisenheim makes for Sophie is based on a 2004 puzzle box design by Tatuo Miyamoto, the "Kuru Kuru Heart."See also''The Prestige'' (film)The Usual SuspectsPepper's ghostJean Eugène Robert-HoudinReferencesExternal linksOfficial siteOfficial trailer (direct link)Exclusive 3 minutes Video Clip[http://www.variety.com/index.asp?layout=vision&amp;taxid=23359&amp;element_id=1830014954 Variety.com - Video clips from The Illusionist][http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/thr/awards/sundance/reviews_display.jsp?vnu_content_id=1001843053 Hollywood Reporter - James Greenberg's Review of The Illusionist]Hollywood Gothique ReviewThe Prague Post review by Steffen Silvis[http://www.filmthreat.com/index.php?section=interviews&amp;Id=1100 Film Threat interview with director Neil Burger]Twitch interview with BurgerRobert Houdin's Fantastic Orange Tree automaton illusion (scroll down)Comparison of the film with the original Steven Millhauser story, by &quot;The Little Professor&quot; Category:2006 filmsCategory:Adventure films Category:American films Category:Drama films Category:Fantasy films Category:Romantic period films Category:Films based on short fiction Category:Films shot in Super 35 Category:Films directed by Neil Burger Category:Films set in the 1870s Category:Films set in the 1880sbe-x-old:Ілюзіяніст (фільм) de:Der Illusionist es:El Ilusionista fr:L'Illusionniste it:The Illusionist - L'illusionista he:אמן האשליות hu:Az illuzionista mk:Илузионист (филм) mr:द इल्युजनिस्ट nl:The Illusionist ja:幻影師アイゼンハイム pl:Iluzjonista (film) pt:The Illusionist ru:Иллюзионист (фильм, 2006) simple:The Illusionist sr:Илузиониста fi:Silmänkääntäjä (elokuva) sv:Illusionisten tr:Sihirbaz (film)