 ]] Unas (also Wenis, Oenas, Unis, or Ounas) was a Pharaoh of Ancient Egypt, and one of the rulers of the Old Kingdom. His reign has been dated as falling between 2375 BC and 2345 BC.Jaromir Malek, "The Old Kingdom (c.2160-2055 BC)" in Ian Shaw (editor), The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt (Oxford: University Press, 2000), p. 112. The Digital Egypt website at the University College of London (link above) supplies the dates 2450-2300 BC. Unas is believed to have had two queens, Khenut and Nebit, based on their burials near his tomb.&quot;Unas, Last Ruler of the Fifth Dynasty&quot; With his death, the Fifth dynasty came to an end, according to Manetho; he probably had no sons. Further, the Turin King List inserts a break at this point, which "gives us some food for thought," writes Jaromir Malek, "because the criterion for such divisions in the Turin Canon invariably was the change of location of the capital and royal residence."Jaromir, "The Old Kingdom", pp. 113f However, there are several clues of uninterrupted continuity between the Fifth and the sixth dynasties: Kagemni, the vizer of Unas's successor Teti, began his career under Djedkare Isesi and Unas. Teti's queen, Iput, is believed to have been the daughter of Unas, which shows Teti, Nicolas Grimal argues, "made no conscious break with the preceding dynasty."Nicolas Grimal, A History of Ancient Egypt, translated by Ian Shaw (Oxford: Blackwell, 1992), p.80 Jimmy Dunn adds that "a pink granite gateway in Unas' mortuary temple bears the inscription of the names and titles of Teti, indicating that part of the temple was completed after Unas's death."Unas by J. Dunn The break between the two dynasties may have been more as an official act than in fact.The Pyramid TextsHe built a small pyramid at Saqqara, originally named "Beautiful are the places of Unas", close to the Step Pyramid of Djoser. It has been excavated by Vyse, Barsanti, Gaston Maspero, Firth, Selim Hassan, A. Husein, and Alexandre Piankoff.Grimal, A History, pp. 118f Its interior is decorated with a number of reliefs detailing events during his reign as well as a number of inscriptions. However, Jaromir Malek considers "the main innovation of Unas' pyramid, and one that was to be characteristic of the remaining pyramids of the Old Kingdom (including some of the queens), was the first appearance of the Pyramid Texts".Jaromir, "The Old Kingdom", p. 112 These texts were inscribed in Sixth Dynasty royal versions, but Unas' texts contains verses and spells which were not included in the later 6th dynasty copies. The pyramid texts were intended to help the king in overcoming hostile forces and powers in the Underworld and thus join with the Sun God Ra, his divine father in the afterlife.Lorna Oakes & Lucia Gahlin, Ancient Egypt: An Illustrated reference to the myths, religions, pyramids and temples of the Land of the Pharaohs, Hermes House: 2002, p.94 The king would then spend his days in eternity sailing with Ra across the sky in a solar boat.Oakes & Gahlin, op. cit., p.94 An example of a pyramid Text here is given below:Re-Atum, this Unas comes to you, A spirit indestructible...Your son comes to you, This Unas comes to you, May you cross the sky united in the dark. May you rise in lightland, the place in which you shine! (Utterance 217)Oakes & Gahlin, op. cit., p.94See alsoPyramid of UnasReferencesCategory:Fifth dynasty of Egypt Category:Pharaohs of the Fifth dynasty of Egyptbr:Ounis ca:Unas cs:Venis de:Unas et:Unas es:Unis fr:Ounas ko:우나스 it:Waditawy lt:Unas nl:Oenas pl:Unis pt:Unas ro:Unas ru:Унис sh:Unas fi:Unas sv:Unas zh:烏尼斯