 Alexandre Borges Guimarães (born November 7, 1959) is a Brazilian-born (Maceió in the northeast of Brazil), Costa Rican-raised ex-footballer. He arrived at Costa Rica at the age of eleven As a player, Guimarães played for Durpanel San Blas, Municipal Puntarenas, Deportivo Saprissa (the most popular soccer team of the country) and Turrialba FC. He was national champion three times with Saprissa in 1982, 1988 and 1989 and totted up 95 goals in 377 official matches.In addition to making 16 appearances with the Costa Rican team including three matches in the 1990 FIFA World Cup. He became a Costa Rican citizen in 1985.After retiring as a player, he became one of the most successful coaches in Costa Rica's history. He started coaching A.D. Belemita, the C.S. Herediano, achieving good results with both teams, this lead him to be hired by Saprissa, where he worked for several years, winning three national tournaments with them. His last Costarrican team was C. S. Cartagines, a stint that was cathastrophic, ending with his dismisal, with the team almost relegated to the second tier and in finatial troubles do to high salaries on players that did not show their quality. He has also coached several teams internationally, such as CSD Comunicaciones of Guatemala, Real Irapuato and Dorados de Sinaloa in Mexico.He is best known for his great achievements as Costa Rica's national squad head coach, leading them to an almost perfect qualifiers to the 2002 FIFA World Cup. Not having advanced to the second round, "Guima" was replaced as the head coach of the national team. Later he would regain his position, but was handed out a the squad in a bad state. Still, he led Costa Rica's team the 2006 World Cup, after which he quit from the squad given the team's poor performance in the tournament.On November 7, 2006, on his 47th birthday, Guimaraes was chosen to the head coach position for the Panama national football team.     Category:1959 births Category:Living people Category:Costa Rican footballers Category:Costa Rica international footballers Category:Brazilian footballers who played for other national teams Category:1990 FIFA World Cup players Category:2002 FIFA World Cup managers Category:2006 FIFA World Cup managers Category:Costa Rican football managers Category:Costa Ricans of Brazilian descent Category:Deportivo Saprissa players Category:Deportivo Saprissa managers Category:Deportivo Saprissa coaching staff membersde:Alexandre Guimarães es:Alexandre Guimarães fr:Alexandre Guimarães id:Alexandre Guimaraes it:Alexandre Guimarães lt:Alexandre Guimarães nl:Alexandre Guimarães pl:Alexandre Guimarães pt:Alexandre Guimarães