  Aurignacian is the name of a culture of the Upper Palaeolithic located in Europe and southwest Asia. It dates to between 32,000 and 26,000 BC. The name originates from the type site of Aurignac in the Haute Garonne area of France. The Aurignacian culture is considered by some archaeologists to have co-existed with the Périgordian culture of tool making.Main characteristicsfound in the Hohlenstein-Stadel cave of Germany's Swabian Alb and dated at 32,000 years old, is associated with the Aurignacian culture and is the oldest known anthropomorphic animal figurine in the world.]] Worked bone points with grooves cut in the bottom and some of the earliest cave art were produced by the Aurignacian culture bearers. Their flint tools were more varied than those of earlier industries, employing finer blades struck from prepared cores rather than using crude flakes, and they made pendants, bracelets and ivory beads, they also made three-dimensional figurines to ornament themselves. The Aurignacian tool industry is characterized by complex art, which includes figurines depicting faunal representations of the time period associated with extinct mammals, including mammoths, rhinos, and the European horse along with anthropomorphized depictions that could be inferred as some of the earliest evidence of religion.Bâtons de commandement are also found at their sites. This sophistication and self-awareness leads some archaeologists to consider the makers of Aurignacian artefacts the first modern humans in Europe. Human remains and Aurignacian artifacts originally found at Cro-Magnon in France indicate that the culture was modern human rather than Neanderthal. That was not true and was discovered by directly dating human remains.  Unexpectedly recent dates for human remains from Vogelherd Unexpectedly recent dates for human remains from Vogelherd The AMHuman bones are quite recent 3.9–5.0 kya.In June 2007, a 35,000 year old figurine of a mammoth was discovered in the Vogelherd cave in south-western Germany. Finds from the Vogelherd cave Currently being studied by the University of Tübingen, the figurine details the once intricate and complex artistic qualities by the inhabitants of Aurignacian culture.ToolsStone tools from the Aurignacian culture are known as Mode 4, characterised by blades (rather than flakes, typical of mode 2 Acheulean and mode 3 Mousterian) from prepared cores. Also seen throughout the upper paleolithic is a greater degree of tool standardisation and the use of bone and antler for tools such as needles and harpoons.  Image:Lames aurignaciennes.jpg|Aurignacian blades Image:Lamelle Dufour aurignacien.png|Dufour bladelet Image:Sagaie base fendue.jpg|Bone point referencesSee alsoSynoptic table of the principal old world prehistoric culturesKsar AkilExternal linksPicture Gallery of the Paleolithic (reconstructional palaeoethnology), Libor Balák at the Czech Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Archaeology in Brno, The Center for Paleolithic and Paleoethnological ResearchThe Aurignacian and the Origins of Art in EuropeCategory:Archaeological cultures Category:European archaeology Category:Stone Age Europeca:Aurinyacià cy:Diwylliant Aurignac de:Aurignacien es:Auriñaciense eo:Aŭrinjaka kulturo eu:Aurignaciar fr:Aurignacien ko:우리그나시안 문명 it:Aurignaziano nl:Aurignacien no:Aurignackulturen ja:オーリニャック文化 oc:Aurinhacian pl:Kultura oryniacka pt:Período Aurignaciano ru:Ориньякская культура sk:Aurignacien fi:Aurignacin kulttuuri sv:Aurignacienkulturen uk:Оріньякська культура