 | Died = | Origin = Edinburgh, Scotland | Instrument = Vocals, Keyboards, Guitar | Genre = Rock, Alternative Rock | Occupation = Musician, lyricist, songwriter, actress, and model | Years_active = 1982 - present | Label = Radioactive Records | Associated_acts = Goodbye Mr. MackenzieAngelfishGarbage | Associated_Work = Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles | URL = Shirley Ann Manson (born 26 August 1966) is a Scottish musician, actress, and the lead vocalist of the band Garbage.She began her career in Edinburgh in the early 1980s, most notably performing backing vocals and keyboards for local band Goodbye Mr. Mackenzie before fronting side-project Angelfish while signed as a solo artist. Having seen Manson in an Angelfish video on MTV, Garbage invited Manson to record with them as the band's lead singer.153 F.Supp.2d 462 RADIOACTIVE, J.V., Plaintiff, v. Shirley MANSON, Defendant. No. 01 Civ.1948(SAS). United States District Court, S.D. New York. (July 29, 2001)With Garbage on hiatus after four successful studio albums, one greatest hits compilation and over 14 million record sales,""Tell Me Where It Hurts" promo CD PR sticker (issued June 2007)" (Retrieved - 2007-12-05) Manson will embark on a solo career and release her own record, Shirley Manson, in 2008.Shirley Manson has been cast on Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles as series regular Catherine Weaver, the CEO of a major technology company, and also an antagonist terminator, for the second season. She also sings the Blind Willie Johnson song heard in the opening scene of "Samson and Delilah", the first episode of that season.Early lifeShirley Manson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1966 to John and Muriel Manson, a geneticist and former big band singer respectively. She was named after an aunt who was named after Charlotte Brontë's novel Shirley. She was born middle-child between older sister Lindy-Jayne and younger sister Sarah, and was brought up in the Stockbridge area of the city. Manson learned to play the piano at age seven, and later attended the City of Edinburgh Music School, the music department of Broughton High. She also was a Brownie and was a member of the Girl Guides.While at Broughton, Manson became an active member of its drama group, acting in plays such as The American Dream and The Wizard of Oz. Manson was bullied and beaten up due to her red hair and large eyes. She suffered from depression as a teenager and engaged in self-injury: she carried a sharp object in the laces of her boots and cut herself when she felt stress, depression, or anxiety.Bullied as a ChildManson was bullied until she associated herself with a rebel crowd, and played truant for most of her final year at school. She also began to experiment with drugs: she smoked cannabis and sniffed glue, drank, shoplifted, and once broke into the Edinburgh Zoo. Manson's first job was volunteer work in a local hospital's cafeteria, then as a breakfast waitress at a local hotel before spending five years as a shop assistant for Miss Selfridge, beginning on the make-up counter. Manson was eventually moved into stockrooms for her attitude to customers. Despite her own feelings towards her look, Manson also briefly modeled clothing for Jackie magazine.Music careerManson became a regular on Edinburgh's clubbing scene, and, equipped with free samples from Miss Selfridge, was well known as the hair stylist for a number of local bands. She sang with The Wild Indians and performed backing vocals with Autumn 1984, but had moved on by the time either act put out any work.Goodbye Mr. MackenzieAt a local theatre group, Manson was approached by Martin Metcalfe, of Goodbye Mr. Mackenzie, to join his band. Manson initially became romantically involved with Metcalfe, but remained in the group after their split and became a prominent member, playing keyboards, singing backing vocals and was very involved in the business side of the group. Manson's first release with the Mackenzies was a YTS release of Death of a Salesman in 1984.Goodbye Mr. Mackenzie's distributor, MCA Records, expressed interest in putting out a record with Manson and signed her in February 1993 as a solo artist to circumvent the Mackenzie's existing deal (though MCA kept several members of the band as backing musicians). | date = 2005 re-issue Her solo contract obligated Manson to deliver at least one album and, at the sole option of Radioactive, up to six additional albums. AngelfishAngelfish recorded their album Angelfish in Connecticut with Talking Heads' Chris Frantz and Tina Weymouth, with a single release of "Suffocate Me" in June 1993 on the Wasteland label. The album followed in February 1994 with second single "Heartbreak To Hate", and was well received on college radio. Angelfish toured the United States, Canada, France, Belgium, and co-supported Live on a tour of North America, along wioth Vic Chestnutt. Around the time of these dates MTV's 120 Minutes aired the band's video for "Suffocate Me". Producer and musician Steve Marker had seen the airing and thought Manson would be a great singer for his band, Garbage, which also featured producers Duke Erikson and Butch Vig but had no lead, but were set on having a woman as their singer.GarbageVig invited Manson to Smart Studios to sing on a couple of tracks. After an unsuccessful audition, she returned to Angelfish. At the end the Live tour, Angelfish imploded and Manson returned to Smart for a second try. She began to work on the then-skeletal origins of some songs and the band invited her to become a full-time member of the band and finish the album. In August 1994, Radioactive gave their permission for Manson to work with Garbage.The band's debut album Garbage was released in August 1995, and went on to sell over 4 million copies, buoyed by a run of high charting singles including "Only Happy When It Rains" and "Stupid Girl". Manson quickly became the public face of the band over the course of a tour that took the band through to the end of 1996.Manson became the band's chief song-writer for the follow up record Version 2.0 which equaled the success of the band's debut record after its May 1998 release. During the two year tour in support of the record, Manson modeled for Calvin Klein and the group recorded the theme song to James Bond movie The World Is Not Enough, becoming the third Scotswoman to sing a Bond theme after Lulu and Sheena Easton.For the recording of Garbage's third record throughout 2000, Manson became one of the first high-profile artists to write a blog online, while she decided to improve her guitar playing for the band's next tour. Their third album, beautifulgarbage, featured Manson's most forward and personal lyrics to date. The album did not sell as well as its predecessors, but Garbage performed a successful world tour in support of it.Manson's lyrics became more overtly political for Garbage's fourth record, 2005's Bleed Like Me, which after the surprise success of lead-in single "Why Do You Love Me", posted some of the band's highest chart positions upon release. Garbage began an extended hiatus in October 2005.Garbage reformed to play a tribute show in 2007, as well as record some new tracks for greatest hits album Absolute Garbage. Vig has said the band may reform in 2008, with the goal of recording a fifth album.SoloThroughout 2006 and 2007, Manson has kept busy recording a solo record, collaborating with songwriter Paul Buchanan, US rock musicians Jack White, Billy Corgan and Beck, producer and keyboardist Greg Kurstin and James Bond soundtrack composer David Arnold. Garbage drummer and former Nirvana/Smashing Pumpkins producer Butch Vig is also co-writing and producing for her album which was due for release on 27 May 2008. It has not yet been released, however.During this time Manson has also worked with Eric Avery on a duet for his debut album, with Debbie Harry on a duet, and also played a dominatrix in the promotional video for She Wants Revenge's single "These Things".Recently, Shirley expressed to an interviewer during her charity event in Scotland for MAC Viva Glam that she was ready to release the album. The execs at Warner heard them and declared it to be too "noir" for them, which she mistakenly took as a compliment. She is still at work for her solo debut which will be coming out later on this year.Manson sings on the track "The Trouble I'm In" with Gavin Rossdale of Bush on his debut solo album WANDERlust.InfluencesManson has stated that some of her biggest influences are Siouxsie of Siouxsie and the Banshees,people.monstersandcritics.com biography of Shirley Manson on M&amp;C people Shirley Manson wrote the foreword of the Siouxsie & the Banshees biography by Mark Paytress in 2003 Debbie Harry of Blondie, Patti Smith and Chrissie Hynde of The Pretenders.PETA2 // Out There // Shirley Manson: Fur Is Garbage&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;DiscographyStudio albumsGoodbye Mr. Mackenzie (credited with backing vocals and keyboards)Good Deeds and Dirty Rags (1988)Fish Heads and Tails (1989)Hammer and Tongs (4 March 1991)Goodbye Mr. Mackenzie (1992) (US release)Five (1993)Angelfish (lead vocals and guitar)Suffocate Me (June, 1993)Angelfish (February, 1994)Garbage (songwriter, lead vocals, and guitar)Garbage (15 August 1995)Version 2.0 (11 May 1998)beautifulgarbage (1 October 2001)Bleed Like Me (11 April 2005)Absolute Garbage (23 July 2007)SoloShirley Manson Solo album (tba)Other appearancesFun Lovin' Criminals "Korean Bodega (Aero Mexicana Remix)" (originally from 100% Colombian) (1999) (guest vocals)Queens of the Stone Age "You Got A Killer Scene There, Man..." (from Lullabies to Paralyze) (2005) (backing vocals)Eric Avery "Maybe" (from Help Wanted) (2008) (duet)Gavin Rossdale "The Trouble I'm In" (from WANDERlust) (2008) (backing vocals)Chris Connelly (track to be confirmed) (from Forgiveness and Exile) (2008)with Bear McCreary "Samson &amp; Delilah" (from Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles OST) (2008)In 2002, electronic group West London Deep sampled Manson's vocal from "You Look So Fine" in their white label track "You're Taking Me Over". Manson refused clearance for the sample and the track was scrapped. By that point the track, and remixes by Inner City, Problem Kids and Desyn Masiello & Leon Roberts had already been circulated. The song was reworked and re-released the following year as "Gonna Make You My Lover", without Manson's vocal.A duet cover version of Human League's "Don't You Want Me" recorded in January 2004  with Marilyn Manson remains unreleased.ActingThe premiere episode of the second season of Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles—featuring Manson as a cast member—prominently featured her cover of "Samson and Delilah."In The Sarah Connor Chronicles, Manson plays both CEO Catherine Weaver and also a new type of terminator sent by SkyNet, T-1001, who hunts for the Connor family. She cites actress Glenn Close and former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as influences.[http://www.metro.co.uk/fame/article.html?Shirleys_Thatcher_inspiration&amp;in_article_id=304366&amp;in_page_id=7&amp;in_a_source= Shirley's Thatcher Inspiration], Metro, 11/09/2008Charity workIn 2002, Manson became an ambassador for the M•A•C AIDS Fund, fronting a two-year campaign alongside Elton John and Mary J. Blige, beginning with the launch of the VIVAMAC IV lipstick, in which all proceeds of the sale of the lipstick goes to charity. In 2007 the campaign had raised over $100 million U.S. dollars, and as a former ambassador for the campaign, Manson was allowed to present $100,000 to a charity of her choice. She donated it to Waverley Care.Shirley Manson was made patron of Edinburgh-based HIV charity Waverley Care in 2002. She hosted a fund raiser auction on January 4, 2004 at Edinburgh's Prestonfield House which raised £45,000, including the sale of a Fender guitar owned by Manson, which itself raised £1,050. Manson accepted a cheque for £51,000 on behalf of Waverley Care from the M•A•C AIDS Fund on April 10, 2008 at Harvey Nichols Edinburgh store. In 2007, Manson fronted a poster campaign for PETA, holding the carcass of a fox under the headline "Here’s the rest of your fur coat". PETA Europe approached Manson to front the campaign, which included heavy use in Edinburgh, her home town, Manson stated "I felt like I had a chance to add my voice to the dissent against the way animals can be treated all over the world by all persons."ReferencesExternal linksOfficial Website GarbageTen Commandments    Category:1966 births Category:Living people Category:People from Edinburgh Category:Scottish female singers Category:Garbage members Category:Scottish rock singers Manson Category:Scottish actorscs:Shirley Manson de:Shirley Manson es:Shirley Manson fr:Shirley Manson gl:Shirley Manson it:Shirley Manson nl:Shirley Manson pl:Shirley Manson pt:Shirley Manson ru:Мэнсон, Ширли fi:Shirley Manson sv:Shirley Manson