 The flexor carpi ulnaris muscle (FCU) is a muscle of the human forearm that acts to flex and adduct the hand.Origin and insertionFlexor carpi ulnaris muscle arises by two heads - humeral and ulnar, connected by a tendinous arch beneath which the ulnar nerve and ulnar artery pass.The humeral head arises from the medial epicondyle of the humerus by the common flexor tendon.The ulnar head arises from the medial margin of the olecranon of the ulna and from the upper two-thirds of the dorsal border of the ulna by an aponeurosis.Its insertion is into the pisiform bone and then via ligaments into the hamate bone and 5th metacarpal bone, acting to flex and adduct the wrist joint.TendonThe tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris can be seen on the anterior of the distal forearm. On a person's distal forearm, right before the wrist, they will see either two or three tendons. Flexor carpi ulnaris is the most medial (closest to the little finger) of these. (The most lateral one is flexor carpi radialis muscle, and the middle one, if it exists, is palmaris longus.)ExercisesThe muscle, like all flexors of the forearm, can be strengthened by exercises that resist its flexion. A wrist roller can be used and wrist curls with dumbbells can also be performed.Additional imagesImage:Gray214.png|Bones of left forearm. Posterior aspect.
Image:Gray219.png|Bones of the left hand. Volar surface showing its insertion into the [[pisiform]] bone and then via [[ligaments]] into the [[hamate]] bone and 5th [[metacarpal]] bone, acting to flex and adduct the wrist joint.  
Image:Gray417_color.PNG|Cross-section through the middle of the forearm. 
Image:Gray1231.png|Front of right upper extremity. External linksCategory:Muscles of the upper limb Category:Forearmar:العضلة المثنية الزندية للرسغ de:Musculus flexor carpi ulnaris es:Cubital anterior fr:Muscle fléchisseur ulnaire du carpe id:Otot flexor carpi ulnaris he:השריר כופף שורש היד הגומדי hr:Ulnarni pregibač zapešća hu:Singcsonti csuklóhajlító izom nl:Musculus flexor carpi ulnaris ja:尺側手根屈筋 pl:Mięsień zginacz łokciowy nadgarstka pt:Músculo flexor ulnar do carpo sl:Podlahtnična upogibalka zapestja th:กล้ามเนื้อเฟลกเซอร์ คาร์ไพ อัลนาริส