  Baltimore |state=MD |country=U.S. |faculty=3,100 (full time) |staff=15,000 (full time) |undergrad=4,478 |postgrad=14,275www.jhu.edu/registrat/reports/fall07/headcount.pdf |campus= 3 Main campuses in Baltimore, campuses and satellite facilities in the Baltimore-Washington , D.C. area, Bologna, Italy, and Nanjing, China |colors=Academic:Gold & Sable  Athletic:Columbia blue & Black   |mascot=Blue Jay  |athletics=NCAA Division III Centennial ConferenceDivision I Lacrosse |endowment=US $2.8 billion |nobel_laureates=32&lt;/ref&gt; |logo= |website=www.jhu.edu  The Johns Hopkins University is a private university based in Baltimore, Maryland, United States. Johns Hopkins also maintains full-time campuses elsewhere in Maryland, Washington, D.C., Italy, and China. It is particularly esteemed for its medical, health, scientific, and international studies programs.The university is named after Johns Hopkins, who left $7 million in his 1873 will for the foundation of the university and Johns Hopkins Hospital. At the time, this was the largest philanthropic bequest in U.S. history, the equivalent of over $131 million in the year 2006. The university opened on February 22 1876, with the stated goal of "The encouragement of research ... and the advancement of individual scholars, who by their excellence will advance the sciences they pursue, and the society where they dwell."&lt;/ref&gt;Johns Hopkins was the first university in the United States to emphasize research, applying the German university model developed by Wilhelm von Humboldt and Friedrich Daniel Ernst Schleiermacher. Johns Hopkins is the first American university to teach through seminars, instead of solely through lectures, as well as the first university in America to offer an undergraduate major (as opposed to a purely liberal arts curriculum). As such, Johns Hopkins was a model for most large research universities in the United States, particularly the University of Chicago."Following the lead of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, fifteen American institutions came to define the American research university..."&lt;/ref&gt; According to the National Science Foundation ranking, Johns Hopkins performed $1.55 billion in science, medical and engineering research in fiscal year 2007. NSF ranked the university first among 20 U.S. academic institutions in total Research & Development spending for the 29th year in a row.General informationThe university's first president was Daniel Coit Gilman. Its motto in Latin is Veritas vos liberabit &ndash; "The truth shall make you free." While women had previously been admitted to graduate programs, the undergraduate program admitted only men up until 1970. Admission of women to Johns Hopkins undergraduate programs was not considered until the late 1960s. The decision to admit females was announced in October 1969, and in the fall of 1970, women were finally admitted into the undergraduate programs. In the academic year 1970-1971, 4.7% of students in the Arts and Sciences programs were women. In the year 1985-1986 the proportion of female students in the Arts and Sciences programs had increased to around 38%. Currently, the undergraduate population is 47% female and 53% male.http://members.ucan-network.org/jhu | U-CAN: Johns Hopkins University :: Page 1Origin of the nameThe peculiar first name of philanthropist Johns Hopkins is the surname of his great-grandmother, Margaret Johns, who married Gerard Hopkins. They named their son Johns Hopkins, and his name was passed on to his grandson, the university's founder (1795-1873).Milton Eisenhower, a president of JHU, was once invited to speak to a convention in Pittsburgh. Making a common mistake, the Master of Ceremonies introduced him as "President of John Hopkins." Eisenhower retorted that he was "glad to be here in ''Pitt''burgh.": "University spokesman Dennis O'Shea checked with Ross Jones, who was Eisenhower's assistant. And Jones confirmed it... Ross told O'Shea: 'I remember him telling me about it first thing after he got back. He was tickled with himself for picking up on it so quickly with that response. And then it became a legend! He would love the fact that it still has legs.'"In a commencement address to the undergraduate Class of 2001, university president William R. Brody had the following to say about the name:In 1888, just 12 years after the university was founded, Mark Twain wrote about this university in a letter to a friend. He said:A few months ago I was told that the Johns Hopkins University had given me a degree. I naturally supposed this constituted me a Member of the Faculty, and so I started in to help as I could there. I told them I believed they were perfectly competent to run a college as far as the higher branches of education are concerned, but what they needed was a little help here and there from a practical commercial man. I said the public is sensitive to little things, and they wouldn't have full confidence in a college that didn't know how to spell the name 'John'.More than a century later, we continue to bestow our diplomas only upon individuals of outstanding capabilities and great talent. And we continue to spell Johns with an 's'.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;/blockquote&gt;CampusesHomewood campusThe original main university campus was in downtown Baltimore City. However, this location did not permit room for growth and the trustees began to look for a place to move. Eventually, they would relocate to the estate of Charles Carroll of Carrollton and Homewood House, a wedding gift from Charles to his son Charles Jr.The park-like main campus of Johns Hopkins, Homewood, is set on 140 acres (0.57 km²) in the northern part of Baltimore. The architecture was modeled after the Georgian-inspired Federalist style of Homewood House. Most newer buildings resemble this style, being built of red brick with white marble trim, but lack the details. Homewood House was later used for administrative offices but now is preserved as a museum.As a part of the donation, Hopkins was required to donate part of the land for art. As a result, the Baltimore Museum of Art, which is not part of the university, is situated next to the University's campus, just southeast of Shriver Hall.The Decker Gardens, bordered by the Greenhouse, Nichols House and the Johns Hopkins Club, were originally known as the Botanical Gardens and were used by members of the Department of Biology to grow plants for research. By the early 1950s, the gardens no longer served an educational purpose, and in 1958, when Nichols House was built as the president's residence, they were completely re-landscaped with aesthetic criteria in mind. In 1976, the gardens were done over again, and named for trustee Alonzo G. Decker, Jr. and members of his family in appreciation for their generosity to Hopkins.The statue in the middle of the pool, the Sea Urchin, was sculpted by Edward Berge. It stood in Mount Vernon Place, near the Washington Monument, for 34 years before being replaced by a 7'10" copy, which fit in better with its monumental surroundings. Frank R. Huber, the man who left the city the money to make the copy, asked that the original be given to Paul M. Higinbotham, who donated it to the university. North of the campus, also on Charles Street, we find the Evergreen House, one of Hopkins' museums.Medical Institutions campusThis urban campus is in East Baltimore and is home to the School of Medicine, the Bloomberg School of Public Health, and the School of Nursing. It comprises several city blocks spreading from the original Johns Hopkins Hospital building and its trademark dome. The School of Medicine of the Johns Hopkins University is associated with clinical practice at Johns Hopkins Hospital.AcademicsDivisions[[Johns Hopkins University#Homewood campus|Homewood Campus]]Zanvyl Krieger School of Arts and Sciences: Located at the university’s Homewood campus, the Krieger School is the core institution of the university and offers undergraduate and graduate programs, with more than 60 undergraduate majors and minors and more than 40 full-time and part-time graduate programs.G.W.C Whiting School of Engineering: The Whiting School is located on the main Homewood campus of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, and offers undergraduate and graduate engineering programs.School of Education: The School of Education was established in 2007, incorporating divisions of the former School of Professional Studies in Business and Education.East Baltimore CampusSchool of Medicine: The School of Medicine is headquartered at the university's Medical Institutions campus in East Baltimore with Johns Hopkins Hospital. The School of Medicine is widely regarded as one of the best medical schools and biomedical research institutes in the world.School of Nursing: The School of Nursing, is located in East Baltimore and is affiliated with Johns Hopkins Hospital and the School of MedicineBloomberg School of Public Health: The Bloomberg School was founded in 1916, is the first and largest public health school in the world. It has consistently been ranked the number one school of public health by U.S. News &amp; World Report.Downtown BaltimoreCarey Business School: The Carey Business School was established in 2007, incorporating divisions of the former School of Professional Studies in Business and Education.Peabody Institute: founded in 1857, is the oldest continuously active music conservatory in the United States. Located in Baltimore's Mount Vernon neighborhood, it became a division of Johns Hopkins in 1977. The Conservatory retains its own student body and grants its own degrees in musicology, though both Hopkins and Peabody students may take courses at both institutions.Washington D.C.Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies: SAIS is based in Washington, DC, near Dupont Circle, is devoted to international studies, particularly international relations, diplomacy, and economics. (It is familiarly known as "SAIS", pronounced like the second syllable of precise). SAIS has full-time international campuses in Bologna, Italy and Nanjing, China. Founded in 1943, the School became a part of the university in 1950. SAIS was ranked in a recent survey as the nation's top master's degree program in international relations.Laurel, MDApplied Physics Laboratory: The university operates the Applied Physics Laboratory (APL) in Laurel, Maryland, which specializes in research for the U.S. Department of Defense, NASA and other Government agencies. The Space Telescope Science Institute is located on the Homewood campus and controls, analyzes, and collects data from the Hubble Space Telescope.Other Johns Hopkins CampusesBayview Medical CenterBologna CenterCharles S. Singleton Center at the Villa SpelmanColumbia CenterDowntown Center in BaltimoreHopkins-Nanjing Center for Chinese and American StudiesJohns Hopkins SingaporeMontgomery County Campus'Washington, D.C. Center 'ProfileJohns Hopkins University FactsClass of 2012 Applicants16,006Class of 2012 Students1,235Class of 2012 Accepted22%Average GPA3.85/4.00Middle 50% SAT2010-2290Middle 50% ACT30-34Undergraduates4,478Student:Faculty Ratio10:1Majors Available49Minors Available39Faculty with Terminal Degrees92%Four-Year Graduation Rate86%Classes taught by Faculty96%2008For students wishing to enter into the Class of 2012, the Johns Hopkins University received 16,006 applications, up 7% from the year before and up 79% since 2002.  Of the 3,578 admits, 49 percent are women, and 732 are minority students (351 African- American, 355 Hispanic, 26 Native American). The top 10 states of admitted students in descending order are New York, California, New Jersey, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, Florida, Virginia, Texas and Connecticut. There are 254 students residing abroad and countries and territories from which more than one student was admitted include Australia, Brunei, Canada, China (and Hong Kong), Costa Rica, Honduras, Ecuador, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, India, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Puerto Rico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and Venezuela. The median SAT scores were critical reading 720, math 750, and writing 720. 2007A total of 14,848 high school seniors applied for regular admission to the Johns Hopkins Class of 2011, an increase of 7 percent over the total for the Class of 2010 and of 30 percent over the Class of 2009. Regular decision admission was offered to 3,145 students; those who enroll will join the 443 who were admitted early. The target class size is 1,205, with 800 enrolled in Arts and Sciences and 405 in Engineering. The highest number of acceptances went out to, in order, applicants from New York, California, Maryland, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The total of admits includes 325 who identified themselves as African-American, 302 Hispanic and 21 Native American.Students residing in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. territories of Guam and Puerto Rico, and 57 countries were offered admission this year. The total number of non-U.S. citizens admitted was 189. Once again, Baltimore students are well-represented in the admitted class, with 31 students selected for the Baltimore Scholars Program. The admittance rate was a strikingly low 24 percent. Just two years ago, the rate was 35 percent.Johns Hopkins accepted 27 percent of 13,869 applicants for entrance into the fall 2006 freshman class. Undergraduate students matriculate from all 50 states and more than 50 countries. Within six years of graduation, 85 percent of Hopkins students earn graduate degrees, the highest percentage in the nation.The number of applicants has increased by 156 percent from 2002, one of the largest increases in the U.S.  In 2006 the pool of admitted students closely resembled that of 2005. The average SAT score remained constant at 1440, while average high school GPA has increased by only 0.02 points, to 3.85.&lt;/ref&gt; Approximately 48 percent of undergraduates receive financial aid at the Johns Hopkins University. The average need-based financial aid package for freshmen totals $29,472 for the Class of 2010. Further, the total grants and scholarships awarded to students in 2004-2005 was $41,570,000. &lt;/ref&gt;There are multiple scholarships available for students including, but not limited to the Baltimore Scholars Program, Bloomberg Scholarship, Hodson-Gilliam Success Scholarship, Hodson Trust Scholarship, ROTC (Army) Scholarship, Trustee Scholarship, Charles R. Westgate Scholarship, and the Woodrow Wilson Undergraduate Research Fellowship.RankingsJohns Hopkins University Rankings2009 U.S. News & World Report, National Universities152008 U.S. News & World Report, Hospitals12008 U.S. News & World Report, National Universities (Peer Assessment)82009 U.S. News & World Report, National Universities (High School Counselor Ranking)92008 U.S. News & World Report, Medicine (Doctoral)22007 U.S. News & World Report, Public Health (Masters)12005 Foreign Policy, International Studies (Masters)12007 Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Academic Ranking of World Universities192007 The Times Higher Education Supplement (UK)10 U.S.,At the undergraduate level, in its National Universities ranking for 2009, U.S. News placed the Johns Hopkins University 15th (surrounded by Cornell University on one side and Brown University on the other). Hopkins ranked 8th in that publication's peer assessment category last year, is ranked as the 9th most prestigious school in the U.S. by college counselors, and is also one of a select group of universities to have been ranked top 10 in the nation overall. sidebar "Johns Hopkins...Last year...Tie for 13th"The Johns Hopkins University is particularly regarded for its schools of medicine, public health, nursing, and international studies. The Johns Hopkins Hospital, which is affiliated with the university though legally a separate corporation, was ranked as the top hospital in the United States for the eighteenth year in a row by the U.S. News and World Report annual ranking of American hospitals.U.S. News &amp; World Report's Best Hospitals&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; For medical research, U.S. News ranked the School of Medicine second nationally and School of Public Health first nationally for 2007, and, in an August 2005 study, U.S. News and World Report has also consistently ranked the school of public health #1 in the nation for many years. "What do you consider the top five terminal masters sic programs in international relations for students looking to pursue a policy career? of respondents included Johns Hopkins." (p. 26) The study's results also appeared in Foreign Policy (Nov/Dec 2005). the School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) was ranked as the top master's program in international relations. U.S. News and World Report also ranked the School of Nursing 4th nationally among peer institutions in 2007.Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing - School Facts&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Meanwhile, comprehensively, the 2007 Academic Ranking of World Universities, popularized by The Economist and produced by Shanghai Jiao Tong University’s Institute of Higher Education, ranked Johns Hopkins the 19th best school in the world in terms of quality of scientific research leading towards numerous awards.&lt;/ref&gt; Further, in the annual rankings by the The Times Higher Education Supplement, based on a subjective peer review by scholars, Hopkins placed 10th nationally and 15th worldwide. http://www.topmba.com/fileadmin/pdfs/2007_Top_200_Compact.pdf.ResearchThe opportunity to be involved in important research is one of the distinguishing characteristics of an undergraduate education at Johns Hopkins. About 80 percent of the university's undergraduates engage in some form of independent research during their four years, most often alongside top researchers in their fields. Johns Hopkins receives more dollars in federal research grants than any other university in the United States. 32 Nobel Prize winners have been affiliated with the university as alumni or present or former faculty membersThe Johns Hopkins University: Nobel Prize Winners&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. It boasts a wide spectrum in terms of its academic strengths, particularly in art history, biological and natural sciences, biomedical engineering, creative writing, English, history, economics, international studies, medicine, music, neuroscience, nursing, political theory, public health, public policy, and the Romance languages.Johns Hopkins is one of fourteen founding members of the Association of American Universities (AAU) and a member of the Consortium on Financing Higher Education (COFHE).The Johns Hopkins University performed $1.55 billion in science, medical and engineering research in fiscal year 2006, making it the leading U.S. academic institution in total R&D spending for the 29th year in a row, according to a new National Science Foundation ranking. The university also ranked first on the NSF's separate list of federally funded research and development, spending $1.55 billion in FY2007 on research supported by such agencies as the National Institutes of Health, NASA, the NSF and the Department of Defense. In FY2002, Johns Hopkins became the first university to cross the $1 billion threshold on either list, recording $1.14 billion in total research and $1.023 billion in federally sponsored research that year.===Library===  The Johns Hopkins University Library system houses more than 3.6 million volumes. It includes ten main divisions: the Sheridan Libraries at Homewood, the Medical Institutions Libraries, the School of Nursing Library, Abraham M. Lilienfeld Library at the Bloomberg School, the Peabody Institute Library, the Carey Business School and School of Education libraries, the School of Advanced International Studies Libraries (Sydney R. and Elsa W. Mason Library and Bologna Center Library), the R.E. Gibson Library at the Applied Physics Laboratory Library and other minor satellite locations, as well as the archives.The Milton S. Eisenhower Library (called "MSE" by students), located on the Homewood campus, is the main library. It houses over 2.6 million volumes and over 20,000 journal subscriptions. The Eisenhower Library is a member of the university's Sheridan Libraries encompassing collections at the Albert D. Hutzler Reading Room (called "The Hut" by students) in Gilman Hall, the John Work Garrett Library at Evergreen House, and the George Peabody Library at Mount Vernon Place. Together these collections provide the major research library resources for the university, serving Johns Hopkins academic programs worldwide. The library was named for Milton S. Eisenhower, former president of the university and brother of former U.S. president Dwight D. Eisenhower.Only two of the MSE library's six stories are above ground; the rest are beneath, though architects designed the building so that every level has windows and natural light. The design accords with a bit of traditional campus lore which says no structure on campus can be taller than Gilman Hall, the oldest academic building. There is no written rule regarding building height, however, and the library's design was chosen for architectural and aesthetic reasons when it was finally built in the 1960s.Student lifeThe blueprints for a new programming board called The Hopkins Organization for Programming ("The HOP") were drawn on up during the summer and fall of 2006.In addition Charles Village, the region of North Baltimore surrounding the university, has undergone several restoration projects, and the university has gradually bought the property around the school for additional student housing and dormitories. The Charles Village Project, scheduled for completion in 2008, will bring new commercial spaces to the neighborhood. The project includes Charles Commons, a new, modern residence hall that includes a Barnes &amp; Noble and a Starbucks.&lt;/ref&gt; A Chipotle Mexican Grill and Starbucks have moved in, and the university itself has installed a new Einstein Bros. Bagelshttp://www.einsteinbros.com/index.cfm franchise in Wolman Hall.Hopkins has also invested heavily in improving campus life for its students with creation in 2001 of an arts complex, the Mattin Center; and a three-story sports facility, the O'Connor Recreation Center. The large on-campus dining facilities at Homewood were renovated in the summer of 2006, and the caterer was switched from Sodexho to Aramark.Hopkins has also advertised the "Collegetown" atmosphere it shares with neighboring institutions, including Loyola College, UMBC, Goucher College, and Towson University, as well as the proximity of downtown Baltimore's Inner Harbor.The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender student organization, The Diverse Sexuality and Gender Alliance, affectionately called DSAGA, at Hopkins is well known. Annually DSAGA organizes and oversees the Awareness Days Program. This program is a series of events and speakers with the focus on LGBTA inclusivity and awareness.Greek LifeThe Johns Hopkins University Office of Greek Life currently supports twelve fraternities and eight sororities.The fraternities include Sigma Chi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Delta Phi, Pi Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa Psi, Phi Gamma Delta, Lambda Phi Epsilon, which is historically Asian-American, and Alpha Epsilon Pi, which is historically Jewish. These ten are supported by the Inter-Fraternity Council. Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, which is historically African-American, is supported by the National Pan-Hellenic Council. Iota Nu Delta Fraternity is historically South Asian and is the newest Greek Letter Organization on campus. Delta Phi Fraternity, also known as St. Elmo's, maintains a chapter exclusive to students at Johns Hopkins, though it is not recognized by the University's Office of Greek Life.The sororities include Kappa Kappa Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, Alpha Phi and Phi Mu, which are supported by the Panhellenic Council. The sororities also include Delta Xi Phi, a multicultural sorority, Lambda Pi Chi, a historically Latin-American sorority, and two historically Asian-American sororities, alpha Kappa Delta Phi and Sigma Omicron Pi. In Fall 2008 the Office of Greek Life announced plans to invite a fifth Panhellenic sorority to colonize at the University, most likely in the Fall of 2009.As of Spring 2008, 1,080 students were members of one of the Johns Hopkins University fraternities or sororities and the All-Greek Average GPA was 3.22, the same as the average GPA for all Johns Hopkins University Undergraduates.&lt;/ref&gt; Approximately 1/5 of male undergraduates and 1/5 of female undergraduates belong to the Greek system.Many of the fraternities maintain houses off campus, but none of the the sororities do. As at many American universities, it is a widely believed rumor that the sororities are not permitted to have houses because of a state "Brothel Law" prohibiting the cohabitation of more than eight women. The Johns Hopkins News-Letter even reported the existence of such a law in 2001.&lt;/ref&gt; Snopes.com reports that such laws do not exist.&lt;/ref&gt;Recruitment for fraternities and sororities takes place during the spring semester for freshmen, though some chapters recruit upperclassmen during the fall semester. All students who wish to participate in Recruitment must have completed one semester at Johns Hopkins University or elsewhere and must be in good academic standing.Student publicationsHopkins has many publications that are produced entirely by students. The Johns Hopkins News-Letter, founded in 1896, is the oldest continuously published weekly college newspaper in the nation.http://www.jhunewsletter.com The Hopkins Donkey is a political newspaper with a Democratic perspective on international, national and state-wide political topics. The Carrollton Record is a political newspaper with an American conservative perspective on campus and city-wide politics.http://www.tcrecord.com Thoroughfare, Zeniada and j.mag are literary magazines. Prometheus is the undergraduate philosophy journal.http://www.jhu.edu/prometheus Frame of Reference is an annual magazine that focuses on film and film culture http://www.hopkinsfilmfest.com/. The New Diplomat is the multi-disciplinary international relations journal. Foundations is the undergraduate history journal. Américas is the Latin American Studies journal. Argot is the undergraduate anthropology journal.http://anthropology.jhu.edu/argotThe Black & Blue Jay is among the nation's oldest campus humor magazines. It was founded in 1920.“With the publication of the first of The Black and Blue Jay in November 1920“  According to The Johns Hopkins News-Letter, it was the magazine's name which led the News-Letter to first use the moniker Blue Jays to refer to a Hopkins athletic team in 1923. While the magazine enjoyed popularity among students, it received repeated opposition from the university administration, reportedly for its vulgar sense of humor. In October 1934, Dean Edward R. Berry removed financial support for the magazine; without funding, the magazine continued under the name The Blue Jay until Berry threatened to expel the editors in 1939. The magazine had a revival in 1984, and has published intermittently since then.&lt;/ref&gt;ControversyJohns Hopkins is on the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education's (FIRE) "red alert" list. FIRE is a nonprofit educational foundation advocating freedom of speech, legal equality, due process, religious liberty, and sanctity of conscience. Currently, a handful of schools in the United States are on the list.According to FIRE, Johns Hopkins University earned its Red Alert designation by suspending eighteen-year-old junior Justin Park for posting an offensive Halloween party invitation on the popular social networking site Facebook.com. His penalty was later reduced.http://www.thefire.org/index.php/article/7534.htmlThe 'Green Campus' at HopkinsJohns Hopkins University has a significant and complex approach to implementing sustainability initiatives. As of May 2008, they include the following :Designing and implementing green roofsExploring the use of alternative sources of energyDeveloping a transportation plan to reduce pollutantsWorking on green building designsImproving the efficiency of the way energy is usedEngaging students through education and competitionManaging storm water runoffMaximizing the amount of organic and locally-sourced foodJohns Hopkins has students known as Eco-Reps on campus. The purpose of the ECO-Rep program is to increase environmental awareness and sustainable actions among Johns Hopkins freshmen through focused activities, the dissemination of information, and the promotion of competition. Up to 10 Freshmen will be selected each September to become ECO-Reps for the school year. Climate change and energyThe new Manager of Energy and Environmental Stewardship began work in spring 2006 to upgrade inefficient appliances and lighting on campus. Energy retrofits in certain buildings have resulted in energy conservation of over 50 percent. Carbon emissions are currently being inventoried and electric vehicles are used for some campus transportation needs. Another portion of transportation needs on the main campus are being met by a partnership with Flexcar, which has four vehicles stationed on-site. The University intends to secure a percentage of green electricity by working with wind power developers and with a local dairy farm that converts food and farm wastes into green electricity through anaerobic digestion. Plans are being developed to install solar thermal panels on the recreation center to provide heating and hot water needs.Food and recyclingJohns Hopkins recently switched its dining services providers from Sodexho to Aramark, citing improved environmental services as an influential reason for the change. Dining services managers prioritize the purchasing of locally sourced produce and seafood, and organic food is being integrated into the menu. In addition, the smaller cafés around campus sell exclusively organic, shade-grown coffees. There is currently a small pilot composting program on the undergraduate campus.Green buildingsThe University is currently pursuing LEED certification for several new and existing buildings and typically considers the feasibility of LEED programs for all new projects that involve upgrades of existing buildings or new construction. For minor renovations, the University uses LEED principles as guidelines. Retrofits include a green roof deck, experimentation with waterless urinals and low-flow shower heads, and upgraded fluorescent lighting that has reduced lighting load on one campus by over 40 percent. Similar lighting retrofits are underway at all other campuses. In 2004, one campus completed a water conservation retrofit that annually saves over eight million gallons of water.Sustainability and student groupsJohns Hopkins students have historically been active in sustainability activities. Students have contributed significantly to many of our environmental successes, such as getting the JHU recycling program off the ground, hosting a national "Greening" conference, launching a transportation shuttle service between campuses, and making the campus more bike-friendly. Each year students are involved in countless activities that promote sustainability on Hopkins campuses. Some of the active groups on campus include Students for Environmental Action, Engineers for a Sustainable World, the Roosevelt Institution, Hopkins Energy Action Team and Engineers Without Borders among others.Campus expansion and developmentsThe Johns Hopkins University, working with Collegetown Development Alliance, a joint venture team composed of Struever Brothers, Eccles & Rouse and Capstone Development recently teamed up to develop a mixed use project featuring student housing, a central dining facility and a major campus bookstore.The site, called Charles Commons and completed in September 2006, is located at 33rd Street between Charles and St. Paul Streets. The approximately  development includes housing for approximately 618 students, with supporting amenity spaces; a central dining facility and specialty dining area with seating capacity of approximately 330; an approximately . bookstore run by Barnes and Noble College Division which includes the traditional offerings of a college bookstore (textbooks, school supplies, dorm product, etc.) as well as a cafe that serves Starbucks coffee, an extensive assortment of general books, and convenience products.The Decker Quadrangle development constitutes the last large building site on the contiguous Homewood campus of the Johns Hopkins University, making it the most important project on campus since the development of the two original quadrangles. In this first phase, the project includes a visitors and admissions center, a computational sciences building , and an underground parking structure, creating a new quadrangle, south of Garland Hall, named in honor of Alonso G. and Virginia G. Decker. Importantly, the project establishes a new public entrance for the campus and recognizes the potential for future growth of campus activities sited across Wyman Park Drive.Recently, the university announced a $73 million renovation of Gilman Hall, the academic centerpiece of the Homewood Campus. The renovation will include updating all classrooms in the building, as well as a full replacement of the infrastructure of the building. Gilman hall, superficially renovated in the 1980s will now include a movie theater and a large atrium, with a glass roof. The atrium will have a sky-walk from the entrance of the building to the Hutzler Undergraduate Reading Room and will contain the university's premier archaeological collection. The project is slated for completion for the 2010-2011 academic year.AthleticsAthletic teams at Johns Hopkins are called the Blue Jays. The university's athletic colors are Columbia blue and black. (Sable and gold are used for academic robes.) Hopkins celebrates Homecoming in the spring to coincide with the height of the lacrosse season. Outside of the Men's and Women's Division I lacrosse teams, Hopkins participates in the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III and the Centennial Conference.The school's most prominent team is its Division I men's lacrosse team, which has won 44 national titles - nine NCAA Division I (2007, 2005, 1987, 1985, 1984, 1980, 1979, 1978, 1974), 29 USILA, and six ILA titles. Hopkins' primary national lacrosse rivals are Princeton University, Syracuse University, and the University of Virginia; its primary intrastate rivals are Loyola College, Towson University, the United States Naval Academy, and the University of Maryland. The rivalry with Maryland is the oldest, the schools having met 103 times since 1899, with two of those meetings being in playoffs. Hopkins also has several notable Division III Athletic teams. 2006-2007 saw Hopkins winning the Centennial Conference titles in Baseball, Men's and Women's Soccer, Men's and Women's Tennis and Men's Basketball. Hopkins also has an acclaimed fencing team, which has ranked in the top three of Division III teams in the past few years and in both 2008 and 2007 defeated the University of North Carolina, a Division I team. In 2008 they defeated UNC by one bout, winning the MACFA championship. The Swimming team also has ranked in the top two of Division III for the last 10 years. The Men's Swimming team placed second at DIII Nationals in 2008. The Water Polo team has been number one in Division III for several of the past years, playing a full schedule against Division I opponents. Hopkins also has a century-old rivalry with McDaniel College (formerly Western Maryland College), playing the Green Terrors 83 times in football since the first game in 1894. In 2008, the Hopkins Blue Jays Baseball team played, and lost, in the final of the Division III College World Series.http://www.titans.uwosh.edu/NCAAChampionship/2008/ | 2008 NCAA® Division III Baseball Championship, University of Wisconsin-Oshkosh Titans websiteLacrosse The women's lacrosse team is also developing into a top ten calibre team, ranking number 8 in the 2007 Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association (IWLCA) Poll for Division I. The team's losses in 2007 were to Princeton University, Georgetown University, the University of Maryland, the University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt University, Duke University, and Northwestern University (regular season and conference playoff).The Lacrosse Museum and National Hall of Fame, maintained by US Lacrosse, is located on the Homewood campus and is adjacent to the home field for both the men's and women's lacrosse teams, Homewood Field. In the past, Johns Hopkins lacrosse teams have represented the United States in international competition. At the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam and 1932 Los Angeles Summer Olympics lacrosse demonstration events Hopkins represented the US and team members received Olympic Gold Medals. This was the only such accolade in the history of U.S. college sports. They have also gone to Melbourne, Australia to win the 1974 World Lacrosse Championship.Presidents of Johns HopkinsDaniel Coit Gilman, May 1875 - August 1901Ira Remsen, September 1901 - January 1913Frank Goodnow, October 1914 - June 1929Joseph Sweetman Ames, July 1929 - June 1935Isaiah Bowman, July 1935 - December 1948Detlev Bronk, January 1949 - August 1953Lowell Reed, September 1953 - June 1956Milton S. Eisenhower, July 1956 - June 1967Lincoln Gordon, July 1967 - March 1971Milton S. Eisenhower, March 1971 - January 1972Steven Muller, February 1972 - June 1990William C. Richardson, July 1990 - July 1995Daniel Nathans, June 1995 - August 1996William R. Brody, August 1996 - December 31st 2008Notable alumni, professors, and staffSee: List of Johns Hopkins University peopleAffiliatesThe Johns Hopkins Institute for Policy Studies, located on the Homewood Campus, is a nationally renowned center for the study of public policy. The Institute forms partnerships with other programs at Johns Hopkins to offer concentrations, specializations, certificates, and dual degrees related to public policy.The Johns Hopkins University Press is a publishing house and division of the Johns Hopkins University that engages in publishing journals and books. It was founded in 1878 and holds the distinction of being the oldest continuously running university press in the United States.The Human Language Technology Center of Excellence was established in 2007 and focuses on advanced technology for automatically analyzing a wide range of speech, text, and document image data in multiple languages.The university in popular cultureIn non-fictionThe HBO film Something the Lord Made (2004), based on the true story of Alfred Blalock and Vivien Thomas (an unusual team for the time), depicts their work as pioneers of cardiac surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital.in the 2005 and 2007 Division I National Lacrosse Championship Finals as well as the 2008 semifinal]]Johns Hopkins University hospital is the focus of 'Hopkins', an ABC News' six-part series which takes an intimate look at the men and women who call The Johns Hopkins Hospital their home. Began June 26, 2008. Hopkins | Home&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In fictionIn the Will Ferrell comedy Step Brothers (2008), Ferrell's character learns that his new stepfather attended Johns Hopkins. Perhaps in an attempt to disparage the man, Ferrell then claims to know "Johnny Hopkins" personally, stating: "I smoked pot with Johnny Hopkins."In the television series The Twilight Zone (Season 1 Episode 12), the character Andrew L. Gaddis graduates from the Johns Hopkins University, claiming to have done so "without any real difficulty".In the television series NCIS (TV series), Special Agent Timothy McGee graduated from MIT and has a BS in Biomedical Engineering from Johns Hopkins, revealed in the Episode 'Sub Rosa.'In the television series Grey's Anatomy, the character Dr. Preston Burke is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and was first in his class. Dr. Erica Hahn, the cardiac surgeon who performed Denny Duquette's heart transplant, graduated from Hopkins, ranking second only to Dr. Burke.In the movie The Prince and Me, the character Paige Morgan is accepted into the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.In the television series The Simpsons, Dr. Julius Hibbert is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.In the television series South Park episode "Britney's New Look," Butters, mistaken for a talking squirrel, is taken to Johns Hopkins for evaluation.In the television series Gilmore Girls, Paris Geller applies to Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and the Doctor that takes care of Logan Huntzberger is a Johns Hopkins Graduate.In the television series House, the character Dr. Eric Foreman is a graduate of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. Dr. Gregory House attended Johns Hopkins for undergraduate and medical school, but was thrown out of the medical school for cheating.In the season two finale of Nip/Tuck (2003), Christian Troy and Sean McNamara visit Johns Hopkins to find out more about Ava Moore.In the television series Judging Amy, the character Kyle McCarty had attended Johns Hopkins medical school before being expelled.In the Tom Clancy novels, Jack Ryan's wife, Cathy Ryan, is a doctor at the Johns Hopkins Wilmer Eye Institute. In real life, Clancy created the Tom Clancy Professorship at Wilmer on April 8, 2005.In the movie The Rock (1995), Dr. Stanley Goodspeed receives his M.A. and Ph. D from Johns Hopkins.In the science fiction movie The Island (2005), the retinal scans of Lincoln Six Echo are sent to Johns Hopkins for analysis.In the television series "Dr. Quinn Medicine Woman" during the Great American Medicine Show episode, Dr. Eli says he graduated from Johns Hopkins in 1848, even though the university was not founded until 1876.In the American television show Commander in Chief, President Allen asks about the results of a recent "John" Hopkins study in episode 18.In an episode of the science-fiction television series Stargate Atlantis, the character Dr. Beckett comments on an applicant to the Atlantis mission as being much more qualified in medicine than he. The applicant was from "John" Hopkins.In the movie "Outbreak" (1995), Major Salt, the character played by Cuba Gooding Jr., received his master's degree from the Johns Hopkins University.In the movie "Getting In", a college graduate ends up sixth on the waiting list for the Johns Hopkins Medical School and attempts to "dissuade" six people in front from attending.In the Babylon 5 universe, JHU was where the gene for human telepathy was discovered.Dr. Hanibal Lecter from the Lecter Trilogy by Thomas Harris attends the Johns Hopkins University after leaving Europe for America.On the HBO drama The Wire, Baltimore Police Major Howard Colvin looks into a retirement job as deputy director of campus security for JHU.In the 1990 novel Jurassic Park by Michael Crichton, Dr. Lewis Dodgson of Biosyn Corporation is said to have been expelled from Johns Hopkins as a graduate student for planning human gene therapy without permission from the Food and Drug Administration.In the movie Casper, a 1995 film, Dr. Harvey is shown to be an alumnus of the Johns Hopkins University.In the movie Species II (1998) Senator Ross offers to take his son Patrick to Johns Hopkins after the latter was infected with alien DNA.For a number of other affiliated fictional characters, see List of Johns Hopkins University people#Fictional associations.In filmThe Nicole Kidman film The Invasion (film) (2007) was partly filmed in a laboratory in Mudd Hall on the Homewood campus.The film The Curve (1998) was filmed at the Homewood campus of the Johns Hopkins University.The HBO film Something the Lord Made (2004) was filmed both on the Homewood campus and medical campus. However, the hospital depicted in the movie was actually the outside of Gilman Hall and Levering Hall located on the Homewood campus.Photographs Image:JHU-Q.jpg Image:JHU-R.jpg Image:JHU-C.jpg Image:JHU15.jpg Image:JHU-G.jpg‎ Image:JHU-M.jpg Image:JHU-P.jpg Image:Gilmanhall.jpg Image:JHU 065.jpg Image:JHU-V.jpg  ReferencesSee alsoMid-InfraRed Technologies for Health and the Environment (MIRTHE) (largely based at Princeton University)External linksOfficial websiteOfficial Athletics websitePhotographs taken in and around the University: flickr     Category:Association of American Universities Category:Educational institutions established in 1876 Category:Johns Hopkins University Category:Oak Ridge Associated Universitiesar:جامعة جونز هوبكينز da:Johns Hopkins University de:Johns Hopkins University es:Universidad Johns Hopkins eo:Johns-Hopkins-Universitato fa:دانشگاه جانز هاپکینز fr:Université Johns-Hopkins ko:존스 홉킨스 대학교 is:Johns Hopkins-háskóli it:Università Johns Hopkins he:אוניברסיטת ג'ונס הופקינס ka:ჯონს ჰოპკინსის უნივერსიტეტი nl:Johns Hopkins University ja:ジョンズ・ホプキンス大学 no:Johns Hopkins University pl:Johns Hopkins University pt:Universidade Johns Hopkins fi:Johns Hopkinsin yliopisto sv:Johns Hopkins University th:มหาวิทยาลัยจอนส์ฮอปกินส์ zh:约翰·霍普金斯大学