Albany, Georgia, USA | Origin = Greenville, Florida, USA | Died = Beverly Hills, California, USA | Instrument = Vocals, piano/keyboards, alto saxophone | Genre = Blues, rhythm and blues, pop, soul, country soul, jazz | Occupation = Singer, songwriter, musician, arranger, bandleader | Years_active = 1947–2004 | Label = Atlantic, ABC, Warner Bros. Records | Associated_acts = The Raelettes, Quincy Jones, Betty Carter | URL = www.raycharles.com  Ray Charles Robinson (September 23, 1930 – June 10, 2004), known by his stage name Ray Charles, was an American pianist and singer, who shaped the sound of rhythm and blues. He brought a soulful sound to country music, pop standards, and a rendition of "America the Beautiful" that Ed Bradley of 60 Minutes called the "definitive version of the song, an American anthem &mdash; a classic, just as the man who sung it."&quot;The Genius Of Ray Charles&quot;, an article about an 1986 segment on Charles from 60 MinutesFrank Sinatra called him "the only true genius in the business" and in 2004, Rolling Stone Magazine ranked Charles&lt;/ref&gt; #10 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.&lt;/ref&gt;BiographyEarly lifeRay Charles Robinson was born in Albany, Georgia on . He was the son of Aretha Williams, who stacked boards in a sawmill, and Bailey Robinson, a railroad repair man, mechanic and handyman. The two were never married. The family moved to Greenville, Florida, when Ray was an infant. Bailey had three more families, leaving Aretha to raise the family on her own. When Charles was five, he witnessed his younger brother, George, drown in a large portable laundry tub.Ray Charles began to go blind when he was five. He became totally blind by the age of seven.[http://www.boheme-magazine.net/php/modules.php?name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=258 Bohème Magazine] Obituary: Ray Charles (1930 &ndash; 2004) Charles never knew exactly why he lost his sight, though there are sources which suggest his blindness was due to glaucoma, and some other sources suggest that Ray began to lose his sight from an infection caused by soapy water to his eyes which was left untreated.[http://www.boheme-magazine.net/php/modules.php?name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=258 Bohème Magazine] Obituary: Ray Charles (1930 &ndash; 2004) He attended school at the St. Augustine School for the Deaf and the Blind in St. Augustine, Florida. He also learned how to write music and play various musical instruments. While he was there, his mother died followed by his father two years later.Early careerBefore he left school, Charles began working as a musician in many bands that played in various styles, including jazz and, in Tampa “with a hillbilly band called The Florida Playboys." This is where Charles began his reputation of always wearing sunglasses.blacknetwork.com Ray Charles on RayCharles moved to Seattle in 1947. He soon started recording, first for the label Swingtime Records, achieving his first hit with "Confession Blues", recorded in 1949. The song hit #2 on the R&B charts. He followed his first recording with his only other hit with Swingtime, "Baby, Let Me Hold Your Hand" in 1951. It hit #5 on the R&B charts. He then signed with Ahmet Ertegün at Atlantic Records a year later. When he entered show business, his name was shortened to Ray Charles to avoid confusion with opera star boxer Sugar Ray Robinson.Breakthrough period with Atlantic RecordsAlmost immediately after signing with Atlantic, Charles scored his first hit singles with the label with "It Should Have Been Me" and the Ertegun-composed "Mess Around", both making the charts in 1953. But it was Charles' "I Got A Woman" (composed with band mate Renald Richard allmusic&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;) that brought the musician to national prominence.The song reached the top of Billboard's R&B singles chart in 1955 and from there until 1959, Charles would have a series of R&B chart-toppers including "This Little Girl of Mine", "Lonely Avenue", "Mary Ann", "Drown in My Own Tears" and "The Night Time (Is the Right Time)", which were compiled on his Atlantic releases Hallelujah, I Love Her So, Yes Indeed!, and The Genius Sings the Blues. During this time of transition, he recruited a young girl group from Philadelphia named the Cookies as his background singing group, recording with them in New York and changing their name to the Raelettes in the process. Former record producer Joel Dorn often wrote letters to Nesuhi Ertegun telling them that he should do a duet.Crossover success In 1959, Charles crossed over to top 40 radio with the release of his impromptu blues number, "What'd I Say", which was initially conceived while Charles was in concert. The song would reach number 1 on the R&B list and would become Charles' first top ten single on the pop charts, peaking at number 6. Charles would also record The Genius of Ray Charles, before leaving Atlantic for a more lucrative deal with ABC Records in 1959.Hit songs such as "Georgia On My Mind" (US #1), "Hit the Road Jack" (US #1) and "Unchain My Heart" (US #9) helped him transition to pop success and his landmark 1962 album, Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music and its sequel Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music, Vol. 2, helped to bring country into the mainstream of music. He also had major pop hits in 1963 with "Busted" (US #4) and "Take These Chains From My Heart" (US #8).Later yearsand First Lady Nancy Reagan in 1984.]] In 1965, Charles was arrested for possession of heroin, a drug to which he had been addicted for nearly 20 years. It was his third arrest for the offence, but he avoided jail time after kicking the habit in a clinic in Los Angeles. He spent a year on parole in 1966, when his single "Crying Time" reached #6 on the charts.During the late 1960s and into the 1970s, Charles' releases were hit-or-miss,[http://www.boheme-magazine.net/php/modules.php?name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=258 Bohème Magazine] Obituary: Ray Charles (1930 &ndash; 2004) with some big hits and critically acclaimed work. His version of "Georgia On My Mind" was proclaimed the state song of Georgia on April 24, 1979, with Charles performing it on the floor of the state legislature. He also had success with his unique version of "America the Beautiful." In November 1977 Charles appeared as the host of NBC's Saturday Night Live.SNL Transcripts: Ray Charles: 11/12/77&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In the late 1980s a number of events increased Charles' recognition among young audiences. He made a cameo appearance in the popular 1980 film The Blues Brothers. In 1985, "The Right Time" was featured in the episode "Happy Anniversary" of The Cosby Show on NBC. In a Pepsi Cola commercial of the early 1990s, Charles popularized the catchphrase "You Got the Right One, Baby!"In 1989, Charles recorded a cover version of the Japanese band Southern All Stars' song "Itoshi no Ellie" as "Ellie My Love" for a Suntory TV advertisement, reaching #3 on Japan's Oricon chart.List of best-selling international singles in Japan of 1989, Extract from the Year-End chart posted by oricon Eventually, it sold more than 400,000 copies, and became that year's best-selling single performed by a Western artist for the Japanese music market.Charles has also appeared at two Presidential inaugurations. In 1985, he performed for Ronald Reagan's second inauguration, and in 1993 performed for Bill Clinton's first inauguration.Internet Movie Database Bio on Ray CharlesIn the late '80s and early '90s, Charles made appearances on The Super Dave Osbourne Show, where he performed and appeared in a few vignettes where he was somehow driving a car, often as Super Dave's chauffeur. At the height of his newfound fame in the early nineties, Charles did guest vocals for quite a few projects. He also appeared (with Chaka Khan) on long time friend Quincy Jones' hit "I'll Be Good to You" in 1990, from Jones' album Back on the Block.Following Jim Henson's death in 1990, Ray Charles appeared in the one-hour CBS tribute, The Muppets Celebrate Jim Henson. He gave a short speech about the deceased, stating that Henson "took a simple song and a piece of felt and turned it into a moment of great power". Charles was referring to the song "It's Not Easy Being Green", which Charles later performed with the rest of the Muppet cast in a tribute to Henson's legacy.During the sixth season of Designing Women, Ray Charles vocally performed "Georgia On My Mind", rather than the song being rendered by other musicians without lyrics as in the previous five seasons.Final appearancesIn 2000, Charles made a special guest appearance on Blue's Clues Big Musical Movie as a fictional character named G-Clef. The Persuasions also made a guest appearance as his companions. Charles recorded "There It Is" during and after filming with Steve Burns and Traci Paige Johnson. After recording, Charles commented "This has been the most fun I have had since I met President Reagan in '84."In 2002 Charles headlined during the Blues Passions Cognac festival in southern France.In 2002 he took part with other musicians in a peace concert in Rome, which was the first event to take place inside the city’s ancient Colosseum since A.D. 404. The event was organized in partnership with the Glocal Forum and the Quincy Jones Listen Up Foundation.In June, 2003, Ray Charles presented one of his greatest admirers, Van Morrison, with his award upon being inducted in the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the two sang Morrison's song from the Moondance album, "Crazy Love". This performance is captured on Morrison's 2007 album, The Best of Van Morrison Volume 3.On Friday, April 11th 2003, Ray Charles sang 'America The Beautiful' at Fenway Park in Boston, Friday, prior to the rained out Red Sox home opener against the Baltimore Orioles.In 2003 Charles performed "Georgia On My Mind" and "America the Beautiful" at a televised annual electronic media journalist banquet held in Washington, D.C., at what may have been his final performance in public. Ray Charles' final public appearance came on April 30, 2004, at the dedication of his music studio as a historic landmark in the city of Los Angeles.He died on June 10, 2004 of hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer) at his home in Beverly Hills, California, surrounded by family and friends. His body was interred in the Inglewood Park Cemetery in Inglewood, California.His final album, Genius Loves Company, released two months after his death, consists of duets with various admirers and contemporaries: B.B. King, Van Morrison, Willie Nelson, James Taylor, Gladys Knight, Michael McDonald, Natalie Cole, Elton John, Bonnie Raitt, Diana Krall, Norah Jones, and Johnny Mathis. The album won eight Grammy Awards, including five for Ray Charles for Best Pop Vocal Album, Album of the Year, Record of the Year and Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals for "Here We Go Again" with Norah Jones, and Best Gospel Performance for "Heaven Help Us All" with Gladys Knight; he also received nods for his duets with Elton John and B.B. King.The album included a version of Harold Arlen's "Over the Rainbow", sung as a duet by Charles and Johnny Mathis; that recording was later played at his memorial service.Two more posthumous albums, Genius &amp; Friends (2005) and Ray Sings, Basie Swings (2006), were released. Genius &amp; Friends consisted of duets recorded from 1997-2005 with artists were personally chosen by Ray Charles. Ray Sings, Basie Swings consists of archived vocals of Ray Charles from a live 1973 performance added to Count Basie's music. Charles' vocals recorded from the concert mixing board were added to a new accompaniment by the Count Basie Orchestra (among others). Gregg Field, who had performed as a drummer with both Charles and Basie, produced this album. and his T.V. show on fox televisionControversies and criticismsDespite his support of Martin Luther King, Jr. in the 1960s and his support for the American Civil Rights Movement, Charles courted controversy when he toured South Africa in 1981, during an international boycott of the country because of its apartheid policy.Susaye Greene, former member of Charles' Raelettes, as well as the Supremes and Wonderlove and currently a solo artist, was noted for being the only Raelette to sing at Ray Charles' funeral. After the funeral, the BBC said "it did not go unnoticed that Susaye was the only Raelette to sing at Ray's funeral."Personal lifeCharles was married twice and fathered 12 children by 7 different women.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;[http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2004/10/14/60minutes/main649346.shtml The Genius Of Ray Charles, 60 Minutes Looks Back At The Life And Loves Of A True Original - CBS News] His first marriage to Eileen Williams was brief: July 31, 1951 to 1952. He has three children from his second marriage to Della Beatrice Howard Robinson from April 5, 1955 to 1977. His long term girlfriend and partner at the time of his death was Norma Pinella.His children are:Charles Wayne Hendricks (son of Marge Hendricks — one of the Raelettes)Evelyn Robinson (daughter of Louise Mitchell)Raenee Robinson (daughter of Mae Mosely Lyles)Sheila Robinson (daughter of Sandra)Jean Bettincent Kotchounian (son of Arlette Kotchounian — worked with him as photographer on Would You Believe album)David Robinson (son of Della Robinson)Ray Charles Robinson, Jr. (son of Della Robinson)Reverend Robert Robinson (son of Della Robinson)Reatha ButlerAlexandria Bertrand (daughter of Chantelle Bertrand)Robyn Moffett (daughter of Gloria Moffett)Ryan Corey Robinson den Bok (son of Mary Anne den Bok)Charles gave each of his 12 children $1,000,000 tax free in 2004http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1355/is_18_106/ai_n6358894 Ray Charles gives each of his 12 kids $1million dollars tax free! just before he died.DiscographySee Ray Charles discographyFilmographySwingin' Along (1961)Ballad in Blue (1964)The Big T.N.T. Show (1966) (documentary)The Blues Brothers (1980)Limit Up (1989)Listen Up: The Lives of Quincy Jones (1990) (documentary)''The Nanny (Sam)Love Affair (1994)Spy Hard (1996)Adv. Super Dave (2000)''Ray'': the filmCharles was significantly involved in the biopic Ray, an October 2004 film which portrays his life and career between 1930 and 1966 and stars Jamie Foxx as Charles. Foxx won the 2005 Academy Award for Best Actor for the role.Before shooting could begin, however, director Taylor Hackford brought Foxx to meet Charles, who insisted that they sit down at two pianos and play together. For two hours, Charles challenged Foxx, who revealed the depth of his talent, and finally, Charles stood up, hugged Foxx, and gave his blessing, proclaiming, "He's the one... he can do it."Charles was expected to attend a showing of the completed film, but he died before it opened in theaters.As noted in the film's final credits, Ray is based on true events, but includes some characters, names, locations, events which have been changed and others which have been "fictionalized for dramatization purposes." One example of the film's use of dramatic license are the scenes which refer to Charles as being banned from Georgia.The film's credits note that he is survived by 12 children, 21 grandchildren, and 5 great grandchildren.Halls of Fame and other honorsBesides winning dozens of Grammy Awards in his career, Charles was also honored in many other ways. In 1979, he was one of the first honorees of the Georgia State Music Hall of Fame being recognized for being a musician born in the state. Ray's version of "Georgia On My Mind" was made into the official state song for Georgia. In 1981, he was given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame and was one of the first inductees to the Rock &amp; Roll Hall of Fame at its inaugural ceremony in 1986. He received the Kennedy Center Honors in 1986. In 1987, he was awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. In 1991, he was inducted to the Rhythm & Blues Foundation. In 1998 he was awarded the Polar Music Prize together with Ravi Shankar in Stockholm, Sweden. In 2004 he was inducted to the Jazz Hall of Fame, and inducted to the National Black Sports & Entertainment Hall of Fame. Also in 2004, Rolling Stone Magazine ranked him #10 on their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.The Grammy Awards of 2005 were dedicated to Charles.On December 7, 2007, Ray Charles Plaza was opened in Albany, Georgia, with a revolving, lighted bronze sculpture of Charles seated at a piano.On December 26, 2007, Ray Charles was inducted into the Hit Parade Hall of Fame.Ray Charles Post Office BuildingOn Tuesday, July 12, 2005, President George Bush signed into law, a bill (PL 109-25), sponsored by Congresswomen Diane E. Watson (CA-33rd), designating the U.S. postal facility located at 4960 W. Washington Blvd., in Los Angeles, California, as the Ray Charles Post Office Building. On August 24, 2005, the United States Congress honored Charles by dedicating and renaming the former West Adams Station post office in Los Angeles the "Ray Charles Station".ReferencesExternal links Ray Charles websiteRay Charles at RollingStone.com/artistsRay Charles at Songwriters Hall of FameRay Charles at Rock and Roll Hall of FameRay Charles at Find A GraveRay Charles' oral history video excerpts at The National Visionary Leadership ProjectAutobiographyRay Charles Past Exhibit at the Country Music Hall of Fame and MuseumPhotography of Ray Charles by his manager of over 40 years, Mr Joe Adams  Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees‎ Category:Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award winners Category:American male singers Category:American rhythm and blues singers Category:American gospel singers Category:American soul singers Category:American singer-songwriters Category:African American musicians Category:African American singers Category:People from Albany, Georgia Category:American blues singers Category:American composers Category:American country singers Category:American keyboardists Category:American pop pianists Category:American soul musicians Category:Blind bluesmen Category:American blues pianists Category:Blind musicians Category:Blues Hall of Fame inductees Category:Deaths from hepatitis Category:Georgia (U.S. state) musicians Category:Kennedy Center honorees Category:Atlantic Records artists Category:Burials at Inglewood Park Cemetery Category:Infectious disease deaths in Californiazh-min-nan:Ray Charles bg:Рей Чарлс ca:Ray Charles cs:Ray Charles cy:Ray Charles da:Ray Charles de:Ray Charles et:Ray Charles es:Ray Charles eo:Ray Charles fa:ری چارلز fr:Ray Charles fy:Ray Charles ga:Ray Charles ko:레이 찰스 hr:Ray Charles io:Ray Charles id:Ray Charles is:Ray Charles it:Ray Charles he:ריי צ'ארלס ka:რეი ჩარლზი lb:Ray Charles hu:Ray Charles nl:Ray Charles ja:レイ・チャールズ no:Ray Charles nn:Ray Charles oc:Ray Charles pl:Ray Charles pt:Ray Charles ro:Ray Charles ru:Рэй Чарльз scn:Ray Charles simple:Ray Charles sk:Ray Charles sl:Ray Charles fi:Ray Charles sv:Ray Charles ta:ரே சார்ல்ஸ் tr:Ray Charles uk:Рей Чарльз zh:雷·查尔斯