exposes Nasonov gland (white-at tip of abdomen) releasing pheromone to entice swarm into an empty hive]] A pheromone (from Greek φέρω phero "to bear" + ‘ορμόνη "hormone") is a chemical that triggers a natural behavioral response in another member of the same species. There are alarm pheromones, food trail pheromones, sex pheromones, and many others that affect behavior or physiology. Their use among insects has been particularly well documented, although many vertebrates and plants also communicate using pheromones.BackgroundThe term "pheromone" was introduced by Peter Karlson and Martin Lüscher in 1959, based on the Greek pherein '' (to transport) and ''hormone (to stimulate). They proposed the term to describe chemical signals from conspecifics which elicit innate behaviours soon after Butenandt characterized the first such chemical, Bombykol (a chemically well-characterized pheromone released by the female silkworm to attract mates).Karlson, P., Lüscher, M. (1959). Pheromones: a new term for a class of biologically active substances. Nature 183, 55-56.TypesAggregation pheromonesProduced by one or the other sex, aggregation pheromones attract individuals of both sexes.Alarm pheromonesSome species release a volatile substance when attacked by a predator that can trigger flight (in aphids) or aggression (in bees) in members of the same species. Pheromones also exist in plants: certain plants emit alarm pheromones when grazed upon, resulting in tannin production in neighboring plants. These tannins make the plants less appetizing for the herbivore.J.du P. Bothma, Game ranch management, fourth edition, Van Schaik publishers, 2002. Examples are:2-Heptanone as a putative alarm pheromone in ratsEpideictic pheromonesRecognized in insects, epideictic pheromones are different from territory pheromones. According to Fabre (translated from French), "Females who lay their eggs in these fruits deposit these mysterious substances in the vicinity of their clutch to signal to other females of the same species so that they will clutch elsewhere." Releaser pheromonesReleaser pheromones are powerful attractant molecules that some organisms may use to attract mates from a distance of two miles or more. This type of pheromone generally elicits a rapid response but is quickly degraded. In contrast, a primer pheromone has a slower onset and a longer duration.Primer pheromonesPrimer pheromones trigger a change of developmental events.Territorial pheromonesLaid down in the environment, territorial pheromones mark the boundaries of an organism's territory. In dogs, these hormones are present in the urine, which they deposit on landmarks serving to mark the perimeter of the claimed territory.Trail pheromonesTrail pheromones are common in social insects. For example, ants mark their paths with these pheromones, which are non-volatile hydrocarbons.Certain ants lay down an initial trail of pheromones as they return to the nest with food. This trail attracts other ants and serves as a guide. As long as the food source remains, the pheromone trail will be continually renewed. The pheromone must be continually renewed because it evaporates quickly. When the supply begins to dwindle, the trailmaking ceases. In at least one species of ant, trails that no longer lead to food are also marked with a repellent pheromone.Sex pheromoneson a pheromone trap]]In animals, sex pheromones indicate the availability of the female for breeding. Male animals may also emit pheromones that convey information about their species and genotype. Many insect species release sex pheromones to attract a mate, and many lepidopterans (e.g., moths and butterflies) can detect a potential mate from as far away as 10&nbsp;kilometers (6&nbsp;mi). Pheromones can be used in gametes to trail the opposite sex's gametes for fertilization. Pheromones are also used in the detection of oestrus in sows. Boar pheromones are sprayed into the sty, and those sows which exhibit sexual arousal are known to be currently available for breeding.Other pheromonesThis classification, based on the effects on behavior, remains artificial. Pheromones fill many additional functions.Nasonov pheromones (worker bees)Royal pheromones (bees)Calming (appeasement) pheromones (mammals)UsesAnimalsPheromones of the pest insect species, such as the Japanese beetle and the gypsy moth, can be used to induce many behaviors. This facilitates trapping for monitoring purposes and population control by creating confusion, disrupting mating and preventing them from laying eggs.In mammals and reptiles, pheromones may be detected by the vomeronasal organ, or Jacobson's organ, which lies between the nose and mouth and is the first stage of the accessory olfactory system. Some pheromones in these animals are detected by regular olfactory membranes.HumansFew well-controlled scientific studies have ever been published suggesting the possibility of pheromones in humans. The best known case involves the reported synchronization of menstrual cycles among women based on unconscious odor cues (the McClintock effect, named after the primary investigator, Martha McClintock, of the University of Chicago).McClintock MK (1971). "Menstrual synchrony and suppression". Nature 229 (5282): 244-5. PMID 4994256Stern K, McClintock MK (1998). "Regulation of ovulation by human pheromones". Nature 392 (6672): 177-9. doi:10.1038/32408. PMID 9515961. This study proposes that there are two types of pheromone involved: "One, produced prior to ovulation, shortens the ovarian cycle; and the second, produced just at ovulation, lengthens the cycle". However recent studies and reviews of the McClintock methodology have called into question the validity of her results. Other studies have suggested that people might be using odor cues associated with the immune system to select mates who are not closely related to themselves. Using a brain imaging technique, Swedish researchers have shown that homosexual and heterosexual males' brains respond differently to two odors that may be involved in sexual arousal, and that the homosexual men respond in the same way as heterosexual women. The study was expanded to include homosexual women; the results were consistent with previous findings meaning that homosexual women were not as responsive to male identified odors, but their response to female cues was similar to heterosexual males. Savic, I."Brain response to putative pheromones in lesbian women." PNAS, May 16, 2006 According to the researchers, this research suggests a possible role for human pheromones in the biological basis of sexual orientation.Wade, N. "Gay Men are found to have Different Scent of Attraction." NY Times, May 9, 2005Another study demonstrated that the smell of androstadienone, a chemical component of male sweat, maintains higher levels of cortisol in females. The scientists suggest that the ability of this compound to influence the endocrine balance of the opposite sex makes it a human pheromonal chemosignal.Wyart C, Webster WW, Chen JH, Wilson SR, McClary A, Khan RM, Sobel N. 2007. Smelling a single component of male sweat alters levels of cortisol in women. J Neurosci. 27(6):1261-5.http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=pubmed&amp;cmd=Retrieve&amp;dopt=AbstractPlus&amp;list_uids=17287500&amp;query_hl=1&amp;itool=pubmed_docsum In 2002 a study published in the quarterly journal Physiology and Behavior showed an unnamed synthetic chemical in women's perfume appeared to increase intimate contact with men. The authors hypothesize, but do not demonstrate, that the observed behavioural differences are olfactory mediated.   In 2006 it was shown that a second mouse receptor sub-class is found in the olfactory epithelium. Called the trace amine-associated receptors (TAAR), some are activated by volatile amines found in mouse urine, including one putative mouse pheromone.Liberles SD, Buck LB. 2006. A second class of chemosensory receptors in the olfactory epithelium. Nature. 442(7103):645-50. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=pubmed&amp;cmd=Retrieve&amp;dopt=AbstractPlus&amp;list_uids=16878137&amp;query_hl=1&amp;itool=pubmed_docsum A study in urinary odour preferences of mice (2001) concluded that the pheromones associated with urinary odor assisted in deterring them from selecting mates from a related species. Interbreeding within mammals has shown to lead to a decrease in the overall fitness of that species, thus pheromones that decrease the probability of interbreeding are selected for.Isles AR, Baum MJ, Ma D, Keverne EB, Allen ND. Urinary odour preferences in mice. Nature. 2001 Feb 15;409(6822):783-4.  Orthologous receptors exist in humans providing, the authors propose, evidence for a mechanism of human pheromone detection.Pearson H. 2006. Mouse data hint at human pheromones. Nature. 442(7102):495. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=pubmed&amp;cmd=Retrieve&amp;dopt=AbstractPlus&amp;list_uids=16885951&amp;query_hl=5&amp;itool=pubmed_docsumSome body spray advertisers claim that their products contain human sexual pheromones which act as an aphrodisiac. In the 1970's "copulins" were patented as products which release human pheromones, based on research on rhesus monkeys.Wyatt, Tristram D. (2003). Pheromones and Animal Behaviour: Communication by Smell and Taste. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-48526-6. p. 298 Quoting Preti & Weski (1999) "No peer reviewed data supporting the presences of...human...pheromones that cause rapid behavioral changes, such as attraction and/or copulation have been documented."  Subsequently, androstenone, axillary sweat, and "vomodors" have been claimed to act as human pheromones.Hays, Warren S. T., Human pheromones: have they been demonstrated? Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiology, 2003, 54:89-97 Despite these claims, no pheromonal substance has ever been demonstrated to directly influence human behavior in a peer reviewed study.  p. 264 ...there has not yet been any hard evidence for human pheromones that might change sexual attraction (for members of either sex) naturally See alsoAllomoneAndrostenolAndrostenoneBody odorClaus WedekindEstratetraenolFeline facial pheromoneHoney bee pheromonesKairomoneMating DisruptionOsmeterium, an organ in swallowtail caterpillarsPheromones in fictionQuorum sensingSemiochemicalSweatTestosteroneVomeronasal organReferencesFurther readingKohl, JV., Atzmueller, M., Fink, B. & Grammer, K. (2001). Human Pheromones: Integrating Neuroendocrinology and Ethology. Neuroendocrinology Letters, 22(5), 319-331. Full textLiberles, S.D., Buck, L.B. (2006). A second class of chemosensory receptors in the olfactory epithelium. Nature, 442, 645-50.McClintock, M.K. (1984). Estrous synchrony: modulation of ovarian cycle length by female pheromones. Physiological Behavior, 32, 701-705.Wilson, E. O., Bossert, W. H. (1963). Chemical communication among animals. Recent Progress in Hormone Research, 19, 673-716.Wyatt, Tristram D. (2003). Pheromones and Animal Behaviour: Communication by Smell and Taste. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-48526-6.External linksPherobase, the database of insect pheromonesMale Axillary Extracts Contain Pheromones that Affect Pulsatile Secretion of Luteinizing Hormone and Mood in Women RecipientsSexual Orientation, in the BrainReview of published debate about HOW insects detect pheromones over large distances, even when the wind seems unfavourableMale sweat boosts women's hormone levels -- from UC Berkeley, February 2007The Effect of Male Sweat on Women's Hormone Levels -- from Science Daily, February 2007Pheromones In Male Perspiration Reduce Women's Tension, Alter Hormone Response -- from Science Daily (March 2003)* Category:Greek loanwordsar:فيرومون bg:Феромон ca:Feromona da:Feromon de:Pheromon et:Feromoonid el:Φερομόνη es:Feromona eu:Feromona fr:Phéromone gl:Feromona id:Feromon it:Feromone he:פרומון hu:Feromon lt:Feromonas nl:Feromoon ja:フェロモン no:Feromon pl:Feromony pt:Feromônio ru:Феромоны sk:Feromón su:Féromon fi:Feromoni sv:Feromon tr:Feromon zh:費洛蒙