 Brooklyn, New York |death =  |school_tradition = Analytic Political |notable_ideas = |influences = John Locke Immanuel Kant Friedrich Hayek |influenced =   Robert Nozick (November 16, 1938&nbsp;&ndash; January 23, 2002) was an American philosopher and Pellegrino University Professor at Harvard University. Schooled at Columbia, Princeton, and Oxford, he was a prominent American political philosopher in the 1970s and 1980s. He did additional but less influential work in such subjects as decision theory and epistemology. His Anarchy, State, and Utopia (1974) was a libertarian answer to John Rawls's A Theory of Justice, published in 1971. He was born in Brooklyn, the son of a Jewish entrepreneur from Russia, and married the American poet Gjertrud Schnackenberg. Nozick died in 2002 after a prolonged struggle with cancer. His remains are interred at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts.Philosophical achievementsPoliticsNozick's Anarchy, State, and Utopia (1974), which received a National Book Award, argues among other things that a distribution of goods is just if brought about by free exchange among consenting adults and from a just starting position, even if large inequalities subsequently emerge from the process. Nozick appealed to the Kantian idea that people should be treated as ends (what he termed 'separateness of persons'), not merely as a means to some other end. Nozick here challenges the basis of John Rawls's conclusion, in A Theory of Justice, that just inequalities in distribution must benefit the least well off. Nozick retreated from some of the views he expressed in Anarchy, State, and Utopia in one of his later books, The Examined Life, calling those views "seriously inadequate." In a 2001 interview, however, he clarified his position: "What I was really saying in The Examined Life was that I was no longer as hardcore a libertarian as I had been before. But the rumors of my deviation from libertarianism were much exaggerated."EpistemologyIn Philosophical Explanations (1981), which received the Phi Beta Kappa Society's Ralph Waldo Emerson Award, Nozick provides novel accounts of knowledge, free will, personal identity, the nature of value, and the meaning of life. He also put forward an epistemological system which attempted to deal with both Edmund Gettier-style problems and those posed by skepticism. This highly influential argument eschewed justification as a necessary requirement for knowledge.''The Examined Life''The Examined Life (1989), pitched to a broader public, explores love, death, faith, reality, and the meaning of life. The Nature of Rationality (1993) presents a theory of practical reason that attempts to embellish notoriously spartan classical decision theory. Socratic Puzzles (1997) is a collection of papers that range in topic from Ayn Rand and Austrian economics to animal rights, while his last production, Invariances (2001) applies insights from physics and biology to questions of objectivity in such areas as the nature of necessity and moral value.Criticisms of UtilitarianismHe created the thought experiment of the Utility monster in order to show that average utilitarianism could lead to a situation where the needs of the vast majority were sacrificed for one individual.Unusual methodNozick was notable for his curious, exploratory style and methodological ecumenism. Often content to raise tantalizing philosophical possibilities and then leave judgment to the reader, Nozick was also notable for inventively drawing from literature outside of philosophy (e.g., economics, physics, evolutionary biology) to infuse his work with freshness and relevance.WritingsInvariances: The Structure of the Objective World (2001/2003) ISBN 0-674-01245-3Socratic Puzzles (1997) ISBN 0-674-81653-6The Nature of Rationality (1993/1995) ISBN 0-691-02096-5The Examined Life (1989) ISBN 0-671-72501-7Philosophical Explanations (1981) ISBN 0-19-824672-2Anarchy, State, and Utopia (1974) ISBN 0-631-19780-XSee alsoLiberalismContributions to liberal theoryLibertarianismMinarchismReferencesG.A. Cohen (1995), Self-Ownership, Freedom, and Equality, Oxford UP. A widely-cited criticism of Nozick.Robinson, Dave & Groves, Judy (2003). Introducing Political Philosophy. Icon Books. ISBN 1-84046-450-X.Wolff, Jonathan (1991), Robert Nozick: Property, Justice, and the Minimal State. Polity Press.David Lewis Schaefer, Robert Nozick and the Coast of Utopia, The New York Sun, April 30, 2008.External linksObituary by The Daily TelegraphObituary by The GuardianObituary by The IndependentPhilosopher Nozick dies at 63 From the Harvard GazetteRobert Nozick Memorial minuteRobert Nozick (1938-2002) by Edward FeserA summary of the political philosophy of Robert Nozick by R. N. JohnsonRobert Nozick, Libertarianism, And Utopia by Jonathan WolffNozick on Newcomb's Problem and Prisoners' Dilemma by S. L. HurleyRobert Nozick: Against Distributive Justice by R.J. KilcullenWhy Do Intellectuals Oppose Capitalism? by Robert NozickOpen Directory Project - Robert Nozick directory categoryRobert Nozick, Philosopher of Liberty by Roderick T. Long Category:1938 births Category:2002 deaths Category:20th century philosophers Category:American libertarians Category:American philosophers Category:American political philosophers Category:American political theorists Category:American political writers Category:Epistemologists Category:Jewish philosophers Category:Analytic philosophers Category:Deontological ethics Category:Kantian philosophers Category:Libertarian theorists Category:Minarchists Category:Philosophy of Robert Nozick Category:Columbia University alumnida:Robert Nozick de:Robert Nozick es:Robert Nozick eo:Robert Nozick fr:Robert Nozick is:Robert Nozick it:Robert Nozick he:רוברט נוזיק nl:Robert Nozick ja:ロバート・ノージック pl:Robert Nozick pt:Robert Nozick ro:Robert Nozick ru:Нозик, Роберт sk:Robert Nozick sr:Роберт Нозик fi:Robert Nozick sv:Robert Nozick tr:Robert Nozick zh:羅伯特·諾齊克