     Sociology (from Latin: socius, "companion"; and the suffix ''-ology,'' "the study of," from Greek λόγος, lógos, "knowledge"  Online Etymology Dictionary http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?search=sociology&amp;searchmode=none) is by definition the scientific study of society and human behavior. Thus, sociology is used to interpret human behavior using theories to understand human behavior. This is achieved using scientific methods of research.The field of sociology is adopted in the examination of the patterns of social relations, social stratification, social interaction, and culture'' though this is not an exhaustive list is does provide a basic foundation of its use. Dictionary of the Social Sciences'', Article: Sociology. Sociology is considered a branch of the social sciences.The goals of sociology are to understand human behavior, to generalize about the causes of human behavior, to predict future human behavior, and to understand how society influences people.Areas studied in sociology range from the analysis of brief social contacts between anonymous individuals on the street to the study of global social interaction to understand why people do what they do. To do this, sociologists examine the "social location" of individuals and groups such as employment, gender, ethnicity, income, education, and class.Numerous fields within the discipline concentrates on how and why people are organized in society, either as individuals or as members of structured or unstructured social groups such as associations, groups, and institutions.Sociological research provides educators, planners, lawmakers, administrators, developers, business leaders, and people interested in resolving social problems and formulating public policy with rationales for the actions they might take.History  Sociology, including economic, political, and cultural systems, has origins in the common stock of human knowledge and philosophy. Social analysis has been carried out by scholars and philosophers at least as early as the time of Plato.There is evidence of early Greek (e.g. XenophanesThe Ethiops say that their gods are flat-nosed and black,While the Thracians say that theirs have blue eyes and red hair.Yet, if cattle or horses or lions had hands and could draw,And could sculpture like men, then the horses would draw their godsLike horses, and cattle like cat tle; and each they would shapeBodies of gods in the likeness, each kind, of their own.(Hermann Diels and W. Kranz (eds.), Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker, 6th edn. Zurich), Xenophoncf. Cyropaedia , Polybioscf. The Histories) and Muslim sociological contributions, especially by Ibn Khaldun, in his Muqaddimah from the 14th century, later translated as Prolegomena in Latin), the introduction to a seven volume analysis of universal history, in which he advanced theories of social cohesion and social conflict whose Muqaddimah is viewed by many as the earliest work on sociology as a social science.H. Mowlana (2001). "Information in the Arab World", Cooperation South Journal 1'.Dr. S. W. Akhtar (1997). "The Islamic Concept of Knowledge", ''Al-Tawhid: A Quarterly Journal of Islamic Thought & Culture '''12 (3).Amber Haque (2004), "Psychology from Islamic Perspective: Contributions of Early Muslim Scholars and Challenges to Contemporary Muslim Psychologists", Journal of Religion and Health 43 (4): 357-377 375. Several other forerunners of sociology, from Giambattista Vico up to Karl Marx, are nowadays considered classical sociologists.Sociology later emerged as a scientific discipline in the early 19th century as an academic response to the challenges of modernity and modernization, such as industrialization and urbanization. Sociologists hope not only to understand what holds social groups together, but also to develop responses to social disintegration and exploitation.The term "sociologie" was first used in 1780 by the French essayist Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès (1748-1836) in an unpublished manuscript.Des Manuscrits de Sieyès. 1773-1799, Volumes I and II, published by Christine Fauré, Jacques Guilhaumou, Jacques Vallier et Françoise Weil, Paris, Champion, 1999 and 2007 See also Christine Fauré and Jacques Guilhaumou, Sieyès et le non-dit de la sociologie : du mot à la chose, in Revue d’histoire des sciences humaines, Numéro 15, novembre 2006: Naissances de la science sociale; see also the article 'sociologie' in the French-language Wikipedia..The term "sociology" has been attributed often considered coined by the French thinker Auguste Comte A Dictionary of Sociology, Article: Comte, Auguste in 1838. Comte had earlier used the term 'social physics,' but that term had been appropriated by others, notably Adolphe Quetelet. Comte hoped to unify all studies of humankind - including history, psychology and economics. His own sociological scheme was typical of the 19th century; he believed all human life passed through the same distinct historical stages. In other words, that society passed through three stages:(theology, metaphysics, positive science) and scientific. He argued that if one could grasp this progress, one could prescribe the remedies for social ills. Sociology was to be the 'queen of positive sciences'.Dictionary of the Social Sciences, Article: Comte, Auguste Thus, Comte has come to be viewed as the "Father of Sociology".Key figures"Classical" theorists of sociology from the late 19th and early 20th centuries include: Ferdinand Tönnies, Émile Durkheim, Karl Marx, Herbert Spencer, Vilfredo Pareto, Ludwig Gumplowicz, Georg Simmel and Max Weber. Like Comte, these figures did not consider themselves only "sociologists." Their works addressed religion, education, economics, law, psychology, ethics, philosophy and theology. Their theories have been applied in a variety of academic disciplines and beyond. Each key figure is typically associated with a particular theoretical perspective and orientation used to interpret and understand human behaviour.Other key significant figures include:C. Wright MillsGeorge Herbert MeadBlumerCharles Horton CooleyBergerBeckerGarfinkelTalcott ParsonsHegelDorothy SmithMajor theoretical perspectivesMajor theoretical perspectives used to understand and analyze human behavior in sociology include the following, but these are not exclusive or exhaustive:The Social Conflict perspective, also known as Conflict Theory or Critical TheoryThe Structural-Functionalist perspective, also known as Functionalism or StructuralismThe Symbolic Interactionist perspective, also known as "Pragmatism" or Social Behaviorism. Dramaturgy and Ethnomethodology are sub-fields of the Symbolic Interactionist perspectiveThe Feminist perspectivePost-ModernismInstitutionalizing sociologyThe discipline was taught by its own name for the first time at the University of Kansas, Lawrence in 1890 by Frank Blackmar, under the course title Elements of Sociology. It remains the oldest continuing sociology course in the United States. The Department of History and Sociology at the University of Kansas was established in 1891 http://www.ku.edu/%7Esocdept/about/ University of Kansas Sociology Department Webpage http://www.news.ku.edu/2005/June/June15/sociology.shtml University of Kansas News Story, and the first full-fledged independent university. The department of sociology was established in 1892 at the University of Chicago by Albion W. Small, who in 1895 founded the American Journal of Sociology.http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/AJS/home.html American Journal of Sociology Website  The first European department of sociology was founded in 1895 at the University of Bordeaux by Émile Durkheim, founder of L'Année Sociologique (1896). The first sociology department to be established in the United Kingdom was at the London School of Economics and Political Science (home of the British Journal of Sociology) http://www.lse.ac.uk/serials/Bjs/ British Journal of Sociology Website in 1904. In 1919 a sociology department was established in Germany at the Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich by Max Weber, and in 1920 in Poland by Florian Znaniecki.International cooperation in sociology began in 1893 when René Worms founded the Institut International de Sociologie, which was later eclipsed by the much larger International Sociological Association (ISA), founded in 1949.http://www.isa-sociology.org/ International Sociological Association Website  In 1905, the American Sociological Association, the world's largest association of professional sociologists, was founded, and in 1909 the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Soziologie (German Society for Sociology) was founded by Ferdinand Tönnies and Max Weber, among others.Positivism and anti-positivismArticles: Positivism, Sociological positivism, and Antipositivism.Early theorists' approach to sociology, led by Comte, was to treat it in much the same manner as natural science, applying the same methods methodology used in the natural sciences to study social phenomena. The emphasis on empiricism and the scientific method sought to provide an incontestable foundation for any sociological claims or findings, and to distinguish sociology from less empirical fields such as philosophy. This methodological approach, called positivism, assumes that the only authentic knowledge is scientific knowledge, and that such knowledge can only come from positive affirmation of theories through strict scientific method, namely a quantitatve methodology.One push away from positivism was philosophical and political in theory, such as in the dialectical materialism based on Marx' theories. A second push away from scientific positivism was cultural, becoming sociological. As early as the 19th century, positivist and naturalist approaches to studying social life were questioned by scientists like Wilhelm Dilthey and Heinrich Rickert, who argued that the natural world differs from the social world because of unique aspects of human society such as meanings, symbols, rules, norms, and values. These elements of society inform human cultures. This view was further developed by Max Weber, who introduced antipositivism (humanistic sociology). According to this view, which is closely related to antinaturalism, sociological research concentrates on humans' cultural values; symbols (the things which we attach meaning to as the basis of social life; and social processes from a subjective persepctive. (See also: French Pragmatism). Twentieth century developmentsIn the early 20th century, sociology expanded in the United States, including developments in both macrosociology interested in evolution of societies and microsociology. Based on the pragmatic social psychology of George Herbert Mead, Herbert Blumer and others (later Chicago school) inspired sociologists developed symbolic interactionism. Refer to 'The Mead Project' Mead ProjectIn Europe, in the Interwar period, sociology generally was both attacked by increasingly totalitarian governments and rejected by conservative universities. At the same time, originally in Austria and later in the U.S., Alfred Schütz developed social phenomenology (which would later inform social constructionism). Also, members of the Frankfurt school (most of whom moved to the U.S. to escape Nazi persecution) developed critical theory, integrating critical, idealistic and historical materialistic elements of the dialectical philosophies of Hegel and Marx with the insights of Freud, Max Weber (in theory, if not always in name) and others. In the 1930s in the U.S., Talcott Parsons developed structural-functional theory which integrated the study of social order and "objective" aspects of macro and micro structural factors.Since World War II, sociology has been revived in Europe, although during the Stalin and Mao eras it was suppressed in the communist countries. In the mid-20th century, there was a general (but not universal) trend for US-American sociology to be more scientific in nature, due partly to the prominent influence at that time of structural functionalism. Sociologists developed new types of quantitative and qualitative research methods. In the second half of the 20th century, sociological research has been increasingly employed as a tool by governments and businesses. Parallel with the rise of various social movements in the 1960s, theories emphasizing social struggle, including conflict theory (which sought to counter structural functionalism) and neomarxist theories, began to receive more attention.In the late 20th century, some sociologists embraced postmodern and poststructuralist philosophies. Increasingly, many sociologists have used qualitative and ethnographic methods and become critical of the positivism in some social scientific approaches. Much like cultural studies, some contemporary sociological studies have been influenced by the cultural changes of the 1960s, 20th century Continental philosophy, literary studies, and interpretivism. Others have maintained more objective empirical perspectives, such as by articulating neofunctionalism, social psychology, and rational choice theory. Others began to debate the nature of globalization and the changing nature of social institutions. These developments have led some to reconceptualize basic sociological categories and theories. For instance, inspired by the thought of Michel Foucault, power may be studied as dispersed throughout society in a wide variety of disciplinary cultural practices. In political sociology, the power of the nation state may be seen as transforming due to the globalization of trade (and cultural exchanges) and the expanding influence of international organizations (Nash 2000:1-4).However, the positivist tradition is still alive and influential in sociology. In the U.S., the most commonly, including the American Journal of Sociology and American Sociological Review, primarily publish research in the positivist tradition. There is also a minor revival for a more independent, empirical sociology in the spirit of C Wright Mills, and his studies of the Power Elite in the USA, according to Stanley Aronowitz.Social network analysis is an example of a new paradigm in this tradition which can go beyond the traditional micro vs. macro or agency vs. structure debates. The influence of social network analysis is pervasive in many sociological subfields such as economic sociology (see the work of J. Clyde Mitchell, Harrison White, or Mark Granovetter for example), organizational behavior, historical sociology, political sociology, or the sociology of education.Throughout the development of sociology, controversies have raged about how to emphasize or integrate concerns with subjectivity, objectivity, intersubjectivity and practicality in theory and research. The extent to which sociology may be characterized as a 'science' has remained an area of considerable debate, which has addressed basic ontological and epistemological philosophical questions. One outcome of such disputes has been the ongoing formation of multidimensional theories of society, such as the continuing development of various types of critical theory. Another outcome has been the formation of public sociology, which emphasizes the usefulness of sociological analysis to various social groups.Scope and topics of sociologySelected general topics: Discrimination, Deviance and social control, Migration, Power Elite , Social action, Social change, Social class, Social justice/injustice, Social order, Social status, Social stratification, Socialization, Society, Sociological imagination, Structure and agency, Subfields of sociologys and their pros and cons are studied in sociology.]]Sociologists study animals and social action by examining the groups and social institutions people form, as well as various social, religious, political, and business organizations. They also study the social interactions of people and groups, trace the origin and growth of social processes, and analyze the influence of group activities on individual members and vice versa. The results of sociological research aid educators, lawmakers, administrators, and others interested in resolving social problems, working for social justice and formulating public policy.Sociologists research macro-structures and processes that organize or affect society, such as, but not limited to, race or ethnicity, gender, globalization, and social class stratification. They study institutions such as the family and social processes that represent deviation from, or the breakdown of, social structures, including crime and divorce. And, they research micro-processes such as interpersonal interactions and the socialization of individuals. Sociologists are also concerned with the effect of social traits such as sex, age, or race on a person’s daily life.Most sociologists work in one or more specialties, such as, but not limited to, social stratification, social organization, and social mobility; ethnic and race relations; education; family; social psychology; urban, rural, political, and comparative sociology; sex roles and relationships; demography; gerontology; criminology; and sociological practice. In short, sociologists study the many dimensions of society.Although sociology was informed by Comte's conviction that sociology would sit at the apex of all the sciences, sociology today is identified as one of many social sciences (such as anthropology, economics, political science, psychology, etc.). At times, sociology does integrate the insights of various disciplines, as do other social sciences. Initially, the discipline was concerned particularly with the organization of complex industrial societies. In the past, anthropology had methods that would have helped to study cultural issues in a "more acute" way than sociologists.*Marc Abélès, How the Anthropology of France Has Changed Anthropology in France: Assessing New Directions in the Field ''Cultural Anthropology 1999 p. 407 Recent sociologists, taking cues from anthropologists, have noted the "Western emphasis" of the field. In response, sociology departments around the world are encouraging the study of many cultures and multi-national studies.Sociological research The basic goal of sociological research is to understand the social world in its many forms. Quantitative methods and qualitative methods are two main types of sociological research methods. Sociologists often use quantitative methods -- such as social statistics or network analysis - to investigate the structure of a social process or describe patterns in social relationships. Sociologists also often use qualitative methods - such as focused interviews, group discussions and ethnographic methods - to investigate social processes. Sociologists also use applied research methods such as evaluation research and assessment.Methods of sociological inquirySociologists use many types of social research methods:Archival research - Facts or factual evidences from a variety of records are compiled.Content Analysis - The contents of interviews and questionnaires are analyzed using systemtic approaches such as "grounded theory" as a technique. Books and mass media are also analyzed to study how people communicate and the messages people talk or write about.Historical Method - This involves a continuous and systematic search for the information and knowledge about past events related to the life of a person, a group, society, or the world. Biographies, memories and news releases are also often used.Experimental Research - The researcher isolates a single social process or social phenomena and uses the data to either confirm or construct social theory. Participants, or subjects, are randomly assigned to various conditions or 'treatments,' and then analyses are made between groups. Randomization allows the researcher to be sure that the treatment is having the effect on group differences and not some other extraneous factor.Survey Research - The researcher obtains data from interviews, questionnaires, or similar feedback from a set of persons chosen (including random selection) to represent a particular population of interest. Survey items from an interview or questionnaire may be open-ended or closed-ended.Life History - This is the study of the personal life trajectories. Through a series of interviews, the researcher can probe into the decisive moments in their life or the various influences on their life.Longitudinal study - This is an extensive examination of a specific person or group over a long period of time.Observation - Using data from the senses, one records information about social phenomenon or behavior. Observation techniques can range from participant observation to non-participant observation. Data acquired through these techniques may be analyzed either qualitatively or qualitatively.Participant Observation - As the name implies, the researcher goes into the field (usually into a community), lives with the people for some time, and participates in their activities in order to know and feel their culture. This technique is often confused with "ethnomedology." Though similar they differ by their research question(s) and objective(s).The choice of a method in part often depends on the researcher's epistemological approach to research as well as the researchers theoretical persepctive. For example, researchers who are concerned with statistical generalizability to a population will most likely administer structured interviews with a survey questionnaire to a carefully selected probability sample population. By contrast, sociologists, especially ethnographers, who are more interested in having a full contextual understanding of group members lives will choose participant observation, observation, and open-ended interviews. Many studies combine several of these methodologies. Adopting three methodologies is referred to as "Triangulation."The relative merits of these research methodologies is a topic of much professional debate among practicing sociologists.===Combining research methods=== In practice, some sociologists combine different research methods and approaches, since different methods produce different types of findings that correspond to different aspects of societies. For example, quantitative methods may help describe social patterns, while qualitative approaches could help to understand how individuals understand those patterns. Though, this does not mean that a qualitative approach can not identify or define patterns of behaviour. Nonetheless, the method of analysis of the data obtained from a research methodology may be either qualitative or quantitative or both.An example of using multiple types of research methods is in the study of the Internet. The Internet is of interest for sociologists in various ways: as a tool for research, for example, in using online questionnaires instead of paper ones, as a discussion platform, and as a research topic. Sociology of the Internet in the last sense includes analysis of online communities (e.g. as found in newsgroups), virtual communities and virtual worlds, organizational change catalyzed through new media like the Internet, and social change at-large in the transformation from industrial to informational society (or to information society). Online communities can be studied statistically through network analysis and at the same time interpreted qualitatively, such as though virtual ethnography. Social change can be studied through statistical demographics or through the interpretation of changing messages and symbols in online media studies.Sociology and other social sciencesSociology shares deep ties with a wide array of other disciplines that also deal with the study of society. The fields of economics, psychology, and anthropology have influenced and have been influenced by sociology and these fields share a great amount of history and common research interests.Today, sociology and other social sciences are better contrasted according to methodology rather than by objects of study. Additionally, unlike sociology, psychology and anthropology have forensic components that deal with anatomy and other types of laboratory research.Sociobiology is the study of how social behavior and organization has been influenced by evolution and other biological processes. The field blends sociology with a number other sciences, such as anthropology, biology, zoology, and others. Although the field once rapidly gained acceptance, it has remained highly controversial within the sociological academy. Sociologists often criticize the study for depending too greatly on the effects of genes in defining behavior. Sociobiologists often respond by citing a complex relationship between nature and nurture.Sociology is also widely used in management science, especially in the field of organizational behavior as well as in the helping fields such as social work.Related theories, methods and fields of inquiry include:AnthropologyCriminologyNegotiated OrderPolitical sciencePsychologySocial psychologySocial sciencesSocio-economicsSociological imaginationSociophysiologyStatistical surveyListsMain lists: List of basic sociology topics and List of sociology topicsSubfields of sociologyTimeline of sociologyList of sociologistsList of scientific journals in sociologyList of important publications in sociologySee alsoList of basic sociology topicsSociological paradigmsSocial philosophySocial simulationSocial theoryFootnotes  tags--  BibliographyAby, Stephen H. Sociology: A Guide to Reference and Information Sources, 3rd edn. Littleton, CO, Libraries Unlimited Inc., 2005, ISBN 1-56308-947-5 Calhoun, Craig (ed) Dictionary of the Social Sciences, Oxford University Press, 2002, ISBN 978-0195123715Macionis, John J. 2004. Sociology (10th Edition). Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-184918-2Nash, Kate. 2000. Contemporary Political Sociology: Globalization, Politics, and Power. Blackwell Publishers. ISBN 0631206604 Scott, John & Marshall, Gordon (eds) A Dictionary of Sociology (3rd Ed). Oxford University Press, 2005, ISBN 0198609868, Further readingWikibooks: Introduction to sociologyBabbie, Earl R.. 2003. The Practice of Social Research, 10th edition. Wadsworth, Thomson Learning Inc., ISBN 0-534-62029-9 Collins, Randall. 1994. Four Sociological Traditions. Oxford, Oxford University Press ISBN 0195082087 Coser, Lewis A., Masters of Sociological Thought : Ideas in Historical and Social Context, New York, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1971. ISBN 0155551280.Giddens, Anthony. 2006. Sociology (5th edition), Polity, Cambridge. ISBN 0745633781 Merton, Robert K.. 1959. Social Theory and Social Structure. Toward the codification of theory and research, Glencoe: Ill. (Revised and enlarged edition) Mills, C. Wright, The Sociological Imagination,1959C.Wright Mills,Intellectual Craftsmanship Advices how to Work fore young SociologistNisbet, Robert A. 1967. The Sociological Tradition, London, Heinemann Educational Books. ISBN 1-56000-667-6 Ritzer, George and Douglas J. Goodman. 2004. Sociological Theory, Sixth Edition. McGraw Hill. ISBN 0072817186 Wallace, Ruth A. & Alison Wolf. 1995. Contemporary Sociological Theory: Continuing the Classical Tradition, 4th ed., Prentice-Hall. ISBN 0-13-036245-X White, Harrison C.. 2008. Identity and Control. How Social Formations Emerge. (2nd ed., Completely rev. ed.) Princeton, Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691137148 Willis, Evan. 1996. The Sociological Quest: An introduction to the study of social life, New Brunswick, NJ, Rutgers University Press. ISBN 0-8135-2367-2 External links Professional associationsAfrican Sociological Association (AfSA)American Sociological Association (ASA)Australian Sociological Association (TASA)British Sociological Association (BSA)Brazilian Sociological Society (SBS) - Sociedade Brasileira de SociologiaCanadian Sociological Association (CSA)European Sociological Association (ESA)International Sociological Association (ISA)Indian Sociological Society (Insoso)Portuguese Sociological Association (APS) - Associação Portuguesa de SociologiaSociological Association of Ireland (SAI)South African Sociological Association (SASA)Other resourcesElectronic Journal of SociologyInternational Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences IJHSS covers all areas of social sciences and humanities research, publishing refereed research articles, survey articles, and technical notes. Indexing or Abstracting is permitted with credit to the source.International Journal of Social Sciences IJSS covers all areas of social sciences and humanities research, publishing refereed research articles, survey articles, and technical notes. Indexing or Abstracting is permitted with credit to the source.SocioLog, a directory of sociology resourcesSocioSite, a directory of sociology resourcesSociology Today, an e-forum on professionals and students of SociologyInternet Sociologist, a free online tutorial teaching Internet research skills for sociology studentsFranz Oppenheimer: History and SociologyEgorov V. I. SOCIAL CRISIS IN RUSSIA, ITS SOURCES AND WAYS OF OVERCOMING FROM THE POINT OF VIEW OF THEORY OF SOCIETYCategory:Sociology Category:Social sciences   af:Sosiologie am:የባሕል ጥናት (ሶሲዮሎጂ) ar:علم الاجتماع an:Soziolochía ast:Socioloxía az:Sosiologiya zh-min-nan:Siā-hoē-ha̍k be-x-old:Сацыялёгія bs:Sociologija bg:Социология ca:Sociologia ceb:Sosyolohiya cs:Sociologie co:Sociologia cy:Cymdeithaseg da:Sociologi de:Soziologie et:Sotsioloogia el:Κοινωνιολογία es:Sociología eo:Sociologio eu:Soziologia fa:جامعه‌شناسی fr:Sociologie fy:Sosjology fur:Sociologjie ga:Socheolaíocht gl:Socioloxía ko:사회학 hr:Sociologija io:Sociologio id:Sosiologi ia:Sociologia os:Социологи xh:ISosioloji is:Félagsfræði it:Sociologia he:סוציולוגיה jv:Sosiologi ka:სოციოლოგია ky:Социология ku:Civaknasî lad:Sosiolojiya la:Sociologia lv:Socioloģija lb:Soziologie lt:Sociologija li:Sociologie hu:Szociológia mk:Социологија mt:Soċjoloġija ms:Sosiologi nl:Sociologie ja:社会学 no:Sosiologi nn:Sosiologi nrm:Sociologie oc:Sociologia ps:ټولنپوهنه nds:Soziologie pl:Socjologia pt:Sociologia ro:Sociologie ru:Социология sc:Sotziologia sq:Sociologjia scn:Socioluggìa simple:Sociology sk:Sociológia sl:Sociologija sr:Социологија sh:Sociologija su:Sosiologi fi:Sosiologia sv:Sociologi ta:சமூகவியல் th:สังคมวิทยา vi:Xã hội học tpi:Sosiolosi tr:Toplum bilimi uk:Соціологія ur:معاشریات vec:Sociołogia yi:סאציאלאגיע zea:Sociologie bat-smg:Suocialuogėjė zh:社会学