 Germany, Freiburg | Genre = Pop-Rock | Years_active = 1999&ndash;present | Label = Universal Records | Associated_acts = | URL = www.reamonn.com | Current_members = Rea GarveyUwe BossertMike „Gomezz“ GommeringerPhilipp RauenbuschSebastian PadotzkeBarrack Obama(honorary) | Past_members = Reamonn is a German rock band that is well known all over Europe. Its members are Rea Garvey (voice/acoustic guitar), Uwe (lead guitar), Sebi (saxophone/Hammond organ/keyboards), Mike Gommeringer (Gomezz) (drums), and Phil (bass guitar).HistoryIn 1997, Rea Garvey left his former band The Reckless Pedestrians and home town Tralee, Ireland to go to Germany with only 50 DM and a demo record in his pocket. He put an ad into the local paper Stockacher Anzeiger which stated, "Singer needs band for a record and shows." Mike Gommeringer (Gomezz) saw it and accurately predicted it must have been Garvey, whose original band he had once seen live. They met up and recruited Uwe, Sebi and Phil. In 1998 the band was set up. Their first gig was on New Year's Eve 1998/1999 in Stockach.In order to get a recording contract, they played at Logo, a pub in Hamburg, in front of 16 representatives of various record labels in 1999. The band was quickly given several contract offers, from which they settled on Virgin Records.On July 7, 2007 they performed at the German leg of Live Earth in Hamburg. Also, lead singer Rea Garvey did vocals for Paul van Dyk's song "Let Go". Reamonn was the warm up band for Senator Obama for his speech at the Victory Monument in Berlin in July 2008 before a crowd estimated at 200,000. The band made Obama an honorary member of the band and presented him with a band ring.www.bild.de/BILD/news/bild-english/celebrity-gossip/2008/07/25/barack-obama/made-honorary-member-of-german-rock-band-reamonn.htmlAlbumsTuesday   Tuesday   "Tuesday" is Reamonns first album produced by Steve Lyon. The first single from it is "Supergirl". Both went gold and became the most-played song on German radio in 2000. Reamonn became stars and played at many festivals and concerts. In autumn 2000 they went on their own tour to promote their first album with support from Heyday. Future songs "Josephine" and "Waiting There For You" achieved similar success.   Dream No. 7   Dream No. 7   "Dream No. 7" is the second album. It was recorded in 2001. The name comes from the number of their former home and rehearsal room in Munzingen, a suburb of Freiburg. With the single "Weep", they had a guest appearance in the German movie Mondscheintarif.   Beautiful Sky   Dream No. 7     "Beautiful Sky" is their third album and was recorded in Spain and released in 2003. It reached #3 in the German album charts and went double platinum. The band toured with Robbie Williams in Switzerland, Austria, Portugal, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.   Raise Your Hands   Dream No. 7     "Raise Your Hands" is the first live album by Reamonn. It is recorded in 2004.   Wish   Wish   "Wish" was recorded in 2005 and was their fourth studio album. It was produced in Los Angeles with producer Greg Fidelman, who had worked with the Red Hot Chili Peppers and Johnny Cash.   Reamonn   Reamonn   "Reamonn" is the fifth studio album. It is released at . The first single from this album Through the Eyes of a Child.   DiscographyReferencesExternal linksOfficial WebsiteReamonn on FacebookCategory:Reamonn Category:German musical groupsde:Reamonn es:Reamonn fr:Reamonn it:Reamonn lt:Reamonn nl:Reamonn pl:Reamonn pt:Reamonn fi:Reamonn tr:Reamonn