  Cork () is the second largest city in the Republic of Ireland and the island of Ireland's third most populous city after Dublin and Belfast. It is the principal city and administrative centreCounty Hall (Cork County Council) of County Cork and the largest city of the province of Munster. The city has a population of 119,143, while the addition of the suburban areas contained in Cork County brings this total to 190,384., Government of Ireland Metropolitan Cork has a population of approximately 274,000, while the Greater Cork area is about 380,000.Cork County Council population reportThe city's name is derived from the Irish word corcach, meaning "marshy place", referring to its situation on the River Lee. Cork has a reputation for rebelliousness dating back to the town's support of the English pretender Perkin Warbeck in 1491 following the Wars of the Roses. Cork County has the nickname of "the Rebel County", and Corkonians often refer to Cork as the "real capital of Ireland".The River Lee flows through the city, an island in the river forming the main part of the city centre just before the Lee flows into Lough Mahon and then to Cork Harbour, the world's second largest natural harbour, after Sydney, Australia. The city is a major Irish seaport — with quays and docks sited along the broad waterway of the Lee on the city's East side. Cork is one of three constituent cities in the Cork-Limerick-Galway corridor with a population of 1 million people.Historyflows through the city in two channels and forms a central island]] Cork was originally a monastic settlement founded by St. Finbarr in the sixth century.&lt;/ref&gt; However, Cork only achieved an urban character between 915 and 922 when [[Norseman]] ([[Viking]]) settlers founded a trading port.&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; It has been proposed that, like Dublin, Cork was an important trading centre in the global Scandinavian trade network. The city's charter was granted by King John in 1185. The title of Mayor of Cork was established by royal charter in 1318, and the title was changed to Lord Mayor in 1900 following the Knighthood of the incumbent Mayor by Queen Victoria on her visit to the City.Cork City Council - List of charters issued to Cork cityIn the War of Independence, the centre of Cork was gutted by fires started by the British Black and Tans,Cork City Library - History of Cork - The Burning of Cork and the city saw fierce fighting between Irish guerrillas and UK forces. During the Irish Civil War, Cork was for a time held by anti-Treaty forces, until it was retaken by the pro-Treaty National Army in an attack from the sea.The city was once fully walled, and some wall sections and gates remain today.Cork City Council website - History - Walls of CorkClimateThe climate of Cork, like the rest of Ireland, is mild, moist and changeable with abundant rainfall and a lack of temperature extremes. Met Éireann maintain a climatological weather station at Cork Airport,Met Éireann - Annual Report 2003 a few kilometres south of the city - it should be noted that as the airport is at an altitude of 151m (500ft); temperatures can often differ by a few degrees between the airport and the city itself. There are also smaller synoptic weather stations at University College Cork, Clover Hill and Fota Island.Temperatures below 0 °C or above 30 °C are rare, though not unheard of. Cork Airport records an average of 1194.4mm of precipitation annually, most of which is rain - hail, sleet and snow are rare.Met Éireann - The Irish Weather Service - 30 Year Averages - Cork Airport The airport records an average of 8 days of hail and 16 days of snow or sleet a year; though it only records lying snow for 6 days of the year. There are 151 'rainy' days a year (over 1mm of rainfall), of which there are 75 days with 'heavy rain' (over 5mm).Cork is also a generally foggy city, with an average of 100 days of fog a year - most common during mornings at times of high pressure or else during winter. Despite this, however, Cork is also one of Ireland's sunniest cities, with an average of 3.8 hours of sunshine every day and only having 69 days where there is no 'recordable sunshine', mostly during and around winter.Like the rest of Ireland, Cork is consistently humid, with humidity usually ranging between 70% and 100% every day. There are only 4 days where thunder is recorded during the year on average as well, mostly during late summer and early autumn.Places of interest]] Cork features architecturally notable buildings originating from the medieval (only the Red Abbey survives from medieval Cork) to modern periods.ENFO Publication (Department of the Environment Heritage and Local Government) Medieval Cork St. Patrick's Street, a main street that has been recently remodelled, is known for the architecture of the buildings along its pedestrian-friendly route through a major shopping district. The reason for its winding along is that it originally was a channel of the River Lee that was built over on arches.Cork City Library - History of Cork - St Patrick's Street - Historic Outline The adjacent Grand Parade is a tree-lined avenue, home to offices and financial institutions. The old financial centre is the South Mall, with several banks whose interior derive from the 19th century, such as the Allied Irish Banks which was once an exchange. Many of the city's buildings are in the Georgian style, although there are a number of examples of modern landmark structures, such as County Hall tower, which was, at 67 metres, the tallest building in the Republic of IrelandCork County Council - About the &quot;County Hall&quot; until being superseded by another Cork City building: The Elysian, a mixed commercial/residential structure which stands at 71 metres. Across the river is Ireland's longest building, formerly St. Annes Psychiatric Institute; built in Victorian times, which has now been renovated and converted into a residential housing complex called Atkins Hall, after its architect William Atkins.Cork's most famous building is the church tower of Shandon, which dominates the North side of the city. The North and East sides are faced in red sandstone, and the West and South sides are clad in the predominant stone of the region, white limestone. At the top sits a weather vane in the shape of an eleven-foot salmon. The clock tower on the church is known by locals as The Four-faced Liar, as from the base of the building, each clock face appears to show a different time. Shandon is accessible to the public, and the bells may be rung by visitors.Church of St. Anne ShandonThe City Hall, another notable building of limestone, replaced the previous one destroyed by the Black and Tans on December 11 1920 during the War of Independence in an event known as the "Burning of Cork". The cost of this new building was provided by the UK Government in the 1930s as a gesture of reconciliation. There are two cathedrals in the city: The Roman Catholic St Mary's Cathedral (commonly called the North Cathedral), and the Church of Ireland St Finbarre's Cathedral.Other notable places include the Cork Opera House is one of the few modern opera houses in Ireland. Fitzgerald's Park, to the west of the city, and the grounds of University College Cork, through which the River Lee flows are also tourist destinations. The English Market, accessible from Grand Parade, Patrick Street, Oliver Plunkett Street and Princes Street, is a covered market for fish, fruit, meat, spices and luxury foods. The origins of the market can be traced back to 1610, and the present building dates from 1786.Discover Ireland - Cork - The English MarketThe cross-continent European walking route E8 trail passes through Cork, ending 4700 km away in Istanbul, Turkey.CultureMusic, theatre, dance, film and poetry all play a prominent role in Cork city life. The Cork School of Music and the Crawford College of Art and Design provide a constant throughput of new blood, as do the active theatre components of many courses at University College Cork (UCC). Highlights include: Corcadorca Theatre Company, of which Cillian Murphy was a troupe memberIMDB.com - Cillian Murphy - Other works prior to Hollywood fame; Cork Film Festival,http://www.corkfilmfest.org/&lt;/ref&gt; a major supporter of the art of the short film; The Institute for Choreography and Dance, a national contemporary dance resource; the Triskel Arts Centre; Cork Jazz Festival; the Cork Academy of Dramatic Art (CADA). The Everyman Palace Theatre and the Granary Theatre both play host to large amounts of dramatic plays throughout the year. Cork is home to the RTÉ Vanbrugh String Quartet, and to many musical acts, including John Spillane, The Frank And Walters, Sultans Of Ping, and the late Rory Gallagher. Singer songwriter Cathal Coughlan and Sean O'Hagan of The High Llamas also both hail from Cork. The opera singers Cara O'Sullivan, Mary Hegarty, Brendan Collins, and Sam McElroy are also Cork born. The short story writers Frank O'Connor and Sean O'Faoláin hailed from Cork. Contemporary writers of national and international status include Thomas McCarthy, Gerry Murphy (poet), and novelist and poet William Wall. There is a thriving literary community centring on The Munster Literature Centre and the Triskel Arts Centre.Cork has been gaining cultural diversity for many years as a result of immigration, from Western Europe (particularly France and Spain) in the mid to late nineties, and more recently from Eastern European countries such Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, and various African and Asian nations.  This is reflected in the recent growth of multi-cultural restaurants and shops, including specialist shops for East-European or Middle-Eastern food, Chinese and Thai restaurants, French patisseries, Indian buffets, and Middle Eastern kebab houses. Cork saw significant Jewish immigration from Lithuania and Russia in the late 19th century. Jewish citizens such as Gerald Goldberg (several times Lord Mayor), David Marcus (novelist) and Louis Marcus (documentary maker) played important roles in 20th century Cork. Today, the Jewish community is relatively small in population, although the city still has a Jewish quarter and local synagogue. Cork also features various Christian churches, as well as a mosque. Some Catholic masses around the city are said in Polish, Filipino, Lithuanian, Romanian and other languages http://www.corkandross.org/html/socialservices/immigration.jsp#polish - Mass Times for Polish Community in Diocese of Cork and Ross, in addition to the traditional Latin and local Irish and English languages.Recent additions to the arts infrastructure include modern additions to Cork Opera House and the Crawford Municipal Art Gallery. The new Lewis Glucksman Gallery opened in the Autumn of 2004 at UCC, was nominated for the prestigious Stirling Prize in the United Kingdom, and the building of a new €60 million School of Music was completed in September 2007. Construction of the €50 million Brookfield UCC Medical School complex was completed in 2005. Cork was the European Capital of Culture for 2005.There is a rivalry between Cork and Dublin , similar to the rivalry between London and Manchester, but Corkonians will sometimes view themselves as different from much the rest of Ireland, and refer to themselves as "rebels" (The county is known as the Rebel County). This distinctly Corkonian view has in recent years manifested itself in humorous references to the region as The People's Republic of Cork. Citizens of the True Capital adorn themselves with t-shirts and other items which celebrate The People's Republic of Cork, printed in various languages such as English, Irish, Polish, Spanish and Italian. The Cork bicolour is flown at public and civic buildings (including city's main courthouse, bus station, railway station and major department stores). It is flown along with the Irish tricolour, or on its own.- a landmark in St. Patrick's Street]]TraditionsThe city has many local traditions in food and customs. Traditional Cork foods include Crubeens and Tripe and Drisheen.Accent and dialectThe Cork accent has a tone which sets it apart from neighbouring counties. Cork accents differ significantly on opposite sides of the River Lee.  Characteristics include:The consonant sound θ (represented by the digraph th) is rarely pronounced.Redundant use of the words "like" or "so" to terminate a sentence: e.g. "I don't know him at all, like"Use of the words "boy" (often pronounced "by") and girl, to address each other, even into adulthood, e.g. "Come here to me, boy"Patterns of tone and intonation rise and fall often, in a way different from other Irish accents, with the overall tone tending to be more high-pitched than the standard Irish accent.There is a similarity between the Cork accent and the Liverpudlian ('Scouser') accent in north-west England - owing to the high rate of immigration to Liverpool (especially the Bootle area) from Cork.English spoken in Cork has a large number of dialect words that are peculiar to the city and environs. Unlike standard Hiberno-English, most of these words originate not from the Irish language, but through other languages Cork's inhabitants encountered at home and abroad. These include "feen", "beor" and "stella" meaning man, woman, and young woman (derogatory), and "langer" (vulgar) used to describe a penis or an undesirable person. The latter has been gained notoriety throughout Ireland thanks to various comedy skits, notably Gift Grub, and has become strongly associated with the Cork accent.MediaBroadcastThe city's FM radio band features RTÉ Radio 1, RTÉ 2fm, Lyric FM, RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta, Today FM, and Newstalk. There are also local stations such as Cork's Red FM, Cork's 96FM, 103FM County Sound, CUH FM, Cork Campus Radio and Christian radio station Life FM.Cork Campus Radio Cork has also been home to pirate radio stations, most notably South Coast Radio and ERI in the 1980s. Today some small inconsistent pirates prevail but because of a recent clampdown by Ireland's communications regulator, Comreg, a number of higher profile pirate stations were closed during 2005-2006. A number of neighbouring counties radio stations can be heard in parts of Cork City including Radio Kerry and WLR FM.RTÉ Cork has television and radio studios, and production facilities at its centre in Father Matthew Street in the city centre.PrintCork is home to one of Ireland's main national newspapers, the Irish Examiner (formerly the Cork Examiner). The Examiner's headquarters are situated on Lapp's Quay in the city centre, and were originally located on Academy Street. It also prints the Evening Echo, which for decades has been connected to the Echo Boys, who were poor and often homeless children who sold the newspaper. Today, the shouts of the vendors selling the Echo can still be heard all over the city.EconomyRetailThe retail trade in Cork City is developing quickly with a mix of both modern, state of the art shopping centres and family owned local shops (Most of which have had to close due to take over and strong competition) . Department Stores can cater for all budgets, with expensive boutiques for one end of the market with many high street stores also available. Shopping centres can be found in many of Cork's suburbs, including Blackpool, Ballincollig, Douglas, Wilton and Mahon. Others are available in the city centre, with plans and excavation work on-going for the development of three more large malls (The Cornmarket Centre on Cornmarket Street); The Opera Avenue proposal off St. Patrick's Street/Academy Street and the Grand Parade scheme planned for the site of the former Capitol Cineplex, the first multiplex outside of Dublin in Ireland), expanding the capacity of the city centre, to rival that of the suburbs. Cork's main shopping street is St. Patrick's Street and is the most expensive street in the country per sq. metre after Dublin's Grafton Street. Other shopping areas in the city centre include Oliver Plunkett St. and Grand Parade. Cork is also home to some of the country's leading department stores with the foundations of shops such as Dunnes Stores being laid in Cork City.Industry &amp; CommerceCork City is at the heart of industry in the south of Ireland. Its main area of industry is pharmaceuticals, with Pfizer Inc. and Swiss company Novartis being big employers in the region. The most famous product of the Cork pharmaceutical industry is Viagra. Cork is also the European headquarters of Apple Inc. where their high end computers are manufactured and their European call centre, R&D and AppleCare is hosted. In total, they currently employ over 1,800 staff. EMC Corporation is another large IT employer with over 1,600 staff in their 52,000 sq metre (560,000 sq. ft.) engineering, manufacturing, and technical services facility. It is also home to the Heineken Brewery which also brews Murphy's Irish Stout and the nearby Beamish and Crawford brewery (recently taken over by Heineken) which have been in the city for generations. And for many years, Cork was the home to Ford Motor Company, which manufactured cars in the docklands area before the plant was closed. Henry Ford's grandfather was from West Cork, which was one of the main reason for opening up the manufacturing facility in Cork.&lt;/ref&gt; But technology has replaced the old manufacturing businesses of the 1970s and 1980s, with people now working in the many I.T. centres of the city. Cork's deep harbour allows ships of any size to enter, bringing trade and easy import/export of products. Cork Airport also allows easy access to continental Europe and Kent Station in the city centre provides good rail links for domestic trade. More recently Amazon.com, the online retailer, has set up in Cork Airport Business Park. On 6 March 2008, developers announced a 1bn euro plan to create an Atlantic Quarter in Cork's docklands area to rival that of the International Financial Services Centre in Dublin making it one of the biggest and most ambitious plans undertaken in the history of the state. UtilitiesThe headquarters of Bord Gáis Éireann, the Irish Gas Board, are on Gasworks Road, Cork. &lt;/ref&gt;Twinned citiesCork City Corporation began its first twin/sister city programme with Coventry in 1969. Since then, Cork has developed links with several other cities in the areas of culture, education, tourism, science and economics:Twinning with Shanghai has led to controversy, as the Green Party called on Cork's local, national and European elected representatives to withdraw the city's twinning with Shanghai due to reports of human rights violations in China.Green Councillor calls for Cork's twinning with Shanghai to be scrapped - greenviews.eu Since then, parties from both Cork and Shanghai have visited their counterparts on trade related missions.TransportationAir Cork Airport is one of Ireland's main airports and gateway to the South of Ireland. It is situated on the south side of Cork City in an area known as Ballygarvan. More than 10 scheduled airlines fly to over 50 destinations with over 50 flights a day.BusCityCork City's public transportation is provided by the national bus operator Bus Éireann. Routes connect the city centre to the principal suburbs, colleges, shopping centres and places of interest. There are also two city bus routes, that provide orbital services across the Northern and Southern districts of the city respectively.SuburbanBuses to the outer suburbs, such as Ballincollig, Glanmire and Carrigaline are provided from the city's bus terminal at Parnell Place in the city centre. These suburban services include the Cork Airport shuttle bus. There is also a park and ride facility in the south suburbs that allow easy access into the city centre. This is especially popular with students and commuters from not just the far suburbs but also the surrounding towns in County Cork.Long DistanceLong distance buses depart from the bus terminal in Parnell Place to destinations throughout Ireland. Hourly services run to Killarney/Tralee, Waterford and Shannon Airport/Limerick/Galway and there are six services daily to Dublin. There is also a daily Eurolines bus service that connects Cork to Victoria Coach Station in London via South Wales and Bristol on an overnight sailing from Rosslare.FerryThe Cross River Ferry, from Rushbrooke to Passage West, links the R624 to R610. This service is useful when trying to avoid traffic congestion in Jack Lynch tunnel and Dunkettle area. Cork Ferry port is situated at Ringaskiddy, 16 km SE via the N28. A direct sea link is available to Roscoff (France) with Brittany Ferries. A long-established link with Swansea in Wales is currently out of service but it is widely hoped will be reinstated in 2008. A connecting bus service is available from the ferryport to the city centre. Plans for a water taxi service are being finalised to provide traffic free connections for both commuters and tourists alike.RoadThe Cork area has seen improvements in road infrastructure in recent years, especially with regards to National Primary roads. The Cork South Link road (a dual carriageway), built in the early 1980s, linking the Kinsale road roundabout with the city centre was the first of many improvements. Shortly afterwards, the first sections of the South Ring Road (dual carriageway) were opened. Work continued through the 1990s on extending the South Ring Road with the opening of the Jack Lynch Tunnel under the River Lee being the most significant addition. The Kinsale Road flyover opened in August 2006 to remove a major bottleneck for traffic heading to the Airport or Killarney. Also in the 1990s work progressed on the Cork to Midleton dual carriageway and the N8 Glanmire bypass dual carriageway. Other projects completed at this time include the N20 Blackpool bypass and the N20 Cork to Mallow road projects. The N8 Glanmire to Watergrasshill dual carriageway bypass was opened in 2002. The N22 Ballincollig dual carriageway bypass, which links to the Western end of the Cork Southern Ring road was opened in 2004. City Centre road improvements include the Patrick St. project which reconstructed the street with a pedestrian focus.The M8 Rathcormac to Fermoy tolled motorway bypass (17.5 kilometres) has recently been completed and opened in October 2006.RailRailway and tramway heritageCork was one of the most rail oriented cities in Ireland, featuring 8 stations at various times. The main route, still much the same today, is from Dublin. Originally terminating on the city's outskirts at Blackpool, the Glanmire tunnel connects it to the city centre terminus of Kent Station. Now a through station, the line through Kent connects the town of Cóbh east of the city. This also connected to the seaside town of Youghal, until the 1980s. Other rail routes terminating or traversing Cork city were the Cork, Blackrock and Passage Railway, a line to Macroom, the Cork and Muskerry Light Railway to Blarney, Coachford and Donoughmore, as well as the Cork, Bandon and South Coast Railway connecting Bantry, Skibbereen, Clonakilty and many other West Cork towns. West Cork trains terminated at Albert Quay, across the river from Kent Station (though an on-street rail 'system' connected the two for rolling stock and cargo movement). All that remains of the once-extensive public transport system is the line to Dublin and that to Cobh.Within the city there have been two tram networks in operation. A proposal to develop a horse-drawn tram (linking the city's railway termini) was made by American George Francis Train in the 1860s, and implemented in 1872 by the Cork Tramway Company. However, the company ceased trading in 1875 after Cork Corporation refused permission to extend the line.In December 1898, an electric tram system began operating on the Blackpool-Douglas, Summerhill-Sunday's Well and Tivoli-Blackrock routes. The gauge of the tramway was (90.2cm) (2' 11½"), and designed to be the same as the Cork and Muskerry Light Railway. Increased usage of cars and buses in the 1920s led to a reduction in the use of trams, which discontinued operations permanently on September 30, 1931. Place names today still tell of the routes, such as Tramway Terrace in Douglas.Current routesNationalCork's Kent Station is the main train station in the city. From here, services to all over Ireland can be reached. The main line from Cork to Dublin, which is Ireland's busiest rail line, has hourly departures and a number of connecting services. Direct InterCity services are also available to Kerry, with direct services to Killarney and Tralee, although most services to Kerry involve a change at Mallow.SuburbanThe Cork Suburban Rail system also departs from Kent Station and provides frequent connections to most areas of Metropolitan Cork with services to the north and east of the city including Little Island, Mallow, Fota and Cobh. This railway line provides essential transport for the thousands of commuters to the city every day from the city's suburbs. The east of the city is also a scenic route connecting several islands in Cork harbour with the city centre. The train is recommended for travel to Fota Island wildlife park, arboretum, golf club and Cobh Heritage Centre.In November 2005, the Irish government announced the reopening of the railway line between Glounthaune (on the Cobh line) and Midleton as part of the country's 10 year development plan. New stations will be provided at Carrigtohill on the Midleton branch and at Kilbarry, Monard and Blarney on the Dublin line as part of the plan, along with the already operational Mallow station. The Midleton branch is scheduled to be reopened in 2009.In April 2007, it was announced that the government was to carry out a feasibility study on bringing light rail to Cork. Education Cork is an important educational centre in Ireland. University College Cork (UCC), a constituent university of the National University of Ireland, offers a wide variety of courses in Arts, Commerce, Engineering, Law, Medicine and Science. The university was named "Irish University of the Year" in 2003–2004 University College Cork is “University of the Year”, UCC Press Release, September 14, 2003 and 2005–2006 by The Sunday Times. Cork Institute of Technology (CIT) was named Irish "Institute of Technology of the Year" in 2006–2007 and offers a variety of third level courses in Mathematics, Computing and IT, Business, Humanities and Engineering (Mechanical, Electronic, Electrical, and Chemical). The National Maritime College of Ireland also located in Cork and is the only college in Ireland in which Nautical Studies and Marine Engineering can be undertaken. CIT also incorporates the Cork School of Music and Crawford College of Art and Design as constituent schools. The Cork College of Commerce is the largest post-Leaving Certificate College in Ireland and is also the biggest provider of Vocational Preparation and Training courses in the country. Other 3rd level institutions include Griffith College Cork which has been offering courses since 1884 and various other colleges. There is also a very large community of students from abroad, especially countries where Cork has twinned cities. The largest group of foreign students comes from China, Shanghai in particular. SportSee also: List of Cork people - SportsGaelic football, hurling and association football are popular sporting pastimes for Corkonians.Gaelic games Hurling is the most popular spectator sport in the city, and has a strong identity with city and county - with Cork winning 30 All-Ireland Championships, leading the table of Camogie Championship wins. Football is also popular, and Cork has won 6 Gaelic football titles. There are many Gaelic Athletic Association clubs in Cork City, including Glen Rovers Hurling Club and Nemo Rangers GAA. The main public venues are Páirc Uí Chaoimh and Páirc Uí Rinn (named for Christy Ring).Association football Cork City F.C. won the Eircom League in 2005 and also reached the Carlsberg FAI Cup final. They finished 4th in the 2006 season, qualifying for the UEFA Intertoto Cup. They also won the FAI Ford Cup in 2007. They play their home games at Turners Cross stadium on the south side of the city, and regularly attract the largest crowds in the league.RugbyRugby is played at various levels, from school to senior league level. There are two first division clubs in Cork city. Cork Constitution (2 time All Ireland League Champions) play their home games in Ballintemple and Dolphin R.F.C. play at home in Musgrave Park, Pearse Road and Ballyphehane. Other notable rugby clubs in the city include, Highfield, Sunday's Well and UCC. At schools level, Christian Brothers College and Presentation Brothers College are two of the country's better known rugby nurseries.Munster Rugby plays half of its home matches in the Celtic League at Musgrave Park in Ballyphehane. In the past Heineken Cup matches have also been played at Musgrave Park but now, due to capacity issues these are now played at Thomond Park in Limerick, although matches will be played at Musgrave Park again during the refurbishment of Thomond Park. In May 2006 and again in May 2008 Munster became the Heineken Cup Champions with many players hailing from Cork city and county.Water sportsThere are a variety of water sports in Cork. Rowing and Sailing have recently grown in popularity. There are five rowing clubs training on the river Lee. Naomhóga Chorcaí is a rowing club whose members row traditional naomhóga on the Lee in occasional competitions. The Ocean to City race, held in 2005 and again in 2007, saw teams and boats from many local and visiting clubs race for 24 km (15 mi) from Crosshaven to Cork city centre. The decision to move the National Rowing Center to Inniscarra has boosted numbers involved in the sport. Cork's maritime sailing heritage is maintained through its sailing clubs. The Royal Cork Yacht Club located in Crosshaven (outside the city) is the world's oldest yacht club, and Cork Week is a notable sailing event.Other sportsThere are Cork clubs active nationally in basketball (Neptune and UCC Demons) and golf, pitch and putt, hockey, tennis and athletics clubs in the Cork area. Cricket has long been played in the city. The city is also the home of road bowling, which is played in the north-side and south-west suburbs. Boxing and Martial arts, such as Karate and Taekwondo, also command a high level of practise within the city. Cork Racing races in the Irish Formula Ford Championship.Further readingMerchants, Mystics and Philanthropists - 350 Years of Cork Quakers Richard S. Harrison Published by Cork Monthly Meeting, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) 2006ReferencesExternal linksCork City Council site (including strategic plan and housing strategy)The Peoples Republic Of CorkArchitecture of CorkPort of CorkA Dictionary of Cork SlangENFO Publications - Medieval Cork    Category:Settlements established in the 6th century Category:Cities in the Republic of Ireland Category:Coastal settlements Category:Cork (city) Category:Port cities and towns in the Republic of Ireland Category:Towns and villages in County Cork Category:County towns in the Republic of Ireland Category:Viking Age settlementsar:كورك br:Korkig bg:Корк (град) ca:Cork cs:Cork cy:Corc da:Cork de:Cork et:Cork es:Cork eo:Cork eu:Cork fo:Cork fr:Cork ga:Corcaigh gd:Corcaigh gl:Cork - Corcaigh id:Cork is:Cork it:Cork he:קורק ka:კორკი la:Corcagia lv:Korka lt:Korkas hu:Cork mt:Cork nl:Cork (stad) ja:コーク (アイルランド) no:Cork nn:Cork pl:Cork pt:Cork ru:Корк simple:Cork (city) sk:Cork (mesto v Írsku) fi:Cork sv:Cork tpi:Cork uk:Корк vec:Cork vo:Corcaigh zh:科克