   N''' is the fourteenth letter in the Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled '''en ()."N" Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); "en," op. cit.History of the formsOne of the most common snake hieroglyph was used in Egyptian writing to stand for a sound like English 'J', because the Egyptian word for "snake" was djet. It is speculated that Semitic people working in Egypt adapted hieroglyphics to create the first alphabet, and that they used the same snake symbol to represent N, because their word for "snake" may have begun with that sound. However, the name for the letter in the Phoenician, Hebrew, Aramaic and Arabic alphabets is nun, which means "fish" in some of these languages. The sound value of the letter was  - as in Greek, Etruscan, Latin and all modern languages.Egyptian hieroglyph for 'J'Proto-Semitic NPhoenician NEtruscan NGreek NuD64x64px]]64x64px]]64x64px]]64x64px]]UsageN serves as a dental or alveolar nasal in virtually all languages that use the Latin alphabet. A common digraph with  is , which produces a velar nasal in a variety of languages, usually final in English. In languages like Italian and French,  represents a palatal nasal (). The Portuguese spelling for this sound is . In English, n'' is silent when it is preceded by an ''m, in words like hymn (although it is pronounced in words such as damnation).In the International Phonetic Alphabet, the lowercase  represents the alveolar nasal sound. A small capital  represents the uvular nasal.N is the second-most commonly used consonant in the English language (after T).Codes for computing In Unicode the capital N is codepoint U+004E and the lower case n is U+006E.The ASCII code for capital N is 78 and for lowercase n is 110; or in binary 01001110 and 01101110, correspondingly.The EBCDIC code for capital N is 213 and for lowercase n is 149.The numeric character references in HTML and XML are "&amp;#78;" and "&amp;#110;" for upper and lower case respectively.See alsoŃÑŇReferencesCategory:Latin lettersaf:N als:N ar:N arc:N ast:N az:N bs:N br:N (lizherenn) ca:N cs:N co:N cy:N da:N de:N el:N es:N eo:N eu:N fa:N fr:N (lettre) fur:N gan:N gd:N gl:N ko:N hr:N ilo:N is:N it:N he:N ka:N kw:N sw:N ht:N la:N lv:N lt:N hu:N ms:N mzn:N nah:N nl:N (letter) ja:N no:N nn:N nrm:N uz:N (harf) pl:N pt:N ro:N qu:N ru:N (латиница) se:N scn:N simple:N sk:N sl:N sr:N (слово латинице) fi:N sv:N tl:N th:N vi:N tr:N (harf) uk:N (латиниця) vo:N yo:N zh-yue:N bat-smg:N zh:N