 The Veiled Chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus), is a large species of chameleon found in the mountain regions of Yemen and Saudi Arabia. It is also sometimes referred to as the Yemen Chameleon..)]]The male veiled chameleon is green in color and, depending on mood, this green will range from a bright lime green to a red olive drab. The green base color is marked with stripes and spots of yellow, brown, and blue. Non breeding females and juvenile chameleons are generally a uniform green color with some white markings. Breeding and gravid females are a very dark green with blue and yellow spots. The prominence of these markings is dependent on several factors including health, mood, and temperature of the lizard.This species is sexually dimorphic, meaning it is possible to tell the gender of an individual by looking at physical traits. Aside from the previously mentioned color differences, adult male veiled chameleons are large animals. It is possible for them to reach an over all length of 24 inches (60&nbsp;cm). Most specimens usually reach between 14 to 18 inches (35-45&nbsp;cm). Females are smaller with the average overall length being just under 12 inches (30&nbsp;cm). Males and females both have a decorative growth called a "casque" on their heads. The casque of a male chameleon is much taller than the female's. Males also have a spur on each hind leg that the females do not have.Like most chameleons, veiled chameleons are specialized tree dwellers. They have a flattened body meant to mimic a leaf and feet specially designed for grasping limbs and branches. They have a prehensile tail that acts as a fifth appendage and aids in climbing. Their eyes work independently of one another allowing the chameleon to look in front of and behind itself at the same time. They have a long sticky tongue that they use to capture their insect prey. Veiled chameleons are ambush predators and are capable of lying still for very long periods of time waiting for an unsuspecting locust to wander by.Veiled Chameleons are omnivores. While their main diet consists of insects, they will occasionally consume the leaves and blossoms of various plants. This is especially true in times of drought when water is scarce. Like all chameleons, veiled chameleons prefer to drink water that is in drops. They do not always recognize standing water and may dehydrate if that is their only source.Female veiled chameleons can produce up to 3 clutches of eggs a year. Each clutch may contain 20-70 eggs. The eggs usually take 6-9 months to hatch. All the eggs in the same clutch will hatch simultaneously, as long as they are incubated together. Female veiled chameleons will produce multiple clutches of eggs, with one male encounter and produce infertile eggs when there is no male, similar to chickens.Veiled Chameleons are often kept in captivity due to the fact that they are relatively hardy when compared to other chameleon species often offered for sale.If you are thinking about keeping a veiled chameleon as a pet here are some things you will need to consider:they require a lot of maintenance, and are not recommended for first time lizard owners, so make sure you are able to meet their needs.veiled chameleons do not like being held -- it will stress them out, and possibly leading to your chameleon's death.if you are looking at getting multiple chameleons, you will need a separate cage for each, as they will fight for territory.they will grow fairly fast at a young age, and will need a bigger cage as they grow; so make sure you don't have them in a cage that is too small, and also make sure it has suitable heating and climbing structures (chameleons live in the trees and will almost never touch the ground unless hunting for food or digging to lay eggs).never keep an adult veiled chameleon in a glass cage, they can see their own reflection as well as they need air gusts to make them happy (open air case strongly advised).External linksThe Chameleon ForumsBasic and advance chameleon care and information @KeepingChameleons.comVeiled Chameleon Care SheetVeiled Chameleon information and careCategory:Chameleons Chameleon, Veiled Chameleon, Veiledcs:Chameleon jemenský da:Yemenkamæleon de:Jemenchamäleon eo:Chamaeleo calyptratus es:Chamaeleo calyptratus fr:Caméléon casqué nl:Jemenkameleon ja:エボシカメレオン pl:Kameleon jemeński