 | location = Los Angeles, California, United States | deathdate = | deathplace = | othername = | yearsactive = 1998–present | spouse = | homepage = | academyawards = | emmyawards = | tonyawards = Catherine Ann "Kate" BosworthHer middle name is "Ann" rather than "Anne". State of California. California Birth Index, 1905-1995. Center for Health Statistics, California Department of Health Services, Sacramento, California. Lists Catherine Ann Bosworth born January 2, 1983 in Los Angeles, California. At Ancestry.com (born January 2, 1983) is an American actress. She made her screen debut in Robert Redford's 1998 film The Horse Whisperer. Bosworth starred in the television series Young Americans, in which she played Bella Banks, though the series was not picked up for another season. She became well known with a leading role in 2002's Blue Crush. The following year, Bosworth played the teenage girlfriend of porn star John Holmes in Wonderland opposite Val Kilmer. In 2004, she portrayed Sandra Dee in Kevin Spacey's Beyond the Sea. Bosworth since appeared in several notable films, including Superman Returns, where she played Lois Lane, and 2008's blackjack drama film 21.In 2006, Bosworth made media headlines with a dramatically thinner appearance. She became part of a trend of young Hollywood actresses who have debuted thin bodies. The following year, however, photographs indicated that she went back to a healthy weight. In 2008, she became both Calvin Klein Jeans newest model and spokeswoman for Coach newest luxury bags. In her personal life, Bosworth has dated actors Matt Czuchry, from 2000 to 2002 and Orlando Bloom, from 2002 to 2005. She is dating English model turned singer-songwriter James Rousseau.BiographyEarly lifeBosworth was born January 2, 1983 in Los Angeles, California, the only child of Patricia (née Potter), a homemaker, and Hal Bosworth, a former executive for Talbots. She was born with sectoral heterochromia, resulting in a hazel section at the bottom of her right blue eye, while the left is completely blue. After leaving San Francisco at the age of six, Bosworth's family frequently moved around the country because of her father's job. She grew up mainly on the East Coast, spending the rest of her youth in Darien, Connecticut and Cohasset, Massachusetts.Bosworth has always been interested in a professional career as a competitive horse racer and, by the age of fourteen, she was a champion equestrian. While attending Cohasset High School from which she graduated in 2001, Bosworth learned to speak Spanish and was a member of the National Honor Society; she also played varsity soccer and lacrosse.CareerBosworth's first film role came after an open casting call in New York for the supporting part of Judith in the 1998 film, The Horse Whisperer. The film's producers needed someone who was already an experienced horse rider, leading to Bosworth's successful audition for the role. In 2000, she starred in the television series drama Young Americans, in which she played Bella Banks, a well-adjusted small town girl working at a gas station near an elite prep school. The series, however, was cancelled. That same year, she had a small part in the film Remember the Titans. In 2001, Bosworth moved to Los Angeles in hopes of obtaining easier access to auditions and better film parts. Her first leading role was in 2002's surfing movie Blue Crush, which she prepared for by working out with two separate trainers six hours a day for months in order to add fifteen pounds of muscle to her frame. The film received positive reviews and grossed $40 million at the United States box office, allowing Bosworth wider exposure to a mainstream audience.After Blue Crush, Bosworth took on roles in the indie films The Rules of Attraction and a darker turn in Wonderland opposite Val Kilmer, where she played the teenage girlfriend of porn star John Holmes. Between 2002 and 2005, Bosworth appeared in a number of widely released films. She starred as actress Sandra Dee in Beyond the Sea and played the lead role in Win a Date with Tad Hamilton!, opposite Topher Grace. Bosworth also portrayed Chali, a Hare Krishna, in a film adaptation of Myla Goldberg's acclaimed novel Bee Season, about a dysfunctional Jewish family. She has appeared in several Revlon ads and ranked as #60 in FHM's "100 Sexiest Women in the World 2005" list. For two years running, she has placed on the Maxim Hot 100 List – #38 in 2005 and #8 in 2006.After going through many screen tests and competing with other actresses for the role, she was cast as reporter Lois Lane in the highly anticipated adaptation to the Superman comics, Superman Returns. She starred along with her Beyond the Sea co-star Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor, as well as newcomer Brandon Routh as Superman.Bosworth starred in the psychological drama called The Girl in the Park with Sigourney Weaver, Alessandro Nivola and Keri Russell. She plays Louise, a troubled young girl taken under Weaver's character's wing. The Girl in the Park was written and directed by Pulitzer Prize winner David Auburn in his directorial debut. The film premiered at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival, it has since been picked up by The Weinstein Company.Bosworth also filmed 21, an adaptation of the book Bringing Down the House, in early 2007 in Boston, Massachusetts and Las Vegas, Nevada. This film reunites her with co-star/director Kevin Spacey and director Robert Luketic. She recently wrapped the epic Laundry Warrior in New Zealand alongside Korean star Jang Dong-gun and Geoffrey Rush. Bosworth is attached to star in After.Life, a supernatural thriller by writer/director Agnieszka Wojtowicz-Vosloo. She has also optioned the film rights to Catherine Hanrahan's novel Lost Girls and Love Hotels, about a young woman looking to escape in Tokyo's seedy nightlife. She will produce the project alongside filmmaker Nadia Connors. She has said about her roles, "I just don't do comfort zones."In January 2008, Bosworth was named the new face for Calvin Klein Jeans and will be featured in the Calvin Klein Jeans campaign. She also takes on the role of spokesperson for American luxury bag brand Coach in Asia.Personal lifeBosworth was accepted to Princeton University in late 2000, but due to continual deferral of her attendance her acceptance was later revoked. She is also a member of the Appalachia Service Project.Bosworth dated actor Matt Czuchry, whom she met on the set of their short-lived television series, Young Americans. Their relationship lasted from 2000 to 2002. Then, in late 2002, she began dating actor Orlando Bloom. The two met outside a coffee shop and were introduced to each other by a friend, before meeting again at the premiere of The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers. Bosworth and Bloom separated in 2005. Bosworth has been dating British model James Rousseau since September 2006 after meeting him at the Marc Jacobs after party. An aspiring musician, Rousseau wrote the song "To Make You Mine" for her.In late 2006, Bosworth made headlines with her extremely thin appearance. She became part of a trend of young Hollywood actresses who have debuted new thin bodies.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt; In early 2007, after Bosworth turned up at a charity event and was then photographed vacationing in Hawaii the media took note of her return to a healthy weight.Bosworth has two cats, Louise and Dusty, and a dog named Lila, whom she adopted while on a 2004 vacation in Morocco. She has noted that although equestrianism is her hobby, she has been unable to practice it, because of the potential risk of injury involved affecting her film career.FilmographyYearMovieRoleNotes and Awards1998The Horse WhispererJudith2000Remember the TitansEmma HoytYoung Americans]]''Bella BanksTelevision seriesThe NewcomersCourtney DochertyDirect-to-video2002The Rules of Attraction]]''KellyBlue CrushAnne Marie Chadwick2003Advantage HartTrinity MontageShort film]]Wonderland]]''Dawn Schiller2004Beyond the Sea]]''Sandra DeeWin a Date with Tad Hamilton!Rosalee Fitch2005Bee Season]]''Chali2006Superman ReturnsLois Lane2007The Girl In The ParkLouise200821]]''Jill TaylorLaundry WarriorLynnePost-production]]2009After.LifeAnnaPre-Production]]ReferencesExternal links[http://www.mensvogue.com/arts/women/articles/2008/04/bosworth Men's Vogue April 2008 article] Category:1983 births Category:Living people Category:American film actors Category:American television actors Category:California actors Category:American child actors Category:Massachusetts actors Category:People from Darien, Connecticut Category:People from Los Angeles, California Category:People from Norfolk County, Massachusetts Category:People with heterochromiaar:كايت بوسورث de:Kate Bosworth es:Kate Bosworth fr:Kate Bosworth gv:Kate Bosworth it:Kate Bosworth nl:Kate Bosworth ja:ケイト・ボスワース pl:Kate Bosworth pt:Kate Bosworth sr:Кејт Бозворт fi:Kate Bosworth sv:Kate Bosworth tr:Kate Bosworth zh:凱特·伯斯沃斯