Diplodocids, or members of the family Diplodocidae ("double beams"), are a group of sauropod dinosaurs. The family includes some of the longest creatures ever to walk the earth, including Diplodocus and Supersaurus, which may have reached lengths of up to 34 m (112 ft.), and the gigantic Amphicoelias, known from a single vertebrae representing an individual that may have exceeded 40 meters (131 ft) or reached 60 (201 ft).Description'', depicted with spines limited to the mid-line of the back.]]  While still massive, when compared to the titanosaurids and brachiosaurs, the diplodocids were relatively slender but extremely long. They had short legs, making them the "dachshund" of giant dinosaurs; and their rear legs were longer than front legs, giving their back a distinctive downward slope towards the neck. In the early 1990s, a diplodocid specimen was described with a row of keratinous (horny, not bony) spines running down the base of the tail. Further finds have shown that rather than forming a spiny ridge down the back (as in modern reptiles like the iguana), these spines were more uniformly distributed over the animal's torso. Since dermal tissue is rarely preserved in the fossil record it is not known how widespread the feature is, but spines may have been a common feature among diplodocids.Their necks were also extremely long, and according to recent computer simulations they may not have been able to lift their necks like other sauropods. Instead of reaching up into trees, they may have used their necks to graze over a broad area. They may also have used their necks to reach into dense stands of conifers, or over marshy ground.Like other sauropods, their heads were tiny with the nasal openings on the top of the head (though in life the nostrils themselves would have been close to the tip of the snout). Their teeth were only present in the front of the mouth, and looked like pencils or pegs. They probably used their teeth to crop off food, without chewing, and relied on gastroliths (gizzard stones) to break down tough plant fibers (similar to modern birds).Diplodocids also had long, whip-like tails, which were thick at the base and tapered off to be very thin at the end. Computer simulations have shown that the diplodocids could have easily snapped their tails, like a bullwhip. This could generate a sonic boom in excess of 200 decibels, and may have been used in mating displays, or to drive off predators. There is some circumstantial evidence supporting this as well: A number of diplodocids have been found with fused or damaged tail vertebrae (bones in the spine), which may be a symptom of cracking their tails.ClassificationThe rather dubious but spectactularly long Amphicoelias may also be a member of this family;Carpenter, K. (2006). "Biggest of the big: a critical re-evaluation of the mega-sauropod Amphicoelias fragillimus." In Foster, J.R. and Lucas, S.G., eds., 2006, Paleontology and Geology of the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation. New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science Bulletin 36: 131-138.https://scientists.dmns.org/sites/kencarpenter/PDFs%20of%20publications/Amphicoelias.pdf though it is sometimes classified as an incertae sedis (unknown) member of the parent clade, the Diplodocoidea. Not enough is known about the genus to classify it more precisely. 
         
     |label2=Diplodocinae
     |2=
      
   Cladogram of the Diplodocidae after Lovelace, Hartman, and Wahl, 2008. Family DiplodocidaeAmphicoeliasAustralodocusCetiosauriscusCharig, A.J. (1980). "A diplodocid sauropod from the Lower Cretaceous of England." Pp. 231-244 in L.L. Jacobs (ed.), Aspects of Vertebrate History: Essays in Honor of Edwin Harris Colbert. Museum of Northern Arizona Press: Flagstaff.DinheirosaurusBonaparte, J.F., and Mateus, O. (1999). "A new diplodocid, Dinheirosaurus lourinhanensis gen. et sp. nov., from the Late Jurassic beds of Portugal". Revista del Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales, 5(2): 13-29.Subfamily ApatosaurinaeApatosaurusSupersaurusSuuwasseaSubfamily DiplodocinaeBarosaurusDiplodocusReferencesExternal linksCracking the whip, from the NewScientist.Ivan Peterson's Whips and Dinosaur Tails.Skeletal restorations of several diplodocids, from Scott Hartman's Skeletal Drawing website.Category:Diplodocoidsca:Diplodòcid de:Diplodocidae es:Diplodocidae fr:Diplodocidae it:Diplodocidae he:דיפלודוקיים lt:Diplodocidae hu:Diplodocidae nl:Diplodocidae pl:Diplodoki pt:Diplodocidae sv:Diplodocider zh:梁龍科