  A mammoth is any species of the extinct genus Mammuthus. These proboscideans are members of the elephant family and close relatives of modern elephants. They were often equipped with long curved tusks and, in northern species, a covering of long hair. They lived from the Pliocene epoch from 4.8 million years ago to around 4,500 years ago.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; The word ''mammoth'' comes from the  [[Russian language|Russian]] мамонт ''mamont'', probably in turn from the [[Mansi language|Vogul (Mansi) language]].&lt;ref&gt;''Oxford English Dictionary:Mammoth'' (2000).&lt;/ref&gt;ExtinctionThe woolly mammoth was the last species of the genus. Most populations of the woolly mammoth in North America and Eurasia died out at the end of the last Ice Age. Until recently, it was generally assumed that the last woolly mammoths vanished from Europe and Southern Siberia about 10,000 BC, but new findings show that some were still present here about 8,000 BC. Only slightly later, the woolly mammoths also disappeared from continental Northern Siberia.Anthony J. Stuart, Leopold D. Sulerzhitsky, Lyobov A. Orlova, Yaroslav V. Kuzmin and Adrian M. Lister: The latest woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius Blumenbach) in Europe and Asia: a review of the current evidence Quaternary Science Reviews Volume 21, Issues 14-15, August 2002, Pages 1559-1569online Wooly mammoths as well as Columbian mammoths disappeared from the North American continent at the end of the ice age. A small population survived on St. Paul Island, Alaska, up until 6000 BC, and the small mammoths of Wrangel Island became extinct only around 2000 BC.&lt;/ref&gt;A definitive explanation for their mass extinction is yet to be agreed upon. About 12,000 years ago, warmer, wetter weather was beginning to take hold. Rising sea levels swamped the coastal regions. Forests replaced open woodlands and grasslands across the continent. The Ice Age was ebbing. As their habitats disappeared, so did the bison and the mammoth.Whether the general mammoth population died out for climatic reasons or due to overhunting by humans is controversial. Another theory suggests that mammoths may have fallen victim to an infectious disease. A combination of climate change and hunting by humans is the most likely explanation for their extinction.New data derived from studies done on living elephants (see Levy 2006) suggests that though human hunting may not have been the primary cause for the mammoth's final extinction, human hunting was likely a strong contributing factor. Homo erectus is known to have consumed mammoth meat as early as 1.8 million years ago (Levy 2006: 295).However, the American Institute of Biological Sciences also notes that bones of dead elephants, left on the ground and subsequently trampled by other elephants, tend to bear marks resembling butchery marks, which have previously been misinterpreted as such by archaeologists.The survival of the dwarf mammoths on Russia's Wrangel Island was because the island was very remote and uninhabited in the early Holocene period. The actual island was not discovered by modern civilization until the 1820s by American whalers. A similar dwarfing occurred with the Pygmy Mammoth on the outer Channel Islands of California, but at an earlier period. Those animals were very likely killed by early Paleo-Native Americans, and habitat loss caused by a rising sea level that split the Santa Rosae into the outer Channel Islands.Thomas Jefferson, well-versed in the natural sciences, suggested to Lewis and Clark that they might find mammoth fossils during their explorations of the American West.Size, at Ipswich Museum, Ipswich, Suffolk]] ) at The Mammoth Site, Hot Springs, South Dakota.]] Like their modern relative the elephant, mammoths were quite large; in English the noun "mammoth" has become an adjective meaning "huge" or "massive". The largest known species, the Imperial Mammoth of California, reached heights of at least 5&nbsp;metres (16 feet) at the shoulder. Mammoths would probably normally weigh in the region of 6&nbsp;to&nbsp;8&nbsp;tonnes, but exceptionally large males may have exceeded 12&nbsp;tonnes. A  long mammoth tusk was discovered north of Lincoln, Illinois in 2005.[http://dnr.state.il.us/pubaffairs/2006/August/woolly.htm Recently discovered long Woolly Mammoth tusk on display at the Illinois State Museum] Illinois Department of Natural Resources press release, August 14, 2006  However, most species of mammoth were only about as large as a modern Asian Elephant. Fossils of species of dwarf mammoth have been found on the Californian Channel Islands (Mammuthus exilis) and the Mediterranean island of Sardinia (Mammuthus lamarmorae). There was also a race of dwarf woolly mammoths on Wrangel Island, north of Siberia, within the Arctic Circle.Based on studies of their close relatives the modern elephants, mammoths probably had a gestation period of 22 months, resulting in a single calf being born. Their social structure was probably the same as that of African and Asian elephants, with females living in herds headed by a matriarch, whilst bulls lived solitary lives or formed loose groups after sexual maturity.Well preserved specimensIn May 2007, the carcass of a six-month-old female woolly mammoth calf was discovered in a layer of permafrost near the Yuribei River in Russia, where it had been buried for 37,000 years. Alexei Tikhonov, the Russian Academy of Science's Zoological Institute's deputy director, has dismissed the prospect of cloning the animal, as the whole cells required for cloning would have burst under the freezing conditions. DNA is expected to be well enough preserved to be useful, however, for research on mammoth phylogeny and perhaps physiology.See alsoElephantMastodonPleistocene ParkLa Brea Tar Pits - cluster of tar pits located in California, USA==References== (2006): A nuclear DNA phylogeny of the woolly mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius). Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 40 (2) 620–627.  (HTML abstract). Supplemental data available to subscribers. (2006): Clashing with Titans. BioScience 56(4): 292-298. DOI:10.1641/0006-3568(2006)56292:CWT2.0.CO;2 PDF fulltext (1994): Mammoths. MacMillan, London. ISBN 0-02-572985-3 (2005): Twilight of the mammoths: Ice Age extinctions and the rewilding of America. University of California Press, Berkeley. ISBN 0-520-23141-4 (1885): The Lenape Stone or The Indian and the Mammoth. DjVu fulltext PDF fulltext (2001): Mammoth: The resurrection of an Ice Age giant. Fourth Estate, London. ISBN 1-84115-518-7FootnotesExternal links  &quot;Mammoth find. New evidence links Siberian, North American mammals&quot;, Little Mammoth from North America found in Siberia, in Canada National Post, September 05, 2008."The Mammoth Story" by Grant Keddie - an article on the Royal British Columbia Museum websiteMammoth Site of Hot Springs, South Dakota"The Great Mammoth Hoax"BBC: Mammoth skeleton found in Siberia&quot;Back from the dead&quot;: A feature on efforts to clone mammoths back from extinction, Cosmos Magazine, 6 December 2006.Humans not responsible for mammoth extinctionThe Waco Mammoth SiteWenas Creek Mammoth Site The Wenas Creek Mammoth Project is a Central Washington University (CWU) scientific investigation of mammoth bones found on private land in the Wenas Creek Valley near Selah, WashingtonWestern Center for Archaeology and Paleontology Hemet, CaliforniaCategory:Pleistocene extinctions Category:Pleistocene mammals Category:Prehistoric elephants Category:Prehistoric mammals of Europe Category:Extinct animals of the United States  ar:ماموث zh-min-nan:Mammoth bs:Mamut br:Mammout bg:Мамут ca:Mamut cs:Mamut cy:Mamoth da:Mammut de:Mammuts et:Mammut el:Μαμούθ es:Mammuthus eo:Mamuto eu:Mamut (animalia) fr:Mammouth gd:Mamot gl:Mamut zh-classical:長毛象 ko:매머드 hr:Mamuti io:Mamuto id:Mamut ia:Mammut is:Loðfíll it:Mammuthus primigenius he:ממותה jv:Mamut kn:ಮ್ಯಾಮತ್ la:Mammuthus lt:Mamutas hu:Mamut ml:മാമോത്ത് nah:Elepantzoyotl nl:Mammoeten ja:マンモス no:Mammuter nn:Mammut oc:Mamot pl:Mamut pt:Mamute ro:Mamut qu:Mamut ru:Мамонты simple:Mammoth sk:Mamut sr:Мамут sh:Mamut stq:Mammute fi:Mammutit sv:Mammutar tl:Mammuthus th:ช้างแมมมอธ vi:Voi ma mút tr:Mamut uk:Мамут ur:جسام zh-yue:長毛象 zh:猛犸象