  |language=EnglishEsperanto |budget=$36 million |gross=$12,532,777 |website=http://www.sonypictures.com/homevideo/gattaca/?hs308=email |imdb_id=0119177 |amg_id=1:158677 Gattaca is a 1997 science fiction drama film written and directed by Andrew Niccol, starring Ethan Hawke, Uma Thurman and Jude Law with supporting roles played by Loren Dean, Gore Vidal and Alan Arkin. The film was a 1997 nominee for the Academy Award for Best Art Direction - Set Decoration.The film presents a biopunk vision of a society driven by liberal eugenics.NEUROETHICS | The Narrative Perspectives&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Illusion&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Children of the middle and upper classes are selected through preimplantation genetic diagnosis to ensure they possess the best hereditary traits of their parents. A genetic registry database uses biometrics to instantly identify and classify those so created as valids while those conceived by traditional means are derisively known as faith births, god children and in-valids. While genetic discrimination is forbidden by law, in practice it is easy to profile one's genotype resulting in the Valids qualifying for professional employment while the In-Valids who are susceptible to disease are relegated to menial jobs. The movie draws on concerns over reproductive technologies which facilitate eugenics, and the possible consequences of such technological developments for society. It also explores the idea of destiny and the ways in which it can and does govern lives. Characters in Gattaca continually battle both with society and with themselves to find their place in the world and who they are destined to be according to their genes.The title is based on the initial letters of the four DNA nucleotides (adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine).PlotIn "the not-too-distant" future, where genetic engineering of humans is common and DNA plays the primary role in determining social class, Vincent (Ethan Hawke) is conceived and born without the aid of this technology. Suffering from the nearly eradicated physical dysfunctions of myopia and a congenital heart defect, as well as being given a life expectancy of 30.2 years, Vincent faces extreme genetic discrimination and prejudice. The only way he can achieve his life-long dream of becoming an astronaut is to break the law and impersonate a "valid", a person with appropriate genetic advantage.He assumes the identity of Jerome Eugene Morrow (Jude Law), a former swimming star who, despite a genetic profile "second to none", won only a silver medal in a high-profile competition. He then attempted to commit suicide by jumping in front of a car, but again fell short of his goal in that he only succeeded in paralyzing himself from the waist down. However, as the incident occurred outside the country, no one knows of his newly acquired disability. Thus, Vincent can "buy" his identity with no one the wiser. Though he requires orthopedic surgery to increase his height, persistant practice to favor his right hand instead of his left, and contact lenses to replace his glasses while matching Jerome's eyes, he can use his "valid" DNA in blood, tissue and urine samples to pass any genetic test - as long as he takes extreme measures to leave no traces of his identity as an "in-valid". But, where he was once an object of scorn and pity, he is now a perpetrator of an unspeakable fraud. Legally, exposure would only subject him to fines, but socially the consequences would be far more extreme - he is now a heretic against the new order of genetic determinism. Vincent is now a "borrowed ladder" (a reference to the ladder structure of an un-coiled DNA strand) or in harsher language, a de-gene-erate.With Jerome's impressive genetic profile he easily gains access to the Gattaca Aerospace Corporation (his interview consists entirely of a urine test), the most prestigious space-flight conglomerate of the day. With his own equally impressive determination, he quickly becomes the company's ace celestial navigator. But a week before Vincent is scheduled to leave for Saturn's moon Titan, the mission director is murdered, and evidence of Vincent's own "in-valid" DNA is found in the building in the form of an eyelash. The presence of this unexpected DNA attracts the attention of the police, and Vincent must evade ever-increasing security as his mission launch date approaches and he pursues a relationship with his co-worker Irene Cassini (Uma Thurman).After numerous close calls, the investigation eventually comes to a close as Director Josef (Gore Vidal) is arrested for the murder by the lead detective covering the investigation (Alan Arkin). The Director reveals that he murdered the mission director in order to buy time for the mission to launch, because the window of opportunity for the launch is only open once every seventy years, and that it is now too late to stop the launch. However, just as Vincent appears to be in the clear, he is confronted by one of the detectives, who is revealed as Vincent's estranged brother, Anton (Loren Dean). Anton tries to convince Vincent to go with him for protection before Vincent is found out. However, it soon becomes apparent that Anton is acting more out of insecurity and is more concerned with how Vincent had managed to get the better of him, despite his supposed genetic superiority. Vincent and Anton settle their competition as they did when they were children, by seeing who could swim out into the ocean farthest. As he did once before when they were young, Vincent manages to beat his brother, and, once again, saves him from drowning. This is simply because he refused to save any strength to swim back - he is willing to risk everything to succeed. Conversely his brother worried about preserving enough strength to swim out and return again, and these fears kept him from testing his true limits.Anton: "Vincent! How are you doing this, Vincent? How have you done ''any of this? We have to go back!"'' Vincent: "It's too late for that, we're closer to the other side." Anton: "What other side? Do you want to drown us both‽" Vincent: "You want to know how I did it? This is how I did it, Anton. I never saved anything for the swim back."As the day of the launch finally arrives, Jerome bids Vincent farewell and says that he intends to travel too. He reveals that he has stored enough genetic samples to last Vincent two lifetimes. Overwhelmed and grateful, Vincent thanks Jerome for "lending" him the identity that has allowed his success at Gattaca. Jerome replies, however, that it is he who should be grateful, since Vincent lent Jerome his dreams. As Vincent moves through the Gattaca complex to the launch site, he is stopped for an unexpected DNA test. Vincent reluctantly agrees to take the test, even though he has none of Jerome's genetic material to hide his identity. The test result uncovers Vincent's "in-valid" status, and the doctor, Lamar, reveals that he has known Vincent's true identity all along, saying: "For future reference, right-handed men don't hold it with their left. Just one of those things". Lamar then alters the test result to allow him to proceed regardless, confessing that his son admires Vincent, and wants to be an astronaut just like him, despite an unforeseen genetic defect that would already rule him out. As the shuttle lifts off, Jerome is shown committing suicide inside his home incinerator, wearing his silver medal, which turns gold in the flames.The story centers on the irony of the perfect Jerome failing to succeed despite being given every advantage while the imperfect Vincent transcends his deficiencies through force of will and spirit. A milder version of the disorder that afflicts Vincent prevents Irene from taking part in space flight. This dichotomy shows how the eugenic policy in Gattaca and the world in which it is set adversely affect the humanity of both Vincent and Jerome, as well as the "invalid" and "valid" humans they represent. A coda, cut from the final film, lists various people who have succeeded despite genetic deficiencies (and would be excluded in the modern society of Gattaca), such as Albert Einstein and Abraham Lincoln.ProductionDevelopmentFilmingDesignMusic http://www.allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&amp;sql=10:a9fuxqyjld0eFilmtracks  http://www.filmtracks.com/titles/gattaca.html |Compiler= |Chronology= |Last album=Concertos1997 |This album=Gattaca1997 |Next album=The Suit and the Photograph1998 |Misc=    Track listingThe Morrow 3:13God's Hands 1:42The One Moment 1:40Traces 1:00The Arrival 3:53Becoming Jerome 1:06Call Me Eugene 1:24A Borrowed Ladder 1:47Further and Further 2:43Not the Only One 2:14Second Morrow 2:24Impromptu for 12 Fingers 2:55 (from Franz Schubert's "Impromptu in G-flat Major, Op. 90, No. 3")The Crossing 1:24It Must Be the Light 1:23Only a Matter of Time 1:07I Thought You Wanted to Dance 1:13Irene's Theme 1:09Yourself for the Day 2:20Up Stairs 2:02Now That You're Here 2:44The Truth 2:13The Other Side 3:44The Departure 3:51Irene & The Morrow 5:44PersonnelMusic composed and conducted by Michael Nyman"Twelve Fingered" Pianist: Ryan Dorin and Michael Langengineered and mixed by John Richards at Sony Scoring Stage, Culver City, CAAssistant engineer: Sue McLeanMusic editor: Bunny AndrewsMusic contractor: Sandy DeCrescentMusic preparation: Susie KatayamaDesign: Jean KrikorianPhotography: Darren MichaelsMichael Nyman photo: Sheila RockSpecial thanks to Cynthia Biamon, Nigel Barr, Ian Amos, Mike Lang, Susan Read, Derek Power, Bunny Andrews, and Andrew NiccolCast and crewEthan Hawke as Vincent FreemanUma Thurman as Irene CassiniJude Law as Jerome Eugene MorrowGore Vidal as Director JosefXander Berkeley as Dr. LamarJayne Brook as Marie FreemanElias Koteas as Antonio FreemanLoren Dean as Antonio "Anton" FreemanMaya Rudolph as Delivery NurseBlair Underwood as GeneticistErnest Borgnine as head janitor "Caesar"Tony Shalhoub as personality trader "German"Alan Arkin as Detective HugoMajor themesThe film's themes include personal identity, courage, friendship, love, hope, the burden of perfection, sacrifice, sibling rivalry, society and control, fate, and whether human nature and the human spirit can be defined or limited by DNA.ReleaseTheatricalHome media==Critical reception==  Despite critical acclaim, Gattaca was not a box office success but it is said to have crystallized the debate over tampering with human genetics. The film's dystopian depiction of "genoism" has been cited by many bioethicists and laymen in support of their hesitancy about, or opposition to, liberal eugenics and the societal acceptance of the genetic-determinist ideology that may frame it. In a 1997 review of the film for the journal Nature Genetics, molecular biologist Lee M. Silver stated that "Gattaca is a film that all geneticists should see if for no other reason than to understand the perception of our trade held by so many of the public-at-large".However, in 2004, bioethicist James Hughes explicitly criticized the premise and influence of the film Gattaca by arguing that:Astronaut-training programs are entirely justified in attempting to screen out people with heart problems for safety reasons;In the United States, people are already discriminated against by insurance companies on the basis of their propensities to disease despite the fact that genetic enhancement is not yet available;Rather than banning genetic testing or genetic enhancement, society needs genetic information privacy laws that allow justified forms of genetic testing and data aggregation, but forbid those that are judged to result in genetic discrimination (such as the U.S. Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act signed into law on May 21, 2008.). Citizens should then be able to make a complaint to the appropriate authority if they believe they have been discriminated against because of their genotype.ReferencesExternal linksGattaca at Sony – Official film site, Accessed March 8, 2008.Category:1997 films Category:American films Category:English-language films Category:Esperanto-language films Category:Dystopian films Category:Eugenics in fiction Category:Films set in the future Category:Films shot in Super 35 Category:Philosophical films Category:Psychological science fiction films Category:Tech-noir filmsde:Gattaca es:Gattaca eo:Gattaca fa:گاتاکا fr:Bienvenue à Gattaca gl:Gattaca ko:가타카 it:Gattaca - La porta dell'universo he:מה קרה בגטקה? nl:Gattaca ja:ガタカ no:Gattaca pl:Gattaca pt:Gattaca ro:Gattaca ru:Гаттака sv:Gattaca