 Lutetium () is a chemical element with the symbol Lu and atomic number 71. A silvery-white rare metal, lutetium is the heaviest member of the rare-earth group.Parker, Sybil P., ed. Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms. 3rd ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1984.  One of its radioactive isotopes is used in nuclear technology to determine the age of meteorites.American Heritage. The American Heritage Science Dictionary. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 2005. Lutetium usually occurs in association with yttrium and is sometimes used in metal alloys and as a catalyst in various processes. A strict correlation between periodic table blocks and chemical series for neutral atoms would describe lutetium as a transition metal because it is in the d-block, but it is a lanthanide according to IUPAC.IUPAC Provisional Recommendations for the Nomenclature of Inorganic Chemistry (2004) (online draft of an updated version of the "Red Book" IR 3-6)== Characteristics and applications== Lutetium is a silvery white corrosion-resistant trivalent metal that is relatively stable in air. Lutetium is the heaviest and hardest of the rare earth elements. Lutetium has the highest melting point of any lanthanide, probably related to the lanthanide contraction.This element is very expensive to obtain in useful quantities and therefore it has very few commercial uses. However, stable lutetium can be used as catalysts in petroleum cracking in refineries and can also be used in alkylation, hydrogenation, and polymerization applications.Lutetium-176 (176Lu) has been used to date the age of meteorites.Lutetium aluminium garnet (Al5Lu3O12) has been proposed for use as a lens material in high refractive index immersion lithography.Lutetium-177 (177Lu), when bound to Octreotate (a somatostatin analogue), is used experimentally in targeted radionuclide therapy for neuroendocrine tumours.Cerium-doped lutetium oxyorthosilicate (LSO) is currently the preferred compound for detectors in positron emission tomography (PET.) Thompson CJ. Instrumentation. In: Wahl RL,ed. Principles and Practice of Positron Emission Tomography. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins, 2002:51.== History == Lutetium (Latin Lutetia meaning Paris) was independently discovered in 1907 by French scientist Georges Urbain, Austrian mineralogist Baron Carl Auer von Welsbach, and American chemist Charles James. Separation of Rare Earth Elements&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; All of these men found lutetium as an impurity in the mineral ytterbia which was thought by Swiss chemist Jean Charles Galissard de Marignac (and most others) to consist entirely of the element ytterbium.The separation of lutetium from Marignac's ytterbium was first described by Urbain and the naming honor therefore went to him. He chose the names neoytterbium (new ytterbium) and lutecium for the new element but neoytterbium was eventually reverted back to ytterbium and in 1949 the spelling of element 71 was changed to lutetium.The dispute on the priority of the discovery is documented in two articles in which Urbain and von Welsbach accuse each other of publishing results influenced by the published research of the other.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;The Commission on Atomic Mass, which was responsible for the attribution of the names for the new elements, settled the disputed in 1909 by granting priority to Urbain and adopting his names as official ones. An obvious problem with this decision was that Urbain was one of the four members of the commission.Welsbach proposed the names cassiopium for element 71 (after the constellation Cassiopeia) and aldebaranium for the new name of ytterbium but these naming proposals were rejected (although many German scientists in the 1950s called the element 71 cassiopium).The irony of all this is that Charles James, who had modestly stayed out of the argument as to priority, worked on a much larger scale than the others, and undoubtedly possessed the largest supply of lutetium at the time.As a result of the development of practical ion-exchange separation technology in 1954, lutetium oxide became commercially available in significant quantities for the first time shortly thereafter. In their January 20, 1959 price list, the Lindsay Chemical Division of American Potash and Chemical Corporation was offering lutetium oxide of 99% purity at 1200 dollars per pound, and 99.9% purity at 1500 dollars per pound - derived from South African "rock" monazite. The minimum order quantity was one gram, priced at $5.30 or $6.70, respectively. In modern times, the rare earth specialty sources have been pricing kilogram quantities of lutetium oxide at somewhat more than a dollar per gram.== Occurrence == Found with almost all other rare-earth metals but never by itself, lutetium is very difficult to separate from other elements. Consequently, it is also one of the most expensive metals, costing about six times as much as gold.The principal commercially viable ore of lutetium is the rare earth phosphate mineral monazite: (Ce, La, etc.) PO4 which contains 0.003% of the element. Pure lutetium metal has only relatively recently been isolated and is very difficult to prepare (thus it is one of the rarest and most expensive of the rare earth metals). It is separated from other rare earth elements by ion exchange and then obtained in the elemental form by reduction of anhydrous LuCl3 or LuF3 by either an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal.== Isotopes ==  Naturally occurring lutetium is composed of 1 stable isotope 175Lu (97.41% natural abundance) and 1 long-lived beta-radioactive isotope 176Lu with a half-life of 3.78&times;1010 years (2.59% natural abundance). The last one is used in the radiometric dating (see Lutetium-hafnium dating). 33 radioisotopes have been characterized, with the most stable being naturally occurring 176Lu, and artificial isotopes 174Lu with a half-life of 3.31 years, and 173Lu with a half-life of 1.37 years. All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 9 days, and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than a half an hour. This element also has 18 meta states, with the most stable being 177mLu (T''½=160.4 days), 174mLu (''T½=142 days) and 178mLu (T½=23.1 minutes).The known isotopes of lutetium range in atomic weight from 149.973 (150Lu) to 183.961 (184Lu). The primary decay mode before the most abundant stable isotope, 175Lu, is electron capture (with some alpha and positron emission), and the primary mode after is beta emission. The primary decay products before 175Lu are element 70 (ytterbium) isotopes and the primary products after are element 72 (hafnium) isotopes.ApplicationsLutetium is very expensive (upwards of $100 per gram) to obtain in useful quantities and therefore it has very few commercial uses. Some commercial applications include:Use as a pure beta emitter, using lutetium which has been exposed to neutron activation. A tiny amount of lutetium is added as a dopant to gadolinium gallium garnet (GGG), which is used in magnetic bubble memory devices.Use as a catalyst in the petroleum industry, or in organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs).Research into possible uses for targeted radiotherapy for the development of new cancer therapies.Cerium-doped lutetium orthosilicate (Lu2SiO5:Ce), known as LSO, is a scintillator used mainly for Positron Emission Tomography.==Compounds== Fluoride: LuF&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Chloride: LuCl&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Bromide: LuBr&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Iodide: LuI&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Oxide: Lu&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;O&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Sulfide: Lu&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt;S&lt;sub&gt;3&lt;/sub&gt;, Nitride: LuNIntermetalic compounds:Lutetium aluminium garnetSee also lutetium compounds.== Precautions == Like other rare-earth metals lutetium is regarded as having a low degree of toxicity but it and especially its compounds should be handled with care nonetheless. Metal dust of this element is a fire and explosion hazard. Lutetium plays no biological role in the human body but is thought to help stimulate metabolism.NotesReferencesGuide to the Elements - Revised Edition, Albert Stwertka, (Oxford University Press; 1998) ISBN 0-19-508083-1Los Alamos National Laboratory's Chemistry Division: Periodic Table - LutetiumExternal links WebElements.com - Lutetium (also used as a reference)It's Elemental - Lutetiumpure Lutetium &gt;99,9% picture in the element collection from Heinrich Pniok Category:Chemical elements Category:Lanthanides Category:Transition metals af:Lutetium ar:لوتيتيوم bn:লুটেটিয়াম be:Лютэцый bs:Lutecijum ca:Luteci cs:Lutecium co:Luteziu cy:Lwtetiwm da:Lutetium de:Lutetium et:Luteetsium el:Λουτήτιο es:Lutecio eo:Lutecio eu:Lutezio fr:Lutécium fur:Lutezi gv:Lootaiçhum gl:Lutecio ko:루테튬 hy:Լուտեցիում hr:Lutecij io:Lutecio id:Lutesium is:Lútetín it:Lutezio he:לוטציום jv:Lutetium kn:ಲ್ಯುಟೇಶಿಯಮ್ ht:Litesyòm ku:Lûtesyûm la:Lutetium lv:Lutēcijs lb:Lutetium lt:Lutecis jbo:jinmrluteti hu:Lutécium ml:ലുറ്റീഷ്യം nl:Lutetium ja:ルテチウム no:Lutetium nn:Lutetium pl:Lutet pt:Lutécio ru:Лютеций scn:Lutezziu simple:Lutetium sk:Lutécium sl:Lutecij sr:Лутецијум sh:Lutecijum fi:Lutetium sv:Lutetium th:ลูทีเทียม tr:Lutesyum uk:Лютецій zh:镥