  Marinus (Rinus) van der Lubbe (13 January, 1909 – 10 January, 1934) was a Dutch council communist accused of, and eventually executed for, setting fire to the German ''Reichstag'' building on February 27, 1933, an event known as the Reichstag fire. He was posthumously pardoned in 2008.Marinus van der Lubbe was officially pardoned by the German state in January 2008, 75 years after his conviction and beheading. In 1967 a Berlin court had symbolically changed the sentence of van der Lubbe to an eight-year prison and in 1980 the same court had lifted the sentence altogether. In 1981 a West German court overturned the conviction of van der Lubbe on the grounds that he was insane, however campaigners pressed for full state pardon on account of van der Lubbe having been convicted by a Nazi court. The full state pardon of van der Lubbe was made possible by a law passed in Germany in 1998. This exoneration is symbolic and will not lead to compensation for van der Lubbe's heirs. Source: Kate Connolly, 75 years on, executed Reichstag arsonist finally wins pardon, The Guardian, Saturday 12 January 2008. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2008/jan/12/secondworldwar.germanyBiographyMarinus van der Lubbe, was born in Leiden in the province of Zuid-Holland. His parents were divorced and, after his mother died when he was 12, he went to live with his half-sister's family. In his youth Van der Lubbe worked as a bricklayer. He was nicknamed Dempsey after the boxer Jack Dempsey, because of his great strength. At his work, Van der Lubbe came in contact with the labour movement; in 1925, he joined the Dutch Communist Party (CPH), and its youth section the Communist Youth Bond (CJB).In 1926, he was injured at work, getting cement in his eyes, which left him in the hospital for a few months and almost blinded him. The injury forced him to quit his work, so he was unemployed with a pension of only 7.44 guilders a week. Not being able to live off this, he was forced to take occasional jobs. After a few conflicts with his sister, Van der Lubbe moved to Leiden in 1927. There he learned to speak some German and founded the Lenin house, where he organized political meetings. While working for the Tielmann factory a strike broke out. Van der Lubbe claimed to the management to be one of the ringleaders and offered to accept any punishment as long as no one else was victimised, even though he was clearly too inexperienced to have been seriously involved. During the trial, he tried to claim sole responsibility and was purportedly hostile to the idea of getting off free.Afterwards, Van der Lubbe planned to emigrate to the Soviet Union, but he lacked the funds to do so. He was politically active among the unemployed workers' movement until 1931, when he fell into disagreement with the CPH and instead approached the Internationalist Communist Group (IKG). In 1933, Van der Lubbe fled to Germany to take action in the local communist underground.Reichstag fireAccording to the Berlin police, Van der Lubbe claimed to have set the Reichstag building on fire as a protest against the rising power of the Nazis. Under torture, he confessed again and was brought to trial along with the leaders of the opposition Communist Party. At his trial Van der Lubbe was sentenced to death for the Reichstag fire. The other four defendants (Ernst Torgler, Georgi Dimitrov, Blagoi Popov, and Vassili Tanev) at the trial were cleared. He was guillotined in a Leipzig prison yard on 10 January 1934, three days before his 25th birthday. He was buried in an unmarked grave on the Südfriedhof (South Cemetery) in Leipzig.After World War II, moves by Marinus van der Lubbe's brother, Jan van der Lubbe were made in an attempt to overturn the verdict against his brother. In 1980, after lengthy complaints, a West German court overturned the verdict, but this was protested by the state prosecutor. The case was re-examined by Federal Court of Justice of Germany for three years, until in 1983 the court made a final decision over the matter, overturning the result of the earlier 1980 trial on grounds that there was no basis for it, making it therefore illegal. However, in January 2008, the Federal Court of Justice of Germany finally overturned the death penalty verdict based on a 1998 German law that makes it possible to overturn certain cases of Nazi injustice.&lt;/ref&gt; The determination of the court was based on the premise that the National Socialist regime was by definition unjust, and since the death sentence in this case was politically motivated, it was likely to have contained an extension of that injustice; the finding was independent of the factual question of whether or not it was van der Lubbe who actually set the fire.&lt;/ref&gt;Cause of the Reichstag fireis supposed to have entered the building.]] Van der Lubbe has been largely accepted by most historians as the sole culprit of the fire, despite circumstantial evidence that indicates that he did not act alone. Indeed, some historians (especially Bahar and Kugel) believe that he was an unconscious pawn of the Gestapo, who recruited him for the event.The forensic evidence from the scene, a set of photographs taken by the Berlin police department, shows many small fires started by van der Lubbe after he entered the building, apparently using fire-lighters. All of the examples of fires he set, self-extinguished, such as one near the window on the ground floor where, it is alleged, he entered. The main fire which was set in the debating chamber did succeed and destroyed the central parts of the building.NotesReferencesBahar, Alexander and Kugel, Wilfried, Der Reichstagbrand, edition q (2001) German language only.External linksFritz Tobias: The Reichstag FireBiography Marinus van der Lubbe on libcom.org historyDutch Council Communism and Van der Lubbe Burning the Reichstag - The question of &quot;exemplary acts&quot; - the political repercussions of his act on his comradeshttp://www.guardian.co.uk/secondworldwar/story/0,,2239610,00.html Article in Guardian, January 12, 2008Zuidenwind Filmproductions&lt;!-- bot-generated title --&gt; at www.zuidenwind.nl Documentary about Marinus van der Lubbe[http://www.dw-world.de/dw/function/0,,12215_cid_3051937,00.html?maca=en-rss-en-all-1573-rdf Marinus van der Lubbe rehabilitated (English) Category:1909 births Category:1934 deaths Category:Dutch communists Category:Left communists Category:People from South Holland Category:People condemned by Nazi courts Category:People executed by decapitation Category:People killed by the Third Reich Category:Bricklayers Category:Dutch people executed abroadde:Marinus van der Lubbe es:Marinus van der Lubbe eo:Marinus van der Lubbe fr:Marinus van der Lubbe he:מרינוס ואן דר לובה nl:Marinus van der Lubbe ja:マリヌス・ファン・デア・ルッベ no:Marinus van der Lubbe pl:Marinus van der Lubbe pt:Marinus van der Lubbe ru:Люббе, Маринус ван дер fi:Marinus van der Lubbe sv:Marinus van der Lubbe tr:Marinus van der Lubbe