 Alcochete (pron. ) is a municipality in Portugal with a total area of 129.0 km² and a total population of 14,347 inhabitants. The municipality is composed of 3 parishes and is located in the district of Setúbal. Alcochete is the site of Sporting's academy.The present mayor is Luís Franco, elected by the Unitarian Democratic Coalition.The municipal holiday is June 24.The largest outlet mall in the Iberian Peninsula is just outside town. Alcochete is known for its bullfighting tradition and its proximity to the longest bridge in Europe, the Vasco da Gama Bridge.The actual site of today Alcochete was already occupied during Roman times with a clay production facility. It's name is thought to derive from the arabic word for oven for reasons not yet understood. It became a vacation site preferred by the portuguese royalty and the future king D. Manuel I was born in the village. It has experienced major development due to the construction of the Vasco da Gama bridge.On January 10 2008, Portuguese prime minister José Sócrates announced that Alcochete has been selected as the site of the new airport serving Lisbon, Portugal's capital.Portugal's new Lisbon airport to be built in Alcochete for 4.9 bln eur - PM from Forbes online, January 10 2008 The existing Portela Airport, which is located within the city of Lisbon itself, has become too small to handle demand. This preliminary decision will be finalised after public consultation. The location of Alcochete as the construction site of the future Lisbon Airport was confirmed by the Portuguese Government on 8 May, 2008Portal do Governo&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.ParishesAlcochete (São João Baptista)SamoucoSão FranciscoExternal linksTown Hall official websitePhotos from ALCOCHETEReferencesCategory:Towns in Portugal Category:Municipalities of Portugalca:Alcochete de:Alcochete es:Alcochete eu:Alcochete fr:Alcochete it:Alcochete nl:Alcochete pl:Alcochete pt:Alcochete ro:Alcochete ru:Алкошете fi:Alcochete sv:Alcochete tr:Alcochete vo:Alcochete