 | width =  | height =  | weight =  | fuel_capacity = | related = EnzoMaserati MC12 | designer = | sp = us  The Ferrari FXX is a car developed as part of an unusual development program by automobile manufacturer Ferrari in Maranello, Italy. Production of the FXX began in 2005.The car uses some technology developed from the Enzo and combines it with some all-new developments from Ferrari and some of the suppliers. However, the car is only a part of the overall program: customers pay £1.3 million ($2.5 million USD) but are only allowed to drive the car on special track days approved by Ferrari and after they drive the car they have to brief Ferrari on the car's performance. Michael Schumacher was given the last one (number 30) when he retired from Formula One racing at the end of 2006. Ferrari's sister company, Maserati, has developed a similar car, the MC12 Corsa.Essentially an evolution of the Enzo, the FXX shares some components with its parent car, but significant portions are exclusive to the FXX.The FXX's engine is based on the Enzo's but has been expanded to  from , and output has been boosted from , as seen in the Enzo, to  at 8,500 rpm.The gearbox incorporates the latest developments from Ferrari's F1 program and has a shift time under 100&nbsp;ms. The brake pads are upgraded compared to those on the Enzo. It does, however, retain the ceramic discs found on the Enzo.The tires on the FXX are 19&nbsp;inch slicks custom-developed for the car, though road-legal.As with the Enzo, the seat and pedal configuration are custom fit to the user's exact measurements.The FXX features a comprehensive data-monitoring and telemetry that not only allows the driver to improve performance, but also provides Ferrari technicians with valuable data to improve the FXX and future road-going Ferraris.Ferrari has built 30, originally 29 of these cars, and they have all been sold to preselected past Ferrari customers, except for one that Ferrari S.p.A. kept, including Ferrari's F1 World Champion driver, Michael Schumacher, the 30th. Schumacher's FXX differs from others in that it is the only black FXX without a stripe, it comes with red trim on the wheels, it has matte exhaust tips (regular FXX's have chrome tips), and his personal logo is stitched on the racing seats.FXX owners also participate in Ferrari's testing and brand development programs. As the vehicle is not street-legal, owners have the option of storing the car at Ferrari's facilities. As part of the FXX program, the car is maintained by the Ferrari factory. The purpose of this particular program is to allow Ferrari's top customers exclusive access to its most up-to-date technology and to use their input to help develop future models. The FXX was reported to cost 1.5 million euro (excluding taxes), for the car and the services that Ferrari provides with it.SpecificationsEngine: Longitudinal, Mid-mounted, 75, naturally-aspirated aluminum V12Valvetrain: DOHC, 4 valves per cylinder with continuously variable timingFuel system: Bosch Motronic ME7 Sequential Electronic InjectionHorsepower Max:  at 8500 RPMSpecific Output:  per litreDrive system: RWD w/TCSConstruction: Carbon fiber body over carbon fiber tub with rear alloy subframeFront brakes: Brembo CCM (carbon-ceramic) discs w/6-pot calipers, power assist ABSRear brakes: Brembo CCM (carbon-ceramic) discs w/4-pot calipers, power assist ABSFront wheels:  x Rear wheels:  x Steering: Rack and pinion with power assistSuspension: Double wishbones with push-rod actuated coil-shock units, adaptive dampers, electronic shock absorbers, anti-roll barWheelbase: Front track: Rear track: Rear view is provided by a roof mounted video camera displayed on a small inboard screen.Top Speed: FXX EvoluzioneThe Ferrari FXX program will continue until 2008/2009. The car will continue to be improved under the Evolution kit, which will continually adjust specifics to create more power, change gearing, and remove drag. The V12 engine will be pushing out  at 9500 rpm. There will be gearbox changes so that shift time will be reduced to 60 milliseconds per shift, a reduction of 20 milliseconds. The car will also undergo aerodynamic changes and improvements to the traction control system.See alsoMaserati MC12 CorsaNotesReferencesFerrari FXX Breaks CoverFerrari FXX InformationFerrari FXX RegistryFerrari FXX pictures, videos and informations (French)Category:Ferrari vehicles FXX Category:Rear mid-engine, rear-wheel drive vehicles Category:Racing cars Category:2000s automobiles Category:Vehicles introduced in 2005bs:Ferrari FXX de:Ferrari FXX es:Ferrari FXX fr:Ferrari FXX gl:Ferrari FXX it:Ferrari FXX nl:Ferrari FXX ja:フェラーリ・FXX pl:Ferrari FXX pt:Ferrari FXX fi:Ferrari FXX sv:Ferrari FXX tr:Ferrari FXX