The Abel Prize is an international prize presented annually by the King of Norway to one or more outstanding mathematicians. The prize is named after Norwegian mathematician Niels Henrik Abel (1802&ndash;1829). It has been described as the "mathematician's Nobel" prize by Keith Devlin,Abel Prize Awarded: The Mathematicians' Nobel, maa.org, April 2004. and is among the most prestigious awards in mathematics. It comes with a monetary award, which in 2008 was US$1.2 million.The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters annually declares the winner of the Abel Prize after selection by a committee of five international mathematicians. The amount of money that comes with the prize is usually close to one million USD, similar to the Nobel Prize, which is awarded in Sweden and Norway and excludes mathematics. Norway gave the prize an initial funding of NOK 200,000,000 (about $23,000,000 USD) in 2001. The prize is an attempt at creating publicity for mathematics, making the science more prestigious, especially for young people.The prize board has also established an Abel symposium, administered by the Norwegian Mathematics Society.== History ==The prize was first proposed to be part of the 1902 celebration of 100th anniversary of Abel's birth.History of the Abel Prize In 1899, shortly before his death, Sophus Lie proposed establishing an Abel Prize when he learned that Alfred Nobel's plans for annual prizes, made known in 1897, would not include a prize in mathematics. King Oscar II was willing to finance a mathematics prize in Abel's name, and the mathematicians Ludwig Sylow and Carl Størmer drew up statutes and rules for the proposed prize. However, Lie's influence waned after his death, and the dissolution of the Union between Sweden and Norway in 1905 ended the first attempt to create the Abel Prize.In 2001, after interest in the prize had risen, a working group was formed to develop a proposal, which was presented to the prime minister of Norway in May. In August 2001, the Norwegian government announced that the prize would be awarded beginning in 2002, the two-hundredth anniversary of Abel's birth.LaureatesYearLaureate(s)NationalityCitation2003Jean-Pierre Serre“for playing a key role in shaping the modern form of many parts of mathematics, including topology, algebraic geometry and number theory”2004Michael F. Atiyah]]Isadore M. Singer&lt;br&gt;index theorem]], bringing together topology, geometry and analysis, and their outstanding role in building new bridges between mathematics and theoretical physics”2005Peter D. Lax]] / “for his groundbreaking contributions to the theory and application of partial differential equations and to the computation of their solutions”2006Lennart Carleson“for his profound and seminal contributions to harmonic analysis and the theory of smooth dynamical systems”2007S. R. Srinivasa Varadhan / theory of large deviation]]”2008John G. ThompsonJacques Tits;  / “for their profound achievements in algebra and in particular for shaping modern group theory”See alsoFields MedalList of prizes, medals, and awards &amp;ndash; mathematicsNemmers Prize in MathematicsNevanlinna PrizeSchock PrizeWolf Prize in MathematicsReferencesExternal linksThe Abel Prize official web siteThe Abel Symposium web site Category:Mathematics awards Category:Norwegian awards Category:Awards established in 2001 List of laureatesbr:Priz Abel ca:Premi Abel cs:Abelova cena de:Abelpreis es:Premio Abel eo:Abela Premio fr:Prix Abel ko:아벨상 id:Penghargaan Abel is:Abelsverðlaunin it:Premio Abel he:פרס אבל hu:Abel-díj nl:Abelprijs ja:アーベル賞 no:Abelprisen nn:Abelprisen pl:Nagroda Abela pt:Prémio Abel ru:Абелевская премия sk:Abelova cena sl:Abelova nagrada sv:Abelpriset ta:ஏபெல் பரிசு vi:Giải Abel zh-yue:阿貝爾獎 zh:阿贝尔奖