Xerxes II (Xšayāršā) was a Persian king and the son and successor of Artaxerxes I. After a reign of forty-five days, he was assassinated in 424 BC by his brother Sogdianus, who in turn was murdered by Darius II. He is an obscure historical figure known primarily from the writings of Ctesias. He was reportedly the only legitimate son of Artaxerxes I and his Queen Damaspia. He is known to have served as Crown Prince.The last inscription mentioning Artaxerxes I being alive can be dated to December 24, 424 BC. Xerxes apparently succeeded to the throne but two of his illegitimate brothers claimed it for themselves. The first was Sogdianus, son by concubine Alogyne of Babylon. The second was Darius II, son by concubine Cosmartidene of Babylon, who was married to their common half-sister Parysatis, daughter of Artaxerxes I and his concubine Andia of Babylon.Xerxes was apparently only recognized in Persia and Sogdianus in Elam. Ochus' first inscription as Darius II can be dated to January 10, 423 BC. He was already satrap of Hyrcania and was soon recognized by Media, Babylonia and Egypt. Xerxes II only ruled forty five days. He was reportedly murdered while drunk by Pharnacyas, and Menostanes on Sogdianus' orders. Sogdianus apparently gained the support of his regions. Sogdianus was killed a few months later. Darius II became the sole ruler of the Persian Empire and would reign till 404 BC.The Bible is unclear whether it is he or his father who is referred to in the book of Esther as Ahasuerus.      External linksA more detailed profile of Xerxes IICategory:Year of birth unknown Category:424 BC deathsCategory:Monarchs of Persia Category:Pharaohs of the Achaemenid dynasty of Egypt Category:Murdered monarchs Category:Achaemenid kingsca:Xerxes II de Pèrsia cs:Xerxés II. cy:Xerxes II, brenin Persia de:Xerxes II. es:Jerjes II eo:Kserkso la 2-a (Persio) fr:Xerxès II gl:Xerxes II ko:크세르크세스 2세 it:Serse II di Persia nl:Xerxes II ja:クセルクセス2世 no:Xerxes II av Persia pl:Kserkses II pt:Xerxes II da Pérsia ru:Ксеркс II sk:Xerxes II. sr:Ксеркс II fi:Kserkses II sv:Xerxes II uk:Ксеркс II