 |orders = |other_elements = |earlier_versions = |use = The Coat of Arms of Malta is the emblem of the country of Malta. The present coat of arms is described by the Emblem and Public Seal of Malta Act of 1988 as a shield showing an heraldic representation of the National Flag of Malta; above the shield a mural crown in gold with a sally port and eight turrets (although only five are visible) representing the fortifications of Malta and denoting a City State; and around the shield a wreath of two branches: the dexter of Olive, the sinister of Palm, symbols of peace and traditionally associated with Malta, all in their proper colours, tied at base with a white ribbon, backed red and upon which are written the words Repubblika ta' Malta ("Republic of Malta" in Maltese) in capital letters in black. It also appears on the flag of the President of Malta. It also appears on the 10c, 20c and 50c Maltese euro coins. Coat of Arms used between 1975 and 1988This coat of arms was adopted on the 11 July 1975, a year after Malta became a republic. It showed a coastal scene with the rising sun, a traditional Maltese boat (the 'Luzzu'), a shovel and a pitchfork, and an Opuntia. All of these symbols are somewhat connected to Malta. Underneath the image the then new name of the state "Repubblika Ta' Malta" (Republic of Malta) was written.This coat of arms could be still seen on a number of coins which were still in circulation until 1st January 2008 when Malta changed its currency to the euro .Coat of Arms used between 1964 and 1975This coat of arms depicts two dolphins which support a blazon of the Maltese flag, one with palm branch and the other with an olive twig representing Victory and Peace respectively. Above is a crown shaped like a fort with eight octagonal turrets surmounts a helmet, with red and white ribbons. Below are blue waves representing the surrounding Mediterranean Sea, the Maltese eight-pointed Cross representing the connection with the Order of St. John, and the motto Virtute et Constantia (by Valour and Firmness) on a ribbon. Nowadays, this motto is used by the National Order of Merit.See also]]The Coat of Arms of Malta has been selected as the main motif for a recent commemorative coin, the Maltese Auberge de Castille commemorative coin, minted in 2008. On the reverse the Portico of the Auberge de Castille is shown; while on the obverse the Coat of Arms is displayed.Flag of MaltaHistory of MaltaCulture of MaltaPolitics of MaltaExternal linksMaltese national symbols Malta Category:National symbols of Maltabe:Герб Мальты be-x-old:Герб Мальты bs:Grb Malte cs:Státní znak Malty da:Maltas nationalvåben de:Wappen Maltas et:Malta vapp el:Εθνόσημο της Μάλτας es:Escudo de Malta fr:Armoiries de Malte hr:Grb Malte bpy:মাল্টার চিনত্হান he:סמל מלטה hu:Málta címere mt:Emblema ta' Malta nl:Wapen van Malta no:Maltas riksvåpen pl:Herb Malty pt:Brasão de armas de Malta ro:Stema Maltei ru:Герб Мальты sr:Грб Малте sh:Grb Malte sv:Maltas statsvapen zh:马耳他国徽