     |u-b = &minus;0.93 |variable = β Cep,Rotating ellipsoid      Spica () (also known as α Vir / α Virginis / Alpha Virginis) is the brightest star in the constellation Virgo, and the 15th brightest star in the nighttime sky. It is 260 light years distant from Earth. A blue giant, it is a variable of the Beta Cephei type.Observation historySpica is believed to be the star that provided Hipparchus with the data which enabled him to discover precession of the equinoxes. A temple to Menat (an early Hathor) at Thebes was oriented with reference to Spica when it was constructed in 3200 BC and, over time, precession resulted in a slow but noticeable change in the location of Spica relative to the temple. Nicolaus Copernicus made many observations of Spica with his home-made triquetrum for his researches on precession.CharacteristicsSpica is the brightest of the rotating ellipsoidal variables. Its apparent magnitude varies between +0.92 and +1.04, with a period of 4.0142 days. This slight dip in magnitude is barely noticeable visually. It is also a variable of the Beta Cephei type. Spica has a luminosity about 2,300 times that of the Sun.VisibilityLocated close to the ecliptic, Spica can be occulted by the Moon and sometimes by the planets. The last planetary occultation of Spica occurred when Venus passed in front of the star (as seen from Earth) on November 10, 1783. The next occultation will occur September 2, 2197, when Venus again passes in front of Spica. The Sun passes a little more than 2º north of Spica around October 16 every year.An easy way to find Spica is to follow the arc of the handle of the Big Dipper to Arcturus, and then continue on the same distance to Spica ("follow the arc to Arcturus and speed on to Spica").Etymology and cultural significanceThe name Spica derives from Latin spīca virginis "Virgo's ear of grain" (usually wheat). In Chinese astronomy, the star is known as Jiao Xiu 1 (角宿一) in Jiao Xiu, one of the Chinese constellations. In Hindu astronomy, Spica corresponds to the Nakshatra Chitra.Medieval names include Azimech, from Arabic as-simak al-a'zal "the Undefended", and Alarph, Arabic for "the Grape Gatherer".In medieval astrology, it was a Behenian fixed star, associated with the emerald and sage. In his De Occulta Philosophia, Cornelius Agrippa attributes its kabbalistic symbol  to Hermes Trismegistus.Spica was used in the novel Pushing Ice by Alastair Reynolds as the distant star to which the protagonists are carried by alien technologyExternal linksSpika, the first Slovene astronomical magazine, edited by Bojan Kambič and published since 1995 Tables of past and future eclipses of bright stars by the inner planets Eclipses of bright stars by planets, 3000 BC to 3000 AD Bright Star CatalogueReferenceshttp://www.space.com/spacewatch/spica_virgo_040611.htmlVirginis, Alpha Category:Binary stars Category:Beta Cephei variables Category:B-type giants Category:B-type subgiants Category:Rotating ellipsoidal variables Category:Virgo constellation Category:Stars with proper namesaz:Spika bg:Спика ca:Spica cs:Spica de:Spica el:Στάχυς (αστέρας) es:Espiga (estrella) eo:Spiko (astro) fa:سماک اعزل fr:Alpha Virginis ko:스피카 it:Spica lb:Spica (Stär) lt:Spika nl:Spica ja:スピカ pl:Spica pt:Spica ru:Спика sk:Spika fi:Spica sv:Spica vi:Alpha Virginis zh:角宿一