 Chrétien de Troyes was a French poet and trouvère who flourished in the late 12th century. Little is known of his life, but he seems to have been from Troyes, or at least intimately connected with it, and between 1160 and 1172 he served at the court of his patroness Countess Marie de Champagne, daughter of Eleanor of Aquitaine, perhaps as herald-at-arms (as Gaston Paris speculated).From &quot;Four Arthurian Romances&quot; gutenberg.org. Retrieved March 29, 2007. His work on Arthurian subjects represents some of the best of medieval literature.Chrétien de Troyes is generally considered as the first identified major French Language novelist (some earlier significative novel work have been identified but their author is generally unknown).WorksChrétien's works include five major poems in rhyming eight-syllable couplets. Four of these are complete; Erec and Enide (c. 1170); Cligès (c. 1176), and Yvain, the Knight of the Lion and Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart, both written simultaneously between 1177 and 1181. Chrétien's final romance was Perceval, the Story of the Grail, written between 1181 and 1190, but left unfinished. It was composed for Philip, Count of Flanders, to whom Chrétien was attached in his last years. He finished only 9,000 lines of the work, but four successors of varying talents added 54,000 additional lines in what are known as the Four Continuations. Similarly, the last thousand lines of Lancelot were written by Godefroi de Leigni, apparently by arrangement with Chrétien. In the case of Perceval, one continuer says the poet's death prevented him from completing the work, in the case of Lancelot, no reason is given. This has not stopped speculation that Chrétien, medieval literature's greatest treater of matrimonial love, did not approve of Lancelot's adulterous subject.To him are also attributed two lesser works: the pious romance Guillaume d'Angleterre (an attribution that is no longer believed), and Philomela, the only one of his four poems based on Ovid's Metamorphoses that has survived. Chrétien names his treatments of Ovid in the introduction to Cligès, where he also mentions his work about King Mark and Iseult. The latter is presumably related to the Tristan and Iseult legend, though it is interesting that Tristan is not named.SourcesThe immediate and specific source for his romances is of deep interest to the student; unfortunately, he has left us in the dark as to what these were. He speaks in the vaguest way of the materials he used, and though Celtic influence is easily detectable in the stories, there is no direct evidence that he had Celtic written sources. Geoffrey of Monmouth or Wace might have supplied some of the names, but neither author mentioned Erec, Lancelot, Gornemant and many others who play an important role in Chrétien's narratives. One is forced to guess about Latin or French literary originals which are now lost, or upon continental lore that goes back to a Celtic source. It is the same problem that faces the student in the case of Béroul, an Anglo-Norman who wrote about 1150. However, Chrétien found his sources immediately at hand, without much understanding of its primitive spirit, but appreciating it as a setting for the ideal society dreamed of, although not realized, in his own day. And Chrétien's five romances together form the most complete expression from a single author of the ideals of French chivalry.InfluenceChrétien's writing was very popular, as evidenced by the high number of surviving copies of his romances and their many adaptations into other languages. Three of Middle High German literature's finest examples, Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival and Hartmann von Aue's Erec and Iwein, were based on Perceval, Erec, and Yvain; the Three Welsh Romances associated with the Mabinogion, Peredur, son of Efrawg, Geraint and Enid, and Owain, or the Lady of the Fountain are derived from the same trio. Especially in the case of Peredur, however, the connection between the Welsh romances and their source is probably not direct, and has never been satisfactorily delineated. Chrétien also has the distinction of being the first writer to mention the Holy Grail (Perceval) and the love affair between Queen Guinevere and Lancelot (Lancelot), subjects of household recognition even today.There is a specific Latin influence in Chrétien’s romances the likes of which (The Iliad, The Aeneid, Metamorphoses) were “translated into the Old French vernacular during the 1150s”.Uitti, Chrétien de Troyes Revisited Foster Guyer argues that specifically Yvain, the Knight of the Lion contains definite Ovidian influence:Yvain was filled with grief and showed the Ovidian love symptoms of weeping and sighing so bitterly that he could scarcely speak. He declared that he would never stay away a full year. Using words like those of Leander in the seventeenth of Ovid’s Epistles he said: 'If only I had the wings of a dove/to fly back to you at will/Manyand many a time I would come'.Creator of the modern novelChrétien has been termed “the inventor of the modern novel” and Karl Uitti argues:With work a new era opens in the history of European story telling…this poem reinvents the genre we call narrative romance; in some important respects it also initiates the vernacular novel.The main quality of the above-mentioned Celtic influences was that of a sort of incompleteness. A “story” could be anything from a single battle scene, to a prologue, to a minimally cohesive tale with little to no chronological layout. Uitti argues that Yvain is Chrétien’s “most carefully contrived romance… It has a beginning, a middle, and an end: we are in no doubt that Yvain’s story is over”. This very method of having a three definite parts including the build in the middle leading to the climax of the story is in large part why Chrétien is seen to be a writer of novels six centuries before novels existed.NotesReferencesJean Frappier, "Chrétien de Troyes" in Arthurian Literature in the Middle Ages, Roger S. Loomis (ed.). Clarendon Press: Oxford University. 1959. ISBN 0198115881Jean Frappier, "Chrétien de Troyes: The Man and His Work". Translated by Raymond J. Cormier. Athens, Ohio: Ohio University Press, 1982. Idris Llewelyn Foster, "Gereint, Owein and Peredur" in Arthurian Literature in the Middle Ages, Roger S. Loomis (ed.). Clarendon Press: Oxford University. 1959.K. Sarah-Jane Murray, "A Preface to Chretien de Troyes," Syracuse University Press, 2008. ISBN-10 081563160XAlbert W. Thompson, "The Additions to Chrétien's Perceval" in Arthurian Literature in the Middle Ages, Roger S. Loomis (ed.). Clarendon Press: Oxford University. 1959Karl D. Uitti, Chrétien de Troyes Revisited, Twain: New York, 1995. ISBN 0805743073This article incorporates material from an essay by W. W. Comfort, published in 1914.External links The Charrette Project 2 at Baylor UniversityAn English translation of parts of the Chrétien de Troyes storyDictionnaire Électronique de Chrétien de Troyes by ATILF/CNRS-Nancy Université and LFA/Université d'Ottawa Category:12th century births Category:12th century deaths Category:People from Champagne-Ardenne Category:12th century French writers Category:Arthurian literature Category:Chrétien de Troyes Category:French fantasy writers Category:French novelists Category:French poets Category:Trouvèresaf:Chrétien de Troyes bg:Кретиен дьо Троа ca:Chrétien de Troyes cs:Chrétien de Troyes cy:Chrétien de Troyes de:Chrétien de Troyes es:Chrétien de Troyes fr:Chrétien de Troyes gl:Chrétien de Troyes it:Chrétien de Troyes he:כרטיין מטרואה la:Christianus de Trecis hu:Chrétien de Troyes nl:Chrétien de Troyes ja:クレティアン・ド・トロワ no:Chrétien de Troyes pl:Chrétien de Troyes pt:Chrétien de Troyes ro:Chrétien de Troyes ru:Кретьен де Труа sl:Chrétien de Troyes fi:Chrétien de Troyes sv:Chrétien de Troyes