"Saint Mark" redirects here. For other uses, see Saint Mark (disambiguation).  Saint Mark the Evangelist (מרקוס, Greek: Μάρκος) (1st century), also known as John Mark, is traditionally believed to be the author of the Gospel of Mark  and a companion of Saint Peter. He accompanied Paul of Tarsus and Barnabas on Paul's first missionary journey. After a sharp dispute, Barnabas separated from Paul, taking Mark to Cyprus (Acts 15:36-40). Later Paul called upon the services of Mark, the kinsman of Barnabas, and Mark was named as Paul's fellow worker.His feast day is celebrated on 25 April , the anniversary of his martyrdom. St Mark is also believed by various traditions to be the first bishop of Alexandria   and the first Pope of Alexandria. He is considered the founder of the church in Alexandria, according to the Coptic church understanding, and thus the founder of Christianity in Africa. His evangelistic symbol is the lion.Biblical and traditional informationTraditionally the Pentapolis of North Africa is believed to be where Saint Mark was born and he returned to Pentapolis later in life after being sent by Saint Paul to Colosse (Col 4:10) and serving with him in Rome (Phil 24; 2 Tim 4:11) ; from Pentapolis he made his way to Alexandria.SuscoptsMark of the Pauline Epistles is specified as a cousin of Barnabas (Colossians 4:10); this would explain Barnabas' special attachment to the Mark of Acts over whom he disputed with Paul (Acts 15:37-40). Mark's mother was a prominent member of the earliest group of Christians in Jerusalem  ; it was to her house that Peter turned on his release from prison. The house was a meeting-place for the brethren, "many" of whom were praying there on the night Peter arrived from prison (Acts 12:12-17). Evidence for Mark's authorship of the Gospel that bears his name originates with Papias     .of Saint Mark. Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry (Musée Condé, Chantilly).]]A number of traditions have built up around Mark, though none can be verified from the New Testament. It is suggested that Mark was one of the servants at the Marriage at Cana who poured out the water that Jesus turned to wine (John 2:1-11). Mark is also said to have been one of the Seventy Apostles sent out by Christ (Luke 10:1); the servant who carried water to the house where the Last Supper took place (Mark 14:13)  ; the young man who ran away naked when Jesus was arrested (Mark 14:51-52)  ; and the one who hosted the disciples in his house after the death of Jesus, and into whose house the resurrected Jesus Christ came (John 20).In Egypt, Mark the Evangelist is said to have performed many miracles, and established a church there, appointing a bishop (Anianus of Alexandria), three priests, and seven deacons.When Mark returned to Alexandria, the people there are said to have resented his efforts to turn them away from the worship of their traditional Egyptian gods. In AD 68 they tied him to several horses and dragged him through the streets until he was dead.Fate of his remainsicon of St. Mark the Evangelist, 18th century (Iconostasis of Transfiguration church, Kizhi monastery, Karelia, Russia).]]  (Orsanmichele, Florence).]]In 828, relics believed to be the body of St. Mark was stolen from Alexandria by two Venetian merchants and were taken to Venice, where the Byzantine Theodore of Amasea had previously been the patron saint. A basilica was built there to house the relics.There is a mosaic on this Venetian basilica showing how the sailors covered the body relics with a layer of pork. Since Muslims are not allowed to touch pork, this action was done to prevent Muslim intervention in the relics removal.Copts believe that the head of the saint remained in Alexandria. Every year, on the 30th day of the month of Babah, the Coptic Orthodox Church celebrates the commemoration of the consecration of the church of St. Mark, and the appearance of the head of the saint in the city of Alexandria.This takes place inside St. Mark Coptic Orthodox Cathedral in Alexandria, where the saint's head is preserved.The Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates his feast day on January 4 (for those churches which follow the traditional Julian Calendar, January 4 currently falls on January 17 of the modern Gregorian Calendar).In 1063, during the construction of a new basilica in Venice, St. Mark's relics could not be found. However, according to tradition, in 1094 the saint himself revealed the location of his remains by extending an arm from a pillar. The newfound remains were placed in a sarcophagus in the basilica. http://www.basilicasanmarco.it/WAI/eng/storia_societa/sanmarco/interne/sanmarco_ritrovamento.bsmTrebizond Gospel (Russian State Museum, Saint Petersburg).]]In June 1968, Pope Cyril VI of Alexandria sent an official delegation to Rome to receive a relic of St. Mark from Pope Paul VI. The delegation consisted of ten metropolitans and bishops, seven of whom were Coptic and three Ethiopian, and three prominent Coptic lay leaders.The relic was said to be a small piece of bone that had been given to the Roman pope by Giovanni Cardinal Urbani, Patriarch of Venice. Pope Paul, in an address to the delegation, said that the rest of the relics of the saint remained in Venice.The delegation received the relic on June 22, 1968. The next day, the delegation celebrated a pontifical liturgy in the Church of Saint Athanasius the Apostolic in Rome. The metropolitans, bishops, and priests of the delegation all served in the liturgy. Members of the Roman papal delegation, Copts who lived in Rome, newspaper and news agency reporters, and many foreign dignitaries attended the liturgy.In the book "The Lost Tomb of Alexander", historian Andrew Chugg argues that the relics of St. Mark in Venice are actually those of Alexander the Great. Few historians, however, accept this claim.See alsoCollège Saint Marc, AlexandriaGospel of MarkGospel of JohnGospel of MatthewGospel of LukeJohn the EvangelistLuke the EvangelistMatthew the EvangelistSaints Church , AlexandriaReferences==External links== H.B. Swete, 'St. Mark in the New Testament'H.B. Swete, 'St. Mark in Early Tradition'St. Mark's detailed biography by H.H. Pope Shenouda IIISt. Mark the Apostle, Evangelist, and Preacher of the Christian Faith in AfricaHistory of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Egypt which was founded by Saint MarkThe return of St. Mark Relics from Italy (June 1968 - zipped RealVideo)St. Mark's New Cathedral, Abbassyia, Cairo, Egypt (inaugurated in 1968)[http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/09672c.htm Catholic Encyclopedia: St. Mark]Saint Mark Coptic Orthodox Church : Los Angeles, CASaint Mark Coptic Orthodox Church : HeliopolisSt. Mark Anglican Church : Portland, ORApostle Mark the Evangelist of the Seventy Orthodox icon and synaxarion   Category:1st century births Category:68 deaths Category:Christian martyrs of the Roman era Category:Christian missionaries in Africa Category:Christianity in Egypt Category:Coptic Orthodox Church Category:Coptic Orthodox saints Category:New Testament people Category:Patriarchs of Alexandria Category:Roman Catholic writers Category:1st century bishops Category:Popes of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria Category:Saints from the Holy Land Category:Burials at Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral (Alexandria)ar:مرقس bg:Марко (евангелист) ca:Marc (evangelista) cs:Marek Evangelista da:Markus de:Markus (Evangelist) et:Markus es:Marcos el Evangelista eo:Sankta Marko la evangeliisto fr:Marc (évangéliste) ko:복음사가 마르코 id:Markus it:Marco evangelista sw:Mtakatifu Marko la:Sanctus Marcus mk:Апостол Марко (Евангелист) nl:Johannes Marcus ja:マルコ (福音記者) no:Evangelisten Markus nn:Evangelisten Markus pl:Marek Ewangelista pt:São Marcos ru:Апостол Марк simple:Mark the Evangelist sk:Evanjelista Marek sl:Marko Evangelist sr:Марко Јеванђелиста fi:Markus (evankelista) sv:Markus (evangelist) th:มาร์คอีแวนเจลลิส uk:Марко (євангелист) vec:San Marco Vangełista zh:聖馬爾谷