 | location = Oak Ridge, Tennessee, United States | deathdate = | deathplace = | othername = | yearsactive = | spouse = | partner = | parents = Laurette Verbinski and Victor Verbinski. Gregor "Gore" Verbinski (born March 16 1964) is an American film director and writer.BiographyHe was born in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, United States. His father, Vic Verbinski, was of Polish descent and worked as a nuclear physicist at the Oak Ridge Lab. In 1967 the Verbinski family moved to Southern California, where a young Gregor grew up in the town of La Jolla. Gregor was the third of five children (Janine, Claire, Gregor, Diane and Steven), his parents Vic and Laurette being a constant presence in their children's lives. Gregor was an active Boy Scout and surfed regularly. He went to Torrey Pines Elementary, Muirlands Junior High, and La Jolla High before attending UCLA Film School. His first band was Thelonius Monster, which included drummer Danny Heifetz, he also played in the local band "The Drivers", and Allstar band "The Cylon Boys Choir". His first films were a series of 8mm films called "The Driver Files" circa 1979, when he was a young teen. Although most associate Verbinski with feature films, he started his career directing music videos for bands like Bad Religion, NOFX, 24-7 Spyz and Monster Magnet working at Palomar Pictures. This was not surprising to his friends in LA, since he also played music for various punk and rock bands including The Little Kings, Bulldozer and the Daredevils, which included then-departed member of Bad Religion Brett Gurewitz.Verbinski moved from music videos to commercials, where he worked for many brand names including Nike, Coca-Cola, Canon, Skittles and United Airlines.One of his most famous commercials was for Budweiser, featuring frogs who croak the brand name. For his efforts in commercials, Verbinski won four Clio Awards and one Cannes advertising Silver Lion.'''Music Videos'''Bad Religion - American JesusBad Religion - 21st Century (Digital Boy)Bad Religion - Stranger Than FictionThe Crystal Method - Born Too SlowFilm careerAfter completing a short film, The Ritual (which he both wrote and directed), Verbinski made his feature film directing debut with his comedy flick, Mouse Hunt. The film was a hit globally and he soon followed up the success with the action/comedy The Mexican, starring Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt. The film received mixed reviews, and performed modestly at the box-office, earning $68 million domestically which was quite meager considering its star power (it was technically successful due to its moderately low $38 million budget). Verbinski followed it up with the Japanese horror film remake The Ring (2002), which struck gold globally, grossing well over $200 million worldwide. Verbinski also had a directorial hand in The Time Machine that year, temporarily taking over for an exhausted Simon Wells. Verbinski directed some of the underground Morlock sequences and is given a Thanks to credit in the film.He then directed the very successful Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl which earned over $600 million at the international box office.His next film was The Weather Man which starred Nicolas Cage. The film received mixed to positive reviews but was a box office failure.In March 2005 he started filming the sequels Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. The former then became his biggest success so far, becoming the third film ever to gross over $1 billion at the international box office.His future project will be an adaption of William Monahan's novel Light House: A Trifle, which is a story about an artist running away from the Mafia who hides in a lighthouse, in which kooky characters live. He will also direct Butterfly, about a man trying to drive his wife insane.Verbinksi is also set to direct a film for Universal based on the video game, BioShock.The Cut Scene - Video Game Blog by Variety: Gore Verbinski talks about directing the Bioshock movie&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Verbinski graduated with his BFA in Film from UCLA in 1987.FilmographyYearTitleOscar nominationsOscar wins1996The Ritual1997Mouse Hunt2001The Mexican2002The Ring2003Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl52005The Weather Man2006Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest412007Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End22010BioShockReferencesExternal links  Category:University of California, Los Angeles alumni Category:American film directors Category:American music video directors Category:1964 births Category:Living people Category:Americans of Polish descent Category:People from Anderson County, Tennessee Category:People from Roane County, Tennesseeda:Gore Verbinski de:Gore Verbinski es:Gore Verbinski fr:Gore Verbinski hr:Gore Verbinski it:Gore Verbinski hu:Gore Verbinski nl:Gore Verbinski ja:ゴア・ヴァービンスキー no:Gore Verbinski pl:Gore Verbinski pt:Gore Verbinski ru:Вербински, Гор fi:Gore Verbinski sv:Gore Verbinski