  The Nobel Prize () () is a Swedish prize, established in the 1895 will of Swedish chemist Alfred Nobel; it was first awarded in Peace, Literature, Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine, and Physics in 1901. An associated prize, The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel, was instituted by Sweden's central bank in 1968 and first awarded in 1969.&quot;Nobel Prize" (2007), in Encyclopædia Britannica, accessed 14 November 2007, from Encyclopædia Britannica Online:  The Nobel Prizes in the specific disciplines (Chemistry, Physics, Physiology or Medicine, and Literature) and the Prize in Economics, which is commonly identified with them, are widely regarded as the most prestigious award one can receive in those fields. The Nobel Peace Prize conveys social prestige, and that award also is often politically controversial. With the exception of the Nobel Peace Prize, the Nobel Prizes and the Prize in Economics are presented in Stockholm, Sweden, at the annual Prize Award Ceremony on 10 December, the anniversary of Nobel's death. The recipients' lectures are presented in the days prior to the award ceremony.&quot;The Nobel Prize Award Ceremonies&quot;, nobelprize.org, accessed 5 November 2007. The Nobel Peace Prize and its recipients' lectures are presented at the annual Prize Award Ceremony in Oslo, Norway, also on 10 December. The reason why Norway distributes a part of the prize is that at the time of Alfred Nobel's death, Norway and Sweden were joined together in a personal union known as the Swedish-Norwegian Union.&quot;The Nobel Prize Awarders&quot;, nobelprize.org, accessed 6 November 2007.Nobel Peace Prize 2007, nobelprize.org, accessed 18 October 2007. "Since the Nobel Prize is regarded as the most prestigious prize in the world by far, the Award Ceremonies as well as the Banquets in Stockholm and Oslo on 10 December have been transformed from local Swedish and Norwegian arrangements into major international events that receive worldwide coverage by the print media, radio and television."Alfred Nobel's willThe five Nobel Prizes were instituted by the final will of Alfred Nobel, a Swedish chemist and industrialist, who was the inventor of the high explosive dynamite. Though Nobel wrote several wills during his lifetime, the last was written a little over a year before he died, and signed at the Swedish-Norwegian Club in Paris on 27 November 1895. Wishing to atone for the evil done with dynamite, Nobel bequeathed 94% of his total assets, 31&nbsp;million Swedish Kronors, to establish and endow the five Nobel Prizes.['&quot;The Will of Alfred Nobel&quot;, ''nobelprize.org, accessed 6 November 2007. (As of 2008 that equates to 186 million US dollars.) Although Nobel's will established the prizes, his plan was incomplete and, due to various other hurdles, it took five years before the Nobel Foundation could be established and the first prizes awarded on 10 December 1901."First Nobel Prizes: December 10, 1901", This Day in History, The History Channel, accessed 30 July 2006.Nomination and selectionCompared with some other prizes, the Prize nomination and selection process is long and rigorous. This is a key reason why the Prizes have grown in importance over the years to become the most important prizes in their field.&quot;Nobel Prizes: Selection Process&quot;, Encyclopædia Britannica Online (2007), accessed 18 October 2007.The Nobel laureates are selected by their respective committees. For the Prizes in Chemistry, Physics and Economics, a committee consists of five members elected by The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences; for the Prize in Literature, a committee of four to five members of the Swedish Academy; for the Prize in Physiology or Medicine, the committee consists of five members selected by The Nobel Assembly, which consists of 50 members elected by Karolinska Institutet; for the Peace Prize, the Norwegian Nobel Committee consists of five members elected by the Norwegian Storting (the Norwegian parliament).&quot;The Nobel Prize in Economics&quot;, nobelprize.org, accessed 4 March 2007. In its first stage, several thousand people are asked to nominate candidates. These names are scrutinized and discussed by experts in their specific disciplines until only the winners remain. This slow and thorough process, insisted upon by Alfred Nobel, is arguably what gives the prize its importance. Despite this, there have been questionable awards and questionable omissions over the prize's century-long history.Forms, which amount to a personal and exclusive invitation, are sent to about three thousand selected individuals to invite them to submit nominations. For the peace prize, inquiries are sent to such people as governments of states, members of international courts, professors and rectors at university level, former Peace Prize laureates, current or former members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, among others. The Norwegian Nobel Committee then bases its assessment on nominations sent in before 3 February.. The submission deadline for nominations for Physics, Chemistry, Medicine, Literature and Economics is 31 January.. Self-nominations and nominations of deceased people are disqualified.The names of the nominees are never publicly announced, and neither are they told that they have been considered for the Prize. Nomination records are sealed for fifty years. In practice some nominees do become known. It is also common for publicists to make such a claim, founded or not.After the deadline has passed, the nominations are screened by committee, and a list is produced of approximately two hundred preliminary candidates. This list is forwarded to selected experts in the relevant field. They remove all but approximately fifteen names. The committee submits a report with recommendations to the appropriate institution. The Assembly for the Medicine Prize, for example, has fifty members. The institution members then select prize winners by vote.The selection process varies slightly between the different disciplines. The Literature Prize is rarely awarded to more than one person per year, whereas other Prizes now often involve collaborators of two or three.While posthumous nominations are not permitted, awards can occur if the individual died in the months between the nomination and the decision of the prize committee. The scenario has occurred twice: the 1931 Literature Prize of Erik Axel Karlfeldt, and the 1961 Peace Prize to UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjöld. As of 1974, laureates must be alive at the time of the October announcement. There has been one laureate—William Vickrey (1996, Economics)—who died after the prize was announced but before it could be presented.Recognition time lagNobel's will provides for prizes to be awarded in recognition for discoveries made "during the preceding year", and for the first years of the awards, the discoveries recognized were recent. However, some awards were made for discoveries that were later discredited. Taking the discrediting of a recognized discovery as an embarassment, the awards comittees began to recognize scientific discoveries that had withstood the test of time, in violation of the letter of the will.The interval between the accomplishment of the achievement being recognized and the awarding of the Nobel Prize for it varies from discipline to discipline. Prizes in Literature are typically awarded to recognize a cumulative lifetime body of work rather than a single achievement. In this case the notion of "lag" does not directly apply. Prizes in Peace, on the other hand, are often awarded within a few years of the events they recognize. For instance, Kofi Annan was awarded the 2001 Peace Prize just four years after becoming the Secretary-General of the UN.Awards in the scientific disciplines of physics and chemistry require that the significance of achievements being recognized is "tested by time." In practice it means that the lag between the discovery and the award is typically on the order of 20 years and can be much longer. For example, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar shared the 1983 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on stellar structure and evolution from the 1930s. Unfortunately, not all scientists live long enough for their work to be recognized. Some important scientific discoveries are never considered for a Prize if the discoverers have died by the time the impact of their work is realized.Award ceremoniesThe committees and institutions serving as the selection boards for the Nobel Prizes typically announce the names of the laureates in October, with the Prizes awarded at formal ceremonies held annually on 10 December, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel's death. In 2005 and 2006, these Prize ceremonies were held at the Stockholm Concert Hall, with the Nobel Banquet following immediately in the Blue Hall of Stockholm City Hall. Previously, the Nobel Prizes ceremony was held in a ballroom in Stockholm's Grand Hotel.The Nobel Peace Prize ceremony has been held at the Norwegian Nobel Institute (1905-1946); at the Aula of the University of Oslo (1947-1990); and most recently at the Oslo City Hall.A maximum of three laureates and two different works may be selected per award. Each award can be given to a maximum of three recipients per year. Each "Nobel Prize Award" consists of a gold medal, a diploma, and a monetary grant:  The grant is currently 10&nbsp;million&nbsp;SEK, slightly more than US$1.5&nbsp;million.&quot;The Nobel Prize Amounts&quot;, nobelprize.org, Copyright © The Nobel Foundation 2007, accessed 9 November 2007.If there are two winners in a particular category, the award grant is divided equally between the recipients. If there are three, the awarding committee has the option of dividing the grant equally, or awarding one-half to one recipient and one-quarter to each of the others. It is not uncommon for recipients to donate prize money to benefit scientific, cultural or humanitarian causes.Since 1902, the King of Sweden has, with the exception of the Peace Prize, presented all the prizes in Stockholm. At first King Oscar II did not approve of awarding grand prizes to foreigners, but is said to have changed his mind once his attention had been drawn to the publicity value of the prizes for Sweden.Until the Norwegian Nobel Committee was established in 1904, the President of Norwegian Parliament made the formal presentation of the Nobel Peace Prize. The Committee's five members are entrusted with researching and adjudicating the Prize as well as awarding it. Although appointed by the Norwegian Parliament (Stortinget), they are independent and answer to no legislative authority. Members of the Norwegian government are not permitted to sit on the Committee.Nobel Prize medalsin 1947; Appleton Tower, University of Edinburgh, 2005.]]  in 1933; the Imperial War Museum, London, 26 August 2005.]]The Nobel Prize medals, which have been minted by Myntverket&lt;/ref&gt; in Sweden and the [[Mint of Norway]] since 1902, are registered trademarks of the [[Nobel Foundation]]. Their engraved designs are internationally-recognized symbols of the prestige of the Nobel Prize. All of these medal designs feature an image of [[Alfred Nobel]] in left profile on their front sides (the face of the medal). Four of the five Nobel Prize medals ([[Nobel Prize in Physics|Physics]], [[Nobel Prize in Chemistry|Chemistry]], [[Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine|Physiology or Medicine]], and [[Nobel Prize in Literature|Literature]]) feature the same design on their faces (front sides). The reverse sides of the Nobel Prize medals for Chemistry and Physics share a design.&lt;ref name=Lemmel&gt;Birgitta Lemmel, [http://nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/medals/ &quot;The Nobel Prize Medals and the Medal for the Prize in Economics&quot;], ''nobelprize.org'', Copyright © The [[Nobel Foundation]] 2006, accessed 9 November 2007. Original designs ®© The Nobel Foundation. Copyright © Nobel Web AB 2007.&lt;!--See talk page archive 1 and current talk page.--&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref name=What/&gt;&lt;ref name=Paulingmedal&gt;[http://osulibrary.oregonstate.edu/specialcollections/coll/pauling/bond/pictures/nobel-chemistry-medal.html &quot;Nobel Prize for Chemistry. Front and back images of the medal. 1954&quot;], &quot;Source: Photo by Eric Arnold. Ava Helen and [[Linus Pauling]] Papers. Honors and Awards, 1954h2.1&quot;, &quot;All Documents and Media: Pictures and Illustrations&quot;, ''Linus Pauling and The Nature of the Chemical Bond: A Documentary History'', the [[Valley Library]], [[Oregon State University]], accessed 7 December 2007.&lt;/ref&gt; Both sides of the [[Nobel Peace Prize]] Medal&lt;ref name=PaulingPeacePrize&gt;[http://digitalcollections.library.oregonstate.edu/cdm4/item_viewer.php?CISOROOT=/pawardsmedals&amp;CISOPTR=47 &quot;The Nobel Prize for Peace&quot;], &quot;Linus Pauling: Awards, Honors, and Medals&quot;, ''Linus Pauling and The Nature of the Chemical Bond: A Documentary History'', the [[Valley Library]], [[Oregon State University]], accessed 7 December 2007.&lt;/ref&gt; and the Medal for [[The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel]] are unique designs.&lt;ref name=Lemmel/&gt;&lt;!--See talk page archive 1 and current talk page.--&gt;&lt;ref name=What/&gt;Due to their gold content and public display, Nobel medals are subject to medal theft. During World War II, the medals of German scientists Max von Laue and James Franck were (illegally) sent to Copenhagen for safekeeping. When Germany invaded Denmark, chemist George de Hevesy dissolved them in acid, to prevent confiscation by Nazi Germany and to prevent legal problems for the holders. After the war, the gold was recovered from solution, and the medals re-cast.Controversies and criticisms  Alfred Nobel became increasingly uneasy with the military use of the explosives which he had created in the course of his jobs; his discomfort increased apparently after he read his own premature obituary, published in error in 1888 by a French newspaper on the occasion of the death of Nobel's brother Ludvig, which condemned Alfred as a "merchant of death."Frederic Golden, &quot;The Worst and the Brightest&quot;, Time & CNN.com, 16 October 2000, accessed 5 November 2007.Since the first Nobel Prize was awarded in 1901, the proceedings, nominations, awards and exclusions have generated criticism and engendered much controversy.Overlooked achievementsMahatma Gandhi was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize five times between 1937 and 1948 but never received the prize, being assassinated on 30 January 1948 two days before the closing date for the 1948 Peace Prize nominations. The Norwegian Nobel Committee had very likely planned to give him the Peace Prize in 1948 as they considered a posthumous award, but ultimately decided against it and instead chose not to award the prize that year..The strict rules against a prize being awarded to more than three people at once is also a cause for controversy. Where a prize is awarded to recognise an achievement by a team of more than three collaborators, inevitably one or more will miss out. For example, in 2002, a Prize was awarded to Koichi Tanaka and John Fenn for the development of mass spectrometry in protein chemistry, an award that failed to recognise the achievements of Franz Hillenkamp and Michael Karas of the Institute for Physical and Theoretical Chemistry at the University of Frankfurt.Laura Spinney, &quot;News Analysis: Nobel Prize Controversy&quot;, The Scientist 3.1 (11 December 2002): 20021211-03, accessed 28 October 2006.Similarly, the prohibition of posthumous awards fails to recognise achievements by a collaborator who happens to die before the prize is awarded. Rosalind Franklin, who was key in the discovery of the structure of DNA in 1953, died of ovarian cancer in 1958, four years before Francis Crick, James D. Watson and Maurice Wilkins (one of Franklin's collaborators) were awarded the Prize for Medicine or Physiology in 1962. Franklin's significant and relevant contribution was only briefly mentioned in Crick and Watson's Nobel Prize-winning paper: "We have also been stimulated by a knowledge of the general nature of the unpublished experimental results and ideas of Dr. M.H.F. Wilkins, Dr. R.E. Franklin, and co-workers...."J.D. Watson and F.H.C. Crick, , Nature 171.4356 (1953): 737-38.In some cases, awards have arguably omitted similar discoveries made earlier. For example, the 2000 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for "the discovery and development of conductive organic polymers" (1977) ignored the much earlier discovery of highly-conductive charge transfer complex polymers: the 1963 series of papers by Weiss, et al. reported even higher conductivity in similarly iodine-doped oxidized polypyrrole..J. McGinness and P. Proctor, &quot;Amorphous semiconductor switching in melanins&quot;, Science 183.127 (1974): 853-55. Links PMID: 4359339 (PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE), accessed 28 October 2006Lack of a Nobel Prize in Mathematics There is no Nobel Prize in Mathematics, which has led to considerable speculation about why Alfred Nobel omitted it.Lars Gårding and Lars Hörmander, "Why Is There No Nobel Prize in Mathematics?", Mathematical Intelligencer 7 (1985): 73-74. suggest that, primarily, Nobel did not consider Mathematics as &quot;practical&quot; as the other disciplines in which he established Prizes.John E. Morrill, "Nobel Prize in Mathematics", American Mathematical Monthly 102.10 (December 1995): 888-92. JSTOR doi:10.2307/2975266. (5 pages.) (Restricted access.) of various speculations about reasons for Nobel's omitting a Prize in Mathematics, including possibly-apocryphal ones. Some recipients of the Nobel Prize in other fields also have notable achievements in and/or have made outstanding contributions to mathematics; for example, Bertrand Russell was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature (1950) and Max Born and Walther Bothe shared the Nobel Prize in Physics (1954). Some others with advanced credentials in mathematics and/or who are known primarily as mathematicians have been awarded the Bank of Sweden Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel: Kenneth Arrow (1972), Leonid Kantorovich (1975), John Forbes Nash (1994), Clive W. J. Granger (2003), Robert J. Aumann (who shared the 2005 Prize with Thomas C. Schelling), and Roger Myerson and Eric Maskin (2007).Several prizes in mathematics have some similarities to the Nobel Prize. The Fields Medal is often described as the "Nobel Prize of mathematics", but it differs in being awarded only once every four years to people not older than forty years old. Other prestigious prizes in mathematics are the Crafoord Prize, awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences since 1982; the Abel Prize, awarded by the Norwegian government beginning in 2001; the Wolf Prize awarded once a year by the Wolf Foundation; the Shaw Prize in mathematical sciences awarded since 2004; and the Gauss Prize, granted jointly by the International Mathematical Union and the German Mathematical Society for "outstanding mathematical contributions that have found significant applications outside of mathematics," and introduced at the International Congress of Mathematicians in 2006. The Clay Mathematics Institute has devised seven "Millennium Problems," whose solution results in a significant cash award:. since it has a clear, predetermined objective for its award and since it can be awarded whenever a problem is solved, this prize also differs from the Nobel Prizes.Emphasis on Discoveries over InventionsAlfred Nobel left a fortune to finance annual prizes to be awarded "to those who, during the preceding year, shall have conferred the greatest benefit on mankind". One part, he stated, should be given "to the person who shall have made the most important discovery or invention within the field of physics". Nobel did not emphasize discoveries. But these are much more respected by the scientific community than are inventions: 77% of Nobel prizes in physics have been given to discoveries, compared with only 23% to inventions. Christoph Bartneck and Matthias Rauterberg in papers published in Nature and Technoetic Arts, have argued this emphasis on discoveries has moved the Nobel prize away from its original intention of rewarding the greatest contribution to society in the preceding year. Bartneck, C., & Rauterberg, M. (2007). Physics Nobels should favour inventions. Nature, 448(7154), p. 644. DOI 10.1038/448644c. Bartneck, C., & Rauterberg, M. (2008). The Asymmetry Between Discoveries and Inventions in the Nobel Prize for Physics. Technoetic Arts, 6(1), pp 73-77. DOI: 10.1386/tear.6.1.73_1Specially distinguished laureatesMultiple laureatesSince the establishment of the Nobel Prize, four people have received two Nobel Prizes:Nobel Prize Facts, nobelprize.org, accessed 18 October 2007.Maria Skłodowska-Curie: in Physics 1903, for the discovery of radioactivity; and in Chemistry 1911, for the isolation of pure radiumLinus Pauling: in Chemistry 1954, for the hybridized orbital theory; and Peace 1962, for nuclear test-ban treaty activism; he is the only person to have won two unshared Nobel Prizes.See "Preface&quot;, &quot;The Peace Prize...&quot; and &quot;Linus Pauling: Awards, Honors, and Medals&quot;, Linus Pauling and The Nature of the Chemical Bond: A Documentary History and Linus Pauling and the International Peace Movement, Ava Helen and Linus Pauling Papers, Special Collections, the Valley Library, Oregon State University, accessed 13 December 2007.John Bardeen: in Physics 1956, for the invention of the transistor; and Physics 1972, for the theory of superconductivity.Frederick Sanger: in Chemistry 1958, for structure of the insulin molecule; and in Chemistry 1980, for virus nucleotide sequencing.Although Otto Heinrich Warburg was nominated for a second Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1944, he was not selected that time.Göran Liljestrand and Gustaf Bernhard, "The Prize in Physiology or Medicine" 210.As a group, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has received the Nobel Peace Prize three times: in 1917, 1944, and 1963. The first two prizes were specifically in recognition of the group's work during the world wars, and the third was awarded at the year of its 100-Year Anniversary.The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has won the Peace Prize twice: in 1954 and 1981.Family laureatesA number of families have included multiple laureates. The Curie family claim the most Nobel Prizes, with three:Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Physics 1903 and Chemistry 1911Her husband Pierre Curie, Physics 1903Their daughter Irène Joliot-Curie, Chemistry 1935Their son-in-law Frederic Joliot-Curie, Chemistry 1935In addition, Henry Labouisse, the husband of the Curies' second daughter Ève, was the director of UNICEF when it won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1965.J. J. Thomson, awarded the Nobel prize for Physics in 1906, was the father of George Paget Thomson who was awarded the Nobel prize for Physics in 1937.William Henry Bragg shared the Nobel prize in Physics in 1915 with his son, William Lawrence Bragg.Niels Bohr won the Nobel prize in Physics in 1922, and his son Aage Bohr won the Nobel prize in Physics in 1975.Manne Siegbahn won the Nobel prize in Physics in 1924; he was the father of Kai Siegbahn who shared the Nobel prize in Physics in 1981.Hans von Euler-Chelpin shared the Nobel prize in Chemistry in 1929 with Arthur Harden. His son, Ulf von Euler, was awarded the Nobel prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1970.C.V. Raman won the Nobel prize in Physics in 1930; he was the uncle of Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar who won the Nobel prize in Physics in 1983.Arthur Kornberg shared with Severo Ochoa the 1959 Nobel prize in Physiology or Medicine for their discovery of the mechanisms in the biological synthesis of ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid.Physiology or Medicine prize 1959, nobelprize.org, accessed 14 January 2008 Kornberg's son Roger won the 2006 Nobel prize in Chemistry for his studies of the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription.Chemistry prize 2006, nobelprize.org, accessed 14 January 2008Jan Tinbergen, who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Economics in 1969, was the brother of Nikolaas Tinbergen who shared the 1973 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Konrad Lorenz and Karl von Frisch.See alsoList of Nobel laureatesList of Nobel laureates by countryFemale Nobel Prize laureatesNobel laureates by university affiliationNobel ConferenceNobel LibraryNobel MuseumNobel Peace CenterList of prizes, medals, and awardsRight Livelihood Award, sometimes called the "Alternative Nobel Prize"Ig Nobel PrizeNotesReferences&quot;Annan, U.N. Cited for Peace Work, Win Nobel&quot;. In Nobel Centennial. CNN.com. Copyright © 2003 Cable News Network LP, LLLP 2003. Accessed 5 November 2007. (Concerns the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize awarded to Kofi Annan and the United Nations.)&quot;The Definitive Guide to The Nobel Prizes&quot;. The Local ("Sweden's News in English"), 6 November 2007. Copyright © The Local Europe AB 2007. Accessed 5 November 2007.Encyclopædia Britannica's Guide to the Nobel Prizes. britannica.com. Copyright © 2007 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Accessed 5 November 2007.Lemmel, Birgitta. &quot;The Nobel Prize Medals and the Medal for the Prize in Economics&quot;. nobelprize.org. Copyright © The Nobel Foundation 2006. Accessed 9 November 2007.Liljestrand, Göran, and Carl Gustaf Bernhard. "The Prize in Physiology or Medicine". 139-278 of Nobel: The Man and His Prizes. 1950. Ed. Nobel Foundation and Wilhelm Odelberg (Coordinating Ed.). 3rd ed. New York: American Elsevier Publishing Company, Inc., 1972. ISBN 0444001174.&quot;The Nobel Prize Award Ceremonies&quot;. nobelprize.org. Copyright © Nobel Web AB 2007. Accessed 9 November 2007.Odelberg, Wilhelm. "Foreword: Alfred Nobel: The Man and His Prizes". The Who's Who of Nobel Prize Winners: 1901-2000. Ed. Louise S. Sherby. 4th ed. Westport, CT: Oryx Press, 2002. ISBN 1573564141 (10). ISBN 9781573564144 (13).Schück, Henrik, Ragnar Sohlman, Anders Österling, Carl Gustaf Bernhard, the Nobel Foundation, and Wilhelm Odelberg, eds. Nobel: The Man and His Prizes. 1950. 3rd ed. Coordinating Ed., Wilhelm Odelberg. New York: American Elsevier Publishing Company, Inc., 1972. ISBN 0444001174 (10). ISBN 9780444001177 (13). (Originally published in Swedish as Nobelprisen 50 år: forskare, diktare, fredskämpar.)&quot;What the Nobel Laureates Receive&quot;. nobelprize.org. Copyright © Nobel Web AB 2007. Accessed 9 November 2007.External links&quot;The Nobel Committees of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences". (English version; also accessible in Swedish.)The Nobel Foundation – Official website of the Nobel Foundation. (English index page; hyperlink to Swedish site.)The Norwegian Nobel Committee – Nobel Peace Prize official website. (English version; also accessible in Norwegian.)Nobel Prize Link to Baku's Oil&quot;Prizes and Awards at Karolinska Institutet: The Nobel Prize&quot; – Official webpage of the Karolinska Institute; (English version; also accessible in Swedish.)The Swedish Academy – Official website. (English version; also accessible in Swedish.) Category:Nobel Prize Category:Awards Category:Science and engineering awards Category:Organizations based in Swedenaf:Nobelprys als:Nobelpreis ar:جائزة نوبل ast:Premiu Nobel az:Nobel mükafatı bn:নোবেল পুরস্কার zh-min-nan:Nobel Chióng be-x-old:Нобэлеўская прэмія bs:Nobelova nagrada br:Priz Nobel bg:Нобелова награда ca:Premi Nobel cs:Nobelova cena cy:Gwobr Nobel da:Nobelprisen de:Nobelpreis et:Nobeli auhind el:Βραβείο Νόμπελ es:Premio Nobel eo:Nobel-premio eu:Nobel Sariak fa:جایزه نوبل fr:Prix Nobel fy:Nobelpriis fur:Premi Nobel ga:Duais Nobel gan:諾貝爾獎 gd:Duais Nobel gl:Premios Nobel ko:노벨상 hi:नोबेल पुरस्कार hr:Nobelova nagrada io:Nobel-premio ilo:Premio Nobel id:Penghargaan Nobel ia:Premio Nobel is:Nóbelsverðlaunin it:Premio Nobel he:פרס נובל kn:ನೊಬೆಲ್ ಪ್ರಶಸ್ತಿ ka:ნობელის პრემია kk:Нобель сыйлығы sw:Tuzo ya Nobeli la:Praemium Nobelianum lv:Nobela prēmija lb:Nobelpräis lt:Nobelio premija hu:Nobel-díj mk:Нобелова награда ml:നോബല്‍ സമ്മാനം mr:नोबेल पुरस्कार ms:Hadiah Nobel nl:Nobelprijs new:नोबेल सिरपा ja:ノーベル賞 nap:Premmio Nobel no:Nobelprisen nn:Nobelprisen nrm:Pris Nobel nov:Nobel Premie oc:Prèmi Nobel uz:Nobel mukofoti km:រង្វាន់ណូបែល nds:Nobelpries pl:Nagroda Nobla pt:Prémio Nobel ro:Premiul Nobel qu:Nobel Suñay ru:Нобелевская премия sq:Çmimi Nobel scn:Premiu Nobel simple:Nobel Prize sk:Nobelova cena sl:Nobelova nagrada sr:Нобелова награда sh:Nobelova nagrada fi:Nobel-palkinto sv:Nobelpriset ta:நோபல் பரிசு tt:Nobel büläge te:నోబెల్ బహుమతి th:รางวัลโนเบล vi:Giải thưởng Nobel tg:Ҷоизаи Нобел tr:Nobel Ödülü uk:Нобелівська премія ur:نوبل انعام vec:Premio Nobel wuu:诺贝尔奖 yi:נאבעל פריז yo:Ẹ̀bùn Nobel zh-yue:諾貝爾獎 bat-smg:Nuobele premėjė zh:诺贝尔奖