 | Location =  /  | Range = Alps | Coordinates =  | Topographic map = | Traversed by = Great St Bernard Pass (Fr. Col du Grand-Saint-Bernard, It. Colle del Gran San Bernardo) is the most ancient pass through the Western Alps, with evidence of use as far back as the Bronze Age, surviving traces of the Roman road and more recently the path of Napoleon's army into Italy in 1800. A hospice for travellers was founded in 1049 and named after Saint Bernard of Menthon. The hospice later became famous for its St. Bernard dogs. The hospice still functions, occupying two buildings, of 1560 and 1898 (illustration, right). Pope Pius XI confirmed Bernard as patron saint of the Alps in 1923.The pass runs northeast-southwest through the Valais Alps at an elevation of . From the north (Switzerland), the route to the pass follows the Dranse River valley above Martigny, then into the wild and desolate valley of the Dranse d'Entremont. The Great St Bernard Tunnel (and the main road) plunges through the mountains at the  level; after the construction of the Simplon Tunnel further east in 1905, railroad traffic partly superseded the St Bernard road. The much smaller historic road winding over the pass itself, which is part of the Swiss border with Italy is only passable June to September. On the south side of the pass, the Great St Bernard Valley is drained by the Artanavaz River, which runs down to Aosta.Just below the pass is a small lake, and several buildings making up the hospice straddle the pass itself. The old road may still be seen, above the paved road. The minor peaks Mont Mort and Pointe de Drône flank the pass. The elevation is such that snow may keep the pass closed until June, and indeed the motivation for the hospice was to aid travellers overcome by the difficulties of the crossing.Likewise, the dogs from this area, known as St. Bernards, were bred to be large enough to handle deep snow and to scent out lost persons. It is often said that they carried small casks of brandy around their necks (although this is only legend), in the belief that the liquor had medicinal properties (in reality, the effect would have been more psychological than physiological, as alcohol increases the rate of heat loss in people suffering from hypothermia).External linksElevation Profile of Swiss and Italian Side Profile of Italy Side on climbbybike.comHistory of Great St Bernard PassAerial views of the passAdrian Fletcher’s pass photosCategory:Italian border crossings Category:Mountain passes of Italy Category:Mountain passes of Switzerland Category:Mountain passes of the Alps Category:Valaisde:Grosser Sankt Bernhard es:Gran San Bernardo eo:Montpasejo Granda Sankta Bernardo fr:Col du Grand-Saint-Bernard it:Colle del Gran San Bernardo he:מעבר סן ברנאר הגדול la:Porta Magni Sancti Bernardi hu:Szent Bernát-hágó nl:Grote Sint-Bernhardpas ja:グラン・サン・ベルナール峠 pms:Grand San Bernard pl:Wielka Przełęcz Świętego Bernarda pt:Grande São Bernardo rm:Pass dal Grond Son Bernard zh:大圣伯纳德山口