   | website = flychicago.com/Ohare/... | r1-number = 4L/22R | r1-length-f = 7,500 | r1-length-m = 2,286 | r1-surface = Asphalt | r2-number = 4R/22L | r2-length-f = 8,075 | r2-length-m = 2,461 | r2-surface = Asphalt | r3-number = 9R/27L | r3-length-f = 7,967 | r3-length-m = 2,428 | r3-surface = Asphalt/Concrete | r4-number = 10/28 | r4-length-f = 13,000 | r4-length-m = 3,962 | r4-surface = Asphalt/Concrete | r5-number = 14L/32R | r5-length-f = 10,005 | r5-length-m = 3,050 | r5-surface = Asphalt | r6-number = 14R/32L | r6-length-f = 13,000 | r6-length-m = 3,962 | r6-surface = Asphalt/Concrete | h1-number = H1 | h1-length-f = 200 | h1-length-m = 61 | h1-surface = Concrete | stat-year = 2006 | stat1-header = Aircraft operations | stat1-data = 958,643 | stat2-header = Passenger volume | stat2-data = 77,028,134 | stat3-header = Cargo tonnage | stat3-data = 1,718,011 | footnotes = Sources: FAA, effective March 15, 2007. and airport's websiteCity of Chicago, Airport Activity Statistics, December 2006, published February 27, 2007.. O'Hare International Airport , also known simply as O'Hare Airport or O'Hare, is a major airport located in the northwestern-most corner of Chicago, Illinois, United States, 17 miles (27 km) northwest of the Chicago Loop. It is the largest hub of United Airlines (whose headquarters is in Downtown Chicago) and the second-largest hub of American Airlines (after Dallas/Fort Worth). It is operated by the City of Chicago Department of Aviation, associated with an umbrella regional authority.In 2005, the airport had 972,246 aircraft operations, an average of 2,663 per day (64% scheduled commercial, 33% air taxi, 3% general aviation and  Prior to 2005, O'Hare was the world's busiest airport in terms of takeoffs and landings. That year, mainly due to limits imposed by the federal government to reduce flight delays at O'Hare, Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport became the busiest by that metric. O'Hare currently accounts for over a sixth of the nation's total flight cancellations. O'Hare International Airport is the second busiest airport in both the United States and the world, behind Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport with 76,248,911 passengers passing through the airport in 2006; a -0.3% change from 2005. http://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2008/07/29/news/World-Airports.php O'Hare also has a strong international presence, with flights to more than 60 foreign destinations. O'Hare was ranked fourth in 2005 of the United States' international gateways, with only John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City, Los Angeles International Airport, and Miami International Airport serving more foreign destinations.O’Hare International Airport was voted the Best Airport in North America for the past nine years by readers of the U.S. Edition of Business Traveler Magazine (1998 - 2003), and Global Traveler Magazine (2004 - 2007), marking the tenth year in a row O'Hare has earned the top honor. Although O'Hare is Chicago's primary airport, Chicago Midway International Airport, the city's second airport, is about six miles closer to the Loop, the main business and financial district.HistoryThe airport was constructed between 1942 and 1943 as a manufacturing plant for Douglas C-54s during World War II. The site was chosen for its proximity to the city and transportation. The two million square-foot (180,000 m²) factory needed easy access to the workforce of the nation's then-second-largest city, as well as its extensive railroad infrastructure. Orchard Place was a small pre-existing community in the area, and the airport was known during the war as Orchard Place Airport/Douglas Field (hence the call sign ORD). The facility was also the site of the Army Air Force's 803 Special Depot, which stored many rare or experimental planes, including captured enemy aircraft. These historic aircraft would later be transferred to the National Air Museum, going on to form the core of the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum's collection.Douglas Aircraft Company's contract ended in 1945, and though plans were proposed to build commercial aircraft, the company ultimately chose to concentrate production on the west coast. With the departure of Douglas, the airport took the name Orchard Field Airport. In 1945, the facility was chosen by the City of Chicago as the site for a facility to meet future aviation demands. Though its familiar three-letter IATA code ORD still reflects the early identity of the airport, it was renamed in 1949 after Lt. Cmdr. Edward &quot;Butch&quot; O'Hare, a World War II flying ace who was awarded the Medal of Honor.By the early 1950s, Chicago Midway International Airport, which had been the primary Chicago airport since 1931, had become too small and crowded despite multiple expansions and was unable to handle the planned first generation of jets. The City of Chicago and FAA began to develop O'Hare as the main airport for Chicago's future. The first commercial passenger flights were started there in 1955, and an international terminal was built in 1958, but the majority of domestic traffic did not move from Midway until completion of a 1962 expansion of O'Hare. The arrival of Midway's former traffic instantly made O'Hare the new World's Busiest Airport, serving 10 million passengers annually. Within two years that number would double, with more people passing through O'Hare in 12 months than Ellis Island had processed in its entire existence. In 1997, annual passenger volume reached 70 million; it is now approaching 80 million. At this time of writing, United serves its flagship hub with 650 daily departures, but the carrier's utilization of O'Hare peaked at over 1,000 daily flights in 1994YouTube - 1994 United Airlines Commercial&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.O'Hare Airport is municipally connected to the city of Chicago via a narrow strip of land, approximately 200 feet wide, running along Higgins Rd from the Des Plaines river to the airport. This land was annexed into the city limits in the 1950s to assure the airport was contiguous with the city to keep it under city control. The strip is bounded on the north by Rosemont and the south by Schiller Park.http://egov.cityofchicago.org/webportal/COCWebPortal/COC_ATTACH/41st.pdf The CTA Blue Line was extended to the airport in 1984.Accidents and IncidentsAccidents1057 fatalities have occurred as a result of accidents en route to or from Chicago O'Hare. http://aviation-safety.net/database/airport/airport.php?id=ORDOn February 9, 1998, American Airlines Flight 1340 crashed upon landing in Chicago from Kansas City International Airport injuring 22 passengers. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19980209-0On October 31, 1994, American Eagle Flight 4184 crashed upon approach into Chicago O'Hare Airport in Northwestern Indiana, killing all 68 passengers on board. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19940908-0On September 8, 1994, USAir Flight 427 departed O'Hare and crashed upon initial approach into Pittsburgh, PA, killing all 132 passengers on board. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19941031-1On July 19, 1989, United Airlines Flight 232 from Denver en route to Chicago, crash landed in Sioux City, Iowa, killing 111 people on board. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19890719-1On August 10, 1986, American Trans Air Flight 131 Exploded on the tarmac, destroying the plane. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19860810-0On March 19, 1982, USAF Flight Crashed upon approach to O'Hare just north of the city, killing 27 people on board. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19820319-0On May 25, 1979, American Airlines Flight 191 crashed upon takeoff from Chicago en route to Los Angeles International Airport in Los Angeles, California, killing all 271 people on board and two people on the ground. The crash remains the deadliest single-aircraft crash in United States history, and the worst aviation disaster in the nation before 9/11. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19790525-2On December 20, 1972, North Central Airlines Flight 575 crashed upon takeoff at Chicago O'Hare Airport, killing 10 passengers. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19721220-1On December 27, 1968, Convair Flight 458 crashed into a hangar at Chicago O'Hare killing 27 onboard and 1 on the ground. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19681227-0On August 16, 1965, United Airlines Flight 389 en route to Chicago O'Hare crashed 30 miles east of Chicago O'Hare killing all 30 onboard. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19650816-0On September 17, 1961, Northwest Orient Flight 706 snagged powerlines and crashed upon takeoff at Chicago O'Hare killing all 37 onboard. http://aviation-safety.net/database/record.php?id=19610917-3IncidentsOn October 8, 2001, on American Airlines Flight 1238, en route from Los Angeles to Chicago, a psychotic passenger stormed the cockpit 40 minutes before landing in Chicago, causing the plane to drop sharply and causing a panic. In light of the fear ignited by 9/11, flight crew and passengers were quick to wrestle the man to the ground and subdue him. Additionally, a distress signal was sent by the pilots, causing two F-16s to race at supersonic speeds to intercept and escort the aircraft to O'Hare International Airport. This caused a sonic boom in Chicago's northwest suburbs, startling millions of residents. http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?did=83625993&amp;sid=1&amp;Fmt=3&amp;clientId=8829&amp;RQT=309&amp;VName=PQDOn May 8, 2002, alleged Al-Qaida member Jose Padilla was arrested after the plane he was on landed at the airport for allegedly being a scout for a plot to plant a dirty bomb.On the afternoon of November 7, 2006, a group of United Airlines workers reported seeing an unidentified flying object near gate C-17. Witnesses stated the object hovered over them before shooting up through clouds. The Federal Aviation Administration was notified of the incident; however, FAA controllers denied seeing anything and a preliminary check of radar found nothing out of the ordinary. The FAA concluded that the object was a weather phenomenon.Modernization planO'Hare's high volume and crowded schedule can lead to long delays and cancellations that, due to the airport being a major hub, can affect air travel across the United States. Official reports rank O'Hare as the least punctual airport in the United States based on percentage of delayed flights. In 2004, United Airlines and American Airlines agreed to modify their schedules to help reduce congestion caused by clustered arrivals and departures. Because of the air traffic departing, arriving, and near the airport, air traffic controllers at O'Hare and its nearby facilities are among the leaders in the world in terms of number of controlled flights per hour.City management has committed to a $6 billion capital investment plan to increase the airport's capacity by 60% and decrease delays by an estimated 79 percenthttp://www.flychicago.com/ohare/runways/. This plan was approved by the FAA in October 2005 and will involve a reconfiguration of the airfield and addition of terminal space. Four runways will be added and two decommissioned in order to give the airfield an eight-runway parallel configuration similar to those in Dallas. This plan is essential to O'Hare in alleviating the airport's flight limits so O'Hare will not be eclipsed by other airports in terms of passenger numbers in the future. Also, airplanes will be capable of arriving and departing more quickly, despite Chicago's occasional extreme winter weather. Modernization Plan is under construction, and a new runway, extension of an existing runway and a new Air Traffic Control Tower will be commissioned on November 20, 2008. New north runway 9L/27R will be primarily a bad weather arrival runway, addressing one of O'Hare's primary causes of delay. Terminals 3 and 5 will undergo expansion, and a new west terminal is planned with western access into the airport; however, some land acquisition is necessary, requiring approximately 2,800 residents to be relocated. The program will expand the airport's capacity to over 3,800 operations per day, up from the present capacity of 2,700 and will vastly increase passenger throughput capacity and, ultimately, allow the A380 to operate at O'Hare.Flight caps in place since 2004 will be allowed to expire on October 31, 2008. Ironically, at the same time (November 2008) American Airlines announced that, due to soaring fuel prices, it would eliminate over 60 flights daily at O'Hare.  Image:O'Hare International Airport (USGS) Phase1-corrected.png|Phase 1 of the modernization program Image:O'Hare International Airport (USGS) Phase2-corrected.png|Phase 2 Image:O'Hare International Airport (USGS) Phase3.png|Phase 3 Image:O'Hare International Airport (USGS) Final.png|Final runway configuration Resistance and alternativesThe neighboring communities of Bensenville and Elk Grove Village have been centers of resistance to the expansion plan. As a result of the expansion, some residents and businesses will be required to relocate. Bensenville and Elk Grove Village formed the Suburban O'Hare Commission http://www.suburban-ohare.org to fight the expansion. So far, they have not had much success, but the commission did receive a temporary injunction against the city's expansion project that was approved by the FAA; however, the injunction was quickly overturned. The Suburban O'Hare Commission has also been instrumental in pushing for a third regional airport in south suburban Peotone, which they claim would alleviate the problems at O'Hare. However, no airline has signed on for the proposed airport.In 1995 the Chicago/Gary Airport Compact was signed by the cities of Chicago and Gary, Indiana, creating the governing body of the Gary/Chicago International Airport just across the state line. While markedly smaller than the proposed Peotone site, this airport already has more land than Midway and an active runway longer than the longest at Midway Airport, and is miles closer to the population in greatest need of access to air transport. While Chicago would like to see a strong Gary airport, the state of Illinois does not appear interested in expanding an airport across state lines. However, Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels has provided significant funding for a runway expansion that is currently under construction; the FAA has also approved Gary as the new Chicago airport; regardless of O’Hare expansion, the FAA feels it necessary to expand Gary.Chicago Rockford International Airport (RFD) in Rockford, Illinois has recently made a big push to be an alternative for relieving congestion at O'Hare. However, it is at least a 1-1/2 hour trip to Rockford from the Chicago Loop. Currently there is no direct transportation service from downtown Chicago or O'Hare to the Chicago Rockford International Airport, but airline service at the airport continues to grow. Larry Morrissey, the current mayor of Rockford, has pushed since being elected for a high-speed rail connection between the two airports to make the Rockford airport a more convenient alternative to O'Hare.General Mitchell International Airport (MKE) in Milwaukee, WI has consistently attempted to increase its usage by Chicago and Northern Illinois customers. There is a direct Amtrak rail connecting Chicago from Mitchell Airport. The trains operate 7 round trips each day, taking under 75 min. from the Chicago loop.Terminals, airlines and destinationsO'Hare International has four passenger terminals. Two or more additional terminal buildings are envisioned. There is the possibility of a large terminal complex for the west side of the field, with access from I-90 and/or the Elgin-O'Hare Expressway, if the runway reconfiguration is completed.United Airlines and United Express is the largest airline at Chicago O'Hare carrying 48.79% of the passengers. American Airlines and American Eagle is the second largest carrying 39.89% of passengers. http://www.transtats.bts.gov/airports.asp?pn=1For complete information on flights to and from Chicago O'Hare International Airport, please see the airport's website.Chicago O'Hare International Airport provides 186 aircraft gates throughout 4 Terminals (1, 2, 3, 5) and 9 concourses (B, C, E, F, G, H, K, L, M)Terminal 1 (United Airlines Terminal)Note: International Arrivals are handled in Terminal 5. Terminal 1 provides 53 Gates on 2 Concourses:Concourse BConcourse B has 21 Gates: B1–B12, B14–B21, B22, B22(A,B)United Airlines (Albany, Amsterdam, Aruba, Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, Beijing, Boise, Boston, Bozeman seasonal, Buffalo, Burlington (VT), Cabo San Lucas, Calgary, Charlotte, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Cleveland, Columbus (OH), Cozumel, Dallas/Fort Worth, Dayton, Denver, Des Moines, Detroit, Fort Myers November 2, Frankfurt, Grand Cayman, Grand Rapids, Greensboro November 1, Harrisburg, Hartford/Springfield, Hong Kong, Honolulu, Houston-Intercontinental, Indianapolis, Jackson Hole, Jacksonville, Kahului, Kansas City, Kona, Liberia (CR) seasonal, London-Heathrow, Los Angeles, Manchester (NH), Minneapolis/St. Paul, Montego Bay, Munich, New Orleans seasonal, New York-LaGuardia, Newark, Oklahoma City, Omaha, Orange County, Orlando, Palm Springs seasonal, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Portland (OR), Providence, Puerto Vallarta, Punta Cana, Raleigh/Durham, Richmond, Rochester (NY), Sacramento, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose (CA) November 2, San Juan (PR), São Paulo-Guarulhos, Seattle/Tacoma, Shanghai-Pudong, Singapore, Spokane November 2, St. Louis, St. Thomas, Tokyo-Narita, Toronto-Pearson, Vancouver, Washington-Dulles, Washington-Reagan, Wichita)Ted operated by United Airlines (Cabo San Lucas, Cancún, Las Vegas, Miami November 2, Orlando, Phoenix, Puerto Vallarta, San Juan (PR), Tampa)Concourse CConcourse C has 32 Gates: C1-C12, C15, C16, C16A, C17, C18, C18A, C19-C32United Airlines runs a shuttle service between Concourse C and Concourse F. The shuttles are accessed via stairways near Gate C-9 and Gate E-2A.All Nippon Airways (Tokyo-Narita)Lufthansa (Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Munich)United Airlines (See Concourse B)United Express operated by GoJet Airlines (Albany, Burlington (VT), Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Grand Rapids, Jacksonville (FL) seasonal, Manchester (NH) seasonal, Oklahoma City, Omaha, Portland (ME), San Antonio, St. Louis, Syracuse, Tulsa)United Express operated by Mesa Airlines (Allentown/Bethlehem, Akron/Canton, Atlanta, Appleton, Austin, Birmingham (AL), Bloomington/Normal November 2, Boise, Buffalo, Cedar Rapids/Iowa City, Charleston (SC), Charlotte, Cleveland, Colorado Springs, Columbia (SC), Des Moines, Detroit, Greensboro, Greenville (SC), Kansas City, Madison, Memphis, Moline/Quad Cities, Nashville, Portland (ME), Raleigh/Durham, Roanoke, Rochester (NY), Savannah, South Bend, Springfield (IL), Syracuse, Traverse City, Tulsa, Wilkes-Barre/Scranton)United Express operated by Shuttle America (Albuquerque, Atlanta, Buffalo, Cedar Rapids/Iowa City, Columbus (OH), Dallas/Fort Worth, Des Moines, Edmonton, Fort Myers November 1, Hartford/Springfield, Halifax, Houston-Intercontinental, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Louisville, Miami November 1, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Montréal, Myrtle Beach November 2, New Orleans, Ottawa, Pittsburgh, Quebec City, Raleigh/Durham, White Plains)United Express operated by SkyWest Airlines (Akron/Canton, Allentown/Bethlehem, Appleton, Aspen seasonal, Austin, Billings, Birmingham (AL), Boise, Bozeman, Calgary, Casper seasonal, Cedar Rapids/Iowa City, Charleston (WV), Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Cleveland, Colorado Springs, Columbus (OH), Dayton, Des Moines, Detroit, Edmonton, Fargo, Fayetteville (AR), Fort Wayne, Grand Rapids, Hayden/Steamboat Springs seasonal, Houston-Intercontinental, Indianapolis, Kalamazoo November 2, Kalispell seasonal, Kansas City, Knoxville, Lansing, Lexington, Lincoln, Louisville, Madison, Memphis, Milwaukee, Missoula, Moline/Quad Cities, Nashville, Norfolk, Omaha, Ottawa, Peoria, Pittsburgh, Providence, Rapid City seasonal, Roanoke, Saginaw, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, Savannah, Sioux Falls, South Bend, Springfield/Branson, Springfield (IL), Syracuse, Traverse City, Tulsa, Wausau/Stevens Point, Wichita, Wilkes-Barre/Scranton, Winnipeg)United Express operated by Trans States Airlines (Greensboro, Harrisburg, Madison, Milwaukee, Moline/Quad Cities, Omaha, Raleigh/Durham seasonal, Richmond, Roanoke, Rochester (NY), South Bend, St. Louis, Syracuse, White Plains)The original 1955 passenger terminal for international flights, was replaced with the modern Terminal 1, designed by Helmut Jahn, in 1987.=== Terminal 2 === Terminal 2 was built in a large airport expansion in 1962, along with the original portion of Terminal 3.Terminal 2 was United's sole terminal until the current Terminal 1 was built. In the 1960s/70s/80s it served United, Ozark, Braniff, Eastern, Northwest, Continental and Piedmont. In addition to Concourses E/F (which remain today), there was also an 11-gate Concourse D, which was demolished to make room for new Terminal 1.Terminal 2 provides 30 gates on 2 concourses:Concourse EConcourse E has 16 Gates: E1, E1A, E2, E2A, E3, E4, E6–E15United Airlines runs a shuttle service between Concourse E and Concourse C. The shuttles are accessed via stairways near Gate E-2A and Gate C-9. Shuttles run every 5-7 minutes between 5:30am and 10:00pm.Air Canada (Montréal, Toronto-Pearson)Air Canada Jazz (Calgary, Montréal, Toronto-Pearson)Continental Airlines (Houston-Intercontinental, Newark)Continental Express operated by ExpressJet Airlines (Cleveland, Houston-Intercontinental, Newark)JetBlue Airways (Boston, Long Beach, New York-JFK)Northwest Airlines (Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul)Northwest Airlink operated by Mesaba Airlines (Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul)United AirlinesUnited Express (See Concourse C)US Airways (Charlotte, Las Vegas, Philadelphia, Phoenix)US Airways Express operated by Air Wisconsin (Charlotte, Philadelphia)US Airways Express operated by Republic Airlines (Charlotte, Philadelphia)==== Concourse F ====Concourse F has 14 gates, however several gates can handle multiple flights at the same time, effectively bringing aircraft capacity to 26: F1(A-D), F2(B-D), F4(A,B), F5, F6(A,B), F7B, F8-F10, F11(A-E), F12, F12(A-C), F14.Gates with the alpha designation in parentheses are those that board/disembark passengers through a single doorway. Passengers board/disembark aircraft using airstairs, walking along designated pathways, utilizing stairs/elevators to access the gate area. United Airlines is in the process of converting these "outside operations" gates used by United Express into jet bridge operations to increase passenger comfort and ultimately enhance safety and security.Additional gates - F5B & F7A - are currently under construction which will increase capacity to 28 aircraft. Construction of these gates are scheduled to finish before summer.United AirlinesUnited Express (See Concourse C)US Airways (See Concourse E)US Airways Express operated by Republic Airlines (See Concourse E)Terminal 3Terminal 3 provides 77 Gates on 4 Concourses:Note: International Arrivals are handled in Terminal 5.  at Chicago O'Hare]] Concourse GConcourse G has 26 Gates: G1A, G1B, G2A, G2B, G3–G5, G6A, G6B, G7–G14, G14A, G15–G19, G19A, G20, G21American AirlinesAmerican Eagle (Albany (NY) November 1, Albuquerque November 2, Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, Bloomington/Normal, Buffalo, Cedar Rapids/Iowa City, Champaign/Urbana, Charlotte, Chattanooga, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Cleveland, Columbus (OH), Dallas-Love Field, Des Moines, Detroit, Dubuque, Evansville, Fayetteville (AR), Flint, Fort Wayne, Grand Rapids, Green Bay, Hartford/Springfield, Harrisburg November 1, Huntsville, Indianapolis, Jacksonville (FL), Kalamazoo, Kansas City November 2, Knoxville, La Crosse, Little Rock, Louisville, Madison, Marquette, Memphis, Milwaukee, Moline/Quad Cities, Montréal, Nashville, New Orleans November 2, Oklahoma City, Omaha, Ottawa, Peoria, Philadelphia November 2, Pittsburgh, Providence November 1, Raleigh/Durham November 2, Richmond, Rochester (MN), Rochester (NY), Springfield (IL) November 2, Springfield (MO), Syracuse, Toledo, Toronto-Pearson, Traverse City, Tulsa, Washington-Reagan, Wausau/Stevens Point, White Plains, Wichita)Concourse HConcourse H has 21 Gates: H1A, H1B, H2, H3A, H3B, H4–H10, H11A, H11B, H12–H18American Airlines (Acapulco seasonal, Albuquerque November 1, Atlanta, Austin, Beijing April 4, 2010, Boston, Brussels, Cabo San Lucas, Cancún, Dallas/Fort Worth, Delhi, Denver, Detroit, Dublin, Eagle/Vail seasonal, El Paso, Fayetteville (AR), Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers, Frankfurt, Hayden/Steamboat Springs seasonal, Honolulu January 5, Houston-Intercontinental, Indianapolis, Jackson Hole seasonal, Kansas City, Las Vegas, London-Heathrow, Los Angeles, Manchester (UK), Mexico City, Miami, Minneapolis/St. Paul, Montego Bay January 31, Moscow-Domodedovo, Montréal November 1, Montrose/Telluride seasonal, Nashville November 1, New Orleans, New York-LaGuardia, New York-JFK, Newark, Orange County, Orlando, Palm Springs seasonal, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Portland (OR) seasonal, Puerto Vallarta seasonal, Raleigh/Durham, Reno/Tahoe, Rome-Fiumicino seasonal, St. Louis, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, San Jose (CA), San Juan (PR), Seattle/Tacoma, Shanghai-Pudong, Tampa, Tokyo-Narita, Toronto-Pearson, Tucson, Tulsa, Washington-Reagan, West Palm Beach seasonal)American Eagle (See Concourse G)Concourse KConcourse K has 22 Gates: K1–K5, K6A, K6B, K7–K10, K10A, K11–K20American Airlines (See Concourse H)Iberia (Madrid)Concourse LConcourse L has 11 Gates: L1, L2A, L2B, L3-L10Alaska Airlines (Anchorage, Seattle/Tacoma)American Airlines (See Concourse H)Delta Air Lines (Atlanta, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Salt Lake City)Delta Connection operated by Comair (Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, New York-JFK)Delta Connection operated by SkyWest Airlines (Atlanta, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky)Delta Connection operated by Freedom Airlines (Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, New York-JFK)Spirit Airlines (Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers)Terminal 3 was also built in the 1962 capital program. During the 1960s, and pre-airline deregulation, Concourse L was home to Delta Air Lines. Concourse H & K served American while Concourse K also served the large "regional" carrier North Central. Concourse G served TWA, with a few gates reserved for Air Canada. Terminal 3 was significantly expanded in 1983, with the construction of Concourse L. Renovation were recently completed, which ran from January 2004 to Late Fall 2007.=== Terminal 4 === Terminal 4 was O'Hare's interim international terminal from 1984 until 1993, located on the ground floor of the main parking garage. International passengers would check in at Terminal 4 and be taken directly to their aircraft by bus. Since the opening of Terminal 5, Terminal 4 has been changed into the airport's facility for CTA buses, hotel shuttles, and other ground transportation. The T4 designation will be used again in the future as new terminals are developed.Terminal 5 (International Terminal)Terminal 5 provides 21 Gates on 1 Concourse.  Note: Terminal 5 handles all international arrivals at O'Hare (excluding airports with border preclearance), as well as the following departing flights:Concourse MConcourse M has 21 Gates: M1–M21Aer Lingus (Dublin, Shannon)Aeroméxico (Durango seasonal, Guadalajara, Mexico City)Air France (Paris-Charles de Gaulle)Air India (Frankfurt, London-Heathrow, Mumbai)Air Jamaica (Montego Bay)Air One (Milan-Malpensa)Alitalia (Rome-Fiumicino)Asiana Airlines (Seoul-Incheon)Austrian Airlines (Vienna) October 18bmi (Manchester (UK))British Airways (London-Heathrow)Cayman Airways (Grand Cayman) seasonalHainan Airlines (Beijing) June 2009Bloomberg.com: Canada&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Japan Airlines (Tokyo-Narita)KLM (Amsterdam)Korean Air (Seoul-Incheon)LOT Polish Airlines (Kraków, Warsaw)Mexicana (Aguascalientes, Cancún, Guadalajara, León seasonal, Mexico City, Monterrey, Morelia, Zacatecas)Royal Jordanian (Amman)SAS (Copenhagen, Stockholm-Arlanda)Swiss International Air Lines (Zürich)TACA (San Salvador, Guatemala City)Turkish Airlines (Istanbul-Atatürk)USA3000 Airlines (Cabo San Lucas seasonal, Cancún charter, Cozumel seasonal, Fort Myers, Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo, Montego Bay, Puerto Vallarta, Punta Cana)Virgin Atlantic (London-Heathrow)Cargo carriersABX AirAero UnionAir China (Anchorage, Beijing) (Service Stops Only)Air France (Dublin, Paris-Charles de Gaulle)Air New Zealand (Auckland, Frankfurt, Melbourne, Shanghai-Pudong Cargo Timetables: International Cargo: About Us: Air New Zealand - NZ Site&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;)Alitalia (Milan-Malpensa)Atlas AirANA CargoAsiana (Seoul-Incheon)British AirwaysCargoitaliaCargolux (Luxembourg)Cathay Pacific (Hong Kong)China Airlines (Anchorage, Taipei-Taiwan Taoyuan)China Cargo (Shanghai-Pudong)China Southern (Guangzhou)DHLEVA Air (Anchorage,Taipei-Taiwan Taoyuan)Evergreen International AirlinesFedEx ExpressGreat Wall AirlinesKorean Air Cargo (Anchorage, Seoul-Incheon)JAL Cargo (Anchorage, Tokyo-Narita)Lufthansa Cargo (Anchorage, Frankfurt, Los Angeles)Lufthansa Cargo operated by World Air Cargo (Frankfurt, Los Angeles)Martinair (Amsterdam)NWA Cargo (Anchorage, Tokyo-Narita)Nippon Cargo Airlines (Tokyo-Narita)Polar Air Cargo (Anchorage, Tokyo-Narita)Southern Air Transport (Anchorage)Singapore Airlines Cargo (Anchorage, Singapore)UPS Airlines (Louisville)There are two main cargo areas at O'Hare that have warehouse, build-up/tear-down and aircraft parking facilities. The Southwest Cargo Area, adjacent to Irving Park Road, accommodates over 80% of the airport's all-cargo flights, divided among 9 buildings in two tiers. The North Cargo Area, which is a modest conversion of the former military base (the 1943 Douglas plant area), also receives air freighters. It is adjacent to the northern portion of Bessie Coleman Drive.Two satellite cargo areas have warehouse and build-up/tear down facilities, but aircraft do not park at these. Freight is trucked to/from aircraft on other ramps. The South Cargo Area is along Mannheim Road. The East Cargo Area, adjacent to Terminal 5, was formerly the airport's only cargo section but has now mostly evolved into an airport support zone.Although all-cargo flights are important, an even greater amount of global air cargo flies in the cargo holds of passenger aircraft.FacilitiesRunwayslayout at ORD]] There are 6 primary air carrier runways, arranged tangentially in 3 pairs of parallel sets. The largest is Runway 14R-32L, 13,000' x 200'. Runways 14L-32R, 14R-32L, 9L-27R and 10-28 have Category III ILS (Instrument Landing System). All other runways except 4L-22R have full ILS.All but one of O'Hare's runways intersect, which can create problems in times of inclement weather, congestion at the airport, or wind. Also, since most of the runways intersect, controllers must wait until a runway is free of traffic before they can clear another plane to use an intersecting runway. When a controller fails to do this, the results could possibly be a runway incursion, where planes come within a few hundred feet of each other and/or collide on the runways. There have been several near-aircraft collisions at O'Hare in recent years. The proposed redevelopment would alleviate most of this problem at O'Hare.Three runways of the original 1943 airfield's four have been upgraded to modern standards. Additional runways were constructed in 1955, 1968, and 1971. In 2003, old Runway 18-36 was permanently closed—its short length and problematic placement no longer justified its continued certification. Runway 18-36 is now shown as taxiway GG on current airport charts.The proposed redevelopment would entail removal of the 2 northwest–southeast runways, construction of 4 additional east–west runways, and extension of the 2 existing east–west runways. The two existing northeast–southwest runways would be retained.Runway 32L is sometimes used for departures in a shortened configuration. Planes access the runway from its intersection at taxiway T10 (common) or taxiway M (not common). This shortens the effective length of the runway but allows operations on runway 10-28 to continue.O'Hare has a voluntary nighttime (2200-0700) noise abatement program in place. http://www.ohare.com/cnrc/ohare/o_noise_flyquiet.shtmThe proposed runway re-configuration program at O'Hare would also prepare the airport for the A380 Super-Jumbo aircraft. The runways would be strengthened and/or widened to accommodate the new jumbo aircraft. As part of the runway re-configuration program, on July 5, 2007, the existing runway 9R-27L became runway 10-28, and on August 30, 2007, runway 9L-27R became 9R-27L. On September 25, 2008, a 3,000 foot extension to 10-28 was opened. Access to airportRoad vehicles enter and exit via I-190, which branches off I-90 (the Kennedy Expressway) leading to downtown Chicago. Cars may also access the airport locally from Mannheim Road, the airport's eastern boundary. Aside from cargo access on its south side, all airport traffic travels through the east side of the airport.Trains from the Blue Line of the CTA's 'L' depart the terminal from an underground station that opened on September 2, 1984.Commuter trains from the Metra North Central Service at the O'Hare Transfer station, which is connected to the Airport Transit System via a shuttle bus.Intra-airport transportation  Access within the airport complex can be accomplished using O'Hare's Airport Transit System (ATS), a ||2.5&amp;nbsp;|mos|1|0 OR |no|1|0)||yes|[[mile]]s|miles||yes|[[mile|mi]]|mi (||2.5*1.6093 round &amp;nbsp;|no||commonwealth||no|kilometres|[[kilometre]]s||no|kilometers|[[kilometre|kilometers]]||no|km|[[kilometre|km]]) long automated people mover system that operates 24 hours a day, connecting all four terminals and the remote parking lots. The system began its operation in 1993, and will be soon undergoing a US $90 million enhancement to add 24 new cars and to extend the line to a new remote parking garage.Other facilitiesA large air cargo complex on the southwest side of the field was opened in 1984, replacing most of the old cargo area, which stood where Terminal 5 now exists.The original Douglas plant on the northeast side evolved into an Air National Guard and Air Force Reserve facility, but this was closed in 1998 and is now being redeveloped for cargo and general aviation. Signature Flight Support services private aircraft in this area.The hangar area has multiple buildings capable of fully enclosing aircraft up to the size of the Boeing 747.Popular culture  O'Hare has been referenced by many movies, TV shows and songsIn Sleepless in Seattle, Sam Baldwin (Tom Hanks) and his son Jonah (Ross Malinger) walk through the United terminal at Chicago O'Hare led by Greg (Victor Garber) and Suzy (Rita Wilson) before they depart for Seattle.Christmas Vacation: Clark Griswold says that Santa Claus has been spotted by air traffic controllers at O'Hare.O'Hare was frequently referenced in the TV show LAX.Meet the Parents and Meet the Fockers: Greg Focker departs O'Hare on his way to New York. (However, the scenes were shot at Westchester County Airport for Meet the Parents, and LA/Ontario International Airport was used for Meet the Fockers)My Best Friend's Wedding: Julia Roberts' character meets her friend's fiancée at O'Hare.Planes, Trains &amp; Automobiles: Steve Martin is trying to get back to O'Hare in the hit comedy.Home Alone and Home Alone 2: The McCallisters live in Winnetka, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, and are seen departing from O'Hare's Terminal 3 in both movies.Risky Business: There is a scene where Joel takes his parents to O'Hare; nice highway approach shots and inside the ticketing area.Alkaline Trio's track "You're Dead" from the 2001 album From Here to Infirmary includes the line "If assholes could fly, this place would be busier than O'Hare."In a classic Looney Tunes cartoon, Bugs Bunny flies on a plane departing from "Oh, Hare! Airport."It is part of the title of the Chicago-based band The Academy Is...'s single "LAX to O'Hare". It is also part of the first line of the song, "It was a plane ride from LAX to O'Hare..." The song signifies the band's lead singer William Beckett losing his song lyric book at the O'Hare airport immediately before recording the band's second album, Santi.In the sixth season of the hit CBS show The Amazing Race, eleven teams of two began their race at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, where they boarded flights to either Minneapolis, Minnesota, Boston, Massachusetts, or Baltimore, Maryland and connected to Keflavík, Iceland.Many scenes of the airline-themed FOX TV show The Loop presumably take place at O'Hare, as the show is set partly at a large international airport in the Chicago area. However, the airport is never actually identified as O'Hare. Additionally, some exterior scenes are actually shot at LAX.The Left Behind books are set in Chicago, and O'Hare is often referred to in the series.On American Dad, in the episode "Oedipal Panties", Roger, after seeing the complicated relationship Stan shares with his mother, said "This isn't complicated, changing planes at O'Hare is complicated."See alsoChicago Midway International AirportGary/Chicago International AirportChicago Rockford International AirportGolden Corridor, for the region of commerce and industry surrounding O'Hare, and extending west along the Northwest Tollway.Chicago O'Hare UFO sighting 2006Proposed Chicago south suburban airportIllinois World War II Army AirfieldsCentral Air Defense Force (Air Defense Command)References== External links == O'Hare International Airport (official web site)O'Hare airport Modernization planO'Hare Modernization Program (official web site)41st ward map (official city web site)ORD WiFi Internet Service Guide Category:Airports in Chicago Category:Airports in Illinoisda:Chicago O'Hare International Airport de:O’Hare International Airport es:Aeropuerto Internacional Chicago-O'Hare eo:Flughaveno O'Hare fa:فرودگاه بین‌المللی اوهیر شیکاگو fr:Aéroport international O'Hare de Chicago ko:오헤어 국제공항 id:Bandar Udara Internasional O'Hare he:נמל התעופה שיקגו או'הייר hu:O'Hare nemzetközi repülőtér ml:ഒ'ഹെയര്‍ അന്താരാഷ്ട്ര വിമാനത്താവളം mr:ओ'हेर आंतरराष्ट्रीय विमानतळ nl:O'Hare International Airport ja:シカゴ・オヘア国際空港 no:O'Hare internasjonale lufthavn pl:Port lotniczy Chicago-O'Hare pt:Aeroporto Internacional O'Hare ro:Aeroportul Internaţional Chicago O'Hare fi:O'Haren kansainvälinen lentoasema sv:O'Hare International Airport th:ท่าอากาศยานนานาชาติโอแฮร์ vi:Sân bay Chicago O'Hare zh:芝加哥奥黑尔国际机场