 Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus, commonly known as Suetonius (ca. 69/75 &ndash; after 130), was an equestrian and a historian during the Roman Empire. His most important surviving work is a set of biographies on the lives of twelve successive Roman rulers, from Julius Caesar until Domitian, entitled ''De Vita Caesarum''. Other works by Suetonius concern the daily life of Rome, politics, oratory, and the lives of famous writers, including poets, historians, and grammarians. A few of these books have partially survived, but many are entirely lost.LifeSuetonius was born the son of Suetonius Laetus, who probably came from Hippo Regius (Annaba, Algeria). Laetus was an equestrian who served and took part in the first Battle of Bedriacum for the Emperor Otho and against the future Emperor Vitellius in 69.Suetonius was a close friend to Senator and letter-writer Pliny the Younger. Pliny describes him as "quiet and studious, a man dedicated to writing." Pliny helped him buy a small property in Italy and interceded with the Emperor Trajan to grant Suetonius immunities usually granted to a father of three, the ius trium liberorum, because his marriage was childless.Pliny the Younger, Letters 10.95 Through Pliny, Suetonius came into favour with Trajan and Hadrian.Suetonius served on Pliny’s staff when Pliny was Proconsul of Bithynia Pontus (northern Asia Minor) between 110 and 112. Under Trajan he served as secretary of studies (precise functions are uncertain) and director of Imperial archives. Under Hadrian, he became the Emperor's secretary. In 122, Hadrian dismissed him for disrespectful behaviour towards Empress Vibia Sabina. Suetonius may have later regained imperial favor under Hadrian and returned to his position. This hypothesis is based on the suggestion that Offices of State was one of his last works, and that the subject was chosen to reflect Hadrian's administrative reforms. However, there is no certain evidence for a public career after 122.WorksTwelve Caesars .]] He is mainly remembered as the author of De Vita Caesarum ("About the Lives of the Caesars", best known in English as "The Twelve Caesars"), his only extant work except for the brief lives and other fragments noted below. The Twelve Caesars, probably written in Hadrian's time, is a collective biography of the Roman Empire's first leaders, Julius Caesar (the first few chapters are missing), Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, Nero, Galba, Otho, Vitellius, Vespasian, Titus and Domitian. The book was dedicated to a friend Gaius Septicius Clarus, a prefect of the Praetorian Guard in 119. The work tells the tale of each Caesar's life according to a set formula: the descriptions of appearance, omens, family history, quotes, and then a history are given in a consistent order for each Caesar. Suetonius regarded emperors who amassed wealth for the public purse to be "greedy", perhaps a reflection of the average Roman middle class attitudes.Other worksPartly extantDe Viris Illustribus ("On Famous Men" &mdash; in the field of literature), to which belong:De Illustribus Grammaticis ("Lives Of The Grammarians"; 20 brief lives, apparently complete)De Claris Rhetoribus ("Lives Of The Rhetoricians"; 5 brief lives out of an original 16 survive)De Poetis ("Lives Of The Poets"; the life of Virgil, as well as fragments from the lives of Terence, Horace and Lucan, survive)De historicis ("Lives of the historians"; a brief life of Pliny the Elder is attributed to this work)Peri ton par' Hellesi paidion ("Greek Games")Peri blasphemion ("Greek Terms of Abuse")The two last works were written in Greek. They apparently survive in part in the form of extracts in later Greek glossaries.[[Lost work]]sLives of Famous WhoresRoyal BiographiesRoma ("On Rome"), in four parts:Roman Manners & CustomsThe Roman YearThe Roman FestivalsRoman DressOffices of StateOn Cicero’s Republic (a response to Didymus' own work on The Republic)That information being preserved in Suetonius' entry in the SudaPhysical Defects of MankindMethods of Reckoning TimeAn Essay on NatureGrammatical ProblemsCritical Signs Used in BooksReferencesExternal links Primary sources[http://penelope.uchicago.edu/Thayer/E/Roman/Texts/Suetonius/12Caesars/home.html The Lives of the Twelve Caesars at LacusCurtius] (Latin original, English translation)Suetonius' works at Latin Library (Latin)[http://www.gutenberg.org/etext/6400 The Lives of the Twelve Caesars] at Project Gutenberg (English translation - includes Lives Of The Grammarians, Rhetoricians, And Poets)Gai Suetoni Tranquilli De vita Caesarum libri III-VI Cornell University Library Historical Monographs Collection.Secondary sourcesSuetonius and the reign of Tiberius: a comparison with other sources Livius.org: SuetoniusBibliographyBarry Baldwin, Suetonius: Biographer of the Caesars. Amsterdam: A. M. Hakkert, 1983.Category:1st century births Category:2nd century deaths Category:Roman era biographers Category:Roman era historians Category:Latin writers Category:Silver Age Latin authors Category:2nd century Romansals:Sueton bg:Светоний ca:Suetoni cs:Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus cy:Suetonius da:Sveton de:Sueton es:Suetonio eo:Suetonio eu:Suetonio fr:Suétone fy:Suetonius gl:Suetonio ko:수에토니우스 hr:Svetonije is:Súetóníus it:Gaio Svetonio Tranquillo he:סווטוניוס ka:გაიუს სვეტონიუს ტრანკვილუსი la:Suetonius lt:Gajus Svetonijus Trankvilas hu:Suetonius nl:Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus ja:スエトニウス no:Sveton pl:Swetoniusz pt:Suetónio ro:Suetonius ru:Гай Светоний Транквилл sk:Suetonius sr:Гај Светоније Транквил fi:Suetonius sv:Suetonius tr:Suetonius