 | deathplace = Guildford, England | occupation = Writer, Member of Parliament (1906-1910) | nationality = French-British | period = 1896-1953 | genre = Poetry, History, Essays, Politics, Economics, Travel literature | spouse = Elodie Hogan, 1896-1914 Joseph Hilaire Pierre René Belloc (27 July 1870 &ndash; 16 July 1953) was a French-born writer who became a naturalised British subject in 1902. He was one of the most prolific writers in England during the early twentieth century.Recent biographies of Belloc have been written by A. N. Wilson and Joseph Pearce.Early lifeBelloc was born in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, France (next to Versailles and near Paris) to a French father and English mother, and grew up in England. Much of his boyhood was spent in West Sussex, for which he often felt homesick in later life. This is evidenced in poems such as, "West Sussex Drinking Song", "The South Country", and even the more melancholy, "Ha'nacker Hill".His mother Elizabeth Rayner Parkes (1829-1925) was also a writer, and a great-granddaughter of the English chemist Joseph Priestley. In 1867 she married attorney Louis Belloc, son of the French painter Jean-Hilaire Belloc. In 1872, five years after they wed, Louis died, but not before being wiped out financially in a stock market crash. The young widow then brought her son Hilaire, along with his sister, Marie, back to England where he remained, except for his voluntary enlistment as a young man in the French artillery.After being educated at John Henry Newman's Oratory School Belloc served his term of military service, as a French citizen, with an artillery regiment near Toul in 1891. He was powerfully built, with great stamina, and walked extensively in Britain and Europe. While courting his future wife Elodie, whom he first met in 1890, the impecunious Belloc walked a good part of the way from the midwest of the United States to her home in northern California, paying for lodging at remote farm houses and ranches by sketching the owners and reciting poetry.After his military service, Belloc proceeded to Balliol College, Oxford, as a History scholar. He went on to obtain first class honours in History, and never lost his love for Balliol, as is illustrated by his verse, "Balliol made me, Balliol fed me/ Whatever I had she gave me again".HobbiesWhen later he could afford it he was a well known yachtsman as well as writer. He won many races and was in the French sailing team. In the early 1930s, he was given an old Jersey pilot cutter called 'Jersey'. He sailed this for some years around the coasts of England, with the help of younger men. One of whom, Dermod MacCarthy, wrote a book about his time on the water with Belloc, called Sailing with Mr Belloc (published 1986).PoliticsAn 1895 graduate of Balliol College, Oxford, Belloc was a noted figure within the University, being President of the Oxford Union, the undergraduate debating society. He went into politics after he became a naturalised British citizen. A great disappointment in his life was his failure to gain a fellowship at All Souls College in Oxford. This failure may have been caused in part by his producing a small statue of the Virgin and placing it before him on the table during the interview for the fellowship.From 1906 to 1910 he was a Liberal Party Member of Parliament for Salford South, but swiftly became disillusioned with party politics. During one campaign speech he was asked by a heckler if he was a "papist." Retrieving his rosary from his pocket he responded, "Sir, so far as possible I hear Mass each day and I go to my knees and tell these beads each night. If that offends you, then I pray God may spare me the indignity of representing you in Parliament." The crowd cheered and Belloc won the election.Professional writerBelloc wrote on myriad subjects, from warfare to poetry and many topics current in his day. He was closely associated with G. K. Chesterton; George Bernard Shaw coined the term Chesterbelloc for their partnership.His only period of steady employment was from 1914 to 1920 as editor of Land and Water, a journal devoted to the progress of the war. Otherwise he lived by his pen, and often felt short of money.FamilyHe was the brother of the novelist Marie Adelaide Belloc Lowndes. In 1896, he married Elodie Hogan, an American. They had five children before her 1914 death from influenza. His son Louis was killed in in World War I. He suffered a stroke in 1941, and never recovered from its effects. He lived quietly at home in Guildford, England, until his death on 16 July 1953.His estate was probated at £7,451. At his funeral Mass, homilist Monsignor Ronald Knox observed, "No man of his time fought so hard for the good things."''Old Thunder''His style during later life complemented the nickname he received in childhood, Old Thunder. Belloc's friend, Lord Sheffield, described his provocative personality in a preface to The Cruise of the Nona. ''Time and again I have seen him throw out a sufficiently outrageous theory in order to stimulate his company, and, be it said, for the pleasure of seeing how slowly he might be dislodged from a position he had purposely taken up knowing it to be untenable...Of course Belloc was prejudiced, but there were few who knew him who did not love his prejudices, who did not love to hear him fight for them, and who did not honor him for the sincerity and passion with which he held to them. Once the battle was joined all his armoury was marshalled and flung into the fray. Dialectic, Scorn, Quip, Epigram, Sarcasm, Historical Evidence, Massive Argument, and Moral Teaching --of all these weapons he was a past master and each was mobilised and made to play its proper part in the attack. Yet he was a courteous and a chivalrous man. A deeply sensitive man, his was the kindest and most understanding nature I have ever known. In spite of a rollicking and bombastic side he was as incapable of the least cruelty as he was capable of the most delicate sympathy with other people's feelings. As he himself used to say of others in a curiously quiet and simple way, 'He is a good man. He will go to Heaven.' '' In Belloc's novel of travel, The Four Men, the title characters supposedly represent different facets of the author's personality. One of the four improvises a playful song at Christmastime, which includes the verse:'May all good fellows that here agreeDrink Audit Ale in heaven with me,And may all my enemies go to hell!Noel! Noel! Noel! Noel!May all my enemies go to hell!Noel! Noel!'It should be noted that the other characters regard the verse as fairly gauche and ill-conceived, so while part of Belloc may have agreed with this somewhat offensive song, it is not necessarily representative of Belloc's personality as a whole.In controversy and debateBelloc first came to public attention shortly after arriving at Balliol College, Oxford as a recent French army veteran. Attending his first debate of the Oxford Union Debating Society, he saw that the affirmative position was wretchedly and half-heartedly defended. As the debate drew to its conclusion and the division of the house was called, he rose from his seat in the audience, and delivered a vigorous, impromptu defense of the proposition. Belloc won that debate from the audience, as the division of the house then showed, and his reputation as a debater was established. He was later elected president of the Union. He held his own in debates there with F. E. Smith and John Buchan, the latter a friend.Sir John Simon who was a contemporary at Oxford, described his "...resonant, deep pitched voice..." as making an "...unforgettable impression".Francis West, Gilbert Murray, p.107 describes Murray's impression on an occasion in 1899: In July ... Murray attended a meeting on the principles of Liberalism, at which Hilaire Belloc spoke brilliantly although Murray could not afterwards remember a word that he had said.He was at his most effective in the 1920s, on the attack against H. G. Wells's Outline of History, in which he criticized Wells' secular bias and his belief in evolution by means of natural selection, a theory that Belloc asserted had been completely discredited. Wells remarked that "Debating Mr. Belloc is like arguing with a hailstorm". Belloc's review of Outline of History famously observed that Wells' book was a powerful and well-written volume, "up until the appearance of Man, that is, somewhere around page seven." Wells responded with a small book, Mr. Belloc Objects.  Wells, H. G., Mr. Belloc Objects, to the Outline of History, Watts & Company, London, 1926  Not to be outdone, Belloc followed with, "Mr. Belloc Still Objects."G. G. Coulton, a keen and persistent academic opponent, wrote on Mr. Belloc on Medieval History in a 1920 article. After a long simmering feud, Belloc replied with a booklet, The Case of Dr. Coulton, in 1938.Belloc has been called one of the Big Four of Edwardian Lettershttp://www.poetryarchive.org/poetryarchive/singlePoet.do?poetId=7490&lt;/ref&gt;, along with Wells, George Bernard Shaw, and G. K. Chesterton. These writers all engaged in controversy, and debated with one another, until the 1930s. (On another definition of the Big Four, though, John Galsworthy and Arnold Bennett must replace Belloc and Chesterton.)Alfred F. Havighurst, Britain in Transition: The Twentieth Century (1985), p. 36.WritingAsked once why he wrote so muchSee Hilaire Belloc's books for a chronological list of work by Belloc, he responded, "Because my children are howling for pearls and caviar." Belloc observed that "The first job of letters is to get a canon," that is, to identify those works which a writer looks upon as exemplary of the best of prose and verse. For his own prose style, he claimed to aspire to be as clear and concise as "Mary had a little lamb."Essays and travel writingHis best travel writing has secured a permanent following. The Path to Rome (1902), an account of a walking pilgrimage he made from central France across the Alps and down to Rome, has remained continuously in print. More than a mere travelogue, "The Path to Rome" contains descriptions of the people and places he encountered, his drawings in pencil and in ink of the route, humor, poesy, and the reflections of a large mind turned to the events of his time as he marches along his solitary way. At every turn, Belloc shows himself to be profoundly in love with Europe and with the Faith that he claims has produced it.As an essayist he was one of a small, admired and dominant group (with Chesterton, E. V. Lucas and Robert Lynd) of popular writers. In the large he sometimes came across as too opinionated, and too dedicated a Catholic controversialist.There is a passage in The Cruise of the Nona where Belloc, sitting alone at the helm of his boat under the stars, shows profoundly his mind in the matter of Catholicism and mankind; he writes of "That golden Light cast over the earth by the beating of the Wings of the Faith."PoetryHis "cautionary tales", humorous poems with an implausible moral, beautifully illustrated by Lord Basil Blackwood and later by Edward Gorey, are the most widely known of his writings. Supposedly for children, they, like Lewis Carroll's works, are more to adult and satirical tastes: Henry King, Who chewed bits of string and was early cut off in dreadful agonies.:The Chief Defect of Henry KingWas chewing little bits of String.At last he swallowed some which tiedItself in ugly Knots inside.Physicians of the Utmost FameWere called at once; but when they cameThey answered, as they took their Fees,"There is no Cure for this Disease.Henry will very soon be dead."His Parents stood about his BedLamenting his Untimely Death,When Henry, with his Latest Breath,Cried - "Oh, my Friends, be warned by me,That Breakfast, Dinner, Lunch and TeaAre all the Human Frame Requires..."With that the Wretched Child expires. A similar poem tells the story of Rebecca, who slammed doors for fun and perished miserably.The tale of Matilda (who told lies and was burnt to death) was adapted into the play "Matilda Liar!" by Debbie Isitt. Quentin Blake, the illustrator, described Belloc as at one and the same time the overbearing adult and mischievous child. Roald Dahl is a follower. But Belloc has broader if sourer scope:It happened to Lord Lundy thenas happens to so many menabout the age of 26they shoved him into politics...leading up towe had intended you to bethe next Prime Minister but three...Of more weight are Belloc's Sonnets and Verses, a volume that deploys the same singing and rhyming techniques of his children's verses. Belloc's poetry is often religious, often romantic; throughout The Path to Rome he writes in spontaneous song.History, politics, economicsThree of his best known non-fiction works are The Servile State (1912), Europe and Faith (1920) and The Jews (1922).From an early age Belloc knew Henry Edward Cardinal Manning, who was responsible for the conversion of his mother to Roman Catholicism. Manning's involvement in the 1889 London Dock Strike made a major impression on Belloc and his view of politics, according to biographer Robert Speaight. Belloc described this retrospectively in The Cruise of the Nona (1925); he became a trenchant critic both of unbridled capitalismRaymond Williams, Culture and Society, p. 186: Belloc's argument is that capitalism as a system is breaking down, and that this is to be welcomed. A society in which a minority owns and controls the means of production, while the majority are reduced to proletarian status, is not only wrong but unstable. Belloc sees it breaking down in two ways &mdash; on the one hand into State action for welfare (which pure capitalism cannot embody); on the other hand into monopoly and the restraint of trade. There are only two alternatives to this system: socialism, which Belloc calls collectivism; and the redistribution of property on a significant scale, which Belloc calls distributivism., and of many aspects of socialism.With others (G. K. Chesterton, Cecil Chesterton, Arthur Penty) Belloc had envisioned the socioeconomic system of distributism. In The Servile State, written after his party-political career had come to end, and other works, he criticized the modern economic order and parliamentary system, advocating distributism in opposition to both capitalism and socialism. Belloc made the historical argument that distributism was not a fresh perspective or program of economics but rather a proposed return to the economics that prevailed in Europe for the thousand years when it was Catholic. He called for the dissolution of Parliament and its replacement with committees of representatives for the various sectors of society, an idea popular among Fascists under the name of corporatism. Original corporatism, sometimes called "paleo-corporatism", was a system that predates capitalism and fascism. Paleo-corporatism was based around the guilds of the Middle Ages and served to appoint legislators. Neo-corporatism is a fascist system that merges the state with the capitalistic corporations. Belloc's views fit medieval paleo-corporatism rather than neo-corporatist fascism.With these linked themes in the background, he wrote a long series of contentious biographies of historical figures, including Oliver Cromwell, James II, and Napoleon. They show him as an ardent proponent of orthodox Catholicism and a critic of many elements of the modern world.Outside academe, Belloc was impatient with what he considered to be axe-grinding histories, especially what he called "official history." There is an enormous book called volume 1 of A Cambridge History of the Middle Ages. It is 759 pages in length of close print . . . It does not mention the Mass once. That is as though you were to write a history of the Jewish dispersion without mentioning the synagogue or of the British empire without mentioning the city of London or the Navy (Letters from Hilaire Belloc, Hollis and Carter, 75).  Joseph Pearce notes also Belloc's attack on the secularism of H.G. Wells's popular Outline of History:Belloc objected to his adversary's tacitly anti-Christian stance, epitomized by the fact that Wells had devoted more space in his "history" to the Persian campaign against the Greeks than he had given to the figure of Christ.He wrote also substantial amounts of military history. In alternative history, he contributed to the 1931 collection If It Had Happened Otherwise edited by Sir John Squire.ReprintsIgnatius Press of California and IHS Press of Virginia have been reissuing Belloc. TAN Books of Illinois publish a number of Belloc's works, particularly his historical writings.ReligionOne of Belloc's most famous statements was "the faith is Europe and Europe is the faith"; this sums up his strongly-held, orthodox Roman Catholic views, and the cultural conclusions he drew from them. Those views were expressed at length in many of his works from the period 1920–1940. These are still cited as exemplary of Catholic apologetics. They have also been criticised, for instance by comparison with the work of Christopher Dawson during the same period.As a young man, Belloc lost his faith. Then came a spiritual event which he never discussed publicly, and which returned him to and confirmed him in his Catholicism for the remainder of his life. Belloc alludes to this return to the faith in a passage in The Cruise of the Nona.Belloc's Roman Catholicism was uncompromising. He believed that the Roman Catholic Church provided hearth and home for the human spirit  AN Wilson's Introduction to Belloc's Complete Verse, Pimlico, 1991. He had a disparaging view of the Church of England, and used uncharitable words to describe "heretics", such as, "Heretics all, whoever you be/.......You never shall have good words from me/ Caritas non conturbat me". Indeed, in his "Song of the Pelagian Heresy" he becomes quite strident, describing how the Bishop of Auxerre, "with his stout Episcopal staff/ So thoroughly thwacked and banged/ The heretics all, both short and tall/ They rather had been hanged".On IslamBelloc's 1937 book The Crusades: the World's Debate made no pretence at being impartial. Despite being concerned with events more than eight centuries old, it took sides very vehemently, from the first page on.Our fathers all but re-established the spiritual mastery of Europe over the East; all but recovered the patrimony of Rome (...) . Western warriors, two thousand miles and more from home, have struck root and might feel they have permanently grasped the vital belt of the Orient. All seaboard Syria was theirs and '''nearly' in the original the whole of that "bridge", a narrow band pressed in between the desert and the sea, the all-important central link joining the Moslem East to the Moslem West (...) Should the link be broken for good by Christian mastery of Syria, all Islam was cut in two and would bleed to death of the wound.''  In his view, had the Crusaders captured Damascus, the Islamic World would have been cut in two and "bled to death of the wound" - which as Belloc explicitly stated, would have been a highly desirable and positive outcome.Since the Crusaders missed that chance, Islam survived and eventually overwhelmed the Crusader bridgehead in the Middle East. For Belloc this was not a matter of old history: Islam continued to pose a dangerous threat.The story must not be neglected by any modern, who may think in error that the East has finally fallen before the West, that Islam is now enslaved - to our political and economic power at any rate if not to our philosophy. It is not so. Islam essentially survives, and Islam would not have survived had the Crusade made good its hold upon the essential point of Damascus. Islam survives. Its religion is intact; therefore its material strength may return. '''Our' religion is in peril, and who can be confident in the continued skill, let alone the continued obedience, of those who make and work our machines? (...) There is with us a complete chaos in religious doctrine (....) We worship ourselves, we worship the nation; or we worship (some few of us) a particular economic arrangement believed to be the satisfaction of social justice (....)Islam has not suffered this spiritual decline; and in the contrast between religious chaos and the religious certitudes still strong throughout the Mohammedan world lies our peril.''  In The Great Heresies, Belloc argues that, although, "That [Mohammedan] culture happens to have fallen back in material applications; there is no reason whatever why it should not learn its new lesson and become our equal in all those temporal things which now alone give us our superiority over it -- whereas in Faith we have fallen inferior to it."The Great Heresies, Ch. 4, "The Great and Enduring Heresy of Mohammed." http://www.ewtn.com/library/HOMELIBR/HERESY4.TXTAt the time of his writing, the Islamic world was still largely under the rule of the European colonial powers and the threat to Britain was from Fascism and Nazism. Belloc, however, considered that Islam was permanently intent on destroying the Church, as well as the West, which Christendom had built. In The Great Heresies (1938) Belloc grouped the Protestant Reformation together with Islam as one of the major heresies threatening the "Church Universal."Belloc in that book cited the many beliefs and theological principles which Islam shares with Catholicism For Belloc, the common ground includes: the unity and the omnipotence of God; the personal nature, the all-goodness, the timelessness, and the providence of God; His creative power as the origin of all things, and His sustenance of all things by His power alone; the world of good spirits and angels and of evil spirits in war against God, with a chief evil spirit; the immortality of the soul and its responsibility for actions in this life, coupled with the doctrine of reward and punishment after death; the Day of Judgment with Christ as Judge; the Lady Miriam Mary as the first among womenkind. - and exactly which, in Belloc's view, identify it as a heresy. Where (in his view) Islam decisively diverges from Catholicism (and Christianity in general) is the "denial of the Incarnation and all the sacramental life of the Church that followed from it" - with Islam regarding Jesus as a human being, though honouring him as a Prophet.On this see Islamic view of JesusAccusations of anti-SemitismFor fuller discussion, see section in G. K.'s WeeklyIn The Cruise of the Nona, Belloc reflected equivocally on the Dreyfus Affair after thirty years.I, for my part, pretend to no certain conclusion in the matter...Of my own intimate acquaintance who were on the spot Dreyfus' trial and competent to judge, most were for the innocence of Dreyfus: but the rest, fully competent also, were and are, convinced of his guilt...There are in England to-day two Englishmen whose wide knowledge of Europe and especially of Paris, and the French tongue and society, enable them to judge. They are both close friends of mine. One is for, the other against...I believe that, when the passions have died down, the Dreyfus case will remain for history very much what the Diamond Necklace has remained, or the Tichborne case; that is, there will be a popular legend, intellectually worth nothing; and, for the historian, the task of criticising that legend, but hardly of solving the problem.  Belloc has been charged with anti-Semitism, and the issue of his attitude to Jews is still raised. For example, Norman Rose's book The Cliveden Set (2000) poses the question of whether Nancy Astor see Cliveden set, for the context, a friend of Belloc's in the 1930s until they broke over religious matters, was influenced by him against Jews in general.Rose asserts that Belloc 'was moved by a deep vein of hysterical anti-Semitism'. He was repeatedly critical, from his days in politics onwards, of the influence some Jewish people had on society and the world of finance.There are a number of grounds on which Belloc has been deemed by some to be anti-Semitic and not concerned to conceal his views. A. N. Wilson's biography expresses the opinion that Belloc had a tendency to allude to Jews in conversation, in a seemingly obsessive fashion on occasion. Anthony Powell's review of that biography contains Powell's opinion, that Belloc was thoroughly anti-Semitic, except at a personal level.On the other hand, Canadian broadcaster Michael Coren wrote:Belloc's polemics did periodically drift into the realms of bigotry, but he was invariably a tenacious opponent of philosophical anti-Semitism, ostracized friends who made attacks upon individual Jews, and was an inexorable enemy of fascism and all its works, speaking out against German anti-Semitism before the National Socialists came to power.Robert Speaight cited a letter by Belloc in which he pilloried Nesta Webster because of her accusations against "the Jews". In February 1924, Belloc wrote to an American Jewish friend regarding an allegedly anti-Semitic book by Webster. Webster had rejected Christianity, studied Eastern religions, accepted the Hindu concept of the equality of all religions and was fascinated by theories of reincarnation and ancestral memory.Nesta Webster, Spacious Days, London and Bombay, 1950, pp. 103 and 172-175 Belloc expressed his views very clearly:"In my opinion it is a lunatic book. She is one of those people who have got one cause on the brain. It is the good old 'Jewish revolutionary' bogey. But there is a type of unstable mind which cannot rest without morbid imaginings, and the conception of a single cause simplifies thought. With this good woman it is the Jews, with some people it is the Jesuits, with others Freemasons and so on. The world is more complex than that."The Life Of Hilaire Belloc by R. Speaight, 1957, pp. 456-458Speaight also points out that when faced with anti-Semitism in practice &mdash; as at elitist country clubs in America before World War II &mdash; he voiced his disapproval. Belloc condemned Nazi anti-Semitism in The Catholic and the War (1940).The Third Reich has treated its Jewish subjects with a contempt for Justice which even if there had been no other action of the kind in other departments would be a sufficient warranty for determining its elimination from Europe...Cruelty to a Jew is as odious as cruelty to any human being, whether that cruelty be moral in the form of insult, or physical...You may hear men saying on every side, 'However, there is one thing I do agree with and that is the way they (The Nazis) have settled the Jews'. Now that attitude is directly immoral. The more danger there is that it will grow the more necessity there is for denouncing it. The action of the enemy toward the Jewish race has been in morals intolerable. Contracts have been broken on all sides, careers destroyed by the hundred and the thousand, individuals have been treated with the most hideous and disgusting cruelty...If no price is paid for such excesses, our civilisation will certainly suffer and suffer permanently. If the men who have committed them go unpunished (and only defeat in war can punish them) then the decline of Europe, already advanced, will proceed to catastrophe. (pages 29ff.) Dennis Barton in his "In Defense of Hilaire Belloc" http://www.churchinhistory.org/pages/booklets/belloc.pdf has defended Belloc at length. He notes that Belloc condemned wild accusations against the Jews, in his own book, The Jews.In the mediaStephen Fry has recorded an audio collection of Belloc's children's poetry.A notable admirer of Belloc was the composer Peter Warlock, who set many of his poems to music.A well-known parody of Belloc by Sir John Squire, intended as a tribute, is Mr. Belloc's Fancy.Syd Barrett, a founder of Pink Floyd, was a fan. His song Matilda Mother was drawn directly from verses in Cautionary Tales, and was rewritten when Belloc's estate refused permission to record them. The Belloc version has been released on a 40th anniversary reissue of Piper at the Gates of Dawn.TriviaHilaire Belloc's name featured in a 1970s television sketch by The Two Ronnies: Ronnie Barker read the "Nows" from a script written on a typewriter that printed "o" instead of "e".His name was also mentioned in the 2nd episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus, during the "Mice and Men" sketch. After leading viewers through a series of historical figures--Julius Caesar and Napoleon Bonaparte among them--suspected of being mice in private life, announcer Michael Palin concludes, "And, of course, Hilaire Belloc."Referenced in a sketch from A Bit of Fry and Laurie wherein Stephen Fry, playing an obsequious and oddly loquacious shop clerk, tells a character played by Hugh Laurie, "But sir didn't come into this shop to trade insults with me on the state of the morning unless I'm more mistaken than a man who thinks Hilaire Belloc is still alive."His poem, entitled "Matilda", is referenced in the film Atonement (2007). The main character, Briony Tallis, tells a horrible lie and as she watches its concequences, a figure of Saint Matilda can be seen through the window in stained glass. "Matilda told such dreadful lies, it made one gasp and stretch one's eyes" is one of the first lines of the poem. By the end of the poem, Matilda has burned to death, having called wolf one time too many.See alsoHilaire Belloc's booksNotesReferencesHilaire Belloc, the man and his work (1916) C. Creighton Mandell and Edward ShanksFor Hilaire Belloc (1942) Douglas Woodruff (editor), Douglas Jerrold, Ronald Knox, Arnold Lunn, C. A. J. Armstrong, Christopher Hollis, Gervase Matthew, David Mathew, J. B. Morton, W. A. Pantin, David JonesHilaire Belloc; An Introduction to his Spirit and Work (1945) Robert HamiltonHilaire Belloc (British Council, 1953) Renee HaynesHilaire Belloc: No Alienated Man. A Study in Christian Integration (1953) Frederick WilhelmsenHilaire Belloc: A Memoir (1955) J. B. MortonThe Young Hilaire Belloc, Some Records of Youth and Middle Age (1956) Marie Belloc LowndesThe Life of Hilaire Belloc (1957) Robert SpeaightHilaire Belloc: Edwardian Radical (1978) John P. McCarthyHilaire Belloc (1984) A. N. WilsonG. K. Chesterton & Hilaire Belloc: The Battle Against Modernity (Ohio University Press, 1991) Jay P. CorrinOld Thunder: A Life of Hilaire Belloc (2002) Joseph PearceHilaire Belloc: 1870-1953 (1998) Cooney, Anthony, ISBN 0-9535077-3-4."On a Monkey's Birthday: Belloc and Sussex" (2006) Tim Rich, contained within "Common Ground: Around Britain in Thirty Writers" (Cyan Books) ISBN 1-904879-93-4.''Hilaire Belloc and the Liberal revival: Distributism - an alternative Liberal tradition?''David Boyle, Journal of Liberal History, Issue 40, Autumn 2003External links Online editions of his worksEssays by Hilaire Belloc at Quotidiana.orgDanton, A Study (1899)The Great HeresiesSurvivals and New ArrivalsA collection of Belloc's poemsA Reader's Guide to Hilaire BellocInternet Archives Digital EditionsOther sitesAt Spartacus2003 article from The Tablet by Ian BoydBelloc in 3Seek     Category:English people of French descent Category:Alumni of Balliol College, Oxford Category:English Roman Catholics Category:Anti-Protestantism Category:French essayists Category:English essayists Category:French poets Category:English poets Category:Humorous poets Category:Liberal MPs (UK) Category:Members of the United Kingdom Parliament for English constituencies Category:UK MPs 1906-1910 Category:UK MPs 1910 Category:Old Oratorians Category:People from Paris Category:Presidents of the Oxford Union Category:World War I poets Category:1870 births Category:1953 deathsbe-x-old:Хілэр Бэлак de:Hilaire Belloc es:Hilaire Belloc eo:Hilaire Belloc fr:Hilaire Belloc it:Hilaire Belloc nl:Hilaire Belloc pl:Hilaire Belloc pt:Hilaire Belloc fi:Hilaire Belloc