The Orient Express is the name of a long-distance passenger train originally operated by the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits. Its route has changed many times, and several routes have in the past concurrently used the name (or slight variants thereof). Although the original Orient Express was simply a normal international railway service, the name has become synonymous with intrigue and luxury travel. The two city names most intimately associated with the Orient Express are Paris and Istanbul, the original endpoints of the service.The current Orient Express does not serve Paris or Istanbul. Its immediate predecessor, a through overnight service from Paris to Vienna ran for the very last time from Paris on Friday, 8 June 2007. Since then, the route, still called the "Orient Express", has been shortened to start from Strasbourg instead, occasioned by the inauguration of the LGV Est which affords much faster travel times from Paris to Strasbourg. The new curtailed service leaves Strasbourg at 22.20 daily, shortly after the arrival of a TGV from Paris, and is attached at Karlsruhe to the overnight sleeper service from Amsterdam to Vienna.Train Eclair de luxe (the 'test' train)Georges Nagelmackers invites guest to a railway trip of 2000 kilometres on his 'Train Eclair de luxe' (lightning luxury train). The train leaves Paris (Gare de Strasbourg) on Tuesday, October 10, 1882 just after 18:30 and arrives in Vienna the next day at 23:20. The return trip leaves Vienna on Friday, October 13, 1882 at 16:40 and as planned enters Paris (Gare de Strasbourg) at 20:00 on Saturday October 14, 1882.The train is composed: 1. Baggage car, 2. Sleeping coach with 16 beds (with bogies), 3. Sleeping coach with 14 beds (3 axes), 4. Restaurant coach (nr. 107), 5. Sleeping coach with 14 beds (3 axes), 6. Sleeping coach with 14 beds (3 axes), 7. Baggage car (complete 101 ton). The first menu on board (October 10, 1882): oysters, soup with Italian pasta, turbot with green sauce, chicken ‘à la chasseur’, fillet of beef with 'château' potatoes, 'chaud-froid' of Game animals, lettuce, chocolate pudding, buffet of desserts.Original trainOn June 5, 1883 the first 'Express d'Orient' leaves Paris for Vienna. Vienna stays the terminus until October 4 1883. The train was officially renamed Orient Express in 1891.The original route, which first ran on October 4 1883, was from Paris, Gare de l'Est, to Giurgiu in Romania via Munich and Vienna. At Giurgiu, passengers were ferried across the Danube to Rousse in Bulgaria to pick up another train to Varna, from where they completed their journey to Istanbul by ferry. In 1885, another route began operations, this time reaching Istanbul via rail from Vienna to Belgrade and Niš, carriage to Plovdiv and rail again to Istanbul.In 1889, the train's eastern terminus became Varna in Bulgaria, where passengers could take a ship to Istanbul. On June 1, 1889, the first non-stop train to Istanbul left Paris (Gare de l'Est). Istanbul remained its easternmost stop until May 19, 1977. The eastern terminus was the Sirkeci Terminal by the Golden Horn. Ferry service from piers next to the terminal would take passengers across the Bosporus Strait to Haydarpaşa Terminal, the terminus of the Asian lines of the Ottoman railways.The onset of World War I in 1914 saw Orient Express services suspended. They resumed at the end of hostilities in 1918, and in 1919 the opening of the Simplon Tunnel allowed the introduction of a more southerly route via Milan, Venice and Trieste. The service on this route was known as the Simplon Orient Express, and it ran in addition to continuing services on the old route. The Treaty of Saint-Germain contained a clause requiring Austria to accept this train: formerly, Austria allowed international services to pass through Austrian territory (which included Trieste at the time) only if they ran via Vienna. The Simplon Orient Express soon became the most important rail route between Paris and Istanbul.The 1930s saw the zenith of Orient Express services, with three parallel services running: the Orient Express, the Simplon Orient Express, and also the Arlberg Orient Express, which ran via Zurich and Innsbruck to Budapest, with sleeper cars running onwards from there to Bucharest and Athens. During this time, the Orient Express acquired its reputation for comfort and luxury, carrying sleeping-cars with permanent service and restaurant cars known for the quality of their cuisine. Royalty, nobles, diplomats, business people and the bourgeoisie in general patronized it. Each of the Orient Express services also incorporated sleeping cars which had run from Calais to Paris, thus extending the service right from one edge of continental Europe to the other.The start of the Second World War in 1939 again interrupted the service, which did not resume until 1945. During the war, the German Mitropa company had run some services on the route through the Balkans, but partisans frequently sabotaged the track, forcing a stop to this service.Following the end of the war, normal services resumed except on the Athens leg, where the closure of the border between Yugoslavia and Greece prevented services running. That border re-opened in 1951, but the closure of the Bulgaria-Turkey border from 1951 to 1952 prevented services running to Istanbul during that time. As the Iron Curtain fell across Europe, the service continued to run, but the Communist nations increasingly replaced the Wagon-Lits cars with carriages run by their own railway services.By 1962, the Orient Express and Arlberg Orient Express had stopped running, leaving only the Simplon Orient Express. This was replaced in 1962 by a slower service called the Direct Orient Express, which ran daily cars from Paris to Belgrade, and twice weekly services from Paris to Istanbul and Athens.In 1971, the Wagon-Lits company stopped running carriages itself and making revenues from a ticket supplement. Instead, it sold or leased all its carriages to the various national railway companies, but continued to provide staff for the carriages. 1976 saw the withdrawal of the Paris-Athens direct service, and in 1977, the Direct Orient Express was withdrawn completely, with the last Paris-Istanbul service running on 19 May of that year.TodayThe withdrawal of the Direct Orient Express was thought by many to signal the end of Orient Express as a whole, but in fact a service under this name continued to run from Paris to Budapest and Bucharest as before (via Strasbourg, Munich, and Budapest). This continued until 2001, when the service was cut back to just Paris-Vienna, the coaches for which are attached to the Paris-Strasbourg express. This service continued daily, listed in the timetables under the name Orient Express, until 8 June 2007. However, with the opening of the Paris-Strasbourg high speed rail line on 10 June 2007, the Orient Express service was further cut back to Strasbourg-Vienna, departing nightly at 22:20 from Strasbourg, and still bearing the name. It provides a convenient connection from the TGV arrival from Paris.One interesting feature of the current Orient Express train is its heterogeneous assembly of rolling stock coming from France, Germany, Austria, and previously, Hungary and Romania, which allowed people to easily compare the choices of these countries and to choose the one that suited them best. Of course, the sleeping car and the restaurant car previously belonging to the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits are sometimes there too.Though the current service only runs from Strasbourg to Vienna, it is possible to retrace the entire original Orient Express route with four trains:Paris-Strasbourg, Strasbourg-Vienna, Vienna-Belgrade and Belgrade-Istanbul, each of which operate daily. Other routes from Paris to Istanbul also exist, such as Paris-Munich-Budapest-Bucharest-Istanbul, or Paris-Zurich-Belgrade-Istanbul, all of which have comparable travel times of approximately 60 hours without delays.Privately run trains using the nameIn 1982, the Venice-Simplon Orient Express was established as a private venture, running restored 1920s and 1930s carriages from London to Venice. This service runs between March and November, and is firmly aimed at leisure travellers, with tickets costing over £1,200 per person from London to Venice. Currently (October 2007) the company also offer occasional services between Venice and Istanbul, as well as routes to other European cities. The company also offer similarly-themed Expresses in Malaysia/Thailand and across Australia.The American Orient Express operated across the United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. It was advertised as a sort of combination of a cruise ship and a five-star hotel. After several years of operation it was sold in 2007 to new owners and its name was changed to GrandLuxe Rail Journeys. In late August 2008, GrandLuxe Rail Journeys abruptly ceased operations. The entire set of luxury train cars was put up for sale in September 2008.RecordsOn September 1988, the Venice-Simplon Orient Express set a world record for the longest train journey ever made. At the persuasion of a Japanese film crew to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Fuji Television, the Oriental Express made its way from France to Hong Kong non-stop. http://www.hkrs.org.hk/members/zimmermann/vsoe/vsoe_eng.htmIn popular culture's room at the Hotel Pera Palas in Istanbul where she wrote Murder on the Orient Express.]]The glamour and rich history of the Orient Express has frequently lent itself to the plot of books and films and as the subject of television documentaries.LiteratureDracula by Bram Stoker: whilst Dracula escapes from England to Varna by sea, the cabal sworn to destroy him travels to Paris and takes the Orient Express, arriving in Varna ahead of him.Murder on the Orient Express (January 1934) by Agatha Christie as well as the short story Have You Got Everything You Want?, first published in the US in the April 1933 issue of Cosmopolitan magazine and in the UK as On the Orient Express in Nash's Pall Mall Magazine in June 1933, before reverting back to its original title when published as part of the collection Parker Pyne Investigates in November 1934.Stamboul Train by Graham GreeneFlashman and the Tiger by George MacDonald Fraser: Sir Harry Paget Flashman travels on the train's first journey as a guest of the journalist Henri Blowitz.From Russia with Love by Ian FlemingThe Case of Compartment 7 by Sam McCarver February 2000FilmOrient Express (1934): film adaptation of Graham Greene's Stamboul Train.Orient Express (1944): Germany; released on March 8, 1945, likely the last date a new movie was shown in Nazi Germany.''Death, Deceit and Destiny Aboard the Orient Express' (2000)Around the World in 80 Days (2004): Mr. Fogg rides aboard the train to Istanbul.From Russia with Love (1963): James Bond's troubled escape in is also set aboard the train.Murder on the Orient Express (1974) and (2001): Film adaptations of the Agatha Christie novel.Romance on the Orient Express (1985): TV movie with Cheryl Ladd.102 Dalmatians (2000)TelevisionMystery on the Orient Express: a television special featuring illusionist David Copperfield (illusionist). During the special, Copperfield rode aboard the train and, at its conclusion, made the dining car seemingly disappear.Minder on the Orient Express: a special episode of the long-running ITV sit-com.Gavin Stamp's Orient Express: in 2007 UK's Five broadcast an arts/travel series which saw the historian journey from Paris to Istanbul along the old Orient Express route.Star Trek: The Next Generation, "Emergence": the train appears on the Enterprise's holodeck.In the British soap opera EastEnders, in 1986, characters Den and Angie Watts spent their honeymoon on the train. It was also where it was revealed that Angie was lying about her illness, preceding the ultimate storyline in Christmas 1986. Aboard the Orient Express Get Smart Series 1 - Episode 13 set on the Orient Express. However filmed on set.On an episode of the Backyardigans, Austin is after Pablo, and most of it is on the Orient Express. The episode is a parody of Murder on the Orient Express.Michael Palin travels on the Orient Express in travel documentary series Around the World in 80 Days in which he retraces the footsteps of Phileas Fogg.Games and animationThe role-playing game Call of Cthulhu RPG used the train for one its more famous scenarios. The Orient Express also plays host to an adventure game by Jordan Mechner: The Last Express is a murder mystery game which is set around the last ride of the Orient Express before it suspended operations at the start of World War I. The Adventure Company developed a point-and-click adventure based on Agatha Christie's novel, Agatha Christie: Murder on the Orient Express. The 1987 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cartoon spent the best part of an episode on the train. In 1994's Season 1 episode of Where on Earth is Carmen Sandiego? called, "The Gold Old Bad Days", Carmen Sandiego and her V.I.L.E. gang are give a challenge to do something low tech by The Player robbery. Carmen's goal is the train. In the Lord Darcy alternate history series of detective stories, one story takes place on board a fictional train clearly modeled in the Orient Express, though its name and route are different. The train is also featured in Microsoft Train Simulator, where its route is a 101 km (63 mile) section from Innsbruck to St. Anton in Austria.See alsoFamous trainsThe Last ExpressStarlight ExpressReferences Further readingOrient Express: The Life and Times of the World's Most Famous Train by E H Cookridge. Detail from a copy of the first publication of the book with black and white plates by Allen Lane London in 1979 with an ISBN 0 7139 1271 7  .External linksA history from the original operators of the trainArticle (2005) in 'hidden europe' magazine that picks up some the points discussed in this entryVenice Simplon-Orient-ExpressCategory:Named passenger trains Category:Ottoman railways Category:1883 introductions Category:Night trains bg:Ориент Експрес da:Orientekspressen de:Orient-Express el:Οριάν Εξπρές es:Expreso de Oriente eo:Orient-ekspreso fr:Orient-Express hr:Orient Express id:Orient Express it:Orient Express he:אוריינט אקספרס ka:აღმოსავლეთის ექსპრესი lv:Austrumu ekspresis hu:Orient expressz nl:Oriënt-Express ja:オリエント急行 no:Orientekspressen pl:Orient Express pt:Expresso do Oriente ro:Orient Express ru:Восточный экспресс simple:Orient Express sr:Оријент експрес fi:Idän pikajuna sv:Orientexpressen tr:Şark Ekspresi zh:東方快車