) | | foundation = Los Angeles, CA (1980) | | location = Los Angeles, CA | key_people = Michael O. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer  Brett R. Chapman, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary  Richard P. Goudis, Chief Financial Officer  Y. Steve Henig, Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer  || industry = Nutrition & Skin Care products | | products = Weight management, nutritional supplements, personal care | | homepage = www.herbalife.com | http://www.nyse.com/about/listed/hlf.html Herbalife International (), founded in 1980, is a company that sells weight-loss, nutrition and skin-care products by multi-level marketing, also known as network marketing. It has been the subject of controversy and lawsuits.Company historyIn February 1980, Mark Hughes began selling the original Herbalife weight loss product from the trunk of his car. By 1982, Herbalife had reached $2,000,000 in sales and opened a distributorship in Canada, its first outside of the United States. In 1985, the California Attorney General sued the company for allegedly making false claims about the efficacy of its products. The company settled the suit the following year for $850,000 without admitting wrongdoing.&quot;Nobel Prize Winner Didn't Disclose Herbalife Contract&quot; Bloomberg News report In 1986 Herbalife became a publicly traded company via NASDAQ. Independent distributors' personal vehicles could be seen on the street, decorated by decals bearing the mysterious slogan "Make money now, ask me how!". In 1994 Mark Hughes started the Herbalife Family Foundation, a charity dedicated to helping children. The organization receives donations from Herbalife itself as well as individuals within and outside the company. The Herbalife Family Foundation has donated more than $6.5 million to children's causes worldwide. In 1996 Herbalife reached $1,000,000,000 in annual sales.In 2000, Hughes died at the age of 44 from an overdose of alcohol and doxepin after a four-day drinking binge. The company has continued to grow after his death.In 2002, Whitney and Co. LLC and Golden Gate Capital acquired Herbalife for $685 million and took the company private.Herbalife acquisition completed. (Industry News).(Whitney and Co. and Golden Gate Capital acquire Herbalife International)(Brief Article) | Nutraceuticals World | Find Article...&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In April 2003, Michael O. Johnson joined Herbalife as CEO following a 17-year career with The Walt Disney Company, most recently as president of Walt Disney International.&quot;Nobel Prize Winner Didn't Disclose Herbalife Contract&quot; Bloomberg News report On December 16, 2004, the company had an initial public offering on the NYSE of 14,500,000 common shares at $14/share. 2004 net sales were reported as $1.3 billion. In April 2005, the company celebrated its 25th anniversary with a four-day event attended by 35,000 Herbalife Independent Distributors from around the world. In August 2005, Dr. Steve Henig joined the company as Chief Scientific Officer, responsible for product research and development. In 2008, President and COO Greg Probert resigned after it was reported that he had not completed the degree requirements for the MBA he claimed on his resume.Ethical flap forces exit of president: Herbalife executive Probert credited with company's growth.(HEALTH CARE)(Gregory Probert) | Article from Los Angeles Business Journal | ...&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Herbalife Ltd is incorporated in the Cayman Islands and headquartered in Century City, Los Angeles, CaliforniaHerbalife calls buyout bids too low and employs 3500 worldwide. Products are distributed worldwide through a network that Herbalife claims contains 1.8 million independent distributors in 66 countries.About Herbalife: Herbalife&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Herbalife spends less than $2 million per year on research and development.Product overviewHerbalife's product offering includes weight-management products such as Formula 1 Nutritional Shake Mix, a meal-replacement shake and one of the first products introduced by the company. Other nutritional products offered by Herbalife range from dietary supplements made from vitamins, minerals and herbs to personal care products emphasizing nutritional and herbal ingredients, such as aloe vera and vitamin C.As of 2005, it is not immediately clear what method Herbalife's weight loss products employ , although the nutritional ingredients are listed on the product. Recent advertisements indicate that the current philosophy is one of meal replacement via diet shakes, and nutritional supplements.Proponents claim that the Herbalife strategy is aligned with health industry recommendations for safe weight control, eating a balanced diet, low-energy food with regular exercises, and that their nutritional and weight management line of products facilitate this through macronutrient and micronutrient food formulas.Herbalife products have been criticized by consumer organisations for being nutritionally unbalanced, with weight loss attributed to loss of water and muscle rather than fat,PRO TESTE - Saúde - PRO TESTE mostra que shakes para emagrecer são desequilibrados nutricionalmente&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and for being overpriced by comparison to similar, conventionally marketed, products. :: KONSUMENT.AT- Herbalife ::&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Herbalife:inutile e costoso - Archivio Altroconsumo - Altroconsumo&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Herbalife provides testimonials from health professionals as part of their marketing campaign. Some of the products are vegetarian, some are even kosher or halal.In its annual report (SEC Form 10-K) Herbalife declares that all of its products are manufactured by outside companies, except for a small amount of products manufactured in its own manufacturing facility in China. The major suppliers include NBTY (Nature’s Bounty), Fine Foods (Italy), PharmaChem Labs and JB Labs which together account for more than 40% of its product purchases in 2006. SEC Filing Form 10-K, annual report 2006 Herbalife In addition Herbalife declared in its annual report 2005 that the Company’s research and development is primarily performed by outside consultants and that 2005 Herbalife had not incurred any material R&D costs.Health ConcernsSome of the original Herbalife weight loss products contained the active ingredient Ma Huang or Sida cordifolia, two herbs containing ephedrine alkaloids. Adverse reactions involving the company's Thermojetics original green tablets were recorded by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Herbalife subsequently stopped using ephedrine in its products in the face of rising insurance premiums.&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt; The U.S. FDA banned supplements containing ephedra in 2004.Scientific studies in 2007 by doctors at the University Hospital of Bern in Switzerland and the Liver Unit of the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center in Israel found an association between consumption of Herbalife products and hepatitis.Association between consumption of Herbalife nutritional supplements and acute hepatotoxicity.Herbal does not mean innocuous: ten cases of severe hepatotoxicity associated with dietary supplements from Herbalife products. In response, the Spanish Ministry of Health issued an alert asking for caution in consuming Herbalife products.Spanish Ministry of Health issues precaution on Herbalife brand Herbalife has stated they are cooperating fully with Spanish authorities.Herbalife Responds to Spain's Ministry of Health AlertThe Fraud Discovery Institute has reported that laboratory test results of Herbalife products show lead levels in excess of limits established by law in Herbalife's home state of California under Proposition 65.Herbalife lead levels draw attention - Regulation - NutraIngredientsUSA - Food, Beverage &amp; Nutrition - Publications - Decision News MediaSecond, FDA Registered, Independent Lab affirms Higher Lead Levels in Herbalife Product, reports Fraud Discovery Institute, Children's Herbalife Products contain Materially Excessive Lead Levels affirmed in New Lab Results, Expert reports to Fraud Discovery Institute, New Tests reveal 904 Percent More Lead in Herbalife, NuSkin Nutritional Shakes than Competitors, reports Fraud Discovery Institute Barry Minkow founded the Fraud Discovery Institute after serving a jail term for stock fraud.Los Angeles Business Journal Online - business news and information for Los Angeles California He has disclosed that since the beginning of his group's investigation he has begun shorting Herbalife stocks to the tune of $50,000 to fund it.ref.docUPDATE 1-Herbalife rebuts lead claims, says no safety issues | Markets | Markets News | Reuters Proposition 65 requires notification of consumers where a product "contains chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm." Herbalife has responded, stating that its products meet federal FDA requirements.FOXNews.com - Group Says 6 Dietary Supplements Contain Dangerous Levels of Lead - Health News | Current Health News | Medical NewsHerbalife Tangles with Prop 65, Testing Company The company states other independent lab tests it has commissioned show that Herbalife products do not exceed the Proposition 65 limits.More lead testing confirms product safety, says Herbalife - Industry - NutraIngredientsUSA - Food, Beverage &amp; Nutrition - Publications - Decision News Media[http://money.cnn.com/news/newsfeeds/articles/apwire/1a31dd21484faf588da16a6aab969ccd.htm Herbalife rebuffs lead allegationsOn the 10th of May 2008 a suit was filed on behalf of a woman who developed lead-related liver complaints that she claims were a reaction to a combination of Herbalife products.Herbalife Sued for Negligence and Fraud by Victim The suit was filed by lawyer Christopher Grell, cofounder of the Dietary Supplement Safety Committee and an ally of Minkow. On the 17th of June 2008, the suit was expanded to add distributors who had supplied the woman with the Herbalife products, with Grell launching a website to offer persons who believe they were harmed by Herbalife products the chance of redress.http://money.cnn.com/news/newsfeeds/articles/prnewswire/200806171030PR_NEWS_USPR_____AQTU079.htm&lt;/ref&gt; In August 2008, Minkow retracted all accusations against Herbalife and removed any mention of the company from his Web site.http://www.reuters.com/article/marketsNews/idINBNG1688320080822?rpc=44&lt;/ref&gt;Business methods and controversySupporters and merchants involved with Herbalife contend that it is a genuine and profitable multi-level marketing business opportunity. Critics of Herbalife contend that it is a Pyramid scheme and that the company has not made enough effort to curb abuses by individual distributors. Herbalife has consistently denied such allegations and stated that its business model is fully legal.Statement from Nordic Herbalife Director denying toxicity of Herbalife products, pyramid marketing scheme Herbalife is a member of the Direct Selling Association in most countries in which it operates.In its filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), company management specifically noted problems with inappropriate business practices many years ago, their subsequent long-lasting effects and the need to avoid any repetition. Herbalife's September 2006 quarterly report to the SEC describes a distributor network that is relatively easy to enter and exit, financially, by comparison with those of many other network marketing companies. The company tracks distributor retention by annually "re-qualifying" active distributors; most recently, 41.5% of distributors were still active after twelve months, up from 39.7% a year before. Company management considers the number and retention of distributors a key parameter and tracks it closely in financial reports. As of early 2006, the company had over 240,000 qualified distributors around the world, up 21% over the previous year; over 80% of these distributors were outside North America.e10vq&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The company reports the difference between the listed retail price and the actual amount distributors pay the company as "distributor allowances"; in the third calendar quarter of 2006, these allowances totaled $368 million. Assuming distributors always sold their product at listed prices, this amount spread over the qualified distributors would amount to an average "allowance" of about $500 per distributor per month. The company also paid out $109 million that quarter in "royalty overrides" – basically commissions and bonuses – to qualifying distributors.In April 2006, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission proposed new rules to regulate all sellers of "business opportunities" in the United States. Under the proposed rules, sellers such as Herbalife would be required to (i) implement a seven day waiting period before entering into an agreement with new distributors, (ii) provide prospective distributors with substantial written information regarding the business opportunity, including: the earnings experience of other distributors, contact data for new distributors in their area, cancellation or refund policies and requests within the prior two years, certain legal actions against the company, its affiliated companies and officials. In its quarterly report, the Herbalife notes "if implemented in its original form, would negatively impact our U.S. business". Many other publicly-traded network marketing stocks have since suffered, based on investor expectations the new rules would go through as proposed, substantially choking company profitsWhy Short Sellers Want to Crash the Tupperware Party - New York Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;; Herbalife's stock, however, has fully recovered since the initial announcement. As of July 2008, these rules have still not been issued and are subject to further revision.Herbalife's Scientific Advisory Board is chaired by David Heber, M.D. Ph.D, F.A.C.P., F.A.C.N., who is professor of medicine and public health and the founding director of the Center for Human Nutrition in the Department of Medicine at UCLA. According to a 2004 Forbes article, Dr. Heber joined the board at roughly the same time Herbalife made a $3 million donation to establish the Mark Hughes Cellular & Molecular Nutrition Laboratory at his Center for Human Nutrition, leading to criticism of Heber's actions as an inappropriate conflict of interest.Louis J. Ignarro, Ph.D., a Nobel Laureate in Medicine and Distinguished Professor of Pharmacology at the UCLA School of Medicine, is also a member of Herbalife's Scientific Advisory Board. Ignarro worked with Herbalife to develop Niteworks, a dietary supplement designed to boost the body's own production of nitric oxide, and later became a member of the company's Scientific Advisory Board. Ignarro endorsed this product in exchange for a royalty agreement reported to have earned his consulting firm over $1 million in the first 12 months. Ignarro also promoted Niteworks' ingredients in the prestigious Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, without disclosing his financial interest to the publication. After Ignarro's ties to Herbalife were revealed, the journal issued a correction to the article, citing Ignarro's undisclosed "conflict of interest". UCLA conducted its own investigation and determined that Ignarro did not act improperly as all the research was done in Italy and no research funds came from UCLA. Therefore, it was not necessary for him to disclose anything.Ignarro also stars as the primary speaker in a one-hour Herbalife promotional video for Niteworks.Crazy Fox commercialsAs of April 2008, a series of commercials featuring a large red animated fox advertising home-based business opportunities have been running on US television stations. The advertisements typically feature a series of testimonials from actors playing individuals who have made sums of money between $5,000 USD and $15,000 USD per month as a result of participating in an undescribed business program. The viewer is advised to visit a website of the format crazyfox''(arbitrary number)''.com or ''(arbitrary number)''crazyfox.com; all of these domains redirect to the same site at crazyfox.comcrazyfox.com | Official Site | As Seen On TV | Home Based Business | Work From Home&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The site contains a form where the user can provide their personal information and pay a fee to receive a "success kit"; the kit is an hour-long video with no information as to how the individual will earn money. Within a few days, the person ordering the kit is contacted by telephone or e-mail to invest additional money to participate in the Herbalife MLM program. Work At Home: The Real Deal - NewsChannel 9 WSYR&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;LitigationA 2004 settlement resolved a class action suit on behalf of 8700 former and current distributors that accused the company and distributors of "essentially running a pyramid scheme."http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m5072/is_25_26/ai_n6100846&lt;/ref&gt; A total of $6 million was to be paid out, with defendants not admitting guilt.In a routine financial report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in mid-2006, Herbalife management identified two pending lawsuits significant enough to warrant notifiying their investors:In a California class action suit, Minton v. Herbalife International, et al, the plaintiff is "challenging the marketing practices of certain Herbalife International independent distributors and Herbalife International under various state laws prohibiting "endless chain schemes", insufficient disclosure in assisted marketing plans, unfair and deceptive business practices, and fraud and deceit".In a West Virginia class action suit, Mey v. Herbalife International, Inc., et al, the plaintiffs allege that some "telemarketing practices of certain Herbalife International distributors violate the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, and seeks to hold Herbalife International vicariously liable for the practices of these distributors. More specifically, the plaintiffs' complaint alleges that several of Herbalife International's distributors used pre-recorded telephone messages and autodialers to contact prospective customers in violation of the TCPA's prohibition of such practices".Herbalife managements insisted they have meritorious defences in both cases and that in the West Virginia case, any such distributor actions also went against Herbalife's own policies. Management also contends that any adverse legal outcomes Herbalife might suffer would not significantly affect their financial condition, particularly since they have already set aside an amount that they "believe represents the likely outcome of the resolution of these disputes".Mey v. Herbalife International, Inc., et al was resolved with Herbalife and its distributors paying $7 million into a fund for class members part of the suit.HERBALIFE LTD. - HLF Annual Report (10-K) Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Herbalife International did not acknowledge wrongdoing, or admit culpability for the actions of its distributors.Bunnpoff v. Herbalife International, Inc., et al was resolved with Herbalife and its distributors paying $13 million dollars to members of the class action suit. Herbalife International did not acknowledge wrongdoing, or admit culpability for the actions of its distributors.Sports sponsorships Herbalife sponsors a number of sports events, venues and athletes, including six athletes competing in the Olympics, as well as the Chinese cycling team, of which Herbalife is the official nutrition sponsor, as of August 2008. In March 2007, the company announced a five-year, multimillion dollar expansion of its agreement with Anschutz Entertainment Group making Herbalife the presenting sponsor of the Los Angeles Galaxy. The agreement gives Herbalife on-jersey exposure for its brand beginning with the 2007 season. Investor Relations: Herbalife&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Most recently, the company announced a four-year breakthrough agreement with the American Youth Soccer Organization(AYSO) that makes Herbalife the Official Nutrition Advisor and Official Health and Wellness Provider of the country’s leading youth soccer organization. Similar to Herbalife’s agreement with the Los Angeles Galaxy Major League Soccer club, the AYSO sponsorship gives Herbalife the rights to display its name and logo on the front of AYSO jerseys, a first for the non-profit national organization. The company also sponsors over 60 sporting and fitness-related events, activities and athletes around the world that define the company’s commitment to a healthy active lifestyle supported by good nutrition. These include the East West Bank Classic and Amgen Tour of California in the U.S. Herbalife sponsored the AVP Pro Beach Volleyball Tour during the 2004 – 2007 seasons.The London Triathlon, the largest event of its kind in the world, is among several triathlons sponsored by Herbalife, which includes the company’s role as presenting sponsor of the LA Triathlon. In 2007 approximately 2000 independent distributors and staff competed as Team Herbalife, many for the first time. Other sponsored events range from tennis in Japan to dragon boat races in Hong Kong to badminton tournaments in the Philippines. Many Herbalife sponsored athletes have their sights set on competing in the 2008 Olympics in China.Clinical studyHerbalife’s first clinical study, using Formula 1 Nutritional Shake Mix, was conducted and completed at the UCLA Center for Human Nutrition. Zhaoping Li M.D., Ph.D., associate clinical professor and associate chief of the division of clinical nutrition at UCLA, was the principal investigator of the study which enrolled 100 overweight people to examine the effects of two different levels of protein in the diet on their weight loss and body composition over a one-year period. Study subjects utilized two meal replacements per day in their meal plan. One group consumed a standard amount of protein using Formula 1 Nutritional Shake Mix, while the other group consumed a twice the standard amount though protein-enriched Formula 1 meal replacements.85 subjects completed the study. Weight loss in both groups was similar - subjects in both groups lost approximately 8 pounds in 12 weeks- demonstrating the effectiveness of meal replacement shakes for weight loss. However, those consuming higher amounts of protein lost more body fat than those receiving a standard amount of protein.The results of the study, “A Controlled Trial of Protein Enrichment of Meal Replacements for Weight Reduction and Retention of Lean Body Mass” have been published in the August 2008 issue of Nutrition Journal.http://www.nutritionj.com/content/7/1/23 Nutrition Advisory BoardHerbalife states that its Nutrition Advisory Board consists of "leading experts in the fields of nutrition and health who help educate and train our independent Distributors on the principles of nutrition, physical activity and healthy lifestyle."Advisory Boards - Science: Herbalife&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;David Heber, M.D., Ph.D., F.A.C.P., F.A.C.N. Director of the Center for Human Nutrition at UCLA.http://research.mednet.ucla.edu/institution/personnel?personnel_id=8464&lt;/ref&gt;Louis Ignarro, Ph.D.Luigi Gratton, M.D., M.P.H.Joaquim Caetano, M.D.Marion Flechtner-Mors, Ph.D.Julian Alvarez Garcia, M.D.Lazlo Halmy, M.D., Ph.D., DMSciShih-Yi Huang, Ph.D.Linong Ji, M.D.Patricio Kenny, M.D.Rocio Medina, M.D.Anoop Misra, M.D.Chakarg Pongurgsorn, M.D., Ph.DAlla Pogozheva, M.D.Ralph Rogers, M.D., Ph.D., FECSS, FACSM, FFSEMNikolaos Sitaras, M.D.Ryuzaburo Tanino, M.D.Jean de la Tullaye, M.D.Nataniel Viuniski, M.D.Yoshio Yoshimoto, M.D.See alsoDirect sellingMulti-level marketingReferencesExternal linksOfficial siteHerbalife Family Foundations siteCompany profile by MarketWatchHerbalife Ltd.'s financial reports - Corporate disclosure and financial reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange CommissionWashington Post article "Nitric Oxide Now -- Ask Me How: Some Find Nobel Laureate's Alliance With Supplement Marketer Hard to Swallow", Washington Post, October 7, 2003Slate.com article "Make money now, ask me how! :Was Herbalife founder Mark Hughes a showy swindler or a dot-com deity?"Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) company's profile - Yahoo FinanceCategory:Multi-level marketing Category:Companies based in Los Angeles, California Category:Companies established in 1980bg:Хербалайф de:Herbalife es:Herbalife fr:Herbalife it:Herbalife nl:Herbalife ja:ハーバライフ no:Herbalife pl:Herbalife pt:Herbalife ru:Herbalife fi:Herbalife sv:Herbalife zh:賀寶芙