SquareA square is a regular quadrilateral.Edges and vertices4Schläfli symbolst or xCoxeter–Dynkin diagramsSymmetry groupDihedral]] (D4)Area(with t=edge length)t2Internal angle(degrees)90°In Euclidean Geometry geometry, a square is a regular polygon with four equal sides. In Euclidean geometry, it has four 90 degree angles. A square with vertices ABCD would be denoted .ClassificationA square (regular quadrilateral) is a special case of a rectangle as it has four right angles and equal parallel sides. Likewise it is also a special case of a rhombus, kite, parallelogram, and trapezoid.Mensuration formulaThe perimeter of a square whose sides have length t isP=4t.And the area isA=t^2.In classical times, the second power was described in terms of the area of a square, as in the above formula. This led to the use of the term square to mean raising to the second power.Standard coordinatesThe coordinates for the vertices of a square centered at the origin and with side length 2 are (±1, ±1), while the interior of the same consists of all points (x''0, ''x1) with &minus;1&nbsp;&lt;&nbsp;x''''i&nbsp;&lt;&nbsp;1.PropertiesEach angle in a square is equal to 90 degrees, or a right angle.The diagonals of a square are equal. Conversely, if the diagonals of a rhombus are equal, then that rhombus must be a square. The diagonals of a square are \sqrt (about 1.41) times the length of a side of the square. This value, known as Pythagoras’ constant, was the first number proven to be irrational.If a figure is both a rectangle (right angles) and a rhombus (equal edge lengths) then it is a square.Other factsIt has all equal sides and the angles add up to 360 degrees.If a circle is circumscribed around a square, the area of the circle is \pi/2 (about 1.57) times the area of the square.If a circle is inscribed in the square, the area of the circle is \pi/4 (about 0.79) times the area of the square.A square has a larger area than any other quadrilateral with the same perimeter (http://www2.mat.dtu.dk/people/V.L.Hansen/square.html).A square tiling is one of three regular tilings of the plane (the others are the equilateral triangle and the regular hexagon).The square is in two families of polytopes in two dimensions: hypercube and the cross polytope. The Schläfli symbol for the square is .The square is a highly symmetric object (in Goldman geometry). There are four lines of reflectional symmetry and it has rotational symmetry through 90°, 180° and 270°. Its symmetry group is the dihedral group D_4.Non-Euclidean geometryIn non-euclidean geometry, squares are more generally polygons with 4 equal sides and equal angles.In spherical geometry, a square is a polygon whose edges are great circle arcs of equal distance, which meet at equal angles. Unlike the square of plane geometry, the angles of such a square are larger than a right angle.In hyperbolic geometry, squares with right angles do not exist. Rather, squares in hyperbolic geometry have angles of less than right angles. Larger squares have smaller angles.Examples:200px]]Six squares can tile the sphere with 3 squares around each vertex and 120 degree internal angles. This is called a spherical cube. The Schläfli symbol is .200px]]Squares can tile the Euclidean plane with 4 around each vertex, with each square having an internal angle of 90 degrees. The Schläfli symbol is .200px]]Squares can tile the hyperbolic plane with 5 around each vertex, with each square having 72 degree internal angles. The Schläfli symbol is .See alsoCubePythagorean theoremSquare latticeUnit squareExternal linksSquare CalculationAnimated course (Construction, Circumference, Area)Definition and properties of a square With interactive appletAnimated applet illustrating the area of a squareCategory:Geometric shapes Category:Quadrilateralsaf:Vierkant ar:مربع an:Cuadrato ast:Cuadráu ay:Pusi k'uchuni az:Kvadrat bn:বর্গক্ষেত্র be:Квадрат be-x-old:Квадрат bs:Kvadrat bg:Квадрат ca:Quadrat (polígon) cs:Čtverec cy:Sgwâr da:Kvadrat de:Quadrat (Geometrie) et:Ruut el:Τετράγωνο es:Cuadrado eo:Kvadrato (geometrio) eu:Lauki fa:مربع fr:Carré gl:Cadrado ko:정사각형 hi:वर्गाकार hr:Kvadrat io:Quadrato id:Bujur sangkar is:Ferningur it:Quadrato (geometria) he:ריבוע ka:კვადრატი sw:Mraba ht:Kare lo:ຮູບຈັດຕຸລັດ la:Quadrum lv:Kvadrāts lt:Kvadratas li:Veerkant hu:Négyzet mk:Квадрат ml:സമചതുരം mr:चौरस mn:Квадрат nl:Vierkant (meetkunde) ja:正方形 no:Kvadrat nn:Kvadrat uz:Kvadrat km:ការ៉េ pl:Kwadrat pt:Quadrado ro:Pătrat qu:T'asra ru:Квадрат sco:Squerr scn:Quatratu simple:Square (geometry) sk:Štvorec sl:Kvadrat (geometrija) sr:Квадрат sh:Kvadrat fi:Neliö (geometria) sv:Kvadrat tl:Parisukat ta:சதுரம் th:รูปสี่เหลี่ยมจัตุรัส vi:Hình vuông tr:Kare uk:Квадрат ur:مربع (ہندسہ) vls:Vierkant yi:קוואדראט zh-yue:正方形 bat-smg:Kvadrots zh:正方形