For science museums in general check out Science museum. The Science Museum on Exhibition Road, South Kensington, London is part of the National Museum of Science and Industry. The museum is a major London tourist attraction.OriginA museum was founded in 1857 under Bennet Woodcroft from the collection of the Royal Society of Arts and surplus items from the Great Exhibition. It was initially part of the South Kensington Museum, together with what is now the Victoria and Albert Museum, but was separated and became the Museum of Patents in 1858, the Patent Office Museum in 1863. This museum contained many of the most famous exhibits of what is now the Science Museum. In 1885, the Science Collections were renamed the Science Museum and in 1893 a separate Director was appointed.Science Museum, Survey of London XXXVIII: The Museums area of South Kensington and Westminster, F.H.W. Sheppard Editor (1975), p. 252 The Art Collections were renamed the Art Museum, which became the Victoria and Albert Museum nearby. The Patent Office Museum was merged into the Science Museum in 1909. The Science Museum’s present quarters, designed by Sir Richard Allison, were opened to the public in stages over the period 1919–28http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/528865/Science-Museum.Collectionsreconstruction model built by Crick and Watson in 1953.]] The Science Museum now holds a collection of over 300,000 items, including such famous items as Stephenson's Rocket, Puffing Billy (the oldest surviving steam locomotive), the first jet engine, a reconstructionof Francis Crick and James Watson's model of DNA, some of the earliest remaining steam engines, a working example of Charles Babbage's Difference engine, the first prototype of the 10,000-year Clock of the Long Now, and documentation of the first typewriter. It also contains hundreds of interactive exhibits. A recent addition is the IMAX 3D Cinema showing science and nature documentaries, some of them in 3-D, and the Wellcome Wing which focuses on digital technology.Science Museum - About us - Wellcome Wing&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Entrance has been free since 1 December 2001.The museum houses some of the many objects collected by Henry Wellcome around a medical theme. The fourth floor exhibit is called "Glimpses of Medical History", with reconstructions and dioramas of the history of practiced medicine. The fifth floor gallery is called "Science and the Art of Medicine", with exhibits of medical instruments and practices from ancient days and from many countries. The collection is strong in clinical medicine, biosciences and public health. The museum is a member of the London Museums of Health &amp; Medicine.The Science Museum has a dedicated library, and until the 1960s was Britain's National Library for Science, Medicine and Technology. It holds runs of periodicals, early books and manuscripts, and is used by scholars world-wide. It has for a number of years been run in conjunction with the Library of Imperial College, but in 2004 the Museum was unable to bear its share of the cost, so options are being discussed for the library's break-up and dispersal. http://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/lets_talk/smlibrary.aspThe Science Museum's medical collections have a global scope and coverage probably not bettered in the world. Strengths include Clinical Medicine, Biosciences and Public Health. The new Wellcome Wing, with its focus on Bioscience, makes the Museum the world's leading centre for the presentation of contemporary science to the public.See also Category:Collections of the Science Museum (London).The Dana CentreIn November 2003, the Science Museum opened the Dana Centre. The Centre is an urban bar and café annexed to the Museum.In October 2007 The Science Museum cancelled a talk by the co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, James D. Watson, because he claimed that IQ test results showed blacks to have lower intelligence than whites. The decision was criticised by some scientists, including Richard Dawkins, as well as supported by other scientists, including Steven Rose.Comment is free: Watson's bad science&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Science NightThe Science Museum also organises "Science Night", "all night extravaganza with a scientific twist". Up to 380 children aged between 8 and 11, accompanied by adults, are invited to spend an evening performing fun "science based" activities and then spend the night sleeping in the galleries museum amongst the exhibits. In the morning, they're woken to breakfast and more science, watching an IMAX film before the end of the event. http://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/visitors/sciencenight.aspGalleriesin the power gallery in motion]] The Science Museum is made up of a number of galleries, some of which are permanent, and some of which are temporary.Power: The East HallThe East Hall is the first area that most visitors see as they enter the building, stretching up through three floors. On the ground, the area is mostly filled with iconic steam engines of various sorts, which together tell the story of the British industrial revolution. Up in the air, suspended from the ceiling is giant metallic ring, the inside of which is covered in white LEDs which form patterns and display messages typed into kiosks by visitors in the Energy gallery. Also in the East Hall is a Waterstone's bookshop, selling only books related to popular science and mathematics in accordance with the museum, and the Revolution café.Exploring SpaceExploring Space is a historical gallery, filled with rockets and exhibits that tell the story of human space exploration and the benefits that space exploration has brought us (particularly in the world of telecommunications).Making the Modern World]] Making the Modern World is a relatively new gallery, in which some of the museum's most iconic objects, including Stephenson's Rocket and an Apollo space capsule, are imaginatively displayed along a timeline chronicling man's technological achievements.FlightFlight is another longstanding gallery, up towards the western end of the third floor. Contained in the gallery is a number of full sized aeroplanes and helicopters, including Spitfire and Hurricane fighters, as well as numerous aero-engines and a cross-section of a Boeing 747.LaunchpadOne of the most popular galleries in the museum is the interactive Launchpad gallery. Redesigned and reopened in November 2007, the new look gallery houses over 50 interactive exhibits illustrating many different concepts in physical science. The gallery is staffed by Explainers who are available to demonstrate how exhibits work, conduct live experiments and perform shows to schools and the visiting public.Touring exhibitionsThe Science Museum has developed many touring exhibitions over the years. The Science Box contemporary science series toured various venues in the UK and Europe in the 1990s and from 1995 The Science of Sport appeared in various incarnations and venues around the World. In 2005 The Science Museum teamed up with Fleming Media to set up The Science of... who develop and tour exhibitions including The Science of Aliens, The Science of Spying and The Science of Survival .In 2008, The Science of Survival exhibition opened to the public and allowed visitors to explore what the world might be like in 2050 and how mankind will meet the challenges of climate change and energy shortages.LocationThe museum is adjacent to the Natural History Museum and used to be connected to it by a public corridor, which is now closed. The closest London Underground station is South Kensington; a subway connects the museums to the station.At the front of the museum to the east is Exhibition Road. Immediately to the south is Museum Lane and the Natural History Museum. To the rear is Queen's Gate and to the north is Imperial College.RefurbishmentThe Science Museum underwent a series of refurbishments as part of a vision to update the museum. The East Hall has been finished and the renovated museum shop opened in October 2005.OnlineThe Science Museum's website has a variety of features, including collections information and the award-winning Launchball game.Directors of the Science MuseumThe Directors of the South Kensington Museum were:Henry Cole CB (1857–1873)Sir Philip Cuncliffe-Owen KCB KCMG CIE (1873–1893)The Directors of the Science Museum have been:Major-General E. R. Festling CB FRS (1893–1904)W. I. Last (1904–1911)Sir Francis Grant Ogilvie CB (1911–1920)Colonel Sir Henry Lyons FRS (1920–1934)Colonel E. E. B. Mackintosh DSO (1933–1945)Dr H. Shaw (1945–1950)Dr F. Sherwood Taylor (1950–1956)Dr T. Morrison-Scott DSc FMA (1956–1960)Sir David Follett FMA (1960–1973)Dame Margaret Weston DBE FMA (1973–1986)Sir Neil Cossons OBE FSA FMA (1986–2000)Dr Lindsay Sharp (2000–2005)Prof Martin Earwicker (appointed March 2006)Image gallery Image:Plane in the Science Museum of London.jpg|Beech 18 Image:Science Museum Stephenson's Rocket.jpg|Stephenson's Rocket Image:Science Museum, London - Apollo 10.jpg|Apollo 10 Command Module c1969 Image:Science Museum - Transportation area.jpg|Making the Modern World Image:Steam boat model at Science Museum.jpg|Model of steam boat Image:Fighterbomber at Science Museum.jpg|Avro 504 WW I training biplane Image:LondonScienceMuseumsReplicaDifferenceEngine.jpg|Part of the replica Difference Engine Image:DSCN0421-puffing-billy 600x800.JPG|Puffing Billy ReferencesExternal linksOfficial website of the Science MuseumNational Museum of Science and Industry websiteThe official Science Museum print website containing many paintings, prints and posters from the museum's collectionsDana Centre websiteIngenious Project websiteMaking the Modern World websiteVRML model of the Wellcome Wing (WRL)Category:1857 establishments Category:Science Museum (London) * Category:IMAX venues Category:Industry museums in the United Kingdom Category:Buildings and structures in Kensington &amp; Chelsea Category:Medical museums Category:Science museums in the United Kingdomcs:Science Museum (Londýn) da:Science Museum (London) de:Science Museum es:Science Museum fa:موزه علوم (لندن) fr:Science Museum he:מוזיאון המדע (לונדון) nl:Science Museum ja:サイエンス・ミュージアム no:Science Museum (London) pl:Science Museum w Londynie fi:Science Museum yi:וויסנשאפט מוזיי