  A deus ex machina (lat. , literally "god from a/the machine")deus ex machina - Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, which gives this pronunciation: \ˈdā-əs-ˌeks-ˈmä-ki-nə, -ˈma-, -ˌnä; -mə-ˈshē-nə\&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; is an improbable contrivance in a story characterized by a sudden unexpected solution to a seemingly intractable problem. Neoclassical literary criticism, from Corneille and John Dennis on, took it as a given that one mark of a bad play was the sudden invocation of extraordinary circumstance. Thus, the term "deus ex machina" came to mean any inferior plot device that expeditiously solves the conflict of a narrative.Linguistic considerationsThe Latin phrase "deus ex machina" comes to English usage from Horace's Ars Poetica, where he instructs poets that they must never resort to a god from the machines to solve their plots. He is referring to the conventions of Greek tragedy, where a mechane (crane) was used to lower actors playing a god or gods onto the stage. The machine referred to in the phrase could be either the crane employed in the task, the calque from the Greek "" apó mēchanēs theós, (pronounced in Ancient Greek ), or a riser that brought a god up from a trap door.Ancient usesThe Greek tragedian Euripides is notorious for using this plot device as a means to resolve a hopeless situation. For example, in Euripides' play Alcestis, the eponymous heroine agrees to give up her own life to Death in exchange for sparing the life of her husband, Admetus. In doing so, however, she imposes upon him a series of extreme promises. Admetus is torn between choosing death or choosing to obey these unreasonable restrictions. In the end, though, Heracles shows up and seizes Alcestis from Death, restoring her to life and freeing Admetus from the promises. In Euripides' Medea deus ex machina is used to confront the audience's judgment by removing Medea, who has just committed murder and infanticide, to the safety and civilization of Athens. The first person known to have criticized the device was Aristotle in his Poetics, where he argued that the resolution of a plot must arise internally, following from previous action of the play:Janko (1987, 20) Modern usesIn fiction writing, the phrase has been extended to refer to a sudden and unexpected resolution to a seemingly intractable problem in a plotline, or what might be called an "Oh, by the way..." ending. A deus ex machina is generally undesirable in writing and often implies a lack of skill on the part of the author because it does not pay due regard to the story's internal logic and is often so unlikely that it challenges suspension of disbelief, allowing the author to conclude the story with an unlikely, though more palatable, ending.  Sometimes the unlikeliness of the deus ex machina plot device is employed deliberately. An example is in Brecht's "The Threepenny Opera", in which a "riding messenger of the king" appears in the last moment, stops the execution of the story's criminal anti-hero Mack the Knife, and bestows an inheritable title of nobility on him. The very absurdity of this serves to underwrite the great lack of generosity and selflessness in the capitalist reality that the story is mostly about.ReferencesSourcesJanko, Richard, trans. 1987. Poetics with Tractatus Coislinianus, Reconstruction of Poetics II and the Fragments of the On Poets. By Aristotle. Cambridge: Hackett. ISBN 0872200337. Category:Fiction Category:Latin literary phrases Category:Narratology Category:Continuity errors Category:Plot devices Category:Plot Category:Literary concepts Category:Television terminologybg:Deus ex machina ca:Deus ex machina cs:Deus ex machina da:Deus ex machina de:Deus ex machina el:Από μηχανής θεός es:Deus ex machina fa:امداد غیبی (علمی-تخیلی) fr:Deus ex machina it:Deus ex machina he:דאוס אקס מכינה mk:Deus ex machina nl:Deus ex machina ja:デウス・エクス・マキナ pl:Deus ex machina pt:Deus ex machina ro:Deus ex machina (teatru) ru:Deus ex machina sk:Deus ex machina sr:Деус екс махина fi:Deus ex machina sv:Deus ex machina tr:Deus ex machina