"Naja fasciata"'' redirects here. That taxon as described by Bocage in 1895 refers to the Black-necked Spitting Cobra (N. nigricollis).''''Common names: Cobra, Indian Cobra, Spectacled Cobra, (more...)''Naja naja is a species of venomous snake native to the Indian subcontinent. It is the most famous of the Big Four, the four most venomous snakes of India for which a single polyvalent antivenin has been created. Like other cobras, N. naja is famous for its threat display involving raising the front part of its body and spreading its hood. This snake is revered in Indian mythology and culture and is often seen with snake-charmers. It is now protected in India under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act (1972).Common namesHindi - NaagEnglish - Cobra,Smith, Malcolm A. (1942) The Fauna of British India - Vol III (Serpentes), pp 427-436., ''Indian Cobra,Daniels, J. C. (2002) The Book of Indian Reptiles and Amphibians, BNHS & Oxford University Press, Mumbai, pp 136-140. Spectacled Cobra,Whitaker, Romulus & Captain, Ashok (2004) Snakes of India: The Field Guide pp. Asian Cobra.Portuguese - NajaSanskrit - Nag.Oriya - Nag.Bengali - Naga gokura, Gokhro.Marathi - Nag.Pushtu - Chajithiwalla.Telugu - Naga Thrachu, Thrachu Pamu.Tamil - Nalla pambu, Naga pambu.Kannada - Nagara havu.Malayalam - Moorkan, Sarpam.Singhalese - Naya.Marathi - Naag, .Tulu - NagaGujarati - SaapPunjabi - Sapp pronounced supDescriptionOn the rear of its hood are two circular ocelli patterns connected by a curved line, evoking the image of spectacles. An average cobra is about 1 meter in length and rarely as long as 2 meters (6 feet).http://www.wildlifeofpakistan.com/ReptilesofPakistan/cobra.htm Reptiles of Pakistan The spectacle pattern on the hood is very variable as also the ground colour of the snake.Asiatic Naja&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The Oriental Ratsnake Ptyas mucosus is often mistaken for the cobra; however this snake is much longer and can easily be told apart by the stronger ridged appearance of its body. Other snakes which resemble Naja naja are the Banded Racer Argyrogena fasciolata and the Indian Smooth Snake Coronella brachyura.Ecology and reproductionNaja naja is found throughout the mainland of India (excluding the Northeast). It is also found in Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. It ranges from sea-level up to 2000m.Cobras normally feed on rodents, toads, frogs, birds and snakes. Their normal habitat includes open forest and farmland. They are however also able to thrive in cities, living on rodents in the sewers and underground drains.Indian cobras are oviparous and lay their eggs between the months of April and July. Females lay from 12 to 30 eggs in an underground nest and the eggs hatch 48 to 69 days later. Newborns cobras measure between 8 and 12 inches (20-30 cm). Newly hatched cobras have fully functional glands.In religion and mythologyIn India, the spectacled cobra is much respected and feared, and even has its own place in Hindu mythology as a powerful deity. The Hindu god Shiva is often depicted with a protective cobra coiled around his neck. Vishnu, the preserver of the universe, is usually portrayed as reclining on the coiled body of Sheshnag, the Preeminent Serpent, a giant snake deity with multiple cobra heads. Cobras are also worshipped during the Hindu festival of Nag Panchami.There are numerous myths about cobras in India, including the idea that they mate with ratsnakes.http://www.wildlifesos.com/rprotect/snakemyths.htm Snake mythsSnake charmingThe Indian cobra's celebrity comes from its popularity as a snake of choice for snake charmers. The cobra's dramatic threat posture makes for a unique spectacle as it appears to sway to the tune of a snake charmer's flute. Snake charmers with their cobras in a wicker basket are a common sight in many parts of India only during the Nag Panchami festival. The cobra, of course, is deaf to the snake charmer's pipe, but follows the visual cue of the moving pipe and it can sense the ground vibrations from the snake charmer's tapping foot.In the past Indian snake charmers also conducted cobra and mongoose fights. These gory fight shows, in which the snake was usually killed, are now illegal.http://www.indialawinfo.com/bareacts/pca.html Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 The mongoose is not known to have any immunity to the venom; the combination of its agility and thick fur makes the animal a viable opponent to snakes.VenomThe Indian cobra's venom contains a powerful post-synaptic neurotoxin. The venom acts on the synaptic gaps of the nerves, thereby paralyzing muscles, and possibly leading to respiratory failure or cardiac arrest. The venom components include enzymes such as hyaluronidase that cause lysis and increase the spread of the venom.Achyuthan, K. E. and L. K. Ramachandran(1981) Cardiotoxin of the Indian cobra (Naja naja) is a pyrophosphatase. J. Biosci. 3(2):149-156 PDF Symptoms of cobra envenomation can begin from 15 minutes to two hours after the bite, and can be fatal in less than an hour.http://www-surgery.ucsd.edu/ent/DAVIDSON/Snake/Naja2.htm First aid The Indian Cobra is one of the Big four (most dangerous venomous snakes of India) and a polyvalent serum is available for treating snakebites by these snakes. Despite its fearsome reputation, only 10% of the bites in humans result in death.References  to cite specific facts, inline.-- to cite specific facts, inline.-- to cite specific facts, inline.--Category:Elapidae Category:Reptiles of Asia Category:Reptiles of Kashmir Category:Fauna of India Category:Fauna of Bangladesh Category:Reptiles of Pakistan Category:Snakes of Punecs:Kobra indická de:Brillenschlange es:Naja naja fr:Cobra indien it:Naja naja he:קוברת המשקפיים lt:Indiškoji kobra nl:Indiase brilcobra ja:インドコブラ no:Brilleslange pl:Kobra indyjska ru:Очковая змея fi:Silmälasikäärme sv:Glasögonorm ta:இந்திய நாகம் uk:Індійська кобра zh:印度眼鏡蛇