    Adi Shamir (; born 1952) is an Israeli cryptographer. He was one of the inventors of the RSA algorithm (along with Ron Rivest and Len Adleman), one of the inventors of the Feige-Fiat-Shamir Identification Scheme (along with Uriel Feige and Amos Fiat), one of the inventors of differential cryptanalysis and has made numerous contributions to the fields of cryptography and computer science.EducationBorn in Tel Aviv, Shamir received a BS in Mathematics from Tel Aviv University in 1973 and obtained his MSc and PhD in Computer Science from the Weizmann Institute in 1975 and 1977 respectively. His thesis was titled, "Fixed Points of Recursive Programs and their Relation in Differential Agard Calculus". After a year postdoc at University of Warwick, he did research at MIT from 1977&ndash;1980 before returning to be a member of the faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science at the Weizmann Institute. Starting from 2006, he is also an invited professor at École Normale Supérieure in Paris.ResearchIn addition to RSA, Shamir's other numerous inventions and contributions to cryptography include the Shamir secret sharing scheme, the breaking of the Merkle-Hellman cryptosystem, visual cryptography, and the TWIRL and TWINKLE factoring devices. Together with Eli Biham, he discovered differential cryptanalysis, a general method for attacking block ciphers. (It later emerged that differential cryptanalysis was already known &mdash; and kept a secret &mdash; by both IBM and the NSA.)Shamir has also made contributions to computer science outside of cryptography, such as showing the equivalence of the complexity classes PSPACE and IP.AwardsIn recognition of his contributions to cryptography, Shamir was awarded, together with Rivest and Adleman, the 2002 ACM Turing Award &quot;ACM Award Citation / Adi Shamir&quot; at acm.org. Shamir has also received CM's Kannelakis Award, the Erdős Prize of the Israel Mathematical Society, the IEEE's W.R.G. Baker Prize&quot;IEEE W. R. G. Baker Prize Award Recipients&quot; at ieee.org, the UAP Scientific Prize, The Vatican's PIUS XI Gold Medal and the IEEE Koji Kobayashi Computers and Communications Award. In 2008 he received the Israel Prize ("פרס ישראל") for computer sciences.==See also==Important publications in cryptographyExternal linksList of Adi Shamir's publications on DBLPAdi Shamir's US Patents, 1976-presentReferences  Category:1952 births Category:Living people Category:Modern cryptographers Category:Public-key cryptographers Category:Israeli mathematicians Category:Israeli Jews Category:Jewish inventors Category:20th century mathematicians Category:21st century mathematicians Category:Israeli computer scientists Category:Turing Award laureates Category:People from Tel Aviv Category:Israeli cryptographers Category:Tel Aviv University alumnibn:আদি শামির de:Adi Shamir es:Adi Shamir fr:Adi Shamir ko:아디 샤미르 hr:Adi Shamir it:Adi Shamir he:עדי שמיר nl:Adi Shamir ja:アディ・シャミア pl:Adi Shamir pt:Adi Shamir ro:Adi Shamir sr:Ади Шамир sv:Adi Shamir