| insee=77058| cp=77600| région=Île-de-France | département=Seine-et-Marne| arrondissement=Torcy| canton=Torcy| maire=Hugues Rondeau| mandat=2008-2014| intercomm=''none as of 2005''| alt mini=63 m| alt maxi=130 m| km²=13.39| sans=17,9309,194| date-sans= Oct. 2006 estimate)(March 8, 1999 census| dens=1,339|date-dens=2006|Bussy-Saint-Georges, French city, in the Seine-et-Marne administrative area and the région of Île-de-France.The inhabitants are called the Buxangeorgiens (♂) et Buxangeorgiennes (♀).General aspectsGeographyIn the East, at the distance 30 kilometers from Paris and in the heart of Marne-la-Vallée, Bussy Saint-Georges has a privileged position thanks to a high densified motorway network. From Bussy, the direct access to the A4 motorway and the near A104 offer the ability to easily touch the whole national territory indeed. The city is at the doors of East of Europe and North of Europe.An ideal access to the RER line , close to the TGV railway station of Chessy-Marne-la-Vallée and two international airports Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle and Orly, the city has a central position in an impressive network of transports.PopulationDemography1962196819751982199019992005200620074534624414561 5459 19416 98017 97719 468Population from 1962 : population without double accountsThe city takes benefit from one of the most important growth in France. The population has been multiplied by 11 in 15 years, between 1990 and 2005. In the period 1999-2005, the growth rate was 30,7% per year, and it is still continuing. For the previsions of 2010, the city will then reach a population of 22 000 inhabitants. Bussy Saint-Georges has a strong power of attraction on young dynamic families who wish to live in a comfortable environment where the quality of life has been mixed with an intelligent urbanization and a large set of services for the population. 50% of the Buxangeorgiens are less than 30 years old.TransportsIn the center of the city, there is the « Bussy Saint-Georges » station of the RER line . There is also a  bus network (« Pep’s »).Surrounding citiesThe surrounding cities are :Bussy-Saint-MartinChanteloup-en-BrieCollégienFavièresFerrières-en-BrieGuermantesJossignyPontcarréCity facilitiesBussy Saint-Georges also has:9 primary schools4 high schools2 collegescapacity of 200 young children in day-care centersan artistic conservatoirea city libraryan international golf area on an area of 750,000 square metres.Sport facilitiesMichel-Jazy Sport Complex : rue du cimetière. Danse room, gymnastic structures, tennis courts, martial art areas, volley-ball area…Maurice-Herzog Sport Complex : boulevard des Genêts. Athletism training tracks, football space, bow practicing area, gymnastic room, climbing wall, table tennis room …Tennis courts : 5 courts at the path of Deux- Châteaux , 2 outdoor courts on the golfers’ promenade, 2 outdoor courts at the Graveyard street.Structures for Sport and Physical EducationBussy, city of parks and gardensBussy Saint-Georges has built its identity on a green model environment with parks and gardens. They represent 155 hectares of integrated green spaces, 9 kilometres of soft connecting links, 10 squares and parks in city-center, 8 pools and more than 8 200 trees today.Special AspectsBussy-Saint-Georges is located in the perimeter of the new city of Marne-la-Vallée as defined by the national government in 1966. But Marne-la-Vallée is just a geographical entity, precisely divided in 4 sectors. The city is in sector 3 of Marne-la-Vallée, also called Val-de-Bussy.In Val-de-Bussy of Marne-la-Vallée, Bussy Saint-Georges is from 1985 the leading and main support of the built-up area, as a real and independent new town (« Ville nouvelle ») with a unique status of local and new town. The others towns decided to be organized around a common agglomeration system of new towns.HistoryIn the origins, the village of Bussy appeared in 841 under the Roman name of Villa Buxido. In 855 the territory formed a large parish under the protection of Saint-Georges. Nevertheless, the full name of Bussy Saint-Georges only appeared in the XIIIth century. The name of Bussy comes from Buscus because of the city ‘s native environment initially composed of woods and lots of groves. In the Middle Age, Bussy-Saint-Martin et Bussy Saint-Georges was unified under a unique landlord authority, the lords of Bussy. Here is the list of the successive lords of Bussy:De Buci family from 1196 to 1490;De la Rosque from 1490 to the end of the 16th century;Louis Guibert and his heirs from the end of the 16th century to the beginning of the 18th century;In the beginning of the 18th century until the French Revolution, the family of Pondre, lord of Guermantes.In 1789, Bussy Saint-Georges was under the authority of the Généralité of Paris.During the 19th century, the town is in the county of Lagny, with a population from 500 to 550 inhabitants. Two ordonnances, June 6 1826 and August 15 1827 reduced the territory of Bussy for the other territories of Ferrières and Jossigny.Since 1985, Bussy Saint-Georges has been integrated in the perimeter of the new town plan of Marne-la-Vallée and received a total of 180,50 hectares as additional territories coming from nearest towns (Bussy-Saint-Martin, Collégien, Ferrières).Heraldry and city logosThrough the Pierre de Bucy knight’s line of descent, lord of old Bussy and Jossigny from 1196 to 1241, we find several Simon de Bucy. The fourth one was knight first then became nobleman in 1355. He became the first president of Paris Parliament and royal counselor of King John II the Brave. At the same time he determined the first emblem. The blazon is still preserved by the National Library of France. It seems that its drawing is due to the great grandfather of Simon de Bucy who was inspired by the family Briard region origins.The blazon can be described as following: « blason d’azur et de bande d’or chargé de trois aigles au vol abaissé de sable sur fond diapré » (blazon of azure with large golden stripes, three approaching low flying eagles with sand motif on a diapré ground).The city emblem appeared in 1975 in the official document. It was a black ground shield. Inside, there was the tower of Bussy as a testimony of the past. In its middle, there is a knight head piece with white flairs. On the upper part of the emblem Bussy Saint-Georges is lettering.Then, in January 1986, the blazon slightly changed replacing the black ground on a blue one and the inscription disappeared. The new urbanization of the city motivated the change of emblem for a modern logo. The city council determined the final version on February 1986. The escutcheon has now an avionic form with a large vertical stripe with sharp edges. The irregular diamond logo form has been replaced by a reversed square, suggesting more stability and strictness. The gradation of color used symbolizes the future progress. was The first public context use was for the creation of the school « les Violennes ».In 2007, the city decided to perfectionate the logo visual effect about the inscription of the city’s name especially. The architecture drawing of the City hall façade, has been redesigned : the front door, the corner stones chains, windows, roof and a small bell tower, but respecting the true proportions. The city edited documents used several styles for writing « Bussy Saint-Georges ». There was an absence of real choice of lettering typography. A finalized graphic model has finally been determined with the last logo version;AdministrationBussy-Saint-Georges is in the Canton of Torcy, in the administrative département of Seine-et-Marne; its prefecture is Melun. The canton brings together 6 towns and 38,236 inhabitants. Before its creation in 1975, the city of Bussy was in the Canton of Lagny-sur-Marne, finally divided in smaller new subdivisions considering the growth of population.Canton of Torcy is now part of the arrondissement of Torcy created in 1993. The subprefecture was recently opened on 1 January 2006.This arrondissement is the least geographically extended but the most populated of the département, with 10 cantons, 43 towns representing 343,583 inhabitants.List of the former mayors:Mandate(s)Name1949-1952Maxime Biat1952-1971Jacques Macquin1971-1973Guy Sadaune1973-1983Maurice Koehl1983-1989Daniel Doussot1989-1993Dominique Blondel1994-1998Bernard Ménager1998-2014Hugues RondeauThe town hall, built in 1850, takes place in the old village, on the Place de la Mairie (Town hall square).Patrimony:History of Bussy-Saint-Georges and its patrimony are today known by the Buxangeorgiens thanks to the work of the Friends of History of Val-de-Bussy Association. The following informayions come from a brochure explaining this History of the town, printed by the municipality in November 2001.The Tower and the CastleThe tower is the only vestige of the lord’s castle of de Buci, a fortress offering a strategic refuge dominating the valleys de la Brosse and de la Gondoire, dated from 12th century. The current place de Verdun is on the previous location of the castle, which was surrounded by the ditches filled with water by the same source of a fountain always existing and visible in the Place du marché. The graveyard, in the north of the Tower, beyond the fortifications, has been discovered during a private house building in 1960. The Tower is 21 meters high and 9 meters large.The Farm of RoquemontIn the village, the farm of Roquemont took its name from la Rosque’s fief, Bussy Saint-Georges lords from 1490 to 1594. it was also the main source of lord’s for the benefit of Bussy fief. Later, the farm was called the great farm of Bussy Saint-Georges.The Russon millThis water mill is placed in the street of de la Brosse. A smart streaming water and spring picking system served to supply energy for the race and finally the paddle wheel at the pinion of the building. The former owner already restored it. The mill was a component of the outbuildings of the Farm of Roquemont. It was used as a mill only for a few months and was dedicated the rest of time as place to live for the farm hands.The Wash-houseThe wash-house is in the street du Moulin and was built in the middle of the XIXth century. As a matter of fact, Bussy already used a very old wash-house close to a spring in Ferrières : the wash-house of Cessoy. But it was too far from the center of the village and difficult to reach for the washerwomen who used barrows for the laundry. The city council bargained for acquiring a land attached to another spring to the family de Guermantes, in the upper side of the street du Moulin for building the second wash-house. Currently, the wash-house of Cessoy is private contrary to the public one in the street du Moulin.The Farm of Génitoythe Farm of Génitoy is a « place mentioned in the titles as ancient as those who speak about Bussy » (Louis Michelin, 1843). The name, genesterium in Latin or genestay in Old French, become then génitoire or génitoy, because of the broom Genista flower which abonded. The farm was also an important fief with a castle.In 1672, Mme de Montespan would have had a baby in the castle of Génitoy, one of the Louis XIV ‘s son : Louis-César de Bourbon, count of Vexin.La JonchèreIn the beginning of the 19th century, this was a great farm. The owner was M. Martin de Longchamps, who also owned Fontenelles. It was a féculerie in 1836, which dominated all the intensive potato production in the region… unfortunately from 1845, the potato’s blight stroke the activity and then completely stopped it. The farmers decided to replace it with sugar beet. The domaine de la Jonchère was used for establishing the installations of the new product.L’église du villageThe current church was constructed on the location of a medieval church. François de la Rosque, parish priest, member of the lord of Bussy’s family, celebrated the consecration of the church in 1580. The construction finished in 1595 and the baptism of the three bells in 1600, August 22th followed: Louise, in reference to the fundation of the St-Louis chapel, Isabelle, first name of the wife of Louis Guibert, Georges, patron saint of the parish.The church has been restored in 19th century and, to the request of the inhabitants who was disappointed for not hearing the Angélus, the bell tower was raised in 1866 until the current height of 32 meters.The church fell under the public property in 1905. Under the porch of the monument there is an 18th-century gravestone. It covered up the body of abbot Duchesne buried in the chancel of the church. Inside, the body and the transept have a refined ogival style. The beams hold a painted vault in arch. On the right side, there is a Saint-Georges sculpture. On the left this is the chapel restored in 1904 thanks to a group of the Visitation of the Virgin (probably for the relics translation in 1431, given to the parish of Bussy Saint-Georges by the abott Duchesne. The baptistery have a renaissance underbody and the washbowl of ceremony is decorated with four angel’s heads. We can also notice an embedded stone font on the left of the entrance.The Church Notre-Dame du ValThe church is a modern one, built in 1997 by the architect office Gonot-Marcenat. Fully made with modern components, the dome is in natural copper.The location is at 33, boulevard Thibaud-de-Champagne.Culture and LeisuresCity LibraryThe Médiathèque de l’Europe was inaugurated in October 2006. It can be found CD, books (novels, comics, documentaries, magazines etc), DVD, music scores…The library also welcome a large range of activities put in place by the cultural department of the city. Currently, the hours of opening concern the following days: Tuesday from 2pm to 7pm, Wednesday 10am – 12:30am and 2pm to 6pm, Thursday 2pm – 6pm, and Sunday 10am – 12:30am and 2pm – 6pm.ConservatoireThe Jean-Sébastien-Bach Conservatoire of Bussy Saint-Georges opened its doors in 1995. Widened in 2004, the expanse for people reception have doubled. In 2006 more than 700 pupils and 45 employees were concerned, 28 individual instrumental disciplines (some of these instruments are « rare » such as harpsichord, viola de gamba or traditional Chinese ones : pipa, guzheng) and 10 steel band disciplines.AssociationsBussy Saint-Georges counted 30 sport associations, 19 cultural associations, 31 associations for leisure and 11 charities. For more information about these associations, please visit the official website of Bussy Saint-Georges city.CelebrationsAll along a year, the city of Bussy Saint-Georges offer to its inhabitants a large list of celebrations:Wishes of the Buxangeorgiens : JanuaryFestival of Asia: FebruaryCarnival days: MarchSaint Georges day: AprilJournée nationale du souvenir de la déportation et ravivage de la flamme du souvenir : AprilCommemoration of the end of World War II : May 8Antiques roadshow days : JuneCommemoration for dead soldiers in French Indochina: June 8Commemoration of the Général de Gaulle's call: June 18Nation day (pyrotechnics): July 13Golf Open of the city : SeptemberForum of the associations : SeptemberLes virades de l’Espoir (important march for the custic fibrosis cure research) : SeptemberSecondhand trade days : SeptemberCommemoration of the Armistice in 1918 : November 11Night of the Beaujolais : NovemberCommemoration for dead soldiers during the north-African wars : December 5Christmas Time (marché de noël, animations, patinoire) : December and January.Twin towns Radcliffe on Trent, since 1999 Holme Pierrepont, since 1999 Kiryat Ekron San Giuliano Milanese, http://www.sangiulianonline.it Meiningen, since 2006, http://www.meiningen.deEuropean City network : Member of the European New Towns Platform (ENTP). http://www.newtowns.net/EconomyOn its territory, the city have an industrial pole (Gustave Eiffel Park) located in the south of the city. Among the listed companies, there are Tech Data, SME Distribution (Sony), IBM, Air liquide, Asialand, BT France companies,... There are also a Technical Book Center of the Superior Teaching (Centre technique du livre de l'enseignement supérieur ) and the Technical Center of the French National Library (Centre technique de la Bibliothèque nationale de France). Gustave-Eiffel Park will be entirely finished at the end of 2007 by installing the main logistic warehouse of the Galeries Lafayette. The city economic growth still continues with the creation of new city planning areas or Zone d’Aménagement Concerté, such as the ZAC Léonardo-de-Vinci (30 hectares) or the Rucherie (80 hectares). The strategic location of the city in the region offers all the sought attractive conditions.With the support of the city ecomomic unit, Bussy Saint-Georges makes available to the entrepreneurs and investors a proactive help for implantation. The city shares its large experience for the development of any real estate, industrial, handcrafted and commercial initiatives. If necessary, the city plays the interface role between investors and EPAMarne, the public legal owner of the grounds.The city is strongly attached to the French public service principles which take in account the companies point of view and work environment such as a regular maintenance and improvement of the business parks, a security management plan with the local police.Gallery Image:BussySaintGeorges-Mairie.jpg|City Hall Image:Vitlina.JPG|City center Image: See alsoCommunes of the Seine-et-Marne departmentExternal linksOfficial site of Bussy-Saint-Georges 1999 Land Use, from IAURIF (Institute for Urban Planning and Development of the Paris-Île-de-France région French Ministry of Culture list for Bussy-Saint-Georges Map of Bussy-Saint-Georges on Michelin  Category:Communes of Seine-et-Marneceb:Bussy-Saint-Georges de:Bussy-Saint-Georges es:Bussy-Saint-Georges fr:Bussy-Saint-Georges it:Bussy-Saint-Georges nl:Bussy-Saint-Georges pl:Bussy-Saint-Georges pt:Bussy-Saint-Georges ro:Bussy-Saint-Georges sr:Bussy-Saint-Georges vi:Bussy-Saint-Georges vo:Bussy-Saint-Georges