Harlan, Kentucky, USA | Origin = Cincinnati, Ohio, USA | Instrument = Harmonica | Genre = Pop | Occupation = Singer, songwriter, actor | Years_active = 1997 - Present | Label = Motown, Universal, Jive | Associated_acts = 98 Degrees | URL = nicklachey.com | Notable_instruments = | spouse = Jessica Simpson (26 October 2002–30 June 2006) (divorced) Nicholas Scott Lachey (; phonetically: "la-SHAY")  (born November 9, 1973) is an American pop singer and actor who rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the boy band 98 Degrees.Lachey starred in the hit reality television series Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica with his then-wife, Jessica Simpson. The series ran on MTV for four seasons, from 2003–2005.Early yearsNicholas Scott Lachey was born on the border of Kentucky and Virginia in Harlan, Kentucky to Cate Fopma-Leimbach and John Lachey. He has a brother Drew, a stepsister, Josie, a half brother, Isaac, and two adopted siblings, Zac and Kaitlin. Growing up in Ohio, he attended Cincinnati's well-regarded public School for Creative and Performing Arts, developing his vocal talent and aspiring to become an entertainer. After graduation he attended the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, California. After a year at USC, he wanted to be closer to his family and transferred to Miami University, in Oxford, Ohio, where he studied sports medicine. He also became a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. While there, he received a phone call from long time friend, Jonathan Lippmann, who recently met Jeff Timmons. After Lippman talked Lachey and Justin Jeffre into moving to L.A., the foursome started singing everywhere they could. Lippmann left the group to start the Christian group True Vibe and was replaced by Nick's brother, Drew Lachey.Music career98 Degrees Other band members were his brother Drew Lachey, Justin Jeffre and Jeff Timmons. 98 Degrees have released 4 albums to date. Their debut album was the self-titled 98 Degrees, however the band's first real success came with their follow up album 98 Degrees and Rising. Other albums include This Christmas and Revelation. In 2002, they released a compilation album "The Collection." Since the release of "The Collection" 98 Degrees has sold over 10 million records.Solo effortsOn November 11, 2003, his solo debut album, SoulO, was released. Despite being released during the success of Newlyweds, the album was a commercial failure and received poor reviews. He released two singles from the album: "This I Swear" (the theme song from Newlyweds) and "Shut Up", a pop track featured in Newlyweds as Lachey was making the video. The making of the music video for "Shut Up" was chronicled on the show Making the Video, and it starred Dax Shepard of Punk'd fame as well as Jennifer Morrison of House, M.D..In 2005, rumors circulated that Lachey was back in the studio after SoulO underperformed. Lachey soon confirmed that he was indeed back in the studio for a second solo album, entitled What's Left of Me. The album was released on May 9, 2006, by Jive Records.The first single from the album was the title track, "What's Left of Me", released on February 21, 2006. The song quickly became a hit, reaching a peak position of #6 on the Billboard Hot 100. The subsequent album of the same name was released in May of 2006, and debuted at # 2 on the Billboard 200 chart, once again thrusting Lachey into the spotlight. In June 2006, the single "What's Left of Me" hit #1 on Billboard's Hot Dance Airplay. Soon after the release of the single "What's Left of Me", the media fired up speculation that the song's lyrics were about Lachey's divorce with Jessica Simpson. In the single's music video, Vanessa Minnillo, the MTV VJ and television personality, played Simpson's role, showcasing the last days of the couple's relationship. The music video for Lachey's second single off the album, "I Can't Hate You Anymore", debuted on MTV's TRL on July 26, 2006, peaking at #4. In the spring of 2006, the album What's Left of Me was RIAA certified Gold, after selling more than 500,000 copies domestically.In July 2006, Lachey's label, Jive Records, announced his What's Left of Me Tour. The tour began September 20, 2006 and was expected to last for about two months. Lachey's band for the What's Left of Me tour has Robbie Gennet playing rhythm guitar and singing, Al Berry playing bass guitar and singing, Kristopher Pooley playing keyboards and singing, Pathik Desai playing lead guitar and singing, and Derek Wyatt playing drums.Lachey is working on a new album. He previously announced to MTV News that it will continue the ballad style since that has become his trademark sound, though he has since recorded an albums worth of new material more in the pop/rock feel of his "What's Left Of Me" album which will make up the album instead. The first single from the new as yet untitled CD is titled "It's Like".Lachey recorded "Ordinary Day" for the made-for-television movie For One More Day and appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show December 5, 2007 to promote it. The movie aired on December 9. The song was released to iTunes on December 18, 2007. It was penned by Academy Award nominated songwriter Diane Warren.http://www.nicklachey.com/rssnews New song titles "All In My Head", "It's Like", and "Only Good With You" have been playing on Promosquad.com since April 2008. The first single being released is called "All In My Head". Per the Nick Lachey.US web fan site, as of October 2008, Nick Lachey confirmed the release of the new album is going to be in January, 2009. The title of the album is "Coming Up For Air".==Film and television==''Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica'' Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica premiered on MTV in August 2003 to a huge amount of viewers and recognition. The outrageous quotes, hilarious lifestyle, and mega-spending of the young couple made Newlyweds a phenomenon. Many famous moments included Simpson confusing tuna and chicken, and thinking that buffaloes had wings. The couple was sprung into the spotlight.===Other television appearances=== Lachey began taking acting jobs after the premiere of Newlyweds. Notably, he took a recurring role as the love interest for Alyssa Milano's character in the 2004-2005 season of the series Charmed. Among other acting jobs he's landed, Lachey has appeared on the series Hope and Faith, and Twins.Personal lifeLachey dated fellow pop star Jessica Simpson for four years, though they had a five month break up, they remained in contact. They started dating again in 2001 and married on October 26, 2002. MTV featured the couple in the reality series "Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica" for four seasons, beginning with their wedding day. Lachey and Simpson also starred in "The Nick and Jessica Variety Hour" and a Christmas special together on ABC.Following months of rumors and tabloid speculation, Lachey and Simpson announced their separation in November 2005. Their divorce was finalized on June 30, 2006. He released "What's Left Of Me" following their divorce and former MTV VJ, Vanessa Minnillo, starred in the video of the single playing Simpson's part. Soon after, Lachey and Minnillo began dating. As of April 2007, the couple officially moved in together, purchasing an apartment in New York City's Atelier Condo Building, as well as sharing Lachey's home in Bel Air, California.Lachey is also the godfather and uncle of Isabella Claire Lachey, the daughter of his younger brother Drew Lachey. He also has a summer home in Tacoma, Washington.Sports team ownershipLachey is part owner of the Hollywood Fame, a team in the American Basketball Association that began play in fall 2006,news.yahoo.com and is part of an ownership group of the Tacoma Rainiers, the Seattle Mariners' Triple-A affiliate.sports.espn.go.comFilmographyYearTitleRoleNotes2003—2005Newlyweds: Nick and JessicaHimselfReality television2003Christmas in Rockefeller CenterMusical GuestNBC]])2004American DreamsTom Jones"I'm Not with Her" (Season 2, Episode 13)I'm with HerTyler Vance"To Tell the Truth " (Season 1, Episode 22)CharmedLeslie St. Claire6 episodes (Season 7)Hope &amp; FaithChris"Just-In Time " (Season 2, Episode 9)2005The Hard EasyJason BurnsMain RoleBewitchedVietnam Soldierappearance2006She Said, He Said]]''Kurtwood WeymouthMain Role / Television pilotTwinsCharlie"Himbo" (Season 1, Episode 17)2007Rise: Blood HuntersDwayneappearance2008High School Musical: Get in the PictureHimselfHostDiscography2003 SoulO2006 What's Left of Me2009 Coming Up For AirAwards and nominationsTeen Choice AwardsBest Love Song: What's Left of Me (August 20, 2006)Choice Red Carpet Fashion Icon (August 20, 2006)MTV Video Music AwardsBest Male Video: What's Left of Me (nominated) (August 29, 2006)American Music AwardsFavorite Male Pop/Rock Artist (nominated) (November 21, 2006)POPrepublic.tv IT LIST 2006International Male Artist (January 2007)Male Hottie of 2006 (January 2007)Video of 2006...What's Left Of Me (3rd place) (January 2007)ReferencesExternal linksNick Lachey Official WebsiteNick Lachey Official UK WebsiteNick Lachey at Rolling Stone Category:98 Degrees members Category:American dance musicians Category:American film actors Category:American male singers Category:American pop singers Category:German-Americans Category:Participants in American reality television series Category:Ohio musicians Category:Kentucky musicians Category:1973 births Category:Living people Category:Miami University alumni Category:People from Cincinnati, Ohio Category:People from Harlan County, Kentuckyda:Nick Lachey de:Nick Lachey es:Nick Lachey fr:Nick Lachey it:Nick Lachey nl:Nick Lachey ja:ニック・ラシェイ pl:Nick Lachey pt:Nick Lachey ru:Лаше, Ник fi:Nick Lachey sv:Nick Lachey th:นิค ลาเช่