 | birth_place = Dire Dawa, Ethiopia | party = RPP  Ismaïl Omar Guelleh (Somali: Ismaaciil Cumar Geelle. Arabic: اسماعيل عُمر جليه) (born November 27, 1947Biography at Presidency website .) is the President of Djibouti. He succeeded his uncle, Hassan Gouled Aptidon, in 1999.BackgroundGuelleh was born in Dire Dawa, Ethiopia.&quot;Reality Check On Ismail Omar Guelleh&quot;, Somaliland Times, Issue 211, 4 February 2006. In the late 1960s, Guelleh migrated to Djibouti before finishing high school. He later joined the police, becoming a junior non-commissioned officer. After Djibouti became independent, he became head of the secret police and chief of the cabinet in the government of Hassan Gouled Aptidon. He received training from the Somali National Security Service and then from the French Secret Service, and was intended to become his uncle's successor. "The key to Guelleh's success is the skillful way in which he has played the cards in his strong hand", according to PINR. "As the head of Djibouti's security agency under his uncle's regime, Guelleh gained an intimate knowledge of the country's political forces and has used it to practice a politics of divide and rule, supplemented by repression and intimidation when expedient."== Presidency == On February 4 1999, President Gouled Aptidon announced that he would retire at the time of the next election, and an extraordinary congress of his party, the ruling People's Rally for Progress (RPP), chose Guelleh as its presidential candidate."Djibouti: President Gouled Aptidon to retire in April after 22 years in power", AFP (nl.newsbank.com), February 4, 1999. As the joint candidate of the RPP and moderate wing of the Front for the Restoration of Unity and Democracy (FRUD), Guelleh won the presidential election held on April 9 1999 with 74.02% of the vote, defeating his only challenger, the independent candidate Moussa Ahmed Idriss.&quot;Proclamation du Président de la République de Djibouti par le Conseil Constitutionnel.&quot;, Journal Officiel de la République de Djibouti .Elections in Djibouti, African Elections Database. He took office on May 8.&quot;SUDAN: President holds weekend talks with Ethiopia&quot;, IRIN, May 11, 1999.In December 2000, Guelleh sacked the chief of staff of the National Police Force, Yacin Yabeh; policemen loyal to Yacin unsuccessfully rebelled following his dismissal.&quot;Witnesses describe “coup attempt”&quot;, IRIN, December 8, 2000.Guelleh was nominated by the RPP as its presidential candidate for a second time on October 7, 2004, at an Extraordinary Congress of the party. He was backed by several other parties&quot;Le RPP plébiscite son candidat&quot;, La Nation, October 11, 2004 . and was the only candidate in the presidential election held on April 8, 2005.&quot;No challengers for Guelleh as presidential campaign kicks off&quot;, IRIN, March 29, 2005. Without a challenger, he won 100% of the ballots cast and was sworn in for a second six-year term, which he said would be his last, on May 7.&quot;Guelleh sworn in for second presidential term&quot;, IRIN, May 9, 2005.See alsoBernard BorrelReferences     Category:Djiboutian politicians Category:Current national leaders Category:1947 births Category:Living people Category:Presidents of Djiboutiar:إسماعيل عمر جيله de:Ismail Omar Guelleh et:Ismail Omar Guelleh el:Ισμαήλ Ομάρ Γκουέλεχ es:Ismail Omar Guelleh fr:Ismail Omar Guelleh gl:Ismail Omar Guelleh io:Ismail Omar Guelleh id:Ismail Omar Guelleh it:Ismail Omar Guelleh he:איסמאעיל עומאר גואלה nl:Ismaïl Omar Guelleh ja:イスマイル・オマル・ゲレ oc:Ismail Omar Guelleh pl:Ismail Omar Guelleh pt:Ismail Omar Guelleh ru:Исмаил Омар Гелле fi:Ismail Omar Guelleh sv:Ismail Omar Guelleh tr:İsmail Omar Guelleh zh:伊斯梅尔·奥马尔·盖莱