 Zeami Motokiyo (世阿弥 元清; c. 1363 &ndash; c. 1443), also called Kanze Motokiyo (観世 元清), was a Japanese aesthetician, actor and playwright.ActingZeami was educated by his father, Kan'ami, who was also an actor. The father-son team established the Noh theatre. When Kan'ami's company performed for Ashikaga Yoshimitsu, the Shogun of Japan, he asked for Zeami to have a court education in the arts. The Shogun took the boy as his lover, in the shudo tradition, in 1374.After Zeami succeeded his father, he continued to perform and adapt his style into what is today Noh - a mixture of pantomime and vocal acrobatics.WritingScholars attribute nearly 50 plays to Zeami. Among them are the works Izutsu, Hagoromo (The Feather Mantle), Koi no omoni (The Load of Love).In addition to writing plays and his major theoretical work, Fūshi kaden (風姿花伝)—also known as Kadensho (花伝書)—,The title of this book can be roughly translated as “Floral Message: How Does the Wind Look?”. The connotation is that you need to have sophisticated (flowery) skills, but the technique must not be ostentatious (they must be transparent). Zeami also wrote practical instructions for actors and established the Noh theatre as a serious art form. His books are not only instructions but also aesthetic treatises based on the spiritual culture of Japan.Further readingOn the Art of the No Drama: The Major Treatises of Zeami, 1984, M. Yamazaki (ed.), J. T. Rimer (tr.)The House Of Kanze, Nobuko Albery, 1985, Simon And Schuster, New York, ISBN 0-671-60520-8 (novel)Zeami's Style: The Noh Plays of Zeami Motokiyo, Thomas Blenman Hare, Stanford University Press, Stanford, 1986.The Flowering Spirit: Classic Teachings on the Art of Nō, Zeami, William Scott Wilson (tr.), Kodansha International, Tokyo, Japan, 2006, ISBN 4-7700-2499-1 (Fūshi kaden translated)Zeami: Performance Notes, 2008, Tom Hare (tr.), Columbia University Press, ISBN 978-0-231-13958-8Notes Category:Japanese writers Category:Noh playwrights Category:1363 births Category:1443 deaths Category:Shudo bs:Zeami Motokiyo ca:Zeami Motokiyo cs:Zeami Motokijo da:Zeami Motokiyo de:Zeami Motokiyo es:Zeami Motokiyo eo:Zeami Motokiyo eu:Zeami Motokiyo fr:Zeami ga:Zeami gl:Zeami - 世阿弥 ko:제아미 hi:ज़ेमि hr:Zeami id:Zeami is:Zeami Motokiyo it:Zeami jv:Zeami nl:Zeami Motokiyo ja:世阿弥 no:Zeami Motokiyo pl:Zeami Motokiyo pt:Zeami ro:Zeami Motokiyo ru:Дзэами, Мотокиё scn:Zeami simple:Zeami sl:Zeami Motokiyo szl:Zeami Motokiyo sr:Зеами sh:Zeami fi:Zeami Motokiyo sv:Zeami Motokiyo tl:Zeami Motokiyo th:โมะโตะกิโยะ เซะอะมิ tr:Zeami uk:Дзеамі Мотокійо zh:世阿弥