Lycopolis and Lykopolis redirect here; for the ancient city bearing those names located in the delta of the Nile, see Lycopolis (Delta).Asyut (), is the capital of the modern Asyut Governorate, Egypt. The modern city is located at: , while the ancient city is located at: .Etymology The name of the city is derived from early Egyptian Zawty (Z3JW.TJ) (late Egyptian, Səyáwt) into the Coptic Syowt . In Graeco-Roman Egypt, it was called Lycopolis or Lykopolis (Greek: Λυκόπολις, ""), Ptol. iv. 5. § 63; Steph. B. s. v.; Strabo xvii. p. 813) Lycon, (Plin. v. 9. s. 11) or Lyco (Itin. Anton. p. 157).Ancient AsyutAround 3100 BC ancient Asyut was the capital of the Thirteenth Nome of Upper Egypt (Lycopolites Nome), seated on the western bank of the Nile. The two most prominent gods of pre-Christian Asyut were Anubis and Wepwawet, both funerary deities.During the First Intermediate Period, the rulers of "Zawty"; Khety I, Itefibi, and Khety II were supporters of the Herakleopolitan kings, of whose domain the Nome formed the southern limits. The conflict between this Nome and the southern Nomes under the rule of the Eleventh dynasty ended with the victory of Thebes and the decline of Asyut's importance.The shield of a king named Recamai, who reigned in Upper Egypt (probably during the "shepherd dynasty" in the "Lower Country"), has been discovered in Asyut (Rosellini, Mon. Civ. i. 81.). Lycopolis has no remarkable ruins, but in the excavated chambers of the adjacent rocks are found mummies of wolves, confirming the origin of its name, as well as a tradition preserved by Diodorus Siculus (ii. 88; comp. Aelian. Hist. An. x. 28), to the effect that an Aethiopian army, invading Egypt, was repelled beyond the city of Elephantine by herds of wolves. Osiris was worshipped under the symbol of a wolf at Lycopolis. He having, according to a myth, come "from the shades" under that form, to aid Isis and Horus in their combat with Typhon (Champollion, Descript. de l'Egypte, vol. i. p. 276; Jollois, Egypte, vol. ii. ch. 13.). Other Ancient Egyptian monuments discovered in Asyut include; the Asyut necropolis (west of the modern city), tombs which date to dynasties Nine, Ten and Twelve, and Ramessid tombs of Siese and Amenhotep.In Graeco-Roman times, there was a distinct dialect of Coptic spoken in Asyut, known as "Lycopolitan", after the Greek name for the city. Lesser-used names for this dialect are "Sub-Akhmimic" and "Assiutic".Modern AsyutToday, the city of Asyut has almost 400,000 inhabitants.Egypt [ City Population: Cities, Towns, Countries &amp; Provinces, Statistics &amp; Maps &amp;#93;&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It is the Egyptian city with the highest Coptic Christian concentration. It is also home to the University of Asyut, one of the largest universities in Egypt, and to the Lillian Trasher Orphanage.The Virgin Mary is reported to have appeared in Asyut. This apparition is recognized as official by the Coptic Orthodox Church.People from AsyutColuthus (5th century) Greek poetGamal Abdel Nasser - The second Egyptian president.Shenouda III, current Pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church.Ahmed Lutfi el-Sayed - Egyptian nationalist.Meletius of Lycopolis, founder of the Meletians[[List of twin towns and sister cities|Twinnings]] Iaşi, RomaniaReferencesBibliographyLoprieno, Antonio: Ancient Egyptian: A Linguistic Introduction, Oxford U Press 1996. ISBN 0-521-44849-2Baines & Malek Cultural Atlas of Ancient Egypt, 2000. ISBN 0-8160-4036-2Kahl, Jochem: Ancient Asyut: The first Synthesis after Three Hundred Years of Research. The Asyut Project vol. I. Wiesbaden 2008. ISBN-13: 978-3447056663External links Category:Settlements established in the 4th millennium BC Category:Ancient cities Category:Ancient Greek sites in Egypt Category:Cities, towns and villages in Egypt Category:Marian apparitions Category:Roman sites in Egypt Category:Titular Sees of the Coptic Orthodox Churchar:أسيوط ca:Asyut da:Asyut de:Asyut es:Asiut fr:Assiout it:Asyūṭ nl:Assioet no:Asyut pl:Asjut pt:Assiut ro:Assiut ru:Асьют sk:Asjút (mesto) sv:Asyut vi:Asyut tr:Asyut uk:Асьют