The Hadean () is the geologic eon before the Archean. It started at Earth's formation about 4.6 billion years ago (4600&nbsp;Ma), and ended roughly 3.8 billion years ago, though the latter date varies according to different sources. The name "Hadean" derives from Hades, Greek for "unseen" or "Hell" and suggesting the underworld or referring to the conditions on Earth at the time. The geologist Preston Cloud coined the term in 1972, originally to label the period before the earliest-known rocks. W. B. Harland later coined an almost synonymous term: the "Priscoan period". Other older texts simply refer to the eon as the Pre-Archean.SubdivisionsSince few geological traces of this period remain on Earth there are no official subdivisions. However, several major divisions of the lunar geologic timescale occurred during the Hadean, and so these are sometimes used unofficially to refer to the same periods of time on Earth.Hadean rocks In the last decades of the 20th century geologists identified a few Hadean rocks from Western Greenland, Northwestern Canada and Western Australia. The oldest known rock formations (the Isua greenstone belt) comprise sediments from Greenland dated around 3.8 billion years ago somewhat altered by a volcanic dike that penetrated the rocks after they were deposited. Individual zircon crystals redeposited in sediments in Western Canada and the Jack Hills region of Western Australia are much older. The oldest dated zircons date from about 4400 Ma[http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v409/n6817/abs/409175A0.html Wilde, S. A.; Valley, J.W.; Peck, W.H. and Graham, C.M. (2001) "Evidence from detrital zircons for the existence of continental crust and oceans on the Earth 4.4 Gyr ago" Nature 409: pp. 175-178] Abstract - very close to the hypothesized time of the Earth's formation.The Greenland sediments include banded iron beds. They contain possibly organic carbon and imply some possibility that photosynthetic life had already emerged at that time. The oldest known fossils (from Australia) date from a few hundred million years later.The late heavy bombardment happened during Hadean times and affected the Earth and the Moon.Atmosphere and oceansA sizeable quantity of water would have been in the material which formed the Earth.IngentaConnect Origin of water in the terrestrial planets&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Water molecules would have escaped Earth's gravity until the planet attained a radius of about 40% of its current size; after that point, water (and other volatile substances) would have been retained.chapter 26&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Hydrogen and helium are expected to continually leak from the atmosphere, but the lack of denser noble gases in the modern atmosphere suggests that something disastrous happened to the early atmosphere.Part of the young planet is theorized to have been disrupted by the impact which created the Moon, which should have caused melting of one or two large areas. Present composition does not match complete melting and it is hard to completely melt and mix huge rock masses.Solar System Exploration: Science &amp; Technology: Science Features: View Feature&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; However, a fair fraction of material should have been vaporized by this impact, creating a rock vapor atmosphere around the young planet. The rock vapor would have condensed within two thousand years, leaving behind hot volatiles which probably resulted in a heavy carbon dioxide atmosphere with hydrogen and water vapor. Liquid water oceans existed despite the surface temperature of 230°C because of the atmospheric pressure of the heavy CO2 atmosphere. As cooling continued, subduction and dissolving in ocean water removed most CO2 from the atmosphere but levels oscillated wildly as new surface and mantle cycles appeared.Inaugural Article: Initiation of clement surface conditions on the earliest Earth - Sleep et al. 98 (7): 3666 - Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Study of zircons has found that liquid water must have existed as long ago as 4400 Ma, very soon after the formation of the Earth.ANU - Research School of Earth Sciences - ANU College of Science - Harrison&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;ANU - OVC - MEDIA - MEDIA RELEASES - 2005 - NOVEMBER - 181105HARRISONCONTINENTS&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;A Cool Early Earth&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; This requires the presence of an atmosphere.See alsooldest rockTimetable of the PrecambrianHistory of Earth - The first sections describe the formation of the earthFormation and evolution of the Solar SystemReferencesValley, John W., William H. Peck, Elizabeth M. King (1999) Zircons Are Forever, The Outcrop for 1999, University of Wisconsin-Madison Wgeology.wisc.edu &ndash; Evidence from detrital zircons for the existence of continental crust and oceans on the Earth 4.4 Gyr ago Accessed Jan. 10, 2006Wilde S.A., Valley J.W., Peck W.H. and Graham C.M. (2001) Evidence from detrital zircons for the existence of continental crust and oceans on the Earth 4.4 Gyr ago. Nature, v. 409, pp. 175-178.Wyche, S., D. R. Nelson and A. Riganti (2004) 4350–3130 Ma detrital zircons in the Southern Cross Granite–Greenstone Terrane, Western Australia: implications for the early evolution of the Yilgarn Craton, Australian Journal of Earth Sciences Volume 51 Zircon ages from W. Australia - Absract Accessed Jan. 10, 2006External linksDescription of the Hadean Era Category:Geologic time scale Category:Precambrian Category:Geological history of Earthbr:Hadean ca:Hadeà cs:Hadaikum da:Hadal de:Hadaikum et:Hadaikum el:Καταρχαιοζωικός αιώνας es:Eón Hadeico fr:Hadéen ko:명왕누대 hr:Hadij id:Hadean it:Adeano he:האדן kk:Хадей la:Aeon Hadaicus lt:Hadėjus hu:Hadaikum ms:Hadean nl:Hadeïcum ja:冥王代 nn:Hadeikum pl:Hadeik pt:Hadeano ru:Катархей sk:Hadaikum sl:Had (geologija) sh:Had (period) fi:Hadeeinen aioni sv:Hadeikum vi:Liên đại Hỏa Thành uk:Гадейський еон zh:冥古宙