The Slavonian Grebe, Podiceps auritusEtymology: 'Podiceps'': Latin for podicis (rump) and pedis (foot), referring to the placement of the legs on its body; auritus: Latin for eared., is a member of the grebe family of water birds. It is known in North America as the Horned Grebe.It is a small grebe at 31–38 cm (12–15 in) long with a 46–55 cm wingspan. Unmistakable in summer, the male's plumage includes a black head with brown puffy earlike tufts along the sides of its face. It shows a deep red neck, scarlet eyes, and a small, straight black bill tipped with white. It rides high in the water.Slavonian Grebes breed in vegetated areas of freshwater lakes across Europe and Asia. It also breeds in remote inland parts of the United States and much of Canada. Most birds migrate in winter to the coast. During this time, this small grebe is mainly white with a sharply defined black cap.Like all grebes, it nests on the water's edge, since its legs are set very far back and it cannot walk well. Usually two eggs are laid, and the striped young are sometimes carried on the adult's back. The Slavonian Grebe is an excellent swimmer and diver, and pursues its fish prey underwater.During breeding, the male's call is heard as an odd, striking series of loud croaks and chattering notes followed by prolonged shrieks.Folk names of this bird include Devil-diver, hell-diver, pink-eyed diver, and water witch.The Slavonian Grebe is one of the species to which the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds (AEWA) applies.In the lore of the Blackfeet, the trickster Old Man tricked several ducks into closing their eyes and dancing while he killed them one by one. However, the smallest duck looked, saw Old Man, and alerted the other ducks. This "duck" was the Horned Grebe, who became the first to notice trouble.Footnotes==References== Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernExternal linksBTO BirdFacts - Slavonian GrebeHorned Grebe - Information and PhotosCategory:Podiceps Category:Podicipedidae Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of Asia Category:Birds of Kazakhstan Category:Birds of Pakistan Category:Birds of Georgia (country) Category:Birds of North America Category:Birds of the Faroe Islands Category:Birds of Turkey Grebebg:Ушат гмурец cy:Gwyach Gorniog da:Nordisk lappedykker de:Ohrentaucher et:Sarvikpütt es:Podiceps auritus eo:Orelgrebo fr:Grèbe esclavon fy:Tûfdûker lt:Raguotasis kragas hu:Füles vöcsök nl:Kuifduiker ja:ミミカイツブリ no:Horndykker nn:Horndykkar pl:Perkoz rogaty pt:Mergulhão-de-pescoço-castanho se:Čáhppesbuokča sk:Potápka ušatá fi:Mustakurkku-uikku sv:Svarthakedopping tr:Kulaklı batağan