Gneiss () is a common and widely distributed type of rock formed by high-grade regional metamorphic processes from preexisting formations that were originally either igneous or sedimentary rocks. Gneissic rocks are usually medium to coarse foliated and largely recrystallized but do not carry large quantities of micas, chlorite or other platy minerals. Gneisses that are metamorphosed igneous rocks or their equivalent are termed granite gneisses, diorite gneisses, etc. However, depending on their composition, they may also be called garnet gneiss, biotite gneiss, albite gneiss, etc. Orthogneiss designates a gneiss derived from an igneous rock, and paragneiss is one from a sedimentary rock. Gneissose is used to describe rocks with properties similar to gneiss.Gneiss resembles schist, except that the minerals are arranged into bands. Sometimes it is difficult to tell the difference between gneiss and a schist because some gneiss appears to have more mica than it really does. This is especially true with mica-rich parting planes.The etymology of the word "gneiss" is disputed. Some sources say it comes from the Middle High German verb gneist (to spark; so called because the rock glitters) and has occurred in English at least since 1757Online Etymology Dictionary. Other sources claim the root to be an old Saxon mining term that seems to have meant decayed, rotten, or possibly worthless material.Augen gneissAugen gneiss is a coarse-grained gneiss, interpreted as resulting from metamorphism of granite, which contains characteristic elliptic or lenticular shear bound feldspar porphyroclasts, normally microcline, within the layering of the quartz, biotite and magnetite bands.Etymology: from the German Augen (), meaning "eyes".See alsoList of rock typesReferencesBlatt, Harvey and Robert J. Tracy, 1996, Petrology: Igneous, Sedimentary and Metamorphic, 2nd ed., pp. 359-365, Freeman, ISBN 0-7167-2438-3  Category:Metamorphic rocksbg:Гнайс ca:Gneis cs:Rula (hornina) da:Gnejs de:Gneis et:Gneiss es:Gneis eo:Gnejso eu:Gneiss fa:گنیس fr:Gneiss ko:편마암 hr:Gnajs it:Ortogneiss lb:Gneis lt:Gneisas hu:Gneisz mk:Гнајс nl:Gneis ja:片麻岩 no:Gneis nn:Gneis pl:Gnejs pt:Gnaisse ro:Gnais ru:Гнейс sk:Rula sr:Гнајс fi:Gneissi sv:Gnejs vi:Gơnai uk:Гнейс zh:片麻岩