  Joy Division were an English rock band formed in 1976 in Salford, Greater Manchester. Originally named Warsaw, the band primarily consisted of Ian Curtis (vocals and occasional guitar), Bernard Sumner (guitar and keyboards),Sumner was also credited as "Bernard Dicken", "Bernard Albrecht" and "Bernard Albrecht-Dicken" on Joy Division releases Peter Hook (bass guitar and backing vocals) and Stephen Morris (drums and percussion).Joy Division rapidly evolved from their initial punk rock influences, to develop a sound and style that pioneered the post-punk movement of the late 1970s. According to music critic Jon Savage, the band "were not punk but were directly inspired by its energy."Savage, Jon. "Foreword". Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division. London: Faber, 1995 (2nd ed. 2001, 3rd ed. 2005). ISBN 0-571-17445-0 Their self-released 1978 debut EP, An Ideal for Living, caught the attention of the Manchester television personality Tony Wilson. Joy Division's debut album, Unknown Pleasures, was released in 1979 on Wilson's independent record label Factory Records, and drew critical acclaim from the British press. Despite the band's growing success, vocalist Ian Curtis was beset with depression and personal difficulties, including a dissolving marriage and his diagnosis with epilepsy. Curtis found it increasingly difficult to perform at live concerts, and often had seizures during performances.In May 1980, on the eve of the band's first American tour, Curtis, overwhelmed with depression, committed suicide. Joy Division's posthumously released second album, Closer (1980), and the single "Love Will Tear Us Apart" became the band's highest charting releases. After the death of Curtis, the remaining members reformed as New Order, achieving critical and commercial success.HistoryFormationOn 4 June 1976, Sumner and Hook separately attended a Sex Pistols show at the Manchester Lesser Free Trade Hall. While only an estimated 35 to 40 people were present, the performance has since been credited with igniting the Manchester punk music scene, inspiring many of the attendants to form their own groups. Sumner later said that he felt that the Pistols "destroyed the myth of being a pop star, of a musician being some kind of god that you had to worship."Savage, Jon. "Joy Division: Someone Take These Dreams Away". Mojo. July 1994. Inspired by the performance, Sumner and Hook formed a band with their friend Terry Mason, who had also attended the show. Sumner bought a guitar, Hook a bass, and Mason a drum kit. An advertisement was placed in the Virgin Records store in Manchester for a vocalist. Ian Curtis, who knew the three from meeting at earlier gigs, responded and was hired without audition. According to Sumner, "I knew he was all right to get on with and that's what we based the whole group on. If we liked someone, they were in."Curtis, Deborah. Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division. London: Faber, 1995 (2nd ed. 2001, 3rd ed. 2005). ISBN 0-571-17445-0, p. 42While Buzzcocks manager Richard Boon suggested the band call themselves the Stiff Kittens, the band instead chose the name Warsaw, in reference to the song "Warszawa" by David Bowie.Curtis, pp. 43–44 Warsaw played their first gig on 29 May 1977, supporting the Buzzcocks and Penetration at the Electric Circus. Tony Tabac played drums that night.Curtis, p. 44 Mason was soon made the band's manager and was replaced on drums by Steve Brotherdale, who also played in the punk band Panik. During his tenure with Warsaw, Brotherdale tried to get Curtis to leave the band and join Panik but Curtis declined.Curtis, p. 48 During July 1977, Warsaw recorded a set of demos at Oldham.Ott, p. 9 Uneasy with Brotherdale's aggressive personality, the band fired him soon after the demo sessions. Driving home from the studio one night, they pulled over and asked Brotherdale to check on a flat tyre; when he got out of the car, they sped off.Curtis, p. 49In August 1977, the band placed an advertisement in a music shop window seeking a replacement drummer. Stephen Morris, who had attended the same school as Curtis, was the sole respondent. Deborah Curtis, Ian's wife, stated that Morris "fitted perfectly" with the other men, and that with his addition Warsaw became a "complete 'family'".Curtis, p. 50 In order to avoid confusion with the London punk band Warsaw Pakt, the band renamed themselves Joy Division in late 1977, borrowing their new name from the prostitution wing of a Nazi concentration camp mentioned in the 1955 novel The House of Dolls.Reynolds, p. 111 The group played their first gig as Joy Division on 25 January 1978.Curtis, p. 55Early releasesJoy Division were approached by RCA Records to record a cover of Nolan "N.F." Porter's "Keep On Keepin' On" and was afforded recording time at a professional Manchester studio in return. Joy Division spent late March and April 1978 writing and rehearsing material.Ott, p. 33 During a concert on 14 April, the group caught the attention of Tony Wilson and Rob Gretton, who became supporters of the band. Curtis berated Wilson for not putting the group on his defunct Granada Television show So It Goes; Wilson responded that Joy Division would be the next band he would showcase on TV.Curtis, p. 61 Joy Division spent the first week of May 1978 recording at Manchester's Arrow Studios; Gretton became the band's manager soon after recording was completed. The band were unhappy with the result of the recording sessions and asked to be dropped from their contract.Ott, p. 42Joy Division made their recorded debut in June 1978 when a track of theirs, "At a Later Date", was featured on the compilation album Short Circuit: Live at the Electric Circus, which had been recorded live on 2 October 1977.Curtis, pp. 51–52, 140 That same month, Joy Division self-released their debut EP, An Ideal for Living. In the Melody Maker review of the EP, Chris Brazier said that it "has the familiar rough-hewn nature of home-produced records but they're no mere drone-vendors—there are a lot of good ideas here, and they could be a very interesting band by now, seven months on."Brazier, Chris. An Ideal For Living review. Melody Maker. 24 June 1978. The packaging—which featured a drawing of a Hitler Youth member on the cover—coupled with the nature of the band's name, fueled speculation about their political affiliations.Curtis, p. 54 While Hook and Sumner later admitted to being intrigued by fascism at the time, Morris insisted that the group's obsession with Nazi imagery came from a desire to keep memories of the sacrifices of their parents and grandparents during World War II alive. He argued that accusations of neo-Nazi sympathies merely provoked the band "to keep on doing it, because that's the kind of people we are."In September 1978, Joy Division made their television performance debut on the local news show Granada Reports, hosted by Tony Wilson.Curtis, p. 202 Later in the month, Joy Division contributed two tracks recorded with producer Martin Hannett to the compilation double-7" EP A Factory Sample, the first release by Tony Wilson's record label, Factory Records. Joy Division soon joined Factory's roster.Factory Records did not have record contracts, so Joy Division (and, later, New Order) were never officially signed to the label. Rob Gretton was made a partner in the label to represent the interests of the band.Shadowplayers DVD. LTM, 2006 On 27 December, Ian Curtis suffered his first recognisable epileptic episode. During the ride home after a show, Curtis had a seizure and was taken to a hospital.Curtis, p. 69 In spite of his illness, Joy Division's career continued to progress. Curtis appeared on the front cover of the 13 January 1979, issue of the NME due to the persistence of music journalist Paul Morley; that same month the band recorded their first radio session for BBC Radio 1 DJ John Peel. According to Deborah Curtis, "Sandwiched in between these two important landmarks was the realization that Ian's illness was something we would have to learn to accommodate."Curtis, p. 71''Unknown Pleasures''   In April 1979, the band began recording their debut album, Unknown Pleasures, at Strawberry Studios in Stockport. Producer Martin Hannett contributed significantly to the final sound. The band initially disliked the "spacious, atmospheric sound" of the album, which did not reflect their more aggressive live sound. Hook said in 2006, "It definitely didn't turn out sounding the way I wanted it.... But now I can see that Martin did a good job on it.... There's no two ways about it, Martin Hannett created the Joy Division sound."Wilkinson, Roy. "Ode to Joy". Mojo Classic: Morrissey and the Story of Manchester. 2006. The album cover was designed by Peter Saville, who would go on to provide artwork for future Joy Division releases. Unknown Pleasures was released in June and sold through its initial pressing of 10,000 copies. Tony Wilson said that the relative success of the album turned the indie label into a true business and a "revolutionary force" that operated outside of the major record label system. Reviewing the album for Melody Maker, writer Jon Savage called Unknown Pleasures an "opaque manifesto" and declared "leaving the twentieth century is difficult; most people prefer to go back and nostalgize, Oh boy. Joy Division at least set a course in the present with contrails for the future—perhaps you can’t ask for much more. Indeed, Unknown Pleasures may very well be one of the best, white, English, debut LPs of the year."Savage, Jon. Unknown Pleasures review. Melody Maker. 21 July 1979.Joy Division performed on Granada TV again in July 1979, and made their only nationwide TV appearance in September on BBC2. They supported the Buzzcocks in a 24-venue UK tour that began that October, which allowed the band to quit their regular jobs. The non-album single "Transmission" was released in November. Joy Division's burgeoning success drew a devoted following nicknamed the "Cult With No Name", who were stereotyped as "intense young men dressed in gray overcoats."Reynolds, p. 115''Closer'' and Curtis's suicideIn January 1980, Joy Division set out on a European tour. While the tour was difficult, Curtis experienced only two grand mal seizures in the two months preceding the tour's final date.Curtis, p. 107 With Martin Hannett again producing, the band recorded their second album, Closer, in March at London's Britannia Row Studios.Raftery, Brian. "He's Lost Control". Spin. May 2005. March also saw the release of the Licht und Blindheit single (featuring the songs "Dead Souls" and "Atmosphere") on the small French label Sordide Sentimental.Lack of sleep and long hours destabilised Curtis's epilepsy and his seizures became almost uncontrollable.Curtis, p. 113 Curtis would often have seizures during shows, which left him feeling ashamed and depressed. While the band was concerned about their singer, audience members on occasion thought his behaviour was part of the show.Curtis, p. 114 On 7 April, Curtis attempted suicide by overdosing on phenobarbitone. The next evening, Joy Division was set to play a gig at the Derby Hall in Bury. With Curtis recovering, it was decided that the band would play a combined set with Alan Hempstall of Crispy Ambulance and Simon Topping of A Certain Ratio filling in on vocals for the first few songs. Curtis came onstage to perform for part of the set. When Topping came back out to finish the set for Curtis, some in the audience started throwing bottles at the stage. Gretton leapt into the crowd and a riot ensued. Several April gigs were cancelled due to the continuing ill health of Curtis. The band played what would be their final show at the University of Birmingham's High Hall on 2 May.Morley, Paul; Thrills, Adrian. "Don't Walk Away in Silence". NME. 14 June 1980.Joy Division were due to begin their first American tour in May 1980. While Curtis had expressed a desire to take time off to a few acquaintances, he feigned excitement about the tour around the band because he did not want to disappoint his band mates or Factory Records.Reynolds, p. 117 At the time, Curtis's relationship with his wife, Deborah Curtis (the couple married in 1975 as teenagers), was collapsing. Contributing factors were his ill health, her being mostly excluded from his life with the band, and his relationship with a young Belgian woman named Annik Honoré whom he had met on European tour. The evening before Joy Division were to embark on the American tour, Curtis returned to his home in Macclesfield in order to talk to his estranged wife. He asked her to drop the divorce suit she had filed; later, he told her to leave him alone in the house until he caught his train to Manchester the next morning.Curtis, pp. 131–132 Early on the morning of 18 May 1980, Curtis hanged himself in his kitchen; Deborah Curtis discovered his body when she returned around midday.Curtis, p. 132 Tony Wilson said in 2005, "I think all of us made the mistake of not thinking his suicide was going to happen.... We all completely underestimated the danger. We didn't take it seriously. That's how stupid we were."Aftermath      Curtis's suicide "made for instant myth", in music critic Simon Reynolds's words.Reynolds, p. 118 Jon Savage wrote in his obituary for Curtis in Melody Maker, "Now no one will remember what his work with Joy Division was like when he was alive; it will be perceived as tragic rather than courageous."Savage, Jon. "From safety to where?" Melody Maker. 14 June 1980. In June 1980, the posthumous single "Love Will Tear Us Apart" was released, which hit number thirteen on the British singles chart.Curtis, p. 138 In July 1980, Closer finally came out, peaking at number six on the British album chart. NME reviewer Charles Shaar Murrary wrote, "Closer is as magnificent a memorial (for 'Joy Division' as much as for Ian Curtis) as any post-Presley popular musician could have."Murrary, Charles Shaar. "Closer to the Edge" [Closer review]. NME. 19 July 1980.The members of Joy Division had made a pact long before Curtis's death that, should any member leave, the remaining members would change the name of the group. Eventually renaming themselves New Order, the band was reborn as a three-piece with Sumner assuming vocal duties; the group later recruited Morris's girlfriend Gillian Gilbert to round out the lineup as keyboardist and second guitarist. New Order's first single, the 1981 release "Ceremony", featured the last two songs written with Ian Curtis.Ott, p. 112 While the group struggled in its early years to escape the shadow of Joy Division, New Order eventually went on to much greater commercial success than their predecessor band.Further Joy Division material has been released since the band's demise. Still, a compilation of live tracks and rare recordings, was issued in 1981. Factory put out the Substance compilation in 1988, which included several out-of-print singles. Another compilation, Permanent, was released in 1995 by London Records, which had acquired the Joy Division catalogue after Factory Records went bankrupt in 1992. A comprehensive box set, Heart and Soul, came out in 1997.Musical style   Joy Division took time to develop their sound. As Warsaw, the band played "fairly undistinguished punk-inflected hard-rock". Critic Simon Reynolds asserted that "Joy Division's originality really became apparent as the songs got slower." The group's music took on a "sparse" quality; in Reynolds's description, "Peter Hook's bass carried the melody, Bernard Sumner's guitar left gaps rather than filling up the group's sound with dense riffage, and Steve Morris's drums seemed to circle the rim of a crater."Reynolds, p. 110 Sumner described the band's characteristic sound in 1994: "It came out naturally: I'm more rhythm and chords, and Hooky was melody. He used to play high lead bass because I liked my guitar to sound distorted, and the amplifier I had would only work when it was at full volume. When Hooky played low, he couldn't hear himself. Steve has his own style which is different to other drummers. To me, a drummer in the band is the clock, but Steve wouldn't be the clock, because he's passive: he would follow the rhythm of the band, which gave us our own edge." Over time, Ian Curtis began to sing in a low, baritone voice, which often drew comparisons to Jim Morrison of The Doors (one of Curtis's favourite bands).Reynolds, p. 112Sumner acted as the unofficial musical director of the band, a role that he carried over into New Order. While Sumner was the group's primary guitarist, Curtis played the instrument on a few recorded songs and during a few shows. Curtis hated playing guitar, but the band insisted he do so. Sumner said, "He played in quite a bizarre way and that to us was interesting, because no one else would play like Ian."Curtis, p. 75 During the recording sessions for Closer, Sumner began using self-built synthesizers and Hook used a six-string bass for more melody.Reynolds, p. 116Producer Martin Hannett "dedicated himself to capturing and intensifying Joy Division's eerie spatiality". Hannett believed punk rock was sonically conservative because of its refusal to utilise studio technology to create sonic space. The producer instead aimed to create a more expansive sound on the group's records. Hannett said, "Division were a gift to a producer, because they didn't have a clue. They didn't argue." Hannett demanded clean and clear "sound separation" not only for individual instruments, but even for individual pieces of Morris's drumkit. Morris recalled, "Typically on tracks he considered to be potential singles, he'd get me to play each drum on its own to avoid any bleed-through of sound."Reynolds, p. 113LyricsIan Curtis was the group's sole lyricist. Curtis would write frantically when the mood took him; he would then listen to the band's music (which was often arranged by Sumner) and would choose the lyrics that seemed appropriate.Curtis, p. 74 Words and images such as "coldness, pressure, darkness, crisis, failure, collapse, loss of control" reoccur in his songs. In 1979, NME journalist Paul Rambali wrote, "The themes of Joy Division's music are sorrowful, painful, and sometimes deeply sad."Rambali, Paul. "Take No Prisoners, Leave No Clues". NME. 11 August 1979.The band refused to explain their lyrics to the press or print the words on lyrics sheets. Curtis told the fanzine Printed Noise, "We haven't got a message really; the lyrics are open to interpretation. They're multidimensional. You can read into them what you like."Curtis, p. 75 The other band members later admitted they paid little attention to what Curtis was writing. Deborah Curtis recalled that only with the release of Closer did many who were close to the singer realise "his intentions and feelings were all there within the lyrics."Curtis, p. 139 The surviving members of the band in retrospect regret not seeing warning signs in Curtis's lyrics. "This sounds awful but it was only after Ian died that we sat down and listened to the lyrics," Morris said in 2007. "You'd find yourself thinking, 'Oh my God, I missed this one.' Because I'd look at Ian's lyrics and think how clever he was putting himself in the position of someone else. I never believed he was writing about himself. Looking back, how could I have been so bleedin' stupid? Of course he was writing about himself. But I didn't go in and grab him and ask, 'What's up?' I have to live with that."Live performancesIn contrast to the sound of their studio recordings, Joy Division typically played loud and aggressively during live performances. The band were unhappy with Hannett's mixing of Unknown Pleasures, which reduced the abrasiveness of their sound. According to Sumner, "the music was loud and heavy, and we felt that Martin had toned it down, especially with the guitars." In concert, the group interacted little with the crowd; Paul Morley wrote, "During a Joy Division set, outside of the songs, you'll be lucky to hear more than two or three words. Hello and goodbye. No introductions, no promotion."Morley, Paul. "Simply the First Division". NME. 16 February 1980. While singing, Curtis would often perform what was referred to as his "'dead fly' dance", where the singer's arms would "start flying in a semicircular, hypnotic curve". Simon Reynolds noted that Curtis's dancing style was reminiscent of an epileptic fit, and that he was dancing in that manner for some months before he was diagnosed with epilepsy. Live performances became problematic for Joy Division, due to Curtis's condition. Sumner later said, "We didn't have flashing lights, but sometimes a particular drum beat would do something to him. He'd go off in a trance for a bit, then he'd lose it and have aepileptic fit. We'd have to stop the show and carry him off to the dressing-room where he'd cry his eyes out because this appalling thing had just happened to him."Lester, Paul. "Torn Apart: The Legend of Joy Division." Record Collector. November 2007.LegacyDespite their short career and cult status, Joy Division have exerted a wide-reaching influence. John Bush of Allmusic argues that Joy Division "became the first band in the post-punk movement by...emphasizing not anger and energy but mood and expression, pointing ahead to the rise of melancholy alternative music in the '80s."The band's dark and gloomy sound, which Martin Hannett described in 1979 as "dancing music with Gothic overtones", presaged the gothic rock genre. While the term "gothic" originally described a "doomy atmosphere" in music of the late 1970s, the term was soon applied to specific bands like Bauhaus that followed in Joy Division's wake.Reynolds, p. 352 Standard musical fixtures of early gothic rock bands included "high-pitched post-Joy Division basslines usurping the melodic role" and "vocals that were either near operatic and Teutonic or deep, droning alloys of Jim Morrison and Ian Curtis."Reynolds, p. 353 Joy Division has influenced bands ranging from contemporaries U2 and The Cure to post-punk revival artists such as Interpol, Bloc Party and Editors. U2 frontman Bono stated that his group "worshipped" Joy Division.NewOrderStory DVD. Warner Bros., 2005. The singer said in the band's 2006 autobiography U2 by U2, "It would be harder to find a darker place in music than Joy Division. Their name, their lyrics and their singer were as big a black cloud as you could find in the sky. And yet I sensed the pursuit of God, or light, or reason...a reason to be. With Joy Division, you felt from this singer, beauty was truth and truth was beauty, and theirs was a search for both."McCormick, Neil (ed). U2 by U2. HarperCollins Publishers, 2006. ISBN 0-00-719668-7, p. 92 Artists including electronica performer Moby and Red Hot Chili Peppers guitarist John Frusciante have described their appreciation for Joy Division's music and the influence it has had on their own material.Dalley, Helen. "John Frusciante". Total Guitar. August 2002. In 2005, Joy Division were inducted along with New Order into the UK Music Hall of Fame.Two biopics have been released that dramatise Joy Division on film. 24 Hour Party People (2002) presented a somewhat fictionalised account of the rise and fall of Factory Records, in which the members of Joy Division served as supporting characters. Tony Wilson said of the film, "It's all true, it's all not true. It's not a fucking documentary", insisting that whenever possible during the production of the film, he favoured the "myth" over the truth. The 2007 film Control, directed by Anton Corbijn, is a biography of Ian Curtis (portrayed by Sam Riley) that uses Deborah Curtis's biography of her late husband, Touching from a Distance (1995), as its basis;Corbijn, Anton; Wise, Damon. "Joy Division". Mojo. November 2007. others consulted for the picture included Tony Wilson and New Order, who scored the film. Control had its international premiere on the opening night of Director's Fortnight at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, where it was critically well-received. The same year Grant Gee directed a documentary about the band, simply entitled Joy Division.DiscographyUnknown Pleasures (1979)Closer (1980)ReferencesCurtis, Deborah. Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division. London: Faber, 1995 (2nd ed. 2001, 3rd ed. 2005). ISBN 0-571-17445-0Ott, Chris. Unknown Pleasures. (33⅓ series) New York: Continuum, 2004. ISBN 0-8264-1549-0Reynolds, Simon. Rip It Up and Start Again: Postpunk 1978–1984. Penguin, 2005. ISBN 0-14-303672-6Savage, Jon. "Joy Division: Someone Take These Dreams Away". Mojo. July 1994.Notes Category:1970s music groups Category:1980s music groups Category:English rock music groups Category:UK Music Hall of Fame inductees * Category:Musical groups established in 1976 Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1980 Category:Musical groups from Manchester Category:New Order Category:Post-punkast:Joy Division be-x-old:Joy Division br:Joy Division ca:Joy Division cs:Joy Division da:Joy Division de:Joy Division el:Joy Division es:Joy Division fr:Joy Division ga:Joy Division gl:Joy Division hr:Joy Division it:Joy Division he:ג'וי דיוויז'ן lv:Joy Division nl:Joy Division ja:ジョイ・ディヴィジョン no:Joy Division pl:Joy Division pt:Joy Division ro:Joy Division ru:Joy Division simple:Joy Division sk:Joy Division sl:Joy Division sr:Џој дивижн fi:Joy Division sv:Joy Division tr:Joy Division uk:Joy Division