
| death_date    =
| party=[[SPD]] Philipp Scheidemann (26 July 1865 &ndash; 29 November 1939) was a German Social Democratic politician, who proclaimed the Republic on 9 November 1918, and who became the first Chancellor of the Weimar Republic.Beginning his career as a journalist, Scheidemann became a Reichstag delegate for the Social Democrats in 1903, and soon rose to be one of the principal leaders of the party. During the First World War, Scheidemann, along with Friedrich Ebert was leader of the majority faction of the party, which continued to vote for war credits, while at the same time urging the negotiation of a compromise peace. When the Social Democrats were included in the cabinet for the first time in Prince Max of Baden's government in October 1918, Scheidemann entered the government as a minister without portfolio.Following the Kaiser's abdication on November 9, Prince Max resigned in favour of Ebert. Although the new government intended to support a constitutional monarchy, probably in the person of one of the Kaiser's grandsons, Scheidemann, concerned in the face of a possible workers' revolution in Berlin, proclaimed the Republic from a balcony in the Reichstag building, without consulting any of his colleagues. The decision proved irrevocable.Scheidemann continued to serve as a leader in the Provisional Government which followed for the next several months, and following the meeting of the National Assembly in Weimar in February 1919, Ebert was appointed Reich President, and Scheidemann became Chancellor, in the Weimar Coalition with the German Democratic Party and the Catholic Center Party. Scheidemann resigned in June along with the DDP owing to disagreement with the Treaty of Versailles, and never again served in the government, although he remained active in politics, serving as Mayor of Kassel (1920-1925), and then again as a Reichstag delegate, where he exposed military opposition to the Republic. Scheidemann went into exile following the Nazi takeover in 1933, dying in Denmark shortly after the outbreak of the Second World War.Cabinet February 1919 - June 1919Philipp Scheidemann (SPD) - Reichs ChancellorDr. Eugen Schiffer (DDP) - Vice Chancellor and Finance MinisterDr. Ulrich Graf von Brockdorff-Rantzau - Foreign MinisterDr. Hugo Preuß (DDP) - Interior MinisterDr. Otto Landsberg (SPD) - Justice MinisterRudolf Wissell (SPD) - Economics MinisterRobert Schmidt (SPD) - Food MinisterGustav Bauer (SPD) - Labour MinisterGustav Noske (SPD) - Defence MinisterDr. Johannes Bell (Z) - Transportation Minister and Colonial MinisterJohannes Giesberts (Z) - Postal MinisterDr. Eduard David (SPD) - Minister without PortfolioMatthias Erzberger (Z) - Minister without PortfolioChangesMarch 1919 - Dr. Georg Gothein (DDP) enters the cabinet as Treasury Minister.April 1919 - Dr. Bernhard Dernburg (DDP) succeeds Schiffer as Vice-Chancellor and Finance Minister.      External links (German)Biografie bei Lemo (German)Biografie bei Preußen-Chronik (German)Texte im Internet bei litlinks.it (German)  Category:Chancellors of Germany Category:Weimar Republic Category:Politicians of the Social Democratic Party of Germany Category:People from Kassel Category:People from Hesse-Nassau Category:1865 births Category:1939 deathsda:Philipp Scheidemann de:Philipp Scheidemann el:Φίλιπ Σάιντεμαν es:Philipp Scheidemann eo:Philipp Scheidemann fr:Philipp Scheidemann hr:Philipp Scheidemann it:Philipp Scheidemann he:פיליפ שיידמן ka:ფილიპ შაიდემანი la:Philippus Scheidemann nl:Philipp Scheidemann ne:फिलिप शाइडमान ja:フィリップ・シャイデマン no:Philipp Scheidemann pl:Philipp Scheidemann pt:Philipp Scheidemann ru:Шайдеманн, Филипп fi:Philipp Scheidemann sv:Philipp Scheidemann tr:Philipp Scheidemann