The Nine-banded Long-nosed Armadillo or just Nine-banded Armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus (also known as the poor man's pig or poverty pig), is a species of armadillo from North, Central and South America. It is the most widespread member of the group. Its ancestors evolved in South America, but were able to invade North America during the Great American Interchange after the Isthmus of Panama formed 3 Ma ago.The Nine-banded Long-nosed Armadillo is a solitary, mainly nocturnal animal, found in many kinds of habitats, from mature and secondary rainforests to grassland and dry scrub. It is an insectivorous animal, feeding chiefly on ants, termites and other small invertebrates.This species is the only known animal that is able to inflate its own intestine in order to float across a river. It can also hold its breath for up to 6 minutes in order to walk across the bottom of narrow rivers. Additionally, the nine-banded armadillo always produces four identical offspring. The armadillo can jump three to four feet (90-120 cm) straight in the air if sufficiently frightened, making it a particular danger on roads.How high can a nine-banded armadillo jump? (Everyday Mysteries: Fun Science Facts from the Library of Congress)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;SubspeciesDasypus novemcinctus aequatorialis Lönnberg, 1913Dasypus novemcinctus fenestratus Peters, 1864Dasypus novemcinctus hoplites G.M. Allen, 1911Dasypus novemcinctus mexianae Hagmann, 1908Dasypus novemcinctus mexicanus Peters, 1864Dasypus novemcinctus novemcinctus Linnaeus, 1758Range within the United StatesThe Nine-banded Armadillo has been rapidly expanding its range both north and east within the United States. The armadillo crossed the Rio Grande from Mexico prior to the 20th century; by 1995 the species had become well-established in Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida, and had been sighted as far afield as Kansas, Missouri, Tennessee, Georgia, and South Carolina. A decade later, the armadillo had become established in all of those areas and continued its migration, being sighted as far north as southern Nebraska, southern Illinois, and western Kentucky.http://www.msu.edu/~nixonjos/armadillo/expansion.htmlThe primary cause of this rapid expansion is explained simply by the existence of few or no natural predators of the armadillo within the United States, little desire on the part of Americans to hunt or eat the armadillo, and the animal's high reproductive rate. It is speculated that the northern expansion of the armadillo will continue until the species reaches as far north as Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey and all points southward on the East Coast of the United States. Further northward and westward expansion will probably be limited by the armadillo's inability to tolerate especially harsh winters, due to having little body fat to protect it from the cold.http://www.msu.edu/~nixonjos/armadillo/expansion.htmlExternal links and references   Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernLouise H. Emmons and Francois Feer, 1997 - Neotropical Rainforest Mammals, A Field Guide.eNature entryNixon, Joshua. Armadillo Expansion, September 14th, 2006, retrieved December 3rd, 2006.Trapping the nine-banded armadilloCategory:Armadillos Armadillo, Nine-banded Category:Mammals of South America Category:Mammals of Central America Category:Mammals of the United Statesca:Armadillo de nou bandes cs:Pásovec devítipásý de:Neunbinden-Gürteltier es:Dasypus novemcinctus eo:Armadelo fr:Tatou à neuf bandes it:Dasypus novemcinctus lt:Devynjuostis šarvuotis hu:Kilencöves tatu nl:Negenbandgordeldier ja:ココノオビアルマジロ pl:Pancernik długoogonowy pt:Tatu-galinha fi:Yhdeksänvyövyötiäinen zh:九帶犰狳