   The domestic goat (Capra aegagrus hircus) is a subspecies of goat domesticated from the wild goat of southwest Asia and Eastern Europe. The goat is a member of the Bovidae family and is closely related to the sheep, both being in the goat antelope subfamily Caprinae. There are over three hundred distinct breeds of goats.Hirst, K. Kris. &quot;The History of the Domestication of Goats&quot;. About.com. Accessed August 18, 2008.Domestic goats are one of the oldest domesticated species. For thousands of years, goats have been used for their milk, meat, hair, and skins over much of the world.Coffey, Linda, Margo Hale, and Ann Wells; &quot;Goats: Sustainable Production Overview. In the last century they have also gained some popularity as pets.McLeod, Lianne; &quot;Goats as Pets&quot; at About.com.Female goats are referred to as does or nannies, intact males as bucks or billies; their offspring are kids. Castrated males are wethers. Goat meat from younger animals is called kid, and from older animals is sometimes called chevon, or in some areas “mutton”.EtymologyThe Modern English word "goat" comes from the Old English gat which meant "she-goat", and this in turn derived from Proto-Germanic *gaitaz (compare Old Norse and Dutch geit'(meaning' "goat"), German ''Geiß' ("she-goat") and Gothic ''gaits, ("goat") ultimately from Proto-Indo-European *ghaidos meaning "young goat" but also "play" (compare Latin haedus meaning "kid").Watkins, Calvert, et alii; The American Heritage Dictionary (1975, edited by William Morris). The word for "male goat" in Old English was bucca (which survives as "buck", meaning certain male herbivores) until a shift to "he-goat" (and also "she-goat") occurred in the late 12th century. "Nanny goat" originated in the 18th century and "billy goat" in the 19th.  and Jupiter's goat) Commissioned by the Queen of France in 1787 for the royal dairy at Rambouillet]]HistoryGoats were domesticated in the Indian subcontinent by 9000 BCE.Gupta, Anil K. in Origin of agriculture and domestication of plants and animals linked to early Holocene climate amelioration, Current Science, Vol. 87, No. 1, 10 July 2004 59. Indian Academy of Sciences. and at least 10,000 years ago in the Zagros Mountains of Iran.anonymous; &quot;Goat busters track domestication&quot;, Science News 8 April 2000. Neolithic farmers began to keep them for easy access to milk and meat, primarily, also for their dung, which was used as fuel and their bones, hair, and sinew for clothing, building, and tools. Domestic goats were generally kept in herds that wandered on hills or other grazing areas, often tended by goatherds who were frequently children or adolescents, similar to the more widely known shepherd. These methods of herding are still used today.Historically, goat hide has been used for water and wine bottles in both traveling and transporting wine for sale. It has also been used to produce parchment.AnatomyMost goats naturally have two horns, of various shapes and sizes depending on the breed. While horns are a predominantly male feature, some breeds of goats have horned females. Polled (hornless goats) are not uncommon and there have been incidents of polycerate goats (having as many as eight horns), although this is a genetic rarity thought to be inherited. Their horns are made of living bone surrounded by keratin and other proteins and are used for defense, dominance, and territoriality.Goat Medicine: HornsGoats are ruminants. They have a four-chambered stomach consisting of the rumen, the reticulum, the omasum, and the abomasum.Goats have horizontal slit-shaped pupils, an adaptation which increases peripheral depth perception."Experiments On The Function Of Slit-Form Pupils", Toronto Univ. Studies in Psychology v. 2 Because goats' irises are usually pale, the pupils are much more visible than in animals with horizontal pupils but very dark irises, such as sheep, cattle and most horses.Both male and female goats have beards, and many types of goats (most commonly dairy goats, dairy-cross boers, and pygmy goats) may have wattles, one dangling from each side of the neck.Frequently Asked Questions - Triple I GoatsSome breeds of sheep and goats appear superficially similar, but goat tails are short and point up, whereas sheep tails hang down and are usually longer (though some are short, and some long ones are docked).Reproduction]] In some climates, goats are able to breed at any time of the year. In temperate climates and among the Swiss breeds, the breeding season commences as the day length shortens, and ends in early spring. Does of any breed come into heat every 21 days for 2 to 48 hours. A doe in heat typically flags her tail often, stays near the buck if one is present, becomes more vocal, and may also show a decrease in appetite and milk production for the duration of the heat.Bucks (intact males) of Swiss and northern breeds come into rut in the fall as with the doe's heat cycles. Rut is characterized by a decrease in appetite and obsessive interest in the does.In addition to natural mating, artificial insemination has gained popularity among goat breeders, as it allows easy access to a wide variety of bloodlines.Gestation length is approximately 150 days. Twins are the usual result, with single and triplet births also common. Less frequent are litters of quadruplet, quintuplet, and even sextuplet kids. Birthing, known as kidding, generally occurs uneventfully. Right before kidding the doe will have a sunken area around the tail and hip. Also she will have heavy breathing, a worried look, become restless and show great display of affection for her keeper. The mother often eats the placenta, which gives her much needed nutrients, helps stanch her bleeding, and is believed by some to reduce the lure of the birth scent for predators.Freshening (coming into milk production) occurs at kidding. Milk production varies with the breed, age, quality, and diet of the doe; dairy goats generally produce between 660 to 1,800&nbsp;L (1,500 and 4,000&nbsp;lb) of milk per 305 day lactation. On average, a good quality dairy doe will give at least 6&nbsp;lb (2.7&nbsp;l) of milk per day while she is in milk, although a first time milker may produce less, or as much as 16&nbsp;lb (7.3&nbsp;l) or more of milk in exceptional cases. Meat, fiber, and pet breeds are not usually milked and simply produce enough for the kids until weaning.DietGoats are reputed to be willing to eat almost anything. The digestive systems of a goat allow nearly any organic substance to be broken down and used as nutrients.Contrary to this reputation, they are quite fastidious in their habits, preferring to browse on the tips of woody shrubs and trees, as well as the occasional broad leaved plant. However, it can fairly be said that goats will eat almost anything in the botanical world. Their plant diet is extremely varied and includes some species which are otherwise toxic"War on Weeds," Rails to Trails Magazine, Spring 2004, p. 3. They will seldom consume soiled food or contaminated water unless facing starvation. This is one of the reasons why goat rearing is most often free ranging since stall-fed goat rearing involves extensive upkeep and is seldom commercially viable.Goats do not usually consume garbage or clothing, although they will occasionally eat items made primarily of plant material, which can include wood. They have an intensely inquisitive and intelligent nature: they will explore anything new or unfamiliar in their surroundings. They do so primarily with their prehensile upper lip and tongue. This is why they investigate items such as buttons, camera cases or clothing (and many other things besides) by nibbling at them, occasionally even eating them. Goats prefer to graze on shrubbery and weeds for food. Goats graze more like deer than sheep, preferring woody shrubs rather than grasses. Mold in a goat's feed can make it sick and possibly kill it. Nightshade is also poisonous; wilted fruit tree leaves can also kill goats. Goats should not be fed grass with any signs of mold. Silage (corn stalks) is not good for goats, but haylage can be used if consumed immediately after opening. Alfalfa is their favorite hay, fescue the least palatable and least nutritious.The digestive physiology of a very young kid (like the young of other ruminants) is essentially the same as that of a monogastric animal. Milk digestion begins in the abomasum, the milk having bypassed the rumen via closure of the reticular/esophageal groove during suckling. At birth the rumen is undeveloped, but as the kid begins to consume solid feed, the rumen soon increases in size and in its capacity to absorb nutrients.Goats will consume, on average, 4.5 units of dry matter per 100 units of body-weight per day.Behaviorin flocks, sometimes through head butting]] Goats are extremely curious and intelligent. They are easily housebroken and trained to pull carts and walk on leads. Ches McCartney, nicknamed "the goat man", toured the United States for over three decades in a wagon pulled by a herd of pet goats. They are also known for escaping their pens. Goats will test fences, either intentionally or simply because they are handy to climb on. If any of the fencing can be spread, pushed over or down, or otherwise be overcome, the goats will escape. Being very intelligent, once a weakness in the fence has been exploited, it will be repeatedly exploited until they determine it can no longer be overcome. Goats are very coordinated and can climb and hold their balance in the most precarious places. Goats are also widely known for their ability to climb trees, although the tree generally has to be on somewhat of an angle.Goats in agricultureA goat is useful to humans both alive and dead, first as a renewable provider of milk and fibre, and then as meat and hide. Some charities provide goats to impoverished people in poor countries, because goats are easier and cheaper to manage than cattle, and have multiple uses. In addition, goats are used for driving and packing purposes.For instance, the intestine is used to make "catgut", which is still in use as a material for internal human surgical sutures. The horn of the goat, which signifies wellbeing (Cornucopia) is also used to make spoons etc.anonymous; Goat-Horn Spoon.- in this case a buck - is a widely-kept meat breed.]]MeatThe taste of goat meat is similar to that of lamb meat; in fact, in the English-speaking islands of the Caribbean, and in some parts of Asia, particularly India, the word “mutton” is used to describe both goat and lamb meat. However, some feel that it has a similar taste to veal or venison, depending on the age and condition of the goat. It can be prepared in a variety of ways including stewed, curried, baked, grilled, barbecued, minced, canned, fried, or made into sausage. Goat jerky is also another popular variety. In India, the rice-preparation of mutton biryani uses goat meat as its primary ingredients to produce a rich taste. "Curry goat" is a traditional West Indian dish.Goat meat is lower than mutton in fat and cholesterol, and comparable to chicken. It also has more minerals than chicken, and is lower in total and saturated fats than many other meats. One reason for the leanness is that goats do not accumulate fat deposits or "marbling" in their muscles. Goat meat, sometimes called chevon, is often cooked slowly and at low temperatures. It is popular in the Middle East, South Asia, Africa, northeastern Brazil, the West Indies, and Belize.Other parts of the goat including organs are also edible including the brain and liver. The head and legs of the goat may be smoked and used to prepare spicy dishes and soup.One of the most popular goats grown for meat is the South African Boer, introduced into the United States in the early 1990s. The New Zealand Kiko is also considered a meat breed, as is the Myotonic or &quot;fainting goat&quot;, a breed originating in Tennessee.Milk, butter and cheeseSome goats are bred for milk, which can be drunk fresh, although pasteurization is recommended to reduce naturally occurring bacteria such as Staphylococcus aureus and Escherichia coli.Ekici, K, &alii; &quot;Isolation of Some Pathogens from Raw Milk of Different Milch Animals&quot;, Pakistan Journal of Nutrition v 3 (2004) #3, pp 161-162. If the strong-smelling buck is not separated from the does, his scent will affect the milk. Goat's milk is commonly processed into cheese, goat butter, ice cream, cajeta and other products.Goat's milk can replace cow's milk in diets of those who are allergic to cow's milk.The World's Healthiest Foods. &quot;Milk, goat.&quot; However, like cow's milk, goat's milk has lactose (sugar) and may cause gastrointestinal problems for individuals with lactose intolerance.Goat's milk is naturally homogenized, which means the cream remains suspended in the milk, instead of rising to the top, as in raw cow's milk.Many dairy goats, in their prime, average 6 to 8 pounds of milk daily (roughly 3 to 4 quarts) during a ten-month lactation, producing more after freshening and gradually dropping in production toward the end of their lactation. The milk generally averages 3.5 percent butterfat. A doe may be expected to reach her heaviest production during her third or fourth lactation.American Dairy Goat Association It is also said that "formula derived from goat's milk is unsuitable for babies who are lactose intolerant as it contains levels of lactose similar to cow's-milk-based infant formulae."Goat butter is white because goats produce milk with the yellow beta-carotene converted to a colorless form of vitamin A.Goat cheese is known as chèvre in France, after the French word for "goat". Some varieties include Rocamadour and Montrachet.Chèvre cheeseFiber]] Some goats are bred for the fiber from their coats. Most goats have softer insulating hairs nearer the skin, and longer guard hairs on the surface. The desirable fiber for the textile industry is the former, and it goes by several names (mohair, fleece, goat wool, cashmere, etc., explained below). The coarse guard hairs are of no value as a fiber since they cannot be spun or dyed. The proportion and texture varies between breeds, and has been a target of selective breeding for millennia.The Cashmere goat produces a fiber, cashmere wool, which is one of the most expensive in the world. It is very fine and soft. Most goats produce cashmere fiber to some degree, however the Cashmere goat has been specially bred to produce a much higher amount of it, with fewer guard hairs.The Angora breed of goats produces long, curling, lustrous locks of mohair. The entire body of the goat is covered with mohair and there are no guard hairs. The locks constantly grow and can be four inches or more in length. Angora crossbreeds, such as the pygora and the nigora, have been created to produce mohair and/or cashmere wool in a smaller, easier-to-manage animal.Goats do not have to be slaughtered to harvest the wool, which is instead shorn (cut from the body) in the case of Angora goats, or combed, in the case of Cashmere goats. However, the Angora goat usually gets shorn twice a year with an average yield of about 10 pounds while the Cashmere goat grows its fiber once a year and it takes about a week to comb out by hand, yielding only about 4 ounces.The fiber is made into products such as sweaters and doll's hair. Both cashmere and mohair are warmer per ounce than most other types of wool and are not as scratchy or itchy or as allergenic as wool. Both fibers command a higher price than other types of wool.In South Asia, cashmere is called "pashmina" (from Persian pashmina, "fine wool") and these goats are called pashmina goats (these well-fleeced animals are often mistaken for sheep). Since these goats actually belong to the upper Kashmir and Ladakh region, their wool came to be known as "cashmere" in the West. The pashmina shawls of Kashmir, with their intricate embroidery, are very famous.Goat breedsGoat breeds fall into somewhat overlapping, general categories.Showingmilker in show clip. This doe is angular and dairy with a capacious and well supported mammary system.]] Goat breeders' clubs frequently hold shows, where goats are judged on traits relating to conformation, udder quality, evidence of high production, longevity, build and muscling (meat goats and pet goats) and fiber production and the fiber itself (fiber goats). People who show their goats usually keep registered stock and the offspring of award-winning animals command a higher price. Registered goats, in general, are usually higher-priced if for no other reason than that records have been kept proving their ancestry and the production and other data of their sires, dams, and other ancestors. A registered doe is usually less of a gamble than buying a doe at random (as at an auction or sale barn) because of these records and the reputation of the breeder. Children's clubs such as 4-H also allow goats to be shown. Children's shows often include a showmanship class, where the cleanliness and presentation of both the animal and the exhibitor as well as the handler's ability and skill in handling the goat are scored. In a showmanship class, conformation is irrelevant since this is not what is being judged.Various "Dairy Goat Scorecards" (milking does) are systems used for judging shows in the US. The American Dairy Goat Association (ADGA) scorecard for an adult doe includes a point system of a hundred total with major categories that include general appearance, the dairy character of a doe (physical traits that aid and increase milk production), body capacity, and specifically for the mammary system. Young stock and bucks are judged by different scorecards which place more emphasis on the other three categories; general appearance, body capacity, and dairy character.The American Goat Society (AGS)] has a similar, but not identical scorecard that is used in their shows. The miniature dairy goats may be judged by either of the two scorecards. The "Angora Goat scorecard" used by the Colored Angora Goat Breeder's Association or CAGBA (which covers the white and the colored goats) includes evaluation of an animal's fleece color, density, uniformity, fineness, and general body confirmation. Disqualifications include: a deformed mouth, broken down pasterns, deformed feet, crooked legs, abnormalities of testicles, missing testicles, more than 3 inch split in scrotum, and close-set or distorted horns.Goats in folklore and mythologySince its inception, Christianity has associated Satan with imagery of goats (see Pan (mythology)). A common superstition in the Middle Ages was that goats whispered lewd sentences in the ears of the saints. The origin of this belief was probably the behavior of the buck in rut, the very epitome of lust. The common medieval depiction of the Devil was that of a goat like face with horns and small beard (a goatee). The Black Mass, a probably-mythological "Satanic mass," was said to involve a black goat, the form in which Satan supposedly manifested himself for worship. However, Jesus is thought to have been born on December 25, which would have made him a Capricorn. The zodiac symbol for Capricorn is a goat.The goat has had a lingering connection with Satanism and pagan religions, even into modern times. The pentagram, a symbol used by Satanism, is said to be shaped like a goat's head. The "Baphomet of Mendes" refers to a satanic goat-like figure from 19th century occultism. This is reflected as a popular theme in the satanic genre Black metal.According to Norse mythology, the god of thunder, Thor, has a chariot that is pulled by several goats. At night when he sets up camp, Thor will eat the meat of the goats, but take care that all bones remain whole. Then he wraps the remains up, and in the morning, the goats will always come back to life to pull the chariot. When a mortal who is invited to share the meal breaks one of the goats' legs to suck the marrow however, the animal's leg remains broken in the morning, and the mortal is forced to serve Thor as a servant to compensate for the damage.The goat is one of the twelve-year cycle of animals which appear in the Chinese zodiac related to the Chinese calendar. Each animal is associated with certain personality traits; those born in a year of the goat are predicted to be shy, introverted, creative, and perfectionist. See Sheep (zodiac).Several mythological hybrid creatures are believed to consist of parts of the goat, including the Chimera .The Capricorn sign in the Western zodiac is usually depicted as a goat with a fish's tail.Fauns and satyrs are mythological creatures that are part goat and part human.The mineral bromine is named from the Greek word "brόmos," which means "stench of he-goats."In religion(1854).]] Goats are mentioned many times in the Bible. A goat is considered a "clean" animal by Jewish dietary laws and was slaughtered for an honored guest. It was also acceptable for some kinds of sacrifices. Goat-hair curtains were used in the tent that contained the tabernacle (Exodus 25:4). On Yom Kippur, the festival of the Day of Atonement, two goats were chosen and lots were drawn for them. One was sacrificed and the other allowed to escape into the wilderness, symbolically carrying with it the sins of the community. From this comes the word "scapegoat". A leader or king was sometimes compared to a male goat leading the flock. In the New Testament, Jesus told a parable of The Sheep and the Goats. (Gospel of Matthew 25) ]]Feral goats Domestic goats have established themselves in the wild in many places in the world. Feral goats occur in Australia, New Zealand, Great Britain, the Galapagos and in many other parts of the world. When feral goats reach large populations in habitats which are not adapted to them, they may have serious negative effects, such as removing native scrub, trees and other vegetation. Feral goats are severe problem in Australia.[http://www.environment.gov.au/biodiversity/invasive/publications/goat/pubs/goat.pdf "The feral goat (Capra hircus) - Invasive species fact sheet".] However, in other circumstances they may become a natural component of the habitat.See alsoCapricornGävle goatLivestockPygmy goatSheepYule goatReferencesExternal links Goat breedsGoat care and feeding guideGoat resourcesThe American Dairy Goat Association Home PageWhite House: Abraham Lincoln's sons kept pet goats inside the White HouseCategory:Goat's-milk cheeses Category:Goats Category:Livestock Category:Meatar:ماعز gn:Kavara bm:Ba bn:ছাগল bar:Goaß bs:Koza br:Gavr (loen) bg:Домашна коза ca:Cabra domèstica cy:Gafr da:Ged de:Hausziege el:Κατσίκα eml:Chèvra es:Capra aegagrus hircus eu:Ahuntz fa:بز fr:Chèvre hi:बकरी hr:Domaća koza io:Kapro id:Kambing ia:Capra it:Capra hircus he:עז הבית pam:Kambing ka:თხა sw:Mbuzi ht:Bouk ku:Bizin la:Capra li:Geit ln:Ntaba hu:Házikecske ml:ആട് ms:Kambing mn:Ямаа nl:Geit nds-nl:Sik ja:ヤギ no:Geit nn:Geit nrm:Biche oc:Cabra pl:Koza domowa pt:Cabra ro:Capră qu:Kawra ru:Коза домашняя scn:Crapa sk:Koza domáca sl:Domača koza sr:Коза fi:Vuohi sv:Tamget tl:Kambing ta:ஆடு th:แพะ tr:Keçi uk:Домашня коза yi:ציג zh:家山羊