Cephalotus () is a genus of flowering plants which contains one species, Cephalotus follicularis. Common names for this small carnivorous plant include Albany Pitcher Plant and to a lesser degree, Western Australian Pitcher Plant, fly-catcher plant or mocassin plant.The Albany Pitcher Plant is an advanced rosid, and thus closer related to apples and oaks than to other pitcher plants like Nepenthaceae (basal core eudicots) and Sarraceniaceae (basal asterids). The placement of its monotypic family Cephalotaceae in the order Saxifragales has been abandoned. The current taxonomic placement is within the order of Oxalidales. The monotypic arrangement of the family and genus is indicative of a high degree of endemism, one of four such species of the region. Its exact relationships among the Oxalidales are obscure, but biogeography suggests that they might be closest to one or some of the other Gondwanan Oxidales (Cunoniaceae, Elaeocarpaceae and Brunelliaceae).Description and ecologyin coastal SW-Australia.]] Cephalotus follicularis is a small herb. The insectivorous leaves are small, green, and have the appearance of moccasins, forming the 'pitcher' of the common name. Other leaves on the plant are simple with an entire leaf blade. The foliage is a basal arrangement that is closely arranged with outward facing adapted leaf blades. These leaves give the main form of the species, the height is around 200 mm.The 'pitcher' trap of the species are similar to other pitcher plants. The peristome at the entrance of the trap has a spiked arrangement that allows the prey to enter, but hinders its escape. The lid over the entrance, the operculum, prevents rainwater entering the pitcher and thus diluting the digestive enzymes inside. Insects trapped in this digestive fluid are consumed by the plant. The operculum has translucent cells which confuse its insect prey as they appear to be patches of sky.The inflorescence is groupings of small, hermaphroditic, six-parted, regular flowers, which are creamy, or whitish.EcologyThe plant occurs in southern coastal districts of the Southwest botanical province in Australia; recorded in the Warren (biogeographic region), southern Jarrah Forest, and the Esperance Plains. Its habitat is on moist peaty sands found in swamps or along creeks and streams, but it is tolerant of less damp situations. Its population in the wild has been reduced by habitat destruction and overcollecting; it is therefore classified as Vulnerable species (VU A2ac v2.3) by the IUCN.Conran et al. (2000)The larvae of Badisis ambulans, an ant-like wingless micropezid fly, develop inside the pitchers. They have never been found anywhere else.McAlpine (1998)Cultivation Cephalotus are cultivated world wide. In the wild, they prefer warm day-time temperatures of up to 25 degrees Celsius during the growing season, coupled with cool night-time temperatures. In the cooler months of winter (down to about 5 degrees Celsius), they have a natural dormancy period of about 3-4 months, triggered by the temperature drop and reduced light levels. In cultivation, this winter rest is unnecessary and the plants may be grown as any subtropical plant, although dormancy can result in somewhat larger pitchers.Should a grower allow dormancy to occur, the plant requires only enough moisture to dampen the soil, in order to prevent diseases and fungi. Freezing will kill the above-ground portion of the plant and possibly the roots, although plants have been known to recover from such harsh conditions. As spring approaches, the plants produce many non-carnivorous leaves, which are thought to aid in photosynthetic processes. In mid-spring, Cephalotus follicularis will start producing small, fuzzy knob-like structures, which, after a matter of weeks, will inflate and become the season's first set of pitchers. During this period, the growing season, the substrate must be kept damp to moist and never allowed to dry out completely. However, it needs be extremely well-drained, to help prevent root and rhizome rot. This can be achieved with the tray method of watering, in which the plant's pot is kept in a 1/4 inch of water or less. The tray may be allowed to dry completely between waterings as a prophylactic measure against root rot. Watering from the top occasionally may prevent rot by oxygenating the soil with dissolved O2 and also encourage root proliferation. One grower even recommends the use of an aquarist's airstone to increase the natural level of dissolved O2 in his water, although this is not necessary.Cephalotus follicularis tolerates many soil types, the most commonly used is a mixture of sphagnum peat moss, perlite, and sand used for propagation/horticultural purposes. A reasonable humidity (60-80%) is also preferred. Too high a humidity will encourage many pests to set in, such as scale, and diseases which cause the plant's crowns to rot. Too low a humidity is not tolerated as often the plant will wilt and close its lid (operculum). The plants become colourful and grow vigorously when kept in direct sunlight, while plants cultivated in bright shade remain green.Propagate Cephalotus follicularis through leaf and root cuttings, and more slowly from seed. Pinch off leaves (both carnivorous pitchers and non-carnivorous leaves may be used) from the base of the plant, keeping as much of the whitish base intact as possible. These leaves are placed upon milled sphagnum moss or a mixture of sphagnum peat/perlite/sand; small amounts of substrate are placed over the whitish base of the leaf. The leaves must receive bright light and remain covered to ensure high humidity. Plantlets will appear at the base of the leaves. Propagation from root cuttings is similar. Roots and parts of the rhizome can be cut into pieces an inch long and then treated similarly to the leaf cuttings. Propagation through seed is a much slower way, but is possible. Seed must first be stratified, where they are placed in cold, slightly damp conditions for 2-3 months before sowing upon milled sphagnum or a peat/perlite/sand mix in warm conditions, bright light, and high humidity. The seed may take from weeks to months to germinate, and will be extremely slow growing.FootnotesReferences|year=2000|id=39635|title=Cephalotus follicularis|downloaded=11 May 2006 (1998): Review of the Australian stilt flies (Diptera: Micropezidae) with a phylogenetic analysis of the family. Invertebrate Taxonomy 12(1): 55-134.  (HTML abstract)http://www.aqph26.dsl.pipex.com/cephalotusfollip.htmlhttp://www.humboldt.edu/~rrz7001/Franco/CephalotusfollicularisGiant.htmlhttp://www.cobraplant.com/cephalotus.htmlExternal links All about Cephalotus[http://www.botany.org/carnivorous_plants/cephalotus.php Botanical Society of America, Cephalotus follicularis - the Albany Pitcher Plant]Category:Oxalidales of Australia Category:Carnivorous plants of Australia Category:Flora of Western Australia Category:Monogeneric plant families Category:Monotypic plant genera Category:Vulnerable flora of Australiacs:Láčkovice australská de:Zwergkrug es:Cephalotaceae fr:Cephalotus follicularis it:Cephalotus follicularis lt:Pūslinis kriauklenis nl:Cephalotus follicularis ja:フクロユキノシタ pl:Cefalotus bukłakowaty fi:Cephalotus follicularis vi:Nắp ấm (Úc) zh:土瓶草科