 | birth_place = | death_date = | death_place = | spouse = Julie Arthur | profession = Economist | constituency = Saint Peter | residence = Ilaro Court 1994 - 2008 | party = BLP | signature =  Owen Seymour Arthur, MP (born 17 October 1949) was the Prime Minister of Barbados from 1994 to 2008.He is leader of the Barbados Labour Party, which brought him to victory in general elections in September 1994. He won general elections again in January 1999 and 2003. In the 2008 general election, his party lost the elections to the Democratic Labour Party and their leader David Thompson. Owen Arthur is currently the member of parliament for the constituency of Saint Peter.Early life and educationOwen Arthur was educated at Harrison College,Barbados and then the University of the West Indies - Cave Hill, Barbados and Mona, Jamaica where he earned a BA in economics and history (1971) and an MSc in economics (1974). After graduating he held positions with Jamaica's National Planning Agency and the Jamaica Bauxite Institute before returning to Barbados and joining the Ministry of Finance and Planning in 1981. Member of ParliamentHe was appointed to the Barbados Senate in 1983 and elected to the House of Assembly in 1984. He was chosen to serve as Leader of the Opposition in 1993 very shortly after giving notice that he was considering departing from politics due to his inability to survive at a satisfactory level on the means of an MP.Prime MinisterOne of the main platforms of Prime Minister Owen Arthur for the 2003 elections was his promise to continue the process of independence for Barbados and transform the country into a Parliamentary republic, replacing Queen Elizabeth II with a Barbadian President as Head of State. Owen Arthur stated a national referendum would be held in 2005. However, this was pushed back in order to speed up the implementation process for the Caribbean (CARICOM) Single Market and Economy, and the focus of his term was directed to the hosting of Cricket World Cup 2007.In the general election held on 15 January 2008, the Barbados Labour Party was defeated by the Democratic Labour Party, winning ten seats against 20 for the DLP. DLP leader David Thompson was sworn in on 16 January, succeeding Arthur.&quot;Thompson sworn in as Barbados PM&quot;, Xinhua, January 17, 2008. Despite the party's defeat, Arthur was re-elected to his own seat from St. Peter constituency with 65% of the vote.Election result page for St. Peter constituency. He also said that he felt he could still contribute to CARICOM.&quot;Arthur: Still a role for me&quot;, nationnews.com, January 18, 2008. On January 19, he stepped down as BLP leader, saying that he felt an immediate leadership transition would be in the best interests of both the party and Barbadian democracy; former Deputy Prime Minister Mia Mottley was chosen as the new party leader. Arthur said that he intended to serve out his parliamentary term.Trevor Yearwood, &quot;MIA TAKES OVER&quot;, nationnews.com, January 20, 2008.  Owen Arthur is the holder of the Order of José Marti of Cuba. See alsoPrime Ministers of BarbadosPolitics of BarbadosReferencesExternal linksAboutThe Prime Minister of Barbados - official websiteVarious Speeches made by Owen Arthur - BLP websiteSome speeches made by Owen Arthur - The Barbados Government Information Service websiteProfile of Owen Arthur - Barbados government portalPress coverageBarbados set to replace Queen with president as head of state - RoyalArchive.com, 31 January, 2005Barbados breakaway over 'King Harry' - Telegraph UK, 26 January, 2005   i sorry i lose to david in 2008 elections Category:1949 births Category:Former pupils of Harrison College, Barbados Category:Living people Category:Barbadian politicians Category:Prime Ministers of Barbados Category:Members of the Barbadian House of Assembly Category:Leaders of the Barbados Labour Party Category:Members of the Privy Council of the United Kingdom Category:University of the West Indies alumnide:Owen Arthur el:Όουεν Άρθουρ es:Owen Arthur fr:Owen Arthur ga:Owen Arthur gl:Owen Arthur hr:Owen Arthur id:Owen Arthur he:אואן ארתור lt:Ovenas Arturas nl:Owen Seymour Arthur no:Owen Arthur pl:Owen Arthur sr:Овен Артур fi:Owen Arthur