  16 May, 2000 (premiere at Cannes) July 6 2000 July 7, 2000 September 22, 2000 December 15, 2000 December 22, 2000 December 26, 2000 January 4, 2001 January 5, 2001 | runtime = 120 min. | country = | language = Mandarin | budget = $15,000,000 US (est.) | gross = | preceded_by = | followed_by = | website = | amg_id = 1:201837 | imdb_id = 0190332  Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon () is a Chinese-language film in the wuxia (chivalric and martial arts) style, released in 2000. A China-Hong Kong-Taiwan-United States co-production, the film was directed by Ang Lee and featured an international cast of ethnic Chinese actors, including Chow Yun-Fat, Michelle Yeoh, Zhang Ziyi and Chang Chen. The movie was based on the fourth novel in a pentalogy, known in China as the Crane-Iron Pentalogy, by Wang Dulu. The martial arts and action sequences were choreographed by Yuen Wo Ping well known for his work in The Matrix and other films.Made on a mere US$15 million budget, with dialogue in Mandarin, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon became a surprise international success. It grossed US$128 million in the United States alone, becoming the highest-grossing foreign-language film in American history. It has won over 40 awards. The film won the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film and three other Academy Awards, and was nominated for six other Academy Awards, including Best Picture.Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon Academy Award Nominations and Wins URL accessed December 30, 2006. The film also won three BAFTAs and two Golden Globes, one for "Best Foreign Film" as well as additional nominations for ten BAFTAs including "Best Picture".PlotThe fictional story is set in the historic Qing Dynasty in China. The date of the story is during the 43rd year of Emperor Qianlong's reign (i.e. 1778).casting annonces musicien communication evenementiel at castingforge.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The story follows two martial arts warriors, Li Mu-bai () (Chow Yun-Fat) and Yu Shu-lien () (Michelle Yeoh). The two characters are attracted to each other but have abstained from a relationship. Mu-bai, an accomplished Wudang swordsman, asks Shu-lien to take his valuable sword, the Green Destiny, to his friend Sir Te for safekeeping in Beijing. In the meantime, Mu-bai intends to commemorate the death of his master, who was murdered long ago by Jade Fox (Cheng Pei-pei), a woman who sought to learn Wudang. Also searching for Jade Fox is Tsai (Da Ming Wang) an undercover police inspector.In Beijing, Shu-lien delivers the sword and meets Jen () (Zhang Ziyi), the daughter of Governor Yu, a Manchu aristocrat. Jen is destined for an arranged marriage, yet yearns for adventure; she becomes fascinated with the warrior Shu-lien.One night, a masked thief sneaks onto Sir Te's estate and steals the Green Destiny. Tsai, Shu-lien, and others pursue the thief across rooftops, walls, and other obstacles. Shu-lien discovers that the thief is well-versed in the Wudang school of martial arts. The fight is broken off when a mysterious figure shoots a dart at Shu-lien, which she catches just in time.Mu-bai and Shu-lien trace the theft to Governor Yu's compound and learn that Jade Fox has been posing as Jen's governess for many years to evade the authorities. Jade Fox challenges Inspector Tsai to a showdown, in which Tsai is killed. Mu-bai arrives and easily defeats Jade Fox, but the masked thief reappears and uses Wudang techniques to prevent him from killing her. The thief and Jade Fox escape, and in a confrontation, Jade Fox realizes that Jen (the "thief") has secretly read her Wudang manual and surpassed her in skill. Mu-bai catches the masked Jen attempting to return the Green Destiny, and after defeating her, suggests that she become his apprentice. She refuses and escapes.The dart that prevented Shu-Lien from capturing Jen came from a man named Lo () (Chang Chen), who returns and asks Jen to leave with him. A flashback reveals that Lo is a desert bandit called Dark Cloud who had raided Jen's caravan and stolen her comb. Jen chased after him to get it back; Lo defeated and kidnapped her. However, they eventually fell in love. Lo convinced Jen to return to her family, though not before telling her a legend of a man who jumped off a cliff but did not die. Instead, his wishes came true.Lo has come to Beijing to persuade Jen not to go through with her arranged marriage. However, Jen refuses to leave with him. Soon after, she is married in an elaborate ceremony. Mu-bai and Shu-lien find Lo and tell him to wait for Jen at Wudang Mountain. The day after her wedding, Jen runs away. She is at a crossroads: should she be a court official's wife, the lover of a desert bandit, an outlaw under Jade Fox, or a martial artist under Li Mu-bai? Headstrong, she rejects the path of Shu-lien and Mu-bai, and starts a fight in a restaurant.Jen finds Shu-lien, who tells her that Lo is at Wudang Mountain. Jen is outraged, thinking that Shu-lien is setting her up. Shu-lien is angry at Jen's lack of gratitude, and says that she always knew Jen was the thief, but covered it up for the sake of Jen's family. The two women fight, and it becomes clear that Shu-lien has better technique but Jen has the better sword (the Green Destiny). Mu-bai arrives and pursues Jen into the forest. He again offers to train her and she says that she will accept him as her master if he can take the Green Destiny from her in three moves. To Jen's surprise, Mu-bai snatches the sword from her hand in a single movement. When Jen still refuses to become Mu-bai's pupil, he throws the Green Destiny over a waterfall. Jen chases after the sword, and Mu-bai is too shocked to pursue her.Jen retrieves the sword and is rescued by Jade Fox. She puts Jen into a drugged sleep and leaves her in a cavern. Mu-bai and Shu-lien find her there. Jade Fox suddenly reappears and attacks the others with poisoned needles. Mu-bai blocks all but one needle with his sword. He avenges his master's death by mortally wounding Jade Fox, only to realize that he has been hit with a poisoned needle. With his last breaths, Mu-bai confesses his love for Shu-lien. Shu-lien is heartbroken at his death, and furious with Jen for spoiling her chance at happiness. However, Shu-lien spares Jen's life and instructs her always to remain true to herself.Jen goes to Wudang Mountain and spends one last night with Lo, who is waiting for her. The next morning, Lo finds Jen standing on a balcony overlooking the edge of the mountain. In an echo of the legend that they spoke about in the desert, she asks him to make a wish. He complies, wishing them to be together, back in the desert, and Jen leaps into the clouds.Although the movie does not reveal whether Jen dies, the next novel in the Crane Iron Pentalogy, Iron Knight, Silver Vase, begins with Jen and Lo as a couple who have one son.SourceThe film is an adaptation of the fourth novel in a pentalogy (five-novel cycle), known as the Crane-Iron Pentalogy, written by noted wu xia novelist Wang Dulu. The novels in the pentalogy are: Crane Frightens Kunlun; Precious Sword, Golden Hairpin; Sword's Force, Pearl's Shine; Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon; and Iron Knight, Silver Vase.The pentalogy was adapted into a manhua series by Andy Seto in 2006.Production and marketingAlthough its Academy Award was presented to Taiwan, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon was in fact an international co-production between companies in four regions: the Chinese company China Film Co-Production Corporation; the American companies Columbia Pictures Film Production Asia, Sony Pictures Classics and Good Machine; the Hong Kong company EDKO Film; and the Taiwanese Zoom Hunt International Productions Company, Ltd; as well as the unspecified United China Vision, and Asia Union Film &amp; Entertainment Ltd., created solely for this film.The film was made in Beijing, with location shooting in the Anhui, Hebei, Jiangsu and Xinjiang provinces of the People's Republic of China.Unlike most Chinese films, this one was supported by American distributors and therefore received marketing typical of Western films.The movie was also adapted into a video game.Reception and AftermathCrouching Tiger was very well received in the Western world, receiving critical acclaim and numerous awards. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 97% of critics gave Crouching Tiger positive reviews, based on 141 reviews, with the consensus that "the story is compelling, the acting is stellar, and the direction is fantastic. Chow Yun Fat and Michelle Yeoh provide the action of The Matrix plus the romance of Titanic." Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 93 out of 100, based on 31 reviews.However, it was less well received in China and Hong Kong, where it was perceived as just another of the countless wuxia films released over the past four decades. Additionally, some Chinese-speaking viewers were bothered by the accents of the leading actors. Neither Chow (a native Cantonese speaker) nor Yeoh (an overseas Chinese born and raised in Malaysia) speaks Mandarin as a mother tongue. All four main actors spoke with different accents: Chow speaks with a Cantonese accentInterview with Gong Li URL accessed December 30, 2006.; Yeoh with a Malaysian accent; Chang Chen a Taiwanese accent; and Zhang Ziyi a Beijing accent. Yeoh responded to this complaint in a December 28, 2000 interview with Cinescape. She argued that "My character lived outside of Beijing, and so I didn’t have to do the Beijing accent." When the interviewer, Craig Reid, remarked that "My mother-in-law has this strange Szechuan-Mandarin accent that’s hard for me to understand," Yeoh responded: "Yes, provinces all have their very own strong accents. When we first started the movie, Cheng Pei Pei was going to have her accent, and Chang Zhen was going to have his accent, and this person would have that accent. And in the end nobody could understand what they were saying. Forget about us, even the crew from Beijing thought this was all weird."The film led to a boost in popularity of Chinese wuxia films in the western world, where they were previously little known, and led to films such as House of Flying Daggers and Hero marketed towards western audiences. The film also provided the breakthrough role for Zhang Ziyi's career, who noted that:AwardsWonASCAP Film and Television Music Awards: Top Box Office Films (Tan Dun)Academy Awards:Best Foreign Language Film (Taiwan)Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Best Music, Original Score (Tan Dun)Best Art Direction-Set Decoration (Timmy Yip director)Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy &amp; Horror Films ("Saturn Award"): Best Action/Adventure/Thriller FilmAustralian Film Institute: Best Foreign FilmBAFTA Awards:David Lean Award for Direction (Ang Lee)Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music (Tan Dun)Best Costume Design (Timmy Yip)Bergen International Film Festival: Audience Award (Ang Lee)Bodil Awards: Best Non-American FilmBogey Awards (Germany): Bogey AwardBoston Society of Film Critics: Best Foreign Language Film, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Broadcast Film Critics Association: Best Foreign Language FilmChicago Film Critics Association: Best Foreign Language Film, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau), Best Original Score (Tan Dun)Dallas-Fort Worth Film Critics Association: Best Foreign Film, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Directors Guild of America: Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures (Ang Lee)Film Critics Circle of Australia: Best Foreign Language FilmFlanders International Film Festival (Belgium): Georges Delerue Prize (Tan Dun)Florida Film Critics Circle: Best Foreign Language Film, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Golden Bauhinia Awards (Hong Kong): Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress (Ziyi Zhang), Golden Bauhinia - Best Director (Ang Lee)'''Golden Globe Awards:Best Foreign Language Film (Taiwan)Best Director - Motion Picture (Ang Lee)Golden Horse Film Festival (Taiwan): Best Picture (Ang Lee), Best Action Direction (Woo-ping Yuen), Best Editing (Tim Squyres), Best Sound Effects (Eugene Gearty), Best Visual Effects (Leo Lo and Rob Hodgson)Golden Trailer Awards: Best Art and Commerce (for the trailer), Best Romance (for the trailer)'''Grammy Awards:Best Score Soundtrack Album For A Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media (Tan Dun)Hong Kong Film Awards: Best Picture, Best Supporting Actress (Pei-pei Cheng), Best Director (Ang Lee), Best Cinematography (Peter Pau), Best Original Film Score (Tan Dun), Best Original Film Song (CoCo Lee performer), Best Action Choreography (Woo-ping Yuen), Best Sound Design (Eugene Gearty)Hong Kong Film Critics Society Awards: Special Achievement Award (Woo-ping Yuen)Hugo Awards: Best Dramatic PresentationIndependent Spirit Awards: Best Feature, Best Supporting Female (Ziyi Zhang), Best Director (Ang Lee)Kansas City Film Critics Circle: Best Foreign Language FilmLondon Film Critics Circle: Best Foreign Language FilmLos Angeles Film Critics Association: Best Picture, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau), Best Music Score (Tan Dun), Best Production Design (Timmy Yip)MTV Movie Awards: Best Fight (Ziyi Zhang vs. entire bar)Motion Picture Sound Editors ("Golden Reel Award"): Best Sound Editing - Dialogue & ADR, Domestic Feature FilmNational Board of Review: Best Foreign Language FilmNew York Film Critics Circle: Best Cinematographer (Peter Pau)Online Film Critics Society: Best Foreign Language Film, Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Robert Festival (Denmark): Best Non-American FilmSatellite Awards: Best Motion Picture, Foreign LanguageScience Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America: Best ScriptSoutheastern Film Critics Association: Best Foreign Language FilmToronto Film Critics Association: Best Picture, Best Supporting Performance - Female (Ziyi Zhang)Toronto International Film Festival: People's Choice Award (Ang Lee)Young Artist Awards: Best Young Actress in an International Film (Ziyi Zhang)Nominations'''Academy Awards:Best Picture (Murphy)Best Director (Ang Lee)Best Adapted Screenplay (Hui-Ling Wang, James Schamus and Kuo Jung Tsai)Best Costume Design (Timmy Yip)Best Editing (Tim Squyres)Best Original Song (Jorge Calandrelli, Tan Dun composers and James Schamus lyricist Coco Lee performer) - for the song "A Love Before Time"Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy &amp; Horror Films ("Saturn Award"): Best Actor (Yun-Fat Chow), Best Actress (Michelle Yeoh), Best Supporting Actress (Ziyi Zhang), Best Director (Ang Lee), Best Writing (Hui-Ling Wang, James Schamus and Kuo Jung Tsai), Best Music (Tan Dun and Yo-Yo Ma), Best Costumes (Timmy Yip)Amanda Awards (Norway): Best Foreign Feature FilmAmerican Cinema Editors ("Eddie Award"): Best Edited Feature Film - Dramatic (Tim Squyres)American Society of Cinematographers: Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography in Theatrical ReleasesArt Directors Guild: Excellence in Production Design Award Feature Film - Period or Fantasy Films'''BAFTA Awards:Best FilmBest Actress (Michelle Yeoh)Best Supporting Actress (Ziyi Zhang)Best Screenplay - Adapted (James Schamus, Hui-Ling Wang and Kuo Jung Tsai)Best Cinematography (Peter Pau)Best Editing (Tim Squyres)Best Sound (Drew Kunin, Reilly Steele, Eugene Gearty and Robert Fernandez)Best Production Design (Timmy Yip)Best Make Up/Hair (Yun-Ling Man and Siu-Mui Chau)Best Special Visual Effects (Rob Hodgson, Leo Lo, Jonathan F. Styrlund, Bessie Cheuk and Travis Baumann)Blockbuster Entertainment Awards: Favorite Action Team Only (Yun-Fat Chow and Michelle Yeoh)British Society of Cinematographers: Best Cinematography Award (Peter Pau)Broadcast Film Critics Association: Best PictureSee alsoA Love Before Time (end-credit title song)Cinema of ChinaCinema of Hong KongCinema of TaiwanNew Crouching Tiger, Hidden DragonNotes and referencesExternal linksA philosophical discussion of the filmMichelle Yeoh: Crouching Tiger Hidden DragonChinese Culture behind &quot;Hidden Dragon and Crouching Tiger   | after=''No Man's Land''     | after=''No Man's Land''     | after=''Amores Perros''     Category:2000 films Category:Films whose director won the Best Director Golden Globe Category:Best Film HKFA Category:Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award winners Category:Best Foreign Language Film Golden Globe winners Category:Best Original Music Score Academy Award winners Category:BAFTA winners (films) Category:Films based on novels Category:Films shot in Super 35 Category:Films whose art director won the Best Art Direction Academy Award Category:Films whose cinematographer won the Best Cinematography Academy Award Category:Hugo Award Winner for Best Dramatic Presentation Category:Wuxia films Category:Sony Pictures Classics films Category:Chinese films Category:American films Category:Hong Kong films Category:Taiwanese films Category:Nebula Award winning worksbs:Tigar i zmaj de:Tiger and Dragon el:Τίγρης και Δράκος es:Wo hu cang long eo:Wò hǔ zàng lóng fr:Tigre et Dragon it:La tigre e il dragone nl:Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon ja:グリーン・デスティニー no:Snikende tiger, skjult drage pl:Przyczajony tygrys, ukryty smok pt:Wòhǔ Cánglóng ru:Крадущийся тигр, затаившийся дракон fi:Hiipivä tiikeri, piilotettu lohikäärme sv:Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon ta:குரௌச்சிங் டைகர் ஹிடன் டிராகன் th:พยัคฆ์ระห่ำ มังกรผยองโลก tr:Kaplan ve Ejderha zh:臥虎藏龍 (電影)