The Aegean Sea ((); , Adalar Denizi) is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea located between the southern Balkan and Anatolian peninsulas, i.e., between the mainlands of Greece and Turkey respectively. In the north, it is connected to the Marmara Sea and Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus. The Aegean Islands are within the sea and some bound it on its southern periphery, including Crete and Rhodes. The Aegean Region consists of nine provinces in southwestern Turkey, in part bordering on the Aegean sea.The sea was traditionally known as Archipelago (in Greek, Αρχιπέλαγος), the general sense of which has since changed to refer to the Aegean Islands and, generally, to any island group because the Aegean Sea is remarkable for its large number of islands.EtymologyIn ancient times there were various explanations for the name Aegean. It was said to have been named after the Greek town of Aegae, or after Aegea, a queen of the Amazons who died in the sea, or Aigaion, the "sea goat", another name of Briareus, one of the archaic Hecatonchires, or, especially among the Athenians, Aegeus, the father of Theseus, who drowned himself in the sea when he thought his son had died.A possible etymology is a derivation from the Greek word  &ndash; aiges = "waves" (Hesychius of Alexandria; metaphorical use of  (aix) "goat"), hence "wavy sea", cf. also  (aigialos) "coast".In the Bulgarian language the sea is also known as White sea (Бяло море). According to legend, Bulgarian sailors and merchants in the Middle Ages found it a hospitable and timid sea to travel and called it White sea in contrast to the hostile and dangerous Black sea.HistoryAegean civilization is a general term for the Bronze Age civilizations of Greece and the Aegean Sea. In ancient times the sea was the birthplace of two ancient civilizations – the Minoans of Crete and the Mycenean Civilization of the Peloponnese.Tracey Cullen, Aegean Prehistory: A Review (American Journal of Archaeology. Supplement, 1); Oliver Dickinson, The Aegean Bronze Age (Cambridge World Archaeology).Later arose the city-states of Athens and Sparta among many others that constituted the Athenian Empire and Hellenic Civilization. Plato described the Greeks living round the Aegean "like frogs around a pond".The familiar phrase giving rise to the title Prehistorians Round the Pond: Reflections on Aegean Prehistory as a Discipline, by John F. Cherry, Despina Margomenou, and Lauren E. Talalay. The Aegean Sea was later invaded by the Persians and the Romans, and inhabited by the Byzantine Empire, the Venetians, the Seljuk Turks, and the Ottoman Empire. The Aegean was the site of the original democracies, and its seaways were the means of contact among several diverse civilizations of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is also the location of the wreck of the HMHS Britannic which sank on November 21 1916 during World War I.Economical and Political SettingMany of the islands in the Aegean have safe harbours and bays, but navigation through the sea is was easier than going through the rough terrain of the land of Greece. Many of the islands are volcanic, and marble and iron are mined on other islands. The larger islands have some fertile valleys and plains. In the Aegean Sea there are two islands belonging to Turkey: Bozcaada (in Greek, Τένεδος) and Gökçeada (in Greek, Ίμβρος), while the rest belonging to Greece. The Aegean Sea has about 1,415 islands and islets, of which 1,395 belong to Greece.Physiographic Setting]]The Aegean Sea covers about 214,000 km² in area, and measures about 610 kilometres longitudinally and 300 kilometres latitudinally. The sea's maximum depth is 3,543 metres (11,624 ft), east of Crete. The Aegean Islands are found within its waters, with the following islands delimiting the sea on the south (generally from west to east): Kythera, Antikythera, Crete, Kasos, Karpathos and Rhodes.The Greek Aegean Islands can be simply divided into seven groups:Northeastern Aegean Islands,Euboea,Northern Sporades,Cyclades,Saronic Islands (or Argo-Saronic Islands),Dodecanese (or Southern Sporades),Crete.The word archipelago was originally applied specifically to the Aegean Sea and its islands. Many of the Aegean Islands, or chains of islands, are actually extensions of the mountains on the mainland. One chain extends across the sea to Chios, another extends across Euboea to Samos, and a third extends across the Peloponnese and Crete to Rhodes, dividing the Aegean from the Mediterranean.The bays and gulfs of the Aegean beginning and the South and moving clockwise include on Crete, the Mirabelli, Almyros, Souda and Chania bays or gulfs, on the mainland the Myrtoan Sea to the west, the Saronic Gulf northwestward, the Petalies Gulf which connects with the South Euboic Sea, the Pagasetic Gulf which connects with the North Euboic Sea, the Thermian Gulf northwestward, the Chalkidiki Peninsula including the Cassandra and the Singitic Gulfs, northward the Strymonian Gulf and the Gulf of Kavala and the rest are in Turkey; Saros Gulf, Edremit Gulf, Dikili Gulf, Çandarlı Gulf, İzmir Gulf, Kuşadası Gulf, Gulf of Gökova, Güllük Gulf.Hydrographic and Hydrochemical SettingAegean surface water circulates in a counter-clockwise gyre, with hypersaline Mediterranean water moving northward along the west coast of Turkey, before being displaced by less dense Black Sea outflow. The dense Mediterranean water sinks below the Black Sea inflow to a depth of 23-30m, then flows through the Dardanelles Strait and into the Marmara at velocities of 5-15 cm/s. The Black Sea outflow moves westward along the northern Aegean Sea, then flows southwards along the east coast of GreeceAksu, A. E., D. Yasar, et al. (1995). "LATE GLACIAL-HOLOCENE PALEOCLIMATIC AND PALEOCEANOGRAPHIC EVOLUTION OF THE AEGEAN SEA - MICROPALEONTOLOGICAL AND STABLE ISOTOPIC EVIDENCE." Marine Micropaleontology 25(1): 1-28..The physical oceanography of the Aegean Sea is controlled mainly by the regional climate, the fresh water discharge from major rivers draining southeastern Europe, and the seasonal variations in the Black Sea surface water outflow through the Dardanelles Strait.AnalysisYagar, D., 1994. Late glacial-Holocene evolution of the Aegean Sea. Ph.D. Thesis, Inst. Mar. Sci. Technol., Dokuz Eyltil Univ., 329 pp. (Unpubl.) of the Aegean during 1991 and 1992 revealed 3 distinct water masses:Aegean Sea Surface Water - 40-50 m thick veneer, with summer temperatures of 21-26°C and winter temperatures ranging from 10°C in the north to 16°C in the south.Aegean Sea Intermediate Water - Aegean Sea Intermediate Water extends from 40-50 m to 200-300 m with temperatures ranging from 11-18°C.Aegean Sea Bottom Water - occurring at depths below 200-300 m with a very uniform temperature (13-14°C) and salinity (39.1-39.2%).==See also==Aegean civilizationAegean disputeAegean IslandsAegean languagesList of traditional Greek place namesNotesCategory:Marginal seas of the Mediterranean Category:Seas Category:Landforms of Greece Category:Landforms of Turkeysw:Bahari ya Aegean ar:بحر إيجة ast:Mar Exéu az:Egey dənizi be:Эгейскае мора br:Mor Egea bg:Егейско море ca:Mar Egea cv:Эгей тинĕсĕ cs:Egejské moře cy:Môr Aegeaidd da:Ægæiske Hav de:Ägäisches Meer et:Egeuse meri el:Αιγαίο Πέλαγος es:Mar Egeo eo:Egea Maro eu:Egeo itsasoa fa:دریای اژه fr:Mer Égée gl:Mar Exeo ko:에게 해 hr:Egejsko more id:Laut Aegea is:Eyjahaf it:Mar Egeo he:הים האגאי jv:Segara Aegea ka:ეგეოსის ზღვა ku:Deryaya Ege la:Mare Aegaeum lv:Egejas jūra lt:Egėjo jūra hu:Égei-tenger mk:Егејско Море mt:Baħar Eġew mr:एजियन समुद्र nl:Egeïsche Zee ja:エーゲ海 no:Egeerhavet nn:Dei egeiske øyane oc:Mar Egèa pl:Morze Egejskie pt:Mar Egeu crh:Ege deñizi ro:Marea Egee ru:Эгейское море sq:Deti Egje scn:Mari Eggeu simple:Aegean Sea sk:Egejské more sl:Egejsko morje sr:Егејско море sh:Egejsko more fi:Aigeianmeri sv:Egeiska havet th:ทะเลอีเจียน tr:Ege Denizi uk:Егейське море ur:بحیرہ ایجیئن vec:Mar Egeo yi:אגאישער ים zh:爱琴海