Przewalski's Horse (Equus ferus przewalskii, Equus przewalskii or Equus caballus przewalskii, classification is debated),  or , etc. in English; also known as the Asian Wild Horse or Mongolian Wild Horse, or Takhi (), is the closest living wild relative of the domestic horse.Most "wild" horses today, such as the American Mustang or the Australian Brumby, are actually feral animals, horses that were once domesticated but escaped and reverted to an apparently wild status. The Przewalski's Horse, on the other hand, has never been successfully domesticated and remains a truly wild animal today. There were once several types of equid that had never been successfully domesticated, including the Tarpan, and others. However, most have become extinct, with the Przewalski's Horse and various sub species of the Onager the only remaining truly wild horses in the world.TaxonomyPoliakov, who concluded that the animal was a wild horse species, gave it the official name Equus przewalskii (Poliakov 1881). However, authorities differ about the correct classification. Some hold it is a separate species, the last remnant of the wild horse Equus ferus, others hold it is a subspecies of Equus caballus. The question will only be answered with finality if or when the common ancestor from which domestic and Przewalski's horses diverged is determined.&quot;Przewalski's Horse,&quot; Smithsonian National Zoological Park, accessed June 25, 2006 Although the Przewalski's horse has 66 chromosomes, compared to 64 in a domestic horse, the Przewalski's horse and the domestic horse are the only equids that cross-breed and produce fertile offspring, possessing 65 chromosomes.The American Museum of Natural History When Is a Wild Horse Actually a Feral Horse? "The Przewalski horse can be crossed successfully with the domestic horse, producing offspring with 65 chromosomes. Unlike the offspring of a domestic horse and an animal such as a donkey or zebra, the offspring of a Przewalski/domestic horse is not sterile and can be crossed back to either species. If the offspring is crossed back to a domestic horse, the resulting animal will have 64 chromosomes and very few Przewalski characteristics." Featured Equine: The Przewalski Horse PopulationAs of a census taken in 2005, the world population of these horses was about 1,500, all descended from 31 horses that were in captivity in 1945, mostly descended from approximately 15 captured around 1900. A cooperative venture between the Zoological Society of London and Mongolian scientists has resulted in successful reintroduction of these horses from zoos into their natural habitat in Mongolia, and as of 2005 there is a free-ranging population of 248 animals in the wild.AppearancePrzewalski's Horse is stockily built in comparison to domesticated horses, with shorter legs. Typical height is about 13 hands (1.32 m), length is about 2.1 m with a 90 cm tail. They weigh around 300 kg. The coat is similar to dun coloration in domestic horses. It varies from dark brown around the mane (which stands erect) to pale brown on the flanks and yellowish-white on the belly. The legs of the Przewalski's Horse are often faintly striped. National Zoo information on Przewalski's HorseBehaviour In the wild, Przewalski's Horses live in social groups consisting of a dominant stallion, a dominant lead mare, other mares, and their offspring. The patterns of their daily lives exhibit horse behavior similar to that of feral horse herds: Each group has a well-defined home range; within the range, the herd travels between three and six miles a day, spending time grazing, drinking, using salt licks and dozing. At night, the herd clusters and sleeps for about four hours. Ranges of different herds may overlap without conflict, as the stallions are more protective of their mares than their territory.Stallions practice a form of scent marking and will establish piles of dung at intervals along routes they normally travel to warn other males of their presence. In addition, when a female in the herd urinates, the stallion will frequently urinate in the same place, to signal her membership in the herd to other males. The stallions can frequently be seen sniffing dung piles to confirm scent markings. HistoryIn the 15th century, Johann Schiltberger recorded one of the first European sightings of the horses in the journal of his trip to Mongolia as a prisoner of the Mongol Khan.Breeds of Livestock - Przewalski Horse The horse is named after Russian General Nikolai Przhevalsky (1839–1888) (the spelling of the horse breed as "Przewalski" derives from the Polish spelling of the name). He was an explorer and naturalist who described the horse in 1881, after having gone on an expedition to find it, based on rumours of its existence. Many of these horses were captured around 1900 by Carl Hagenbeck and placed in zoos. As noted above, about twelve to fifteen reproduced and formed today's population.  The native population declined in the 20th century due to a combination of factors, with the wild population in Mongolia dying out in the 1960s. The last herd was sighted in 1967 and the last individual horse in 1969. Expeditions after this failed to locate any horses, and the species was designated "extinct in the wild" for over 30 years.After 1945 only two captive populations in zoos remained: in Munich and in Prague Zoo. The most valuable group in Askania Nova was shot down by German soldiers during occupation and the group in the USA had died.In 1977, the Foundation for the Preservation and Protection of the Przewalski Horse was founded by Jan and Inge Bouman, which started a program of exchange between captive populations in zoos throughout the world to reduce inbreeding, and later starting a breeding program of its own. In 1992, sixteen horses were released into the wild in Mongolia, followed by additional animals later on. These reintroduced horses successfully reproduced, and the status of the animal was changed from "extinct in the wild" to "endangered" in 2005. However, they are classified as "extinct in the wild" by the IUCN Red List, as they have not been reassessed since 1996. 2007 IUCN Red List – Search&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The area to which they were reintroduced became Khustain Nuruu National Park in 1998.Preservation effortsWhile dozens of zoos worldwide have Przewalski's Horses in small numbers, there are also specialized reserves dedicated primarily to the species.The world's largest captive breeding program for Przewalski's horses is at the Askania Nova preserve in Ukraine. Several dozen Przewalski's horses were also released in the area evacuated after the Chernobyl accident, which now serves as a deserted de facto natural preserve. An intensely researched population of free-ranging animals was introduced to the Hortobágy puszta in Hungary; data on social structure, behavior, and diseases gathered from these animals is used to improve the Mongolian conservation effort.Three animals from this program live in a 12 acre (5 hectare) paddock in the Clocaenog Forest in North Wales, UK, on the site of a former Neolithic or Iron Age settlement. They were introduced there in 2004. The Forestry Commission hopes they will help recreate scenes from the Iron Age when horses similar to these roamed Britain freely. Forestry Commission. 2004. FC Wales turns clock back thousands of years with 'wild' solution to looking after ancient forest site. News release, No: 7001, 16 September 2004.[http://www.forestry.gov.uk/newsrele.nsf/c06604a4b305b4a680256a1c003c773c/4853459c0456cc6880256f0800494861!OpenDocument]&lt;/ref&gt;Another herd exists at The Wilds Wildlife Preserve in Cumberland, Ohio, USA. The small herd of about 17 individuals is kept in a large area shared with other Asian animals. The Wilds.org A small population is also kept by the Smithsonian Institution at a facility near Front Royal, Virginia and in the Smithsonian National Zoological Park in Washington, DC.Recent advances in equine reproductive science have potential to further preserve and expand the gene pool. In October, 2007 scientists at the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoo successfully reversed a vasectomy on a Przewalski horse — the first operation of its kind on this species and possibly the first ever on any endangered species. While normally a vasectomy may be performed on an endangered animal under limited circumstances, particularly if an individual has already produced many offspring and its genes are overrepresented in the population, scientists realized the animal in question was one of the most genetically valuable Przewalski horses in the North American breeding program.  &quot;Zoo Performs First Reverse Vasectomy on Horse&quot; The Horse online edition, citing Associated Press, June 17, 2008.See alsoMongolian domestic horseWild horseTarpanOnagerHorse, see subsection "wild species surviving into modern times"ReintroductionFeral horseReferencesEquid Specialist Group 1996. Equus ferus. In: IUCN 2004. 2004 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. . Downloaded on 24 December 2005. http://www.redlist.org/search/details.php?species=41763Equid Specialist Group 1996. Equus ferus ssp. przewalskii. In: IUCN 2004. 2004 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. . Downloaded on 16 February 2006. http://www.redlist.org/search/details.php?species=7961Forestry Commission. 2004. FC Wales turns clock back thousands of years with 'wild' solution to looking after ancient forest site. News release, No: 7001, 16 September 2004. http://www.forestry.gov.uk/newsrele.nsf/c06604a4b305b4a680256a1c003c773c/4853459c0456cc6880256f0800494861!OpenDocumentInternational Commission on Zoological Nomenclature. 2003. Opinion 2027 (Case 3010). Usage of 17 specific names based on wild species which are pre-dated by or contemporary with those based on domestic animals (Lepidoptera, Osteichthyes, Mammalia): conserved. Bull.Zool.Nomencl., 60:81-84. http://www.iczn.org/BZNMar2003.htm.Wakefield, S., Knowles, J., Zimmermann, W. and Van Dierendonck, M. 2002. "Status and action plan for the Przewalski's Horse (Equus ferus przewalski)". In: P.D. Moehlman (ed.) Equids: Zebras, Asses and Horses. Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan, pp. 82-92. IUCN/SSC Equid Specialist Group. IUCN, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, UK. http://www.iucn.org/themes/SSC/sgs/equid/docs/part2chapter7.pdfExternal linksARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Equus_ferus_przewalskii/ images and movies of the Przewalski's horse (Equus ferus przewalskii)]Details of the re-introduction program for Przewalski's horse.Breeding an reintroduction program of the Przewalski's horse at Zoo Hellabrunn MunichDetails of the history and captive breeding program for Przewalski's Horse.Umbrella organization of all institutions participating in the reintroduction of takhis in MongoliaGeneral studbook of Przewalski's horseCategory:Equids Category:Horse subspecies Category:Fauna of Mongolia Category:Natural history of Central Asia Category:Natural history of Chinabg:Кон на Пржевалски ca:Cavall de Przewalski cs:Kůň Převalského da:Przewalski-hest de:Przewalski-Pferd et:Prževalski hobune es:Equus caballus przewalskii eo:Przevalski-ĉevalo fr:Cheval de Przewalski id:Kuda Przewalski ia:Cavallo de Przewalski it:Equus przewalskii he:סוס פז'בלסקי lt:Prževalskio arklys hu:Przewalski-ló mn:Тахь nl:Przewalskipaard ja:モウコノウマ no:Takhi pl:Koń Przewalskiego pt:Cavalo-de-przewalski ro:Calul lui Przewalski ru:Лошадь Пржевальского fi:Przewalskinhevonen sv:Przewalski zh:普氏野马