 Guaiacum, or guajacum, is a genus in the family Zygophyllaceae. The six species are shrubs and trees, native to subtropical and tropical regions of the Americas.The trees are grown in Florida and California as ornamental plants. The trees grow slowly and can reach a height of approximately 20 m, though it is usually less than half that. They also yield guaiacum resin which has been used to treat a variety of medicinal conditions from coughs to arthritis. Wood chips can also be used to brew a tea.UsesThe genus is famous as the supplier of Lignum vitae, which is the heartwood of several species in the genus. Among many other applications, gum from the wood was once used to treat syphilis. For example, Benvenuto Cellini records this use of it in his memoirs. See also the quote by Nashe in the article Honorificabilitudinitatibus (there spelled 'guiacum').The artist Jan van der Straet, also known as Johannes Stradanus or simply Stradanus, painted a scene of a wealthy man receiving treatment of syphilis with guaiacum wood sometime around 1580.Johannes Stradanus undated brief review of works. Accessed August 6, 2007. The title of the work is "Preparation and Use of Guayaco for Treating Syphilis." Epidemic syphilis had been raging through Europe for nearly a century at the time of the painting, and hopes were high that this plant from the New World would provide a cure. The richly colored and detailed work depicts four servants preparing the concoction while a physician looks on, hiding something behind his back while the hapless patient drinks.Jan van der Straet's &quot;Preparation...&quot; at commercial art site. Accessed August 6, 2007.A phenolic compound derived from the wood resin of Guaiacum trees is used in a common test for blood in human stool samples.The soap fragrance oil of guaiac comes from Bulnesia sarmientoi, a South American tree from the same family.Guaiacum officinale is the national flower of Jamaica, andGuaiacum sanctum is the national tree of the Bahamas and is found as far north as the Florida keys.The trade of all species of Guaiacum is controlled under CITES appendix II. Gordon J. E., González M. A., Vázquez Hernández, J., Ortega Lavariega , R. & Reyes-García A. (2005). Guaiacum coulteri an over-logged dry forest tree of Oaxaca, Mexico. Oryx 39(1): 82-85.As a food additive Guaiacum has E number E314 and is classified as an antioxidant.A widely used derivative drug is the expectorant known as guaifenesin.ReferencesExternal linksSymbols of JamaicaSymbols of the BahamasCITESCategory:Zygophyllalesde:Guajak es:Guaiacum eo:Gvajako fr:Guaiacum it:Guaiacum nl:Guaiacum pl:Gwajakowiec pt:Guaiacum ro:Guaiacum sv:Guaiacum