 |birth_place = Lille, France |death_date =  |death_place = New York City, USA |nationality = France |field = Physics |work_places = École Normale SupérieureUniversity of Paris |alma_mater = École Normale Supérieure |known_for = Nature of cathode raysBrownian motionSedimentation equilibrium |prizes = Nobel Prize in Physics (1926)  Jean Baptiste Perrin (September 30, 1870 &ndash; April 17, 1942) was a French physicist and Nobel laureate. He was born in Lille, France where he attended the École Normale Supérieure. He became an assistant at the school during the period of 1894-97 when he began the study of cathode rays and X-rays. He was awarded the degree of docteur ès sciences (PhD) in 1897. In the same year he was appointed as a lecturer in physical chemistry at the Sorbonne, Paris. He became a professor at the University in 1910, holding this post until the German occupation of France during World War II.In 1895, Jean Perrin showed that cathode rays were made of corpuscles with negative electric charge. He computed Avogadro's number through several methods. He explained solar energy by the thermonuclear reactions of hydrogen.After Albert Einstein published (1905) his theoretical explanation of Brownian motion in terms of atoms, Perrin did the experimental work to test Einstein's predictions, thereby settling the century-long dispute about John Dalton's atomic theory.Jean Perrin received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1926 for his work on the discontinuous structure of matter, and especially for his discovery of sedimentation equilibrium.Perrin was the author of a number of books and dissertations. Most notable of his publications were: "Rayons cathodiques et rayons X" ; "Les Principes"; "Electrisation de contact"; "Réalité moléculaire"; "Matière et Lumière"; "Lumière et Reaction chimique".Perrin was also the recipient of numerous prestigious awards including the Joule Prize of the Royal Society in 1896 and the La Caze Prize of the Paris Academy of Sciences. He was twice appointed a member of the Solvay Committee at Brussels in 1911 and in 1921. He also held memberships with the Royal Society of London and with the Academies of Sciences of Belgium, Sweden, Turin, Prague, Romania and China. He became a Commander of the Legion of Honour in 1926 and was made Commander of the Order of Léopold (Belgium).In 1927, he jointly founded the Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique and in 1937 the Palais de la Découverte, a science museum in Paris.Perrin was an officer in the engineer corps during World War II. When the Germans invaded France in 1940, he escaped to the U.S.A. where he died in New York City. After the War, in 1948, his remains were transported back to France by the battleship Jeanne d'Arc and buried in the Panthéon.One of his students was Pierre Victor Auger. Perrin was the father of Francis Perrin, also a physicist.ReferencesExternal links1926 Nobel Prize[http://www.archive.org/search.php?query=creator%3A%22Perrin%2C%20Jean%2C%201870-1942%22 Atoms], translated by Dalziel Hammick, in the Internet Archive Category:Alumni of the École Normale Supérieure Category:Burials at the Panthéon Category:French physicists Category:Légion d'honneur recipients Category:Nobel laureates in Physics Category:French Nobel laureates Category:Order of Léopold recipients Category:Theoretical physicists Category:University of Paris alumni Category:Members of the French Academy of Sciencesbn:জঁ-বাতিস্ত পেরাঁ bg:Жан Батист Перен ca:Jean Baptiste Perrin cs:Jean Baptiste Perrin da:Jean Baptiste Perrin de:Jean-Baptiste Perrin es:Jean Perrin eo:Jean Baptiste Perrin fa:ژان باپتيست پرن fr:Jean Perrin gl:Jean Baptiste Perrin hi:जां बाप्टिस्टे पेरिन io:Jean Baptiste Perrin id:Jean Baptiste Perrin it:Jean Baptiste Perrin sw:Jean Perrin ht:Jean Baptiste Perrin ku:Jean Baptiste Perrin nl:Jean Perrin ja:ジャン・ペラン no:Jean Baptiste Perrin oc:Jean Baptiste Perrin pl:Jean Baptiste Perrin pt:Jean Baptiste Perrin ro:Jean Baptiste Perrin ru:Перрен, Жан Батист sa:जां बाप्टिस्टे पेरिन sl:Jean Baptiste Perrin sr:Жан Батист Перен fi:Jean Baptiste Perrin sv:Jean Baptiste Perrin tr:Jean Baptiste Perrin zh:让·巴蒂斯特·皮兰