 .]]  Media Markt is a German chain of stores selling consumer electronics with numerous branches throughout Europe. It is Europe's largest retailer of consumer electronics.Media Markt was founded by entrepreneurs Leopold Stiefel, Walter Gunz, Erich Kellerhals, and Helga Kellerhals. The first store opened on 29 November 1979 in Munich.Today, it is owned by MediaSaturn Holding, which also owns the rival Saturn chain of electronics and media stores. MediaSaturnHolding in turn is owned by the German retail company METRO AG.MediaMarkt is active in Greece.Media Markt is known in Germany for its humorous, but sometimes crude, advertising campaigns; for example, the slogan "Lasst euch nicht verarschen" ("Don't let them make an ass of you").Media Markt's main slogan "Ich bin doch nicht blöd" (I am not stupid) has been translated into the languages of the other countries where the company operates:LanguageSloganGerman]]Ich bin doch nicht blöd. (I am not stupid)Basque]]Ni ez naiz inozoa!Catalan]]Jo no sóc tonto! (I am not a fool!)Dutch]]Ik ben toch niet gek! (I am not crazy)French]]Je ne suis pas fou. (I am not crazy)Greek]]Δεν είμαι και κορόιδο!Hungarian]]Mert hülye azért nem vagyok! (Because I'm not stupid)Italian]]Non sono mica scemo!Polish]]Nie dla idiotów! (Not for idiots!)Portuguese]]Eu é que não sou parvo! (It's not me who's a fool!)Spanish]]¡Yo no soy tonto! (I am not a fool!)Swedish]]Plötsligt verkar allt annat ganska puckat! ('All of a sudden everything else seems pretty daft')Turkish]]Avrupa'nın 1 numarası (#1 of Europe)Russian]]Номер один в Европе (#1 in Europe)2006 World Cup advertising campaignPrior to the 2006 World Cup, Media Markt launched a campaign, claiming to be the "best fan supplier" ("Bester Fanausrüster"), with commercials showing international football fans shopping at Media Markt, showing exaggerated stereotypes of the participating countries, and making fun of the Austrian team, which did not qualify. This included a French seductress, Dutch fans smoking marijuana in caravans, or a Saudi haggling - to pay more. Germans fans were portrayed with big bellies, asking for refrigerators to keep their beer cool, rather than looking for a new TV set.An additional series of ads, promoting a rebate of €10 for each goals Germany scores (except penalty shoot-outs), showed international soccer fans begging the Germans to score as many goals as possible - against their own team.When the Netherlands lost to Portugal, Media Markt used a quote from a 1970s show featuring the late Rudi Carrell, a Dutchman who was a long-time TV celebrity in Germany, to express Schadenfreude. A World Cup trophy is shown to grieving Dutch fans in their caravan with the comment "This would have been your prize!".Polish advertising controversyIn March 2006, the "Poland version" showed moustache-wearing Polish customers praising the shop for "prices deep like Polish soul" before hugging the German sales managers, who looked quite uncomfortable in the bear hugs. Afterwards, one of the Germans pointed out that his watch was still there, and that "The Pole is an honest person, after all". Then, the three men are shown to be missing their trousers.This commercial caused a scandal in Poland, for the widely known German stereotype of Poles being thieves. Media Markt argued that the advertisements also made fun of other national clichés, including Germans, and none of the other clichés were perceived as negative towards the people they presented. Its aim was to exaggerate the cliché of the Polish thief to dismiss it as unjustified prejudice, Media Markt claimed. http://focus.msn.de/finanzen/news/proteste-aus-polen_nid_26829.htmlThe store apologised and withdrew the advert after their Polish branch asked to do so, following protests in Poland, a call from the Polish embassy in Berlin and protests from German Polonia.Portuguese advertising controversyIn January 2008 Media Markt launched a campaign presenting a fictitious country called "Dumb Land", where several characters were presented as being from this country, which even has an anthem. A central theme of this campaign presented a Boy Scout as an idiot. This really upset people as many consider Scouts to be responsible and valued members of society. An online petition was created to persuade Media Markt to withdraw the campaign and to offer a public apology. Due to this petition and a lot of pressure from the Scouting movement, Media Markt had to remove the Boy Scout from their campaign, including TV and radio ads.SaubilligThe current campaign depicts the customers as being transformed into pigs after entering the store ("Schweingang" = pig's entrance, "Sausgang" = sod's exit).Store ownershipMedia Markt has an unusual approach to store ownership. Every store is 10% owned by the store manager. Not only that but the store manager has broad discretion as to the products he or she stocks.The store manager is independent in respect of:RangePricingPersonnelMaterial costsUpdate: Fortis had a 60 % ownership in the Metro-Group so now the future of Media Markt is uncertain.See alsoGerman humorFnac - competitor (rumours going around that Fnac would be the new owner of Media Markt stores... more news will follow)External linksOfficial siteCategory:Consumer electronics retailers Category:Retail companies of Germanyde:Media-Saturn-Holding es:Media-Markt eu:Media Markt fr:Media Markt hu:Media Markt-Saturn nl:Media Markt pl:MediaMarkt ru:Media Markt sv:Media Markt tr:Media Markt