The Heysel Stadium disaster occurred owing to football hooliganism in which a retaining wall of the Heysel Stadium in Brussels collapsed on May 29 1985 before a football match between Liverpool F.C. from England and Juventus F.C. from Italy. 39 people were killed, mostly Italian Juventus fans, and hundreds more were injured. The match was the final of the 1985 European Cup tournament.Approximately an hour before the scheduled kick-off time a number of Liverpool fans breached a fence separating the two groups of supporters and charged at and attacked the Italian supporters. Juventus fans were forced to retreat, putting pressure on a dilapidated wall, which collapsed away from them with the resulting crush leading to the deaths. The game was played despite the disaster.The tragedy resulted in all English football clubs being placed under an indefinite ban by UEFA from all European competitions (lifted in 1990-91), with Liverpool F.C. being excluded for an additional year. The disaster has been called "the darkest hour in the history of the UEFA competitions."Quote from UEFA Chief Executive Lars-Christer Olsson in 2004, uefa.comBackgroundIn May 1985 Liverpool were the premier football team in Europe, having been European Cup champions in four of the previous eight seasons. Liverpool reached the final again in 1985, and were looking to defend the title that they won by defeating Roma the previous year. Again they would face Italian opposition, Juventus, who were the reigning Cup Winners' Cup holders and had a team comprising many of Italy's 1982 World Cup winning team, plus the mercurial Michel Platini of France, winner of the Ballon d'Or (awarded to European footballer of the year) in 1983, 1984, and 1985.Earlier, in January, Liverpool had visited Turin to play Juventus in the European Super Cup. Juve won the game 2–0. There should have been a second match at Anfield, but Liverpool couldn't find time in their schedule for the return leg, so it was postponed until after Heysel, and was never played.1984 - Liverpool vs. RomaThe previous year against Roma the final had coincidentally taken place at Roma's Stadio Olimpico in Rome. Liverpool won the cup on penalties. After the match, gangs of Roma fans assaulted Liverpool supporters who were making their way back to their hotels. Many fans were attacked, stabbed and slashed. The appalled Roman press reported that this was not simply a reaction to the defeat, but that Roma fans had stowed weapons in their cars before the game, and had rushed to get them upon the final whistle.Liverpool's local radio station Radio City also experienced this violence first hand. Many Liverpool supporters were attacked by gangs of Roma fans when they approached the local bus station. Drivers refused to take Liverpool fans on their buses in case they were attacked and many English fans who had been refused travel sought refuge in the British Embassy. Eventually, a volunteer driver agreed to take Liverpool fans on a bus through the city, dropping people off at their respective hotels. Police outriders were required at the front and rear of the bus to protect it. Radio City had a news crew on the bus and interviewed fans who had been stabbed and beaten. None of this violence received any news coverage in the UK national press, but it did in Italy. The only UK paper to publicise this violence was the local Liverpool daily paper The Liverpool Echo, under the headline "The Ecstasy and the Agony".May 29, 1985Built in 1930, the Heysel Stadium was outdated and not a suitable venue for a match such as the European Cup Final. Large parts of the stadium were crumbling. Even at the time many felt the ground was patently unsafe for football, with Liverpool Chief Executive Peter Robinson urging UEFA to use another venue.The stadium was crammed with 58,000&ndash;60,000 supporters, with more than 25,000 for each team. The two ends behind the goals comprised all-standing terraces, each end split into three zones. The Juventus end was O, N and M. At the other end Liverpool were allocated X and Y, with the Z section (to one side) being reserved for neutral Belgian fans. The idea of this large neutral area was opposed by both Liverpool and Juventus, as it would provide an opportunity for fans of both clubs to obtain tickets from agencies or from ticket touts outside the ground and thus create a dangerous mix of fans.At the time Brussels, like the rest of Belgium, had a large Italian community, and many expatriate Juventus fans bought the section Z tickets.  Added to this, many tickets were bought up and sold by travel agents, mainly to Juventus fans. A small percentage of the tickets ended up in the hands of Liverpool fans.To add to the tension, the Liverpool X and Y sections were overcrowded after many fans managed to get in without tickets, and most of the fans had been drinking all day.ConfrontationAt approximately 7pm local time, an hour before kick-off, the trouble started.  The Liverpool and Juventus supporters in sections Y and Z stood merely yards apart. The boundary between the two was marked by temporary chicken-wire fencing and a central thinly-policed no-man's land.  It is not clear who started throwing missiles; but as a result missiles began to be exchanged across the divide. One often-quoted source of the missiles was the crumbling stadium; fans could pick up stones from the terraces beneath them.As kick-off approached, the throwing became more intense. A group of Liverpool fans charged across the terraces, through and over the wire fence into section Z causing the Juventus fans to retreat. Having no way out, the Juventus fans moved towards the side perimeter wall, near to the corner flag. Some tried to climb over the wall to escape. The aging wall could not withstand the weight and collapsed.It was at this point that the majority of the deaths occurred - 39 people died, and a further 600 were injured.  Bodies were carried away on sections of iron fencing and laid in piles outside, covered with giant football flags. As police and medical helicopters flew in, the down-draught blew away the modest coverings. The situation became chaotic.In retaliation for the events in section Z, Juventus fans then rioted at their end of the stadium. They advanced down the stadium running track towards the Liverpool supporters seeking confrontation, but police intervention stopped the advance. The Juventus fans fought the police with rocks, bottles and missiles for two hours. One even fired a pistol (later verified as being a starting pistol). When the game eventually kicked off, riot police were still fighting a pitched battle with Juventus supporters, and they maintained a presence around the entire pitch for the duration of the game.A much overlooked part of the tragedy is that, before the main match, a friendly game was played by very young Belgian selection players. By pure coincidence, the teenagers were playing in colours identical to the cup contestants. In their first half, the red Belgian team built a 3-0 lead, to the great pleasure of Liverpool fans who started acting as if the Cup game had already started. When the white selection team scored in the second half, around 19.10, the English and Italian fans were starting to brawl. With several minutes to go, the game was called off and the young players were taken away. http://geschiedenis.vpro.nl/programmas/2899536/afleveringen/22469665/items/22561631/39 victims39 football fans died in the incident, 32 Italian fans of Juventus FC, 4 Belgians, 2 French and an Irishman.&nbsp;Juventus 1-0 LiverpoolDespite the scale of the disaster, it was felt that abandoning the game would have risked inciting further trouble, and the match eventually kicked off after the captains of both sides spoke to the crowd and appealed for calm. Although accounts vary, it appears that most players from both teams were unaware that there had been deaths. Indeed, some supporters have said that it wasn't until after the game that they found out that people had died.Juventus won the match 1-0 thanks to a controversial penalty scored by Michel Platini. The penalty was awarded by Swiss referee Daina for a foul against Zbigniew Boniek, but the foul was apparently committed outside the penalty area.  This created some conjectures about the intent of favouring Juventus in order to avoid extra time.At the end of the game, the Juventus players celebrated their victory in the middle of the pitch and outside. It is debated whether they were aware of the dead. In 1995 Stefano Tacconi - Juventus goalkeeper said: "We knew that in the Heysel some people had died down in the sector Z. We were told by the plenty, plenty fans that had arrived to our changeroom to receive medical attention.". Citation needed  On the other hand, the former Juventus president Giampiero Boniperti recently maintained in his biography to "have ordered the changerooms to be locked and no information should have been leaked inside" since he feared the players could have been assaulted.Fabio Chisari, "The Cursed Cup": Italian responses to the 1985 Heysel disaster in: Soccer and Disaster - International Perspectives (P. Darby, M. Johnes, and G. Mellor eds.) p. 91 Consistent statements have been released by Juventus striker Paolo RossiFabio Chisari, cit.Aftermath Officially the entire blame for the incident was laid on the fans of Liverpool FC. On May 30 official UEFA observer Gunter Schneider said "Only the English fans were responsible. Of that there is no doubt." UEFA, the organiser of the event, the owners of Heysel Stadium and the Belgian police were never investigated for culpability. There was no official inquiry into the causes of the disaster.On May 31, British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher put pressure upon the FA to withdraw English clubs from European competition, and then two days later UEFA banned English clubs for "an indeterminate period of time". On June 6 FIFA extended the ban to all worldwide matches, but this was modified one week later to allow friendly matches to take place. The ban did not apply to the English national team. English clubs were banned indefinitely from European club competitions with a proviso being added that Liverpool would serve a further three year ban after the ban on other English clubs had been lifted. In the event English clubs were banned for five years. Liverpool in the end only served one year of the extra three year ban.The British police undertook a thorough investigation to bring to justice the perpetrators. Some 17 minutes of film and many still photographs were examined. TV Eye produced an hour-long programme featuring the footage and the British press also published the photographs.There were 27 arrests on suspicion of manslaughter – the only extraditable offence applicable to events at Heysel. Approximately 60 per cent were from Liverpool and the remainder from places that ranged from Aberdeen to Ipswich. Some of these people had previous convictions for football-related violence. In 1989, after a 5-month trial in Belgium, fourteen Liverpool fans were given 3-year sentences for involuntary manslaughter. Half the terms were suspended  and it is unclear how many served their sentences.Heysel Stadium continued to be used for hosting athletics for almost 10 years, but no further football matches took place in the old stadium. In 1995 the stadium was demolished and the King Baudouin Stadium built on the site. On August 23, 1995 the new stadium welcomed the return of football to Heysel in the form of a friendly match between Belgium and Germany. It then hosted a major European final on May 8 1996 when Paris Saint-Germain defeated Rapid Vienna 1&ndash;0 to win the Cup Winners Cup.Players' and supporters' reactionsSeveral Juventus players and supporters have expressed unhappiness with the way Juventus dealt with the incident, in that they displayed the trophy in their trophy cabinet straight after the game, and didn't do enough to help the bereaved families, for example, not having any kind of memorial to the supporters who died. Despite efforts by Liverpool F.C. and sections of the media to suggest otherwise, the majority of Juventus supporters have never forgiven the Liverpool supporters for their actions at Heysel and have displayed these sentiments on many occasions since.Some Liverpool players and supporters feel that it was wrong to entirely apportion the blame for the disaster on Liverpool supporters, and that other factors, such as the ticketing arrangements and inadequate policing, contributed to the events. The fact that there was never an official inquiry also raised eyebrows.A number of commentators have questioned Liverpool's (and Juventus's) handling of the disaster, particularly in comparison to high profile 'Justice for the 96' campaign fought after the Hillsborough Disaster - Liverpool Football Club has never accepted culpability, or responsibility for the actions of its fans and has never formally apologised for the events or compensated the families of those killed.BBC SPORT | Football | Europe | In among the Ultras&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Heysel - The witnesses | Football | The Observer&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;A bad sign of the trouble to come in Italy | Mail Online&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Although in 2005 the Liverpool Echo published a front page emblazoned with the words 'We're Sorry' reflecting a widespread opinion that the fans of Liverpool football club were the main culprits and had brought shame upon the city.Consequences for football in EnglandThe ban from European competition had mixed effect on the game in England. In club football, before the 5-year ban English clubs had been dominant in European competition with 6 European Cup victories, 1977&ndash;1982, and again in 1984. Since the ban ended in 1990, English teams have won the tournament three times (1999, 2005, 2008). In the period 1991-1996, no champions of England made either the final group stages of the revised European Cup/UEFA Champions League or the knockout rounds from 1995-1996 onward.However, English clubs won the European Cup Winners Cup in 1991, 1994 (losing finalists 1995) and 1998. Since 1997 English teams exited 8 times at the semi final stage, 8 times at the quarter final stage - a substantial number of which are attributable to Manchester United, as well as Liverpool winning the UEFA Cup in 2001 plus two losing finalists (2000, 2006). It has been argued that the lack of English success during this period is attributable to the style of play employed by English sides rather than the ban, in particular the so called "long ball" tactic.Further, at International level, the England national team reached the semi finals of the 1990 FIFA World Cup during the ban. A number of world class English players were produced during the ban - notably Paul Gascoigne - and notable successful players such as Gary Lineker remained in English football despite the lack of European competition.From May 1 2008, the English league surpassed La Liga and returned to the top of the UEFA coefficient list, based on performance of English clubs in European competition against rival leagues, with the UEFA Champions League final being played by two English sides, Manchester United and Chelsea. This is the first time England has topped the list since the Heysel Disaster and the ban on European competition in 1985. This point can be argued as the quantifiable return of English football to the level just prior to the disaster - a period of 23 years.Impact on LiverpoolThe impact on Liverpool football club is arguable. Liverpool had already captured four European Cup titles within the 8 year span, but they would have to wait twenty-one years to win the fifth. However, Liverpool continued to perform well in the Football League and FA Cup during the ban from Europe, only falling into relative decline following the replacement of Kenny Dalglish with Graeme Souness in 1991. Liverpool also faced increased competition following the rise of Manchester United under Sir Alex Ferguson throughout 1990s and Arsenal F.C. under Arsène Wenger from 1997, making qualification for Europe far more difficult until the expansion of the UEFA Champions League qualification to 3 teams in 1999-2000 and to 4 in 01-02. The impact on local rivals Everton F.C. was significant in that the ban denied the side the chance to appear in the European Cup and other European competition and led to the loss of manager Howard Kendall and several key players; however, during the ban the club remained relatively successful. It can be argued the impact of the introduction of the Premier League on Liverpool and English clubs was far more severe than the European ban - Liverpool have yet to secure a league title since its introduction and Everton have narrowly escaped relegation on a number of occasions.Impact on StadiaAfter Heysel, English clubs began to impose stricter rules intended to make it easier to prevent trouble-makers from attending games. However, the main reforms did not come until after the Hillsborough disaster (also involving Liverpool supporters), in which 96 people died in 1989.An example of the new rules is that fans are now often required to become members of clubs in order to apply for game tickets, and closed-circuit cameras have been installed throughout stadiums. Fans who misbehave can have their tickets revoked and be legally barred from attending games at any English stadium.Teams affected by the ban During the duration of the ban arising from the Heysel disaster, 17 teams missed out on the chance to play in the three European competitions.ClubEuropean CupUEFA CupCup Winners' CupLiverpool]]'''1986-87, 1988-89, 1990-911985-86, 1987-881989-90Everton]]'''1985-86, 1987-881986-87, 1988-891986-87 *Arsenal]]'''1989-901987-88Tottenham Hotspur]]'''1985-86, 1987-88, 1989-90Manchester United]]'''1986-87, 1988-891985-86Chelsea]]'''1985-86, 1986-87Norwich City]]'''1985-86, 1987-88, 1989-90Nottingham Forest]]'''1988-89, 1989-90Southampton]]'''1985-86Oxford United]]'''1986-87West Ham United]]'''1986-87Sheffield Wednesday]]'''1986-87Luton Town]]'''1988-89Queens Park Rangers]]'''1988-89Derby County]]'''1989-90Coventry City]]'''1987-88Wimbledon]]'''1988-89* Everton were eligible to enter either the Cup Winners' Cup or the UEFA Cup for the 1986-87 campaign, Everton had finished runners-up in the First division in 1986 and had also finished runners-up to Liverpool in the FA Cup, because Liverpool had won the First division and FA Cup Everton could therefore enter the Cup Winners' Cup as Liverpool would enter the European Cup.Even after the ban was lifted in 1990, English teams had to wait five seasons before earning back all of the European places which they had held before 1985. This affected eight teams, who missed qualification for the UEFA Cup until and including the 1994-95 tournament.SeasonClub(s)1990-91Tottenham Hotspur]], Arsenal, Chelsea1991-92Crystal Palace]], Leeds United, Manchester City1992-93Arsenal]], Manchester City1993-94Blackburn Rovers]], Queens Park Rangers1994-95Leeds United]]Commemorationscreates a mosaic saying "Amicizia" ("Friendship")]] During Euro 2000, all the members of the Italian team left flowers on the site, in honour to the dead fans of Juventus.On May 29, 2005, a £140,000 sculpture was unveiled at the new Heysel stadium, to commemorate the disaster. The monument is a sundial designed by French artist Patrick Rimoux and includes Italian and Belgian stone and the poem Funeral Blues by Englishman W.&amp;nbsp;H.&amp;nbsp;Auden to symbolise the sorrow of the three nations. 39 lights shine, one for each who died that night.Juventus and Liverpool were drawn together in the quarter-finals of the 2005 Champions League. This match took place 20 years after the Heysel incident and was the first time the clubs faced each other since that time. Before the first leg at Anfield Liverpool fans held up placards to form a banner saying "amicizia" ("friendship" in Italian). Many Juventus fans applauded the gesture, though a significant number chose to turn their backs on it.The second leg in Turin was played against a backdrop of crowd trouble as Juventus fans clashed with police, attacked Liverpool supporters and threw missiles.  Liverpool ended up winning the tie 2-1, en route to their famous 2005 Champions League victory.References in pop cultureThe disaster was the subject of a song titled "38" by Revolting Cocks.British composer Michael Nyman made a piece called &quot;Memorial&quot; which was originally part of a larger work of the same name written in 1985 in memory of the Juventus fans who died at Heysel Stadium.Claudio Baglioni, in his song "Naso di Falco", wonders "chi ha schiacciato i cuori dell'Heysel" ("who crushed the hearts in Heysel").The Icicle Works, in a song from their 1987 album If You Want to Defeat Your Enemy, Sing His Song, had a song entitled 'Up here in the North of England'. The song laments the depths the City of Liverpool sank to at the end of the 1980s, and refers to the Heysel Disaster in the line 'McDonalds finally found us, and we're folklore in Turin, we used to pull the ships in, now we're going down, look at the state we're in'See also1985 European Cup FinalFootball hooliganismHillsborough disasterReferencesExternal linksHeysel Tragedy article on LFC OnlineBBC Sports columnist Alan Hansen - Reds tie evokes Heysel memoriesDoubleBand Films documentary on The Heysel Stadium DisasterFootball Violence in Europe Paper by the Social Issues Research CentreMemorial Italian Fansite Memorial Fansite (In Italian)VideosJournal ArticlesThe International Journal of the History of Sport; Football hooliganism as a transnational phenomenon: Past and present analysis: A critique – More specificity and less generality, (Routledge; Volume 24, Number 4/April 2007)Soccer and Society, (Routledge; Volume 5, Number 2/Summer 2004)Soccer and Society, 'Heads in the Sand': Football, Politics and Crowd Disasters in Twentieth-Century Britain, (Routledge; Volume 5, Number 2/Summer 2004)Soccer and Society, English Football Fan Groups in the 1990s: Class, Representation and Fan Power, (Routledge; Volume 5, Number 2/Summer 2004)Soccer and Society, For Club and Country: Taking Football Disorder Abroad, (Routledge; Volume 3, Number 1/Spring 2002)Soccer and Society, Hit and tell: A review essay on the Soccer Hooligan Memoir, (Routledge; Volume 5, Number 3/Autumn 2004)Soccer and Society, The Nature and Extent of Football Hooliganism in England and Wales, (Routledge; Volume 7, Number 4/December 2006)Soccer and Society, The Ownership and Control of Elite Club Competition in European Football, (Routledge; Volume 8, Number 1/January 2007)Soccer and Society, This Sporting Life: The Realism of The Football Factory, (Routledge; Volume 8, Number 1/January 2007)Soccer and Society, 'Protect Me From What I Want’: Football Fandom, Celebrity Cultures and ‘New’ Football in England, (Routledge; Volume 7, Number 1/January 2006)Category:History of English football Category:History of Brussels Category:1985 disasters Category:Disasters in Belgium Category:Human stampedes Category:Stadium disasters Category:Football in Belgium Category:Football in Italy Category:Sport in Brussels Category:Liverpool F.C. Category:Juventus F.C. Category:Sports riots Category:1985 riots Category:1985 in Belgiumda:Heysel-tragedien de:Katastrophe von Heysel es:Tragedia de Heysel fr:Drame du Heysel ko:헤이젤 참사 hr:Heyselska tragedija id:Tragedi Heysel it:Strage dell'Heysel he:אסון הייזל hu:Heysel-tragédia nl:Heizeldrama ja:ヘイゼルの悲劇 no:Heysel-tragedien pl:Zamieszki na Heysel pt:Tragédia de Heysel ru:Эйзельская трагедия fi:Heysel-stadionin mellakka th:โศกนาฏกรรมเฮย์เซล tr:Heysel Faciası zh:希素球場慘劇