  An internet café or cybercafé is a place where one can use a computer with Internet access, most for a fee, usually per hour or minute; sometimes one can have unmetered access with a pass for a day or month, etc. It may serve as a regular café as well, with food and drinks being served.History  The concept and name, Cybercafé, was invented at the beginning of 1994 by Ivan Pope. Commissioned to develop an Internet event for an arts weekend at the Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA) in London. Pope wrote a proposal outlining the concept of a café with Internet access from the tables. The event was run over the weekend of 12-13 March 1994 during the 'Towards the Aesthetics of the Future' event.In June 1994, The Binary Cafe, Canada's first Internet café, opened in Toronto, Ontario.After an initial appearance at the confrence site of the 5th International Symposium on Electronic Art, ISEA, in August 1994, an establishment called CompuCafe was established in Helsinki, Finland, featuring both Internet access and a robotic beer seller.Inspired partly by the ICA event, a commercial establishment of this type, called Cyberia,http://www.xs4all.nl/%7Esjongens/cyberia/ opened on September 1, 1994 in London, England.The first public, commercial American Internet cafe was conceived and opened by Jeff Anderson in August 1994, at Infomart in Dallas, Texas and was called The High Tech Cafe.The next Internet café in the USA, called Internet Cafetm, was opened by Arthur Perley in early 1995 in the East Village neighborhood of New York City.A variation of Internet café called PC bang (similar to LAN gaming center) became extremely popular in South Korea when StarCraft came out in 1997. Although computer and broadband penetration per capita were very high, young people went to PC bangs to play multiplayer games.Characteristicsed Internet café in San Juan del Sur, Nicaragua.]] Internet cafés are located world-wide, and many people use them when traveling to access webmail and instant messaging services to keep in touch with family and friends. Apart from travelers, in many developing countries Internet cafés are the primary form of Internet access for citizens as a shared-access model is more affordable than personal ownership of equipment. A variation on the Internet café business model is the LAN gaming center, used for multiplayer gaming. These cafés have several computer stations connected to a LAN. The connected computers are custom-assembled for gameplay, supporting popular multiplayer games. This is reducing the need for video arcades and arcade games, many of which are being closed down or merged into Internet cafés. The use of Internet cafés for multiplayer gaming is particularly popular in certain areas of Asia like China, Taiwan, South Korea and The Philippines.There are also Internet kiosks, Internet access points in public places like public libraries, airport halls, sometimes just for brief use while standing. Many hotels, resorts, and cruise ships offer Internet access for the convenience of their guests; this can take various forms, such as in-room wireless access, or a web browser that uses the in-room television set for its display (usually in this case the hotel provides a wireless keyboard on the assumption that the guest will use it from the bed), or computer(s) that guests can use, either in the lobby or in a business center. As with telephone service, in the US most mid-price hotels offer Internet access from a computer in the lobby to registered guests without charging an additional fee, while fancier hotels are more likely to charge for the use of a computer in their "business center."For those traveling by road in North America, many truck stops have Internet kiosks, for which a typical charge is around 20 cents per minute.Internet cafés come in a wide range of styles, reflecting their location, main clientele, and sometimes, the social agenda of the proprietors. In the early days they were important in projecting the image of the Internet as a 'cool' phenomena.EvolutionInternet cafés are a natural evolution of the traditional café. Cafés started as places for information exchange, and have always been used as places to read the paper, send postcards home, play traditional or electronic games, chat to friends, find out local information. Cafés have also been in the forefront of promoting new technologies, for example, the car in 1950s California.As internet access is in increasing demand, many pubs, bars and cafes have terminals, so the distinction between the Internet cafe and normal café is eroded. In some, particularly European countries, the number of pure Internet cafés is decreasing since more and more normal cafés offer the same services. However, there are European countries where the total number of publicly accessible terminals is also decreasing. An example of such a country is Germany. The cause of this development is a combination of complicated regulation, relatively high internet penetration rates, the widespread use of notebooks and PDAs and the relatively high number of WLAN hotspots. Many pubs, bars and cafés in Germany offer WLAN, but no terminals since the Internet café regulations do not apply if no terminal is offered. Additionally, the use of Internet cafés for multiplayer gaming is very difficult in Germany since the Internet cafe regulations and a second type of regulations which was originally established for video arcade centers applies to this kind of Internet cafes. It is, for example, forbidden for people under the age of 18 to enter such an Internet café, although particularly people under 18 are an important group of customers for this type of Internet café.While most Internet cafés are private businesses many have been set up to help bridge the 'digital divide', providing computer access and training to those without home access. For example, the UK government has supported the setting up of 6000 telecentres.In July 2008 the worlds first Internet Cafe on the Internet was released in Karlskoga, Sweden. Virtual Internet Cafe http://www.virtualinternetcafe.com use the same principles as a regular Internet Cafe, but is completely based on the Internet. Users of Virtual Internet Cafe remote control designated Cafe computers instead of using their own computers on the Internet. This gives the users the option to be completely anonymous on the Internet while protecting their own computers from malicious softwares and spywares.Censorship and copyright violationIn places with censoring regimes such as Singapore, Internet cafés are closely controlled. In some places computers are in booths to allow private access to pornography. In some areas of Los Angeles they are controlled because they attract street gangs.Copyright violations by clients are cause for concern by Internet Cafe Operators. For example, the easyInternetcafe chain discontinued its CD burning services because it was held responsible for copyright violations by clients.VenuesChinaAccording to "Survey of China Internet Café Industry" by the Ministry of Culture, in 2005: China has 110,000 Internet cafés, with more than 1,000,000 people working in this area, contributing 18,500,000,000 Yuan to China's GDP. More than 70% Internet café visitors are from 18 to 30 years old. 90% are male, 65% unmarried, and 54% hold a college degree. More than 70% of visitors play computer games. 20% of China's Internet users go to InternetCafe.Milestones:Before 1995. An Internet Café called 3C+T appeared in Shanghai, suspected as the first one in China. Price: 20 Yuan per hour($2.50 per hour)1995~1998. China's Internet Cafés reached a period of fast development. Playing unconnected games is the main purpose of café users. Price: 15~20 Yuan per hour1998~2000. Booming era of Internet cafes. Competition became more and more fierce.2000~2002. Booming era of Internet games. First Internet chain café occurred in 2001. Nine people were killed in an Internet café fire in Beijing in June, 2002. A new regulation was released by the state government, giving the Ministry of Culture full responsibility of licensing Internet cafés.After 2002, heavy censorships were imposed, including real name registration. At the end of 2004, more than 70,000 Internet cafés were closed in a nationwide campaign.IndonesiaAccording to APWKomitel (Associations of Community Internet Center) there are 5,000 Internet Cafe in urban Indonesian cities in 2006 providing computer/printer/scanner rental, training, PC game and Internet Access/Rental to the people that do not have PC or internet access at home. The website also contains a directory listing some of these warnet/telecenter/gamecenter in Indonesia. In urban area, the generic name is Warnet (or Warung Internet) and in rural area the generic name is Telecenter. Warnets/ Netcafes (ie: Java NetCafe established in 1998) are usually owned by private SME as bottom up initiative, while Telecenter in rural villages are usually initiated by Government and Donor as top down financing. Information on Netcafe/Warnet in Indonesia can also be found in a book titled: Connected for Development:Indonesian Case study. Currently, there are no special license for operating Internet Cafe or Warnet in Indonesia, except for ordinary business license also applied to cafe or small shop. Because of hype and many internet cafe start their business without proper planning, some of them closed down for lack of a business plan. Although the number is still growing, Association such as APWKomitel urges new internet cafe owner to do a feasibility study for startup netcafe and provide business model called Multipurpose Community Internet Center or &quot;MCI Center&quot; to make the business more sustainable and competitive.South Korea In South Korea, internet cafes are called PC bangs.In Korean, "bang" (Hangeul: 방; Hanja: 房) means "room", so the term literally means PC room. They are ubiquitous in South Korean cities, numbering over 20,000. PC bangs are similar to British and American Internet cafes, but most cater more to online game playing for the younger generation of Koreans. On average, use of a PC bang computer is priced at around 1,000 Won per hour (about USD$1).Internet café management softwareblue image InterCafe, Cafe Cop, Cafe Server, CafeSuite, Cafezee, Cyber Café Manager, Cyber Monitor, CyberLeader, Cyntopic, Dijitanix CafePilot, Easybrowsing, HandyCafe, MyCafeCyo, Smartlaunch, ViBersoft.See alsoManga cafeHotspot (Wi-Fi)TelecenterreknoPublic computerNet cafe refugeesNotesReferencesNew Spin on Internet Cafe, &quot;o3 cafe&quot; interview with Anthony Chidiac. Georgie Raik-Allen, The Age, December 9th, 2003.Madanmohan Rao(1999), Bringing the Net to the Masses: cybercafes in Latin AmericaConnected for development-Information Kiosks &amp; Sustainability - UN ICT TaskForce Series 4 ITU 'Global Indicators Workshop on Community Access to ICTs' di Mexico City, 16-19 November 2004 Here's to the Techies Who Lunch, New York Times, August 27, 1994report on Yahoo's best cafes, 2004.External linksInternet Cafés DirectoryInternet Cafe HistorySouthern African Internet Cafe DirectoryUpdated internet-cafe directory and blogCyber Cafe Directory of IndiaThinix Guest-Access Computers and Kiosk TechnologyCategory:Types of coffeehouses Category:Internet service providersar:مقهى إنترنت ca:Cibercafè cs:Internetová kavárna da:Internetcafé de:Internetcafé es:Cibercafé eo:Retumejo fa:کافی‌نت fr:Cybercafé ko:피시방 id:Warung Internet it:Cybercafe he:אינטרנט קפה ms:Kafe siber nl:Internetcafé ja:インターネットカフェ pl:Kafejka internetowa pt:Cyber café ru:Интернет-кафе fi:Nettikahvila sv:Internetkafé zh:网吧