 | birth_place = Mutsamudu, Anjouan, Comoros | party = Independent  Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi (, born 5 June 1958 in Mutsamudu, Anjouan Island, Comoros) is the current President of Comoros. He is a Comorian Islamic leader and politician. He is popularly known as 'Ayatollah'. After easily winning the 14 May, 2006 elections with 58.02% of the national vote, Sambi was inaugurated as President of the Union of the Comoros on 26 May, 2006. It was the first peaceful transfer of power in the history of the Comoros.Personal lifeSambi is a father of seven children and owns factories which produce mattresses, bottled water and perfume - a key Comoros export. He lives above a shop called The House of Mattresses in the Anjouan capital, Mutsamudu. He also set up a television station called Ulezi (education).He was educated in Islamic studies in Sudan, Saudi Arabia and Iran. His title of 'Ayatollah' also comes from his studies in Iran.Political careerRunning as an independent candidate in the 16 April 2006 presidential primary election on the island of Anjouan, Sambi placed first out of thirteen candidates, winning 23.70% of the vote.In the 14 May elections, Sambi was declared the victor on 15 May by Secretary of State for elections Ali Abdallah over retired French air force officer Mohamed Djaanfari and long-time politician Ibrahim Halidi, whose candidacy was backed by Azali Assoumani, the outgoing president.Political viewsSambi has been quoted as saying that Comoros is not ready to become an Islamic state, nor will anyone be forced to wear a veil under his presidency. He is also the first president from the island of Anjouan. He also promised to fight corruption, create jobs and build better houses for the majority of Comorians living in poverty.References tags--   See alsoTokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD-IV), 2008. Category:1958 births Category:Living people Category:Ayatollahs Category:Current national leaders Category:Presidents of Comoros Category:Comorian Sunni Muslimsde:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi et:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi el:Αχμέτ Αμπντάλα Σαμπί es:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi fr:Ahmed Abdallah Sambi id:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi it:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi nl:Ahmed Abdallah Sambi ja:アフメド・アブドラ・モハメド・サンビ pl:Ahmed Abdallah Sambi ru:Самби, Ахмед Абдалла sv:Ahmed Abdallah Mohamed Sambi zh:艾哈迈德·阿卜杜拉·穆罕默德·桑比