 The flag of Greenland was designed by Greenland native Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk slightly to the hoist side of centre. The top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white. The entire flag measures 12 by 18 parts; each stripe measures 6 parts; the disk is 8 parts in diameter, horizontally offset by 7 parts from the hoist to the centre of the circle, and vertically centered.Its local name in the Greenlandic language is Erfalasorput, which means "our flag", but Aappalaartoq (meaning "the red") is also used for both the Greenlandic flag and the ''Dannebrog''. Today Greenlanders display both the Erfalasorput and the Dannebrog, often side-by-side.Greenland first entertained the idea of a flag of its own in 1973 when five Greenlanders proposed a green, white and blue flag. The following year, a newspaper solicited eleven design proposals (all but one of which was a Nordic cross) and polled the people to determine the most popular. The Dannebrog was better liked than any. Little came of this effort.In 1978, Denmark granted home rule to Greenland, making it an equal member of the Rigsfællesskab. The home rule government held an official call for flag proposals, receiving 555 (of which 293 were submitted by Greenlanders).The deciding committee came to no consensus, so more proposals were solicited. Finally the present red-and-white design by Christiansen narrowly won over a green-and-white Nordic cross by a vote of fourteen to eleven. Christiansen's red-and-white flag was officially adopted June 21, 1985.To honour the tenth anniversary of the Erfalasorput, the Greenland Post Office issued commemorative stamps and a leaflet by its creator. He described the white stripe as representing the glaciers and ice cap, which cover more than 80% of the island; the red stripe, the ocean; the red semicircle, the sun, with its bottom part sunk in the ocean; and the white semicircle, the icebergs and pack ice. The design is also reminiscent of the setting sun half-submerged below the horizon and reflected on the sea. The colours of the flag are the same as those of the Dannebrog, symbolising Greenland's place in the Danish Realm.Other proposals       External linksFOTW: Greenland - History of the ErfalasorputOther flag proposals for a Nordic cross design Category:Greenlandic culture Greenland, Flag ofbs:Zastava Grenlanda cs:Vlajka Grónska cy:Baner yr Ynys Las da:Grønlands flag de:Flagge Grönlands et:Gröönimaa lipp el:Σημαία της Γροιλανδίας es:Bandera de Groenlandia fr:Drapeau du Groenland gl:Bandeira de Grenlandia ko:그린란드의 국기 hr:Zastava Grenlanda bpy:গ্রীনল্যান্ডর ফিরালহান id:Bendera Greenland it:Bandiera della Groenlandia he:דגל גרינלנד lt:Grenlandijos vėliava hu:Grönland zászlaja nl:Vlag van Groenland ja:グリーンランドの旗 no:Grønlands flagg pl:Flaga Grenlandii pt:Bandeira da Gronelândia ru:Флаг Гренландии sq:Flamuri i Grenlandës simple:Flag of Greenland sk:Vlajka Grónska sr:Застава Гренланда sh:Zastava Grenlanda fi:Grönlannin lippu sv:Grönlands flagga zh:格陵蘭旗幟