 Nickelback is a Canadian rock band formed in Hanna, Alberta by Chad Kroeger, Mike Kroeger, Ryan Peake and then-drummer Brandon Kroeger (the current drummer of Nickelback being Daniel Adair). The band is one of the most popular of the modern post-grunge genre, along with groups such as 3 Doors Down and Daughtry, performing in a significantly more radio-friendly style than the traditional, early 1990s grunge music era. Although the founders of the band hail from Hanna, Alberta, a small town east of Calgary, they are now based in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The band's name originates from the nickel in change that band member Mike Kroeger gave customers at his Starbucks job—he would frequently say, "Here's your nickel back". Namely Nickelback MusicMatch GuideThe band is signed to EMI at home and Roadrunner Records for the rest of the world. In July 2008, the band signed with Live Nation for three touring and album cycles, with an option for a fourth cycle. The contract includes recordings, touring, merchandise and other rights.HistoryNickelback's first release was a seven-track EP called Hesher in 1996. In the same year Nickelback recorded their first full-length album Curb. "Fly" was released on Hesher and Curb and was the first single produced by Nickelback. It did not chart and was only played on local radio stations.  The following album The State was recorded in 1998 and was released as an independent record the same year. Nickelback signed a record deal with EMI and Roadrunner Records. The State was then re-released in 2000 by EMI and Roadrunner Records; it was certificated gold in Canada and the United States.In 2001, Nickelback released the album Silver Side Up, which propelled them into the mainstream. The single "How You Remind Me" was a huge success, peaking at #1 on both the American and Canadian charts at the same time. In the U.S., it was a #1 single on the Mainstream and Modern rock charts, as well as the pop chart. It also peaked at #2 on Adult Top 40. "How You Remind Me" became the Billboard Hot 100 #1 single of the year for 2002. The next single was "Too Bad", which also hit #1 on the Mainstream Rock Chart and had a small amount of success on the pop chart. The final single from the album was "Never Again", another #1 hit on Mainstream Rock.In 2002, Chad Kroeger worked with Josey Scott on the Spider-Man theme song, "Hero". This also featured Tyler Connolly, Mike Kroeger, Matt Cameron, and Jeremy Taggart.In 2003, Nickelback released The Long Road. The lead single was "Someday".Nickelback's fifth studio album, All the Right Reasons, produced five U.S. Hot 100 top 20 singles: "Photograph", "Savin' Me", "Far Away", "If Everyone Cared", "Rockstar". Three of these became U.S. Hot 100 top 10 singles.On September 4, 2008 Roadrunner Records announced that the first single from their upcoming album was originally going to be "If Today Was Your Last Day" and was to be released September 30, 2008. However, the song was scrapped as the first single, and "Gotta Be Somebody" will serve as the lead single instead. Mainstream Top 40 Add Dates FMQB.com. Accessed September 25, 2008 The new album, titled Dark Horse, is to be released on November 18, 2008. The album is being produced by Mutt Lange.http://www.komodorock.com/new-releases/cd-releases/nickleback-announce-new-album-200809047346/ Nickleback Announce New AlbumDiscographyCurb (1996)The State (2000)Silver Side Up (2001)The Long Road (2003)All the Right Reasons (2005)Dark Horse (2008)AwardsReferencesExternal linksOfficialOfficial websiteOfficial website at Roadrunner RecordsNickelback perform on AOL SessionsFar Away Review on The Daily Music GuideInterviewsNickelback on The Hour, June 11, 2007Category:Nickelback Category:Musical groups established in 1995 Category:Canada's Walk of Fame Category:1990s music groups Category:2000s music groups Category:Post-grunge groups Category:Hard rock groups Category:Canadian rock music groups Category:Juno Award winners Category:Quartets Category:Roadrunner Records artists Category:Warner Music Group artistsar:نيكيلباك bg:Nickelback cs:Nickelback da:Nickelback de:Nickelback et:Nickelback el:Nickelback es:Nickelback eu:Nickelback fa:نیکل‌بک fr:Nickelback gl:Nickelback ko:니켈백 hsb:Nickelback id:Nickelback it:Nickelback he:ניקלבק hu:Nickelback ms:Nickelback nl:Nickelback ja:ニッケルバック no:Nickelback uz:Nickelback pl:Nickelback pt:Nickelback ro:Nickelback ru:Nickelback sk:Nickelback sl:Nickelback fi:Nickelback sv:Nickelback vi:Nickelback uk:Nickelback