   New Netherland (Dutch: Nieuw-Nederland, Latin: Novum Belgium or Nova BelgicaGallia Belgica: Belgica as the name of the Low Countries), 1614–1674, is the name of the former Dutch territory on the eastern coast of North America in the 17th century. It's initial borders stretched from latitude 38 to 45 degrees north but French and English interests in the northern part lead to the adjustment of the northern border to latitude 42 degrees north. New Netherland thus covered parts of what are now the states of Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and Rhode Island.HistoryExplorationIn 1524 the first European to visit the area was Giovanni da Verrazzano, who was hired by the French crown and sailed the Dauphine (English: Dolphin) from Cape Fear in the south to Nova Scotia in the north during his expedition to find a route to the Pacific Ocean.Wroth, Lawrence (1970) The Voyages of Giovanni da Verrazzano, 1524-1528, New Haven : Pierpont Morgan Library by Yale University Press, ISBN 0-300-01207-1In 1609, during the first year of the twelve-year armistice between The Dutch Republic and Spain, Henry Hudson who had been hired by the Dutch East India Company, sailed the yacht Halve Maen (English: Half Moon) across the Atlantic on an expedition in search of a passage to China. He made landfall at Newfoundland Island and next at Cape Cod, which he mistakenly thought was an island too. Setting off again he sailed south to the Chesapeake and explored the coast northward including the bays and rivers, ending up at the location of present day Albany on the Hudson River, at which point the water became too shallow to continue, and he headed back to Europe. Hudson’s report to his superiors relayed that he had engaged in small-scale bartering for furs with the natives he had encountered along the Mauritius River, which attracted further Dutch interest in the area.In 1610, the prospect of exploiting Henry Hudson’s report of a new trade resource was the catalyst for Dutch private merchant-traders to explore the river region Hudson had discovered. It resulted in the only known commercial expedition in the year 1610 by Symen Lambertsz Mau to the Mauritius River, which was the original name for the Hudson River.In 1611-1612, the Admiralty of Amsterdam sent two covert expeditions to find a passage to China with the yachts Craen and Vos, captained by Jan Cornelisz May and Symon Willemsz Cat respectively.In 1611-1614, during four voyages, the area between present day New Jersey and Massachusetts was commercially explored, surveyed and charted by Adriaen Block, Hendrick Christiaensz and Cornelis Jacobsz May. Their map of 1614, presented to the States General, claimed the territory as New Netherland for the Republic of the Seven United Provinces.  Some of those explorers are still honored today such as Adriaen Block, for whom Block Island has been named, and Cornelis Jacobsz May, for whom Cape May, New Jersey is named, and his business partner Thymen Jacobsz Hinlopen for whom Cape Henlopen, Delaware, is named.'s 1614 expedition to New Netherland, featuring the first use of the name.]] The results of these explorations, surveys and charts made from 1609–1614, were consolidated in a map made by Adriaen Block and presented to the States General in 1614. The map named New Netherland for the first time and was delivered on behalf of various competing trading companies in the Hudson River region. They had amalgamated in a new company named the New Netherland Company.The map and a companion detailed report were presented in response to a States General promulgation of March 17, 1614, that it would grant an exclusive patent for trade between the 40th and 45th parallels, good for four voyages to the discoverer of new countries, harbors and passages. The journeys had to be undertaken within three years after granting the trading rights at the exclusion of all other Dutch. The New Netherland Company was the winner on October 11, 1614 with the date of patent expiration on January 1, 1618.The New Netherland Company had the Delaware area surveyed by skipper Cornelis Hendricksz of Monnikendam in the years 1614, 1615 and 1616. However, it was unable to secure an exclusive patent from the States General for the area between the 38th and 40th parallel. Upon Block’s departure to patria in June 1614, Cornelis Hendricksz had stayed behind and had been appointed by Block as skipper of the North American-built ship Onrust (English: Restless). Restless was a replacement ship built by Block in the vicinity of Manhattan upon the destruction of his yacht Tyger which had been lost to fire in January 1614. Adriaen Block never returned to New Netherland. Cornelis Hendricksz’s Zuyd Rivier, (Delaware River) explorations, from its very top to the lower bay, have been preserved in a map of 1616.The Dutch West India CompanyAt the conclusion of the armistice with Spain, in 1621, the Dutch West India Company received its charter from the States General.http://www.yale.edu/lawweb/avalon/westind.htm&lt;/ref&gt; It had very broad objectives covering the entire Atlantic region as originally formulated in a concept patent in 1606. In 1621, it still incorporated the narrow objectives of its spiritual founder Willem Usselincx who, between 1600 and 1606, had made the case for the Company as primarily a source of colonies in the new world. In 1620, Usselincx made a last appeal to the States General who rejected his principal vision as its primary goal. The result was that colonization would now take a tertiary place after the Company’s chief aims of military and profit seeking activities in the Atlantic arena. New Netherland was thus destined to become the State General’s stepchild until 1654 when it had surrendered Dutch Brazil, obtained through conquest from the Portuguese in 1630. Having lost this possession, the richest sugar producing area in the world, enabled it to focus belatedly on the New Netherland nation-building effort in North America.Between 1621 and 1623, in preparation for North American colonization, the West India Company recalled all private commercial parties operating in the New Netherland territory, and invalidated all private commercial interests, thus voiding maritime law as the only legal recourse in the region. The peopling and growth of New Netherland as an overseas province was to be financed partly by profits from fur trading operations. That trade was therefore made exclusive to the West India Company in order to minimize the company’s financial exposure to the colony.ColonizationSince the issue of patents by the States General in 1614, New Netherland had been a private, commercial venture. This changed in 1624, when New Netherland became a province of the Dutch Republic and the northern border was lowered to 42 degrees north in acknowledgment of the inevitable intrusion of the English north of Cape Cod (see John Smith's 1616 map as self-anointed Admiral of New England). According to the Law of Nations, a claim on a territory required not only discovery and charting, but also settlement. In May 1624 the Dutch completed their claim by landing 30 Dutch families on Noten Eylant, modern Governors Island.A fur trading post had been established by Dutch traders in 1614 or 1615 with the construction of Fort Nassau on Castle Island, up Hudson's river, in the area of present-day Albany. The location of the fort proved to be impractical, due to repeated flooding of Castle Island in the summers, and the fort was abandoned in 1618.  In 1624, Fort Orange was built nearby, on the west bank of the river. The primary purpose of the forts was to defend river traffic against interlopers and to conduct fur trading operations with the natives. (Fort Nassau and Fort Orange were named in honor of the House of Orange-Nassau, whose members occupied positions of power as lord-lieutenants of various provinces of the Dutch Republic.)In the summer of 1624, the Dutch West India Company delivered the first colonists (mostly from southern Netherlandic or Walloon ancestry) on Noten Eylant, now Governors Island, in New Netherland. They came from the Walloon communities in Amsterdam, Haarlem and Leiden and comprised thirty families. These colonists had disembarked on Governors Island from the ship named “New Netherland” under the command of Cornelis Jacobsz May, the first director of the Province of New Netherland. Some of these colonists traveled upriver and settled near Fort Orange, where the settlement of Beverwijck grew up. (This settlement was the forerunner of New York state's capital, Albany; the name was changed when the English captured New Netherland in 1664.)In June, 1625, forty-five more colonists disembarked on Governors Island from three ships named Horse, Cow and Sheep which also delivered 103 horses, steers and cows, in addition to numerous pigs and sheep. It successfully completed the Republic’s first planting of a colony in 1624. Director May (1624-1625) was replaced with Director Willem Verhulst (1625-1626).Prior to establishment of Fort Amsterdam on Manhattan Island in 1625, giving birth to New York City, there was a fort on Noten Eylant in 1624, giving birth to New York State (as well as New Jersey, Connecticut and Delaware, i.e., the New York Tri-State region). On the Delaware River there existed a Fort Wilhelmus on Verhulsten Island, now Burlington Island, a Fort Nassau (1623-1651), now Gloucester in New Jersey, and in the Connecticut River was Fort Goede Hoop, also known as Huys de Hoop in 1633 (En. "House of Hope"), giving birth to Hartford.In 1643–1645, the Dutch colonists fought the Weckquaesgeek Indians in the bloody Kieft's War, near nowaday’s Jersey City and elsewhere in New Netherland.New Netherland as a utopian settlement, 1635.]]Although the Dutch West India Company had established the Reformed Church as the official religious institution of New Netherland  , the early Dutch settlers planted the concept of toleration as a legal right in North America as per explicit orders in 1624. They had to attract, “through attitude and by example”, the natives and non-believers to God’s word “without, on the other hand, to persecute someone by reason of his religion and to leave everyone the freedom of his conscience” (via “levenshouding en voorbeeld” moesten zij “de Indianen ende andere blinde menschen tot de kennisz Godes ende synes woort sien te trecken, sonder nochtans ijemant ter oorsaecke van syne religie te vervolgen, maer een yder de vrijcheyt van sijn consciencie te laten”).Those instructions derived from the founding document of the Dutch Republic, the 1579 Union of Utrecht, stating “that everyone shall remain free in religion and that no one may be persecuted or investigated because of religion” (“dat een yder particulier in sijn religie vrij sal moegen blijven ende dat men nyemant ter cause van de religie sal moegen achterhaelen ofte ondersoucken”). That statement, unique in the world at the time, became the historic underpinning for the opening of the first synagogue in the Western Hemisphere at Recife in Dutch Brazil in 1642 as well as the "official" granting of full residency for both Ashkenazim and Sephardim at New Amsterdam in 1655. Furthermore, the laws and ordinances of the states of Holland were incorporated by reference in those first instructions to the Governors Island settlers in 1624. They contained the legal-cultural code that lies at the root of the New York Tri-State traditions and, ultimately, American pluralism (diversity) and liberty.In 1658 Franciscus van den Enden together with Pieter Corneliszoon Plockhoy worked on a project for a utopian settlement in New Netherland, more precisely in the area of the present Delaware. In 1663 Plockhoy and 41 settlers made their way to Delaware Bay and established their colony near the former Swaanendael.English incursionsWilliam Wood’s 1634 map is the first to show Cape Cod as part of New England, evidence of English settlement spilling over from New England into New Netherland. Unable to militarily defend their large territorial claims, the Dutch could do nothing but protest the growing flood of English. With the founding of New Haven in 1638, the flood picked up and English settlers began moving into the areas right around New York and Long Island.Peter Stuyvesant was Director-General of the colony from 1647 until it was ceded provisionally to the English in 1664.With the 1650 Treaty of Hartford, Stuyvesant provisionally ceded the Connecticut River region to New England, drawing New Netherland's eastern border 50 Dutch miles west of the Connecticut's mouth on the mainland and just west of Oyster Bay on Long Island. The Dutch West India Company refused to recognize the treaty, but since they failed to reach any agreement with the English themselves, the Hartford Treaty set the de facto border.In March of 1664, Charles II of England resolved to annex New Netherland and to “bring all his Kingdoms under one form of government, both in church and state, and to install the Anglican government as in old England”. In the face of this the Directors of the Dutch West India Company comforted themselves that the religious freedom of the colony rendered military defense against New England unnecessary. They wrote to Director-General Peter Stuyvesant, “we are in hopes that as the English at the north (in New Netherland) have removed mostly from old England for the causes aforesaid, they will not give us henceforth so much trouble, but prefer to live free under us at peace with their consciences than to risk getting rid of our authority and then falling again under a government from which they had formerly fled.”On August 27, 1664, four English frigates sailed in New Amsterdam’s harbor and demanded New Netherland’s surrender. They met no resistance because previously, numerous citizens’ requests for protection by a suitable garrison against “the deplorable and tragic massacres” by the natives had gone unheeded. That ongoing lack of sufficient garrisons, ammunition and gun powder, as well as the indifferent responses from the West India Company upon frequent and urgent requests for reinforcement of men and ships against “the continual troubles, threats, encroachments and invasions of the English neighbors and government of Hartford Colony” made New Amsterdam defenseless. Stuyvesant made the best of a bad situation and negotiated successfully for good terms from his “too powerful enemies." The capture of the city was one out of a series of attacks on Dutch colonies that resulted in the Second Anglo-Dutch War between England and the Dutch Republic.During the negotiations over the Articles of Transfer, Petrus Stuyvesant and his council secured the principle of tolerance in Article VIII, which assured New Netherlanders that they “shall keep and enjoy the liberty of their consciences in religion” under English rule. In the 1667 Treaty of Breda, the Dutch did not press their claims on New Netherland. The status quo, with the Dutch occupying Suriname and the nutmeg island of Run, was maintained; no definitive solution was decided on.RestitutionWithin six years, the nations were again at war, and in August of 1673 the Dutch recaptured New Netherland with a fleet of 21 ships, then the largest one seen in North America. It comprised a squadron under the command of Vice-Admiral Cornelis Evertsen de Jongste sent out by Pieter Huybert, raadspensionaris of the Zeeland Chamber of the Dutch West India Company, and a squadron of the Amsterdam Chamber under the command of Jacob Binckes. They installed Anthony Colve as “governor” and renamed the city "New Orange", reflecting the installation of William of Orange as Lord-Lieutenant (stadtholder) of Holland in 1672 (He became King William III of England in 1689). However, after the conclusion of the third Anglo-Dutch war, 1672-1674, — the historic “disaster years” in which The Dutch Republic was simultaneously attacked by the French (Louis XIV), the English and the Bishops of Munster and Cologne — the republic was financially and morally bankrupt. The States of Zeeland had tried to convince the States of Holland to take on the responsibility for the New Netherland province to no avail. In November 1674, the Treaty of Westminster concluded the Third Anglo-Dutch War and ceded New Netherland definitively to the English. The province of New Netherland and the city of New Orange were renamed New York.DemographicsPopulation estimates:1628: 2701630: 3001640: 5001664: 9,000 (700 of which were black)LegacyNew Netherland has left a profoundly enduring legacy on both American cultural and political life. Perhaps most significant was the impact of cultural and religious tolerance which led to a wealth of diversity in New Amsterdam. This tolerance was the mainstay of its mother country, the Dutch Republic as nation state and a haven for refugees from surrounding autocratic or despotic regimes. In 1682, the visiting Virginian William Byrd commented about New Amsterdam that "they have as many sects of religion there as at Amsterdam". This religious freedom was preserved under the Articles of Transfer to English authority.More visible traces of Dutch influence include the prevalence of Dutch placenames in the region from Rhode Island to Delaware to this day. Examples include:Amsterdam - named after the Dutch capitalBergen- hills, as in the New Jersey PalisadesBlock Island - named after the explorer Adriaen Block who used the island from which to survey the Connecticut River and Long Island SoundBroadway - "Breede weg"Brooklyn - "Breuckelen", named after a Dutch townCape Cornelius - named after Cornelius Jacobsz MayCape Henlopen - named after Thijmen Jacobsz Hinlopen, a wealthy Baltic Trader and business partner of Cornelius MayCape May - named after Cornelius Jacobsz May who traded on a non-exclusive basis with the Delaware River IndiansCatskill - "Kil" is the Dutch word for a river inlet. This one is named after the Sachem named CatsClaverack - a "rack" or "rak" is a straight stretch of river good for anchorage. This stretch named after clovers that grew on its banksConey Island - "Konynen Eylant", meaning Rabbit IslandFlushing - named after the Dutch town of VlissingenGramercy - a corruption of the little river named "Krom Messie" which is old Dutch for "(small) crooked knife"Harlem - Nieuw Haarlem, named after a major Dutch cityHell Gate - "Hellegat", meaning Hell's Passage because of the violent currents, or else Bright GateHempstead - "Heemstede", the name of a village on the southside of Haarlem Holland and, later, the surrounding town in Nassau CountyHoboken - a district of Antwerp in Belgium, an estate of the Van Hoboken family Hoboken in 17th century Rotterdam?, a bastardization of the Lenape?Kinderhook - "Kinderhoek", meaning children's cornerLong Island - "Lange Eylant"New Utrecht Avenue - after the colonial town of New Utrecht itself named after another major Dutch cityNew York was called New Amsterdam until 1665Oyster Bay - "Oester Baai"Pavonia - a failed patroonship on the west side of the Hudson named by Michael Pauw, whose Latinized name means peacockRotterdam, named after a major Dutch citySpuyten Duyvil Creek is a one-mile-long channel connecting the Hudson and Harlem Rivers. "Spuyten Duyvil" literally means "Devil's Spout" or "Spuitende Duivel" in Dutch, a reference to the strong and wild currents.Staten Island - "Staaten Eylant", meaning States Island, named for the Dutch assembly Staten-Generaal)Tappan Zee - "Zee" is the Dutch word for "sea". The Tappaans were an Indian tribe to the West of the Hudson River where it is widestWall street - named after the Walloons and then later after the wall that was erected to protect the city against the threat of an English invasion in 1654 during the first Anglo-Dutch war...and others, including many streams (kills), roads and establishments.In addition, many New York citizens are directly descended from the Dutch citizens of New Netherland. For instance, the Roosevelt family, which produced two Presidents, are descended from Claes van Roosevelt, who emigrated from Haarlem in about 1650. The Van Buren family of President Martin Van Buren also originated in New Netherland.Further, the colors of the flag of the City of New York are the blue, white and orange of the old Dutch flag. The colors are also seen in the Nassau County flag, material from New York's two World's Fairs and the uniforms of the New York Mets baseball club, New York Knicks basketball club, and New York Islanders hockey club.The folk tales of the Dutch peasants of the Hudson Valley gave literary inspiration to Washington Irving for his two most famous short stories, Rip van Winkle and the Legend of Sleepy Hollow, proving the survival of the local Dutch culture well into the first part of the 19th century.A dialect of Dutch, known as Jersey Dutch, was spoken in and around Bergen and Passaic counties in New Jersey until the early 20th century http://www.bartleby.com/185/a12.html&lt;/ref&gt;See alsoDutch colonization of the AmericasDutch EmpireList of director generals of New NetherlandNew EnglandNew FranceNew SwedenReferencesNotesSourcesExternal linksThe New Netherland MuseumNew Netherland ProjectUn-Pilgrims - Article by Russell Shorto17-page article on Jewish arrival in New NetherlandRight of the People to Petition the Government for a Redress of Grievances; exercised in 1649 and codified in 1791 First AmendmentNew York and its originsDutch Portuguese Colonial History: history of the Portuguese and the Dutch in Sri Lanka (Ceylon), India, Malacca, Bengal, Formosa, Africa, Brazil. Language Heritage, lists of remains, maps.NEW NETHERLAND AND BEYOND: Collections of Genealogy and History, Including Maps and Various Lists!Category:1614 establishments Category:1674 disestablishments Category:Former Dutch colonies Category:New Netherland Category:History of the Netherlands de:Nieuw Nederland es:Nuevos Países Bajos eo:Nova Nederlando fr:Nouveaux-Pays-Bas gl:Novos Países Baixos it:Nuova Olanda he:הולנד החדשה nl:Nieuw-Nederland ja:ニューネーデルラント pl:Nowa Holandia pt:Novos Países Baixos ru:Новые Нидерланды zh:新尼德兰