 Pink is a pale red color that was first recorded in the 17th century to describe the pale red flowers of pinks, flowering plants in the genus Dianthus. This color stands for beauty, grace and goodness. Pink itself is a combination of red and white. Other tints of pink may be combinations of rose and white, magenta and white, or orange and white.Roseus is a Latin word meaning "rosy" or "pink." Lucretius used the word to describe the dawn in his epic poem On the Nature of Things (De Rerum Natura). CTCWeb Glossary: R (ratis to ruta)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The word is also used in the binomial names of several species, such as the Rosy Starling (Sturnus roseus) and Catharanthus roseus.Pink in genderIn Western culture, the practice of assigning pink to an individual gender began in the 1920s. From then until the 1940s, pink was considered appropriate for boys because it was the more masculine and decided color while blue was considered appropriate for girls because it was the more delicate and dainty colorMerkin, Daphne. &quot;Gender Trouble&quot;, The New York Times Style Magazine, 12 March 2006, retrieved 10 December 2007.Orenstein, Peggy. &quot;What's Wrong With Cinderella?&quot;, The New York Times Magazine, 24 December 2006, retrieved 10 December 2007. Orenstein writes: "When colors were first introduced to the nursery in the early part of the 20th century, pink was considered the more masculine hue, a pastel version of red. Blue, with its intimations of the Virgin Mary, constancy and faithfulness, was thought to be dainty. Why or when that switched is not clear, but as late as the 1930s a significant percentage of adults in one national survey held to that split.". Since the 1940s, the societal norm apparently inverted so that pink became appropriate for girls and blue appropriate for boys, a practice that has continued into the 21st centurySpringerLink - Journal Article&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.Though the color pink has sometimes been associated with gender stereotypes, some feminists have sought to reclaim it. For example, the Swedish radical feminist party Feminist Initiative uses pink as its color.Pink is the color of the Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon. Pink was chosen partially because it is so strongly associated with femininity. Pink Ribbon for Breast Cancer Awareness:It has been suggested that females prefer pink because of an evolutionary preference for reddish things like ripe fruits and healthy faces.http://news.yahoo.com/s/nm/20070820/sc_nm/colour_gender_dc&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;[http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn12512-women-may-be-hardwired-to-prefer-pink.html Women may be hardwired to prefer pink - being-human - 20 August 2007 - New Scientist] This suggestion, however, has been criticized as unsubstantiated. Bad Science » Pink, pink, pink, pink. Pink moan&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Pink in sexualityWhereas Jewish people were forced to wear the yellow stars of David under Nazi rule, and Roma people were forced to wear a black triangle, men imprisoned on accusations of homosexuality or same-sex sexual activity were forced to wear a pink triangle. Nowadays, the pink triangle is often worn with pride. The Pink Triangle: The Nazi War Against Homosexuals (1986) by Richard Plant (New Republic Books). ISBN 0-8050-0600-1.A Dutch newsgroup about homosexuality is called nl.roze (roze being the Dutch word for pink), while in Britain, Pink News is a leading gay newspaper and online news service. There is a magazine called Pink for the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transsexual (GLBT) community which has different editions for various metropolitan areas.  Website of Pink magazine: In France Pink TV is a LGBT cable channel.In business, the pink pound or pink dollar refers to the spending power of the GBLT communities. Opportunities in the Pink Economy of the United Kingdom:  Advertising agencies sometimes call the gay market the pink economy.In Japan the color Cherry Blossom Pink is associated with a woman's vagina, and therefore, in Japan, softcore pornographic films are called pink movies. In the bandana code of the gay leather subculture, wearing a pink bandana means that one is into the fetish of playing with dildos. Wearing a dark pink bandana means that one is into tit torture. Card showing list of bandana colors and their meanings, available at Image Leather, 2199 Market St., San Francisco, CA 94114  Gay City USA Hanky Code: Pink in human culture s.]]Alcoholic beveragesSeeing pink elephants is a euphemism for hallucinations caused by delirium tremens. Medline Encyclopedia: Delirium Tremens The concept was used in the Disney animated film Dumbo when the title character accidentally becomes drunk and sees a parade of pink elephants.A pink lady is an alcoholic beverage made with gin and grenadine syrup and may include other ingredients. http://www.drinksmixer.com/drink5902.html http://supercocktails.com/690/Pink-Lady A pink squirrel is made of white creme de cacao, creme de noyaux and cream. http://www.drinksmixer.com/drink5920.htmlArtIn 1993, artist Gioia Fonda created a conceptual piece in the form of a week long holiday called pink week. The intention of pink week is to liberate the color pink from all dogma and simply celebrate the color pink as a color.  Pink Week--when Pink means Pink: Bubblegum Pink is an installation by the artist duo Bigert & Bergstrom which "confronted viewer with three different mental climates"  involving large amounts of pink. This mirrors the use of the color in American prisons to calm aggressive prisoners. It features a pink cell and a carpet worn by repetitive pacing. Christo and Jeanne-Claude's Surrounded Islands wrapped wooded islands in Miami's Biscayne Bay with  of bright pink fabric.  Thomas von Taschitzki has said that "the monochrome pink wrappings"..."form a counterpoint to the small green wooded islands." Many of Franz West's aluminium sculptures were often painted a bright pink, for example Sexualitatssymbol (Symbol of Sexuality). West has said that the pink was intended as an "outcry to nature" and has alluded to phallic associations .CalendarsIn Thailand, pink is associated with Tuesday on the Thai solar calendar. Anyone may wear pink on Tuesdays, and anyone born on a Tuesday may adopt pink as their color.ClothingPINK is a line of loungeware clothing carried by Victoria's Secret designed specifically for teens.  Victoria's Secret Pink: CosmeticsMary Kay in 1968, Mary Kay Ash, purchased the first Pink Cadillac, which eventually became the trademark of her company.EducationAt the Miraloma Elementary School in San Francisco, California, on 6 September 2007, the principal, Ron Machado, got a pink Mohawk haircut , as he had agreed to do if the students raised the school’s Academic Performance Index by at least 55 points. They raised it by 67 points.  Principal Finds Test Scores Hair-Razing: FilmPretty In Pink has the color named in the titleThe Pink Panther is a popular cartoon character.Pink Cadillac was a 1989 movie starring Clint Eastwood.Pink Ladies was the name of Betty Rizzo's (Stockard Channing) gang in the film, Grease (film).FinanceSince 1893 the London Financial Times newspaper has used a distinctive salmon pink color for its newsprint, mainly as a way to distinguish itself from competitors. In other countries, the salmon press identifies economic newspapers or economics sections in "white" newspapers.GenderThe color pink is often used to represent women (See discussion above in section on Pink in gender and sexuality.).GeographyPink (or red) is traditionally used on maps for territory ruled by the British Empire or for members of the Commonwealth of Nations.Gun rightsThe Pink Pistols are a gay gun rights organization in the United States and Canada.Health[http://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/in-the-pink.html In the pink] is an English idiomatic expression for in good condition or in good health.LiteratureIn Spanish, a novela rosa ("pink novel") is a sentimental novel marketed to women.In Nathaniel Hawthorne's Young Goodman Brown, Faith is wearing a pink ribbon in her hair which represents her innocence.As he moves out of the darkness, a pink ribbon blows down next to him and he sees that Faith is part of the “communion” that is taking place in the woods.MusicP!nk is an American singer-songwriter whose real name is Alecia Moore.  Official site of singer Pink:"Pink" is a song by Aerosmith.Under The Pink is an album by Tori Amos.Pink Floyd is a British progressive rock band.Pink Anderson, an American blues musician who served as part of the inspiration for the name of Pink Floyd.Pink Fairies is a British hard rock band; one of the founding members, Twink released a solo album called Think Pink."Think Pink!" is a song from Funny Face.Pink Cadillac (song) is a 1984 humorous rockabilly song by Bruce SpringsteenElvis Presley owned what is the most famous Pink Cadillac in the worldJapanese stoner/drone band Boris have a 2005 album called Pink.Pink Lady was a Japanese female pop music duo of the late 1970s and early 1980s, featuring Mitsuyo Nemoto ("Mie") and Keiko Masuda ("Kei").Pinky was a Japanese punk rock performer in the early 1990s.Shocking Blue – whose name may be a gender-reversing play on shocking pink – was a Dutch rock band that was founded in the late 1960s.The Pink Spiders, an American power pop band.The Flaming Lips, an alternative/psychedelic band, produced the album Yoshimi Battles The Pink Robots.Pretty in Pink is a song by The Psychedelic FursParapsychologyIt has been asserted that people with pink auras are those who strongly desire romantic relationships. Oslie, Pamalie Life Colors: What the Colors in Your Aura Reveal Novato, California:2000--New World Library Page 342 PoliticsPink, being a 'watered-down' red, is sometimes used in a derogatory way to describe a person with mild communist or socialist beliefs (see Pinko).In maps of political parties in Portugal, pink is used to represent the Socialist Party.The Pink House is the residence of the President of Argentina.Code Pink is an anti-war organization co-founded in 2002 by anti-corporate globalization activist Medea Benjamin of the NGO Global Exchange in San Francisco. Code Pink: Women for Peace on the site of Global Exchange. Accessed 31 January 2007.The term pink revolution may be used to refer to the overthrow of President Askar Akayev and his government in the Central Asian republic of Kyrgyzstan after the parliamentary elections of February 27 and of March 13 2005, although it is more commonly called the tulip revolution.ReligionIn Catholicism, pink (called rose by the Catholic Church) symbolizes joy and happiness. It is used for the Third Sunday of Advent and the Fourth Sunday of Lent to mark the halfway point in these seasons of penance. However, in some Protestant denominations, the pink candle is sometimes lit on the Fourth Sunday of Advent, the Sunday of Love.Pink is the color most associated with Indian spirtual leader Meher Baba, who often wore pink coats to please his closest female follower, Mehera Irani, and today pink remains an important color, symbolizing love, to Baba's followers.The Invisible Pink Unicorn is the goddess of a parody religion, a rhetorical tool intended to satirize the contradictory properties often attributed to deities.SexualityPink (especially Hot Pink) is often used to represent homosexuality (See discussion above in section on Pink in gender and sexuality.).SonicsPink noise (), also known as 1/f noise, is a signal or process with a frequency spectrum such that the power spectral density is proportional to the reciprocal of the frequency.SportsPink can mean the scarlet coat worn in fox hunting (a.k.a. "riding to hounds"). One legend about the origin of this meaning refers to a tailor named Pink (or Pinke, or Pinque).The leader in the Giro d'Italia cycle race wears a pink jersey (maglia rosa); this reflects the distinctive pink-colored newsprint of the sponsoring Italian La Gazzetta dello Sport newspaper.The University of Iowa's Kinnick Stadium visitors' locker room is painted pink. The decor has sparked controversy, perceived by some people as suggesting sexism and homophobia.  Controversy regarding pink University of Iowa locker room:TelevisionIn the TV series Power Rangers and its Japanese counterpart, Super Sentai, pink is a ranger color. The pink rangers are usually the airheaded, though the Power Rangers: Lost Galaxy and Power Rangers: Operation Overdrive, pink rangers are the smart ones of the team. They are always female, and are interchangeable with white.ToysMattel's Barbie line often displays pink prominently on packaging and other goods.Transportation planningThe Chicago Transit Authority recently debuted the Pink Line light rail service.In the London Underground system, Hammersmith &amp; City Line, running from Hammersmith to Barking is assigned the color pink on the tube map.Pink is one of the colors used in the fixtures of the MMDA such as bus shelters; the other one is light blue. Also, pink is painted on some streets of Metro Manila.See alsoList of colorsFuchsia PinkMagentaRosePink (singer)Pink noisePink PantherVariations of pinkReferencesExternal linksGoogle Answers &amp;ndash; Pink, Why Feminine?All About The color PinkThe History of Color - &quot;Paint the Town Pink&quot;a la pink ~ everything pinkPink Junction ~ a blog of pink things Category:LGBT termsgn:Pytãngy ay:Pantila ba:Ал ca:Rosa (color) cs:Růžová de:Rosa (Farbe) el:Ροζ es:Rosa (color) eo:Roza eu:Arrosa kolore fr:Rose (couleur) gd:Bàn-dhearg gl:Rosa (cor) ko:분홍색 id:Merah jambu it:Rosa (colore) he:ורוד jv:Jambon ht:Woz (koulè) la:Puniceus lt:Rausva ln:Roze nl:Roze ja:ピンク ce:Беса-цIениг no:Rosa nn:Rosa pl:Barwa różowa pt:Cor-de-rosa qu:Llanqha ru:Розовый цвет simple:Pink fi:Vaaleanpunainen sv:Rosa (färg) th:สีชมพู vi:Hồng (màu) tr:Pembe ur:گلابی zh:粉红色