 | birthplace = Fort Worth, Texas, U.S. | birthname = Kathleen Sue Nail | academyawards = | goldenglobeawards = | baftaawards = | spouse = Robert Capshaw (1976 - 1980; divorced) 1 child  Steven Spielberg (1991 - present) 6 children  Kate Capshaw (born November 3, 1953) is an American actress. She is known for her role as Willie Scott in the film Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and for her marriage to director Steven Spielberg (who directed the film).BiographyEarly lifeCapshaw was born Kathleen Sue Nail in Fort Worth, Texas, the daughter of Beverley Sue (née Simon), a travel agent and beautician, and Edwin Leon Nail, an airline employee.Kate Capshaw Biography (1953-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Search Results&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; She moved to St. Louis, Missouri at the age of five, and graduated from Hazelwood Senior High, now called Hazelwood Central High School in 1972. Capshaw earned a degree in education from the University of Missouri, where she was a member of Alpha Delta Pi. She taught Special Education at Southern Boone County High School in Ashland, Missouri and Rock Bridge High School in Columbia, Missouri. She took the surname Capshaw upon her marriage to Robert Capshaw in January 1976; they had one child, actress Jessica Capshaw, and eventually divorced in 1980.Career Capshaw moved to New York to pursue her dream of acting, landing her first role on the soap opera Love of Life. She met film director Steven Spielberg upon winning the female lead (from a pool of 120 actresses) for the Raiders of the Lost Ark prequel, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. She appeared in the Showtime Cable Network miniseries A Girl Thing with Elle Macpherson as her same-sex lover.Personal lifeCapshaw, originally an Episcopalian, converted to JudaismFrom 'Schindler's List,' a Jewish Mission - New York Times&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Film: Steven Spielberg Faces the Holocaust&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; before marrying director Steven Spielberg on October 12, 1991.In popular cultureA character in the video game Monkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revenge, Kate Capsize, is named after Kate Capshaw. Steven Spielberg is a friend of George Lucas, whose film company, LucasFilm, founded LucasArts, the game's creator.ReferencesExternal links[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0963742 Performed voice over of Victoria Woodhull in the documentary, America's Victoria: Remembering Victoria Woodhull]  Category:1953 births Category:American adoptive parents Category:American educators Category:American film actors Category:American Jews Category:American soap opera actors Category:American television actors Category:Converts to Judaism Category:Former Protestants Category:Jewish actors Category:Living people Category:Missouri actors Category:People from Fort Worth, Texas Category:People from St. Louis County, Missouri Category:Texas actors Category:University of Missouri–Columbia alumniar:كايت كابشاو de:Kate Capshaw es:Kate Capshaw fr:Kate Capshaw hr:Kate Capshaw it:Kate Capshaw nl:Kate Capshaw ja:ケイト・キャプショー pl:Kate Capshaw pt:Kate Capshaw ru:Кэпшоу, Кейт fi:Kate Capshaw sv:Kate Capshaw