Flag ratio usually 1:2]] The flag of Libya () (adopted on November 11, 1977) consists of a simple green field with no other characteristics. It is the only national flag in the world with just one colour and no design, insignia, or other details.The flag of the independent kingdom was red, black, and green with a crescent and star in the center, but after the revolution of 1969, the flag became three simple stripes of red, white, and black. In 1971, Libya joined the Federation of Arab Republics with Egypt and Syria, which used a similar flag with a hawk emblem in the center and the name of the country beneath it. When Libya left the Federation in 1977, the new plain green flag was adopted. Green reflects the people's devotion to Islam, and is also the national color of Libya.History1918–1923The short-lived Tripolitanian Republic in western Libya had its own flag which had a light blue field and a green palm tree in the center with a white star on top of it.1951–1969The first national flag of modern Libya was adopted when Libya gained independence from Italy in 1951. It consisted of a white crescent-and-star on a triband red-black-green design, with the central black band being twice the width of the outer bands. Today, the former flag is still used by the monarchists and the Libyan opposition abroad. The design was based on the Senussi flag which consisted of a black field and crescent and star design. 1969–1972Following the 1969 coup, the official name of Libya was changed to Al-Jumhuriya al-Arabiya al-Libiya (the Libyan Arab Republic), and the flag was replaced by a Pan-Arabic red-white-black triband (similar to the flag of the Arab Revolt). 1972–1977In 1972 when Libya joined the Federation of Arab Republics (Ittihad al-Jumhuriyat al-Arabiya), the flag of the Federation of Arab Republics was adopted (briefly linking Libya to Egypt and Syria). It featured a golden hawk (the "Hawk of Qureish"), holding a scroll with the Arabic name of the Federation.  On March 8, 1977 Libya's official name was changed to: Al-Jamahiriya al-Arabiya al-Libiya ash-Sha`biya al-Ishtirakiya (the Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), and on November 11, 1977 the flag was changed to the current all-green design in reaction to Sadat's visit to Israel.Symbolism of current flagGreen is the traditional color of Islam, the state religion. It is also symbolic of Gaddafi's "Green Revolution". See alsoCoat of arms of LibyaReferences  Libya Category:National symbols of Libyaar:علم ليبيا ast:Bandera de Libia bs:Zastava Libije bg:Национално знаме на Либия ca:Bandera de Líbia cs:Libyjská vlajka da:Libyens flag de:Flagge Libyens et:Liibüa lipp el:Σημαία της Λιβύης es:Bandera de Libia eu:Libiako bandera fr:Drapeau de la Libye ko:리비아의 국기 hr:Zastava Libije bpy:লিবিয়ার ফিরালহান id:Bendera Libya it:Bandiera della Libia he:דגל לוב ku:Ala Lîbya lt:Libijos vėliava hu:Líbia zászlaja nl:Vlag van Libië ja:リビアの国旗 no:Libyas flagg nn:Det libyske flagget pl:Flaga Libii pt:Bandeira da Líbia ro:Drapelul Libiei ru:Флаг Ливии sk:Vlajka Líbye sl:Zastava Libije sr:Застава Либије sh:Zastava Libije fi:Libyan lippu sv:Libyens flagga th:ธงชาติลิเบีย tr:Libya bayrağı zh:利比亚国旗