, a Sanskrit word meaning "investigation" (compare Greek ἱστορία), is the name of an astika ("orthodox") school of Hindu philosophy whose primary enquiry is into the nature of dharma based on close hermeneutics of the Vedas. Its core tenets are ritualism (orthopraxy), anti-asceticism and anti-mysticism. The central aim of the school is elucidation of the nature of dharma, understood as a set ritual obligations and prerogatives to be performed properly. The nature of dharma isn't accessible to reason or observation, and must be inferred from the authority of the revelation contained in the Vedas, which are considered eternal, authorless (apaurusheyatva), and infallible.Encyclopedia Britannica (2007)Mimamsa strongly concerned with textual exegesis, and consequently gave rise to the study of philology and the philosophy of language. Its notion of shabda "speech" as indivisible unity of sound and meaning (signifier and signified) is due to Bhartrhari (7th century).see also chapter 3.2 in Peter M. Scharf, The Denotation of Generic Terms in Ancient Indian Philosophy (1996)TerminologyMimamsa is also known as  ("prior" inquiry, also ), in contrast to  ("posterior" inquiry, also ) is the opposing school of Vedanta. This division is based on the notion of a dichotomy of the Vedic texts into a , the department of the Veda treating of sacrificial rites (Samhitas and Brahmanas), and the  dealing with the knowledge of Brahman (the Upanishads).HistoryThe school's origins lie in the scholarly traditions of the final centuries BCE, when the priestly ritualism of Vedic sacrifice was being marginalized by Buddhism and Vedanta. To counteract this challenge, several groups emerged dedicated to demonstrating the validity of the Vedic texts by rigid formulation of rules for their interpretation. The school gathers momentum in the Gupta period with Śābara, and reaches its apex in the 7th to 8th centuries with Kumārila Bhaṭṭa and Prabhākara.The school for some time in the Early Middle Ages exerted near-dominant influence on learned Hindu thought, and is credited as a major force contributing to the decline of Buddhism in India, but it has fallen into decline in the High Middle Ages and today is all but eclipsed by Vedanta.Göhler (1995), p. 5f.Mimamsa textsThe foundational text for the Mimamsa school is the Purva Mimamsa Sutras of Jaimini (ca. 3rd to 1st century BCE). A major commentary was composed by Śābara in ca. the 5th or 6th century CE. The school reaches its height with  and  (fl. ca. 700 CE). Both Kumarila Bhatta and Prabhākara (along with , whose work is no more extant) have written extensive commentaries on Śābara's Mimamsasutrabhāshyam. Kumārila Bhatta, Mandana Misra, Parthasarathi Misra, Sucharita Misra, Ramakrishna Bhatta, Madhava Subhodini, Sankara Bhatta, Krsnayajvan, Anantadeva, Gaga Bhatta, Ragavendra Tirtha, VijayIndhra Tirtha, Appayya Dikshitar, Paruthiyur Krishna Sastri, Mahomahapadyaya Sri Ramsubba Sastri, Sri Venkatsubba Sastri, Sri A. Chinnaswami Sastri, Sengalipuram Vaidhyanatha Dikshitar were some of the Mimamsa Scholars.The  of Jaimini (c. 3rd century BCE) has summed up the general rules of  for Vedic interpretation. The text has 12 chapters, of which the first chapter is of philosophical value. The commentaries on the  by , , Hari and  are no more extant.  (c. 1st century BCE) is the first commentator of the , whose work is available to us. His  is the basis of all later works of .  (7th century CE), the founder of the first school of the  commented on both the  and its . His treatise consists of 3 parts, the , the  and the .  (8th century CE) was a follower of , who wrote Vidhiviveka and . There are several commentaries on the works of .  wrote a  (commentary) on the .  wrote , also known as , a commentary on the .  wrote  (1300 CE), another commentary on the . He also wrote , an independent work on the  and Tantraratna. ’s  is a commentary on the .  (8th century CE), the originator of the second school of the  wrote his commentary  on the . ’s  (9th century CE) is a commentary on the . His  is an independent work of this school and the  is a brief explanation of the . ’s  deals with the views of this school in details. The founder of the third school of the  was , whose works have not reached us. (17th century CE) wrote an elementary work on the , known as  or .  of  is based on the . ’s  was an attempt to combine the views of the  and the  schoolsRadhakrishnan, S. Indian Philosophy, Vol. II, Oxford University Press, New Delhi, 2006, ISBN 0-19-563820-4, pp.376-78.==''Dharma'' and atheism== Dharma as understood by Mimamsa can be loosely translated into English as "virtue", "morality" or "duty". The Mimamsa school traces the source of the knowledge of dharma neither to sense-experience nor inference, but to verbal cognition (i.e. knowledge of words and meanings). In this respect it is related to the Nyaya school.The Mimamsa school held dharma to be equivalent to following the prescriptions of the Samhitas and their Brahmana commentaries relating the correct performance of Vedic rituals. Seen in this light, Mimamsa is essentially ritualist (orthopraxy), placing great weight on the performance of Karma or action as enjoined by the Vedas. In this sense, it is a counter-movement to the mysticism of Vedanta, rejecting or de-emphasizing moksha or salvation. To a certain extent, Mimamsa is atheist, placing all importance in proper practice as opposed to belief, rejecting a creator God as well as any scriptures on dharma outside of the Vedic tradition, yet accepting svarga or heaven awaiting the person who has acted righteously in his or her life. In its rejection of belief in a God, it is related to the nastika Cārvāka school.NotesReferencesLars Göhler, Wort und Text bei : Studie zur mittelalterlichen indischen Sprachphilophie und Hermeneutik, Europäische Hochschulschriften. Reihe 20, Philosophie ; vol. 468, Lang (1995), ISBN 3-631-48821-1.Further reading Reprint edition; Originally published under the title of The Six Systems of Indian Philosophy.R.A. Ramaswami Shastri, A Short History Of The Purva Mimamsa Shastra, Annamalai University Sanskrit Series No. 3 (1936). Bollingen Series XXVI; Edited by Joseph Campbell.See alsoKalpa (ritual)ŚālikanāthaCārvākaExternal linksPurva Mimamsa Home PagePurva Mimamsa Sutras of JaiminiOverview of World Religions entryCategory:Hindu philosophical concepts Category:Indian philosophy Category:Hermeneutics Category:Ritual Category:Sanskrit words and phrasescs:Mímánsá de:Purva Mimansa es:Mimamsa fr:Mîmâmsâ hi:मीमांसा id:Mimamsa it:Mimamsa nl:Mimamsa ja:ミーマーンサー学派 pl:Mimamsa sa:पूर्व-मीमांसा sk:Mímánsa uk:Міманса