Urban Trad is a Belgian folk music group, consisting of both Dutch and French speaking people and a close connection with Galicia.MembersYves Barbieux: flutes and Galician bagpipeVeronica Codesal: vocalsSoetkin Collier: vocalsSophie Cavez (previously Didier Laloy): diatonic accordionPhilip Masure: acoustic guitarMichel Morvan: drumsDirk Naessens: violinMarie-Sophie Talbot: vocals, piano & percussions (no longer with the band)Cedric Waterschoot: bassAs the name indicates, Urban Trad is a traditionally-inspired music band, deeply rooted in the 21st Century. The acoustic instruments (accordion, violin, flutes, etc.) and the singing are supported by a rhythmic section and modern stuff which endow the group with its unique color: a music which suits as well for a rock concert as for a cultural center. The vigor and the musical quality, which emanate from the songs, catch on to people of all ages and cultural backgrounds.The project started in May of 2000, when Yves Barbieux gathered to create a first CD (« one-o-four ») a score of artists together, already well-known in the traditional Belgian stage (Orion, Luc Pilartz, Perry Rose, Tom Theuns, Didier Laloy…).In the beginning, it was meant to be just an album project, but the success encountered during the promotional concerts encouraged Yves in adding a public dimension to Urban Trad with other artists. It’s during the Eurosong festival in Latvia in May of 2003 that Urban Trad wins the hearts of the general public. « Sanomi », a song performed in an imaginary language (thus universal), received a surprising second place, just two points from the Turkish winner.Further to this superb performance, success became a habit: more than 30.000 copies of second album « Kerua » (and single « Sanomi ») were sold in Belgium; the CD was released in several European countries, and the concerts are increasing in Belgium and abroad (Louisiana, The Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Spain…)Spring 2004 was a turning point: while keeping the modern touch which has made the band’s success, the new repertory isn’t any longer exclusively Celtic-inspired. Yves has indeed drawn his inspiration from all over Europe (Scandinavia, France, Spain, Eastern countries, etc.). The third record whose production has been left in Simon Emmerson’s hands, from the English group « Afro Celts Sound System» will be released at the end of September 2004.Eurovision Song ContestUrban Trad participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2003, where they ended second with the song Sanomi, a modern folk song with vocals in an imaginary language. A few months before the contest, it was decided that singer Soetkin Collier could not participate, apparently because she had extreme right sympathies in the past.As a result of this, two versions of the song exist on record. One was the standard album version (4:08) and another version was released on single and on the Eurovision Song Contest 2003 collaboration album. Often known as the Eurovision edit, it cut down to 3:01 and it had Soetkin Collier's vocals removed.Later that year, after an investigation, it was concluded that these accusations by the national security, were exaggerated and based on outdated information.Full Albums'' 'One o Four' 2001 ''1. Subway Call2. Avreel3. La Belle Jig4. Vodka Time5. Walsing Dranouter6. Basement Scotch7. Baline8. Brass Corto9. Bamboo10. Free Wheel11. Rap A Doo12. Mecanix (Who'S Who)'' 'Kerua' 2003 ''1. Mecanix Remix2. Kerua3. Sanomi4. Il Est Bien Temps5. Lampang6. Berim Dance7. Quimper - Moscou8. Get Reel9. The Roses10. Medina11. Leina Street12. Alto13. Sanomi (Eurovision Edit)14. Galicia'' 'Elem' 2004 ''1. Rodgrod Med Flode2. De Luz, Amor Y Nada3. Vigo4. Jorden/Terra5. Bourrée d'Erasme6. De L'Air7. Valse8. Two Hornpipes9. Zout10. Mind the Gap11. V.T. Intro12. Vodka Time (Mass'Mix)13. Bonus : Lampang/Mideau Rhemila (live)'' 'Erbalunga' 2007 ''1. Sans garde-fou2. Hedningarden3. Oh la belle4. Le serpent5. Erbalunga6. Fields of Deeley7. L’olivier8. Bourrée Tappen9. Accovi / Onderweg10. Polaire11. Noite Longa12. Scottiche de la tête13. Asturiana14. A TerraBONUS **15. Diama Den  External linksOfficial websiteCategory:Belgian musical groups Category:Folk music groups Category:World music groups Category:New Age musicians Category:Belgian Eurovision Song Contest entrants Category:Eurovision Song Contest entrants of 2003cs:Urban Trad de:Urban Trad es:Urban Trad fr:Urban Trad it:Urban Trad lt:Urban Trad nl:Urban Trad pl:Urban Trad wa:Urban Trad