    | birth_place = Chicago, Illinois | death_date = | death_place = | nationality = American | party = Democratic | spouse = Bill Clinton | relations = | children = Chelsea Clinton | residence = Chappaqua, New York | alma_mater = Wellesley CollegeYale Law School | occupation = | profession = Lawyer, Senator | net worth = $34.9&nbsp;million | religion = United Methodist Church | signature = HRCsignature2.svg | website = Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton | footnotes =   Hillary Diane Rodham Clinton (born October 26, 1947) is the junior United States Senator from New York, and was a candidate for the Democratic nomination in the 2008 presidential election. She is married to Bill Clinton—the 42nd President of the United States—and was the First Lady of the United States from 1993 to 2001.A native of Illinois, Hillary Rodham first attracted national attention in 1969 for her remarks as the first student to deliver the commencement address at Wellesley College. She embarked on a career in law after graduating from Yale Law School in 1973. Following a stint as a Congressional legal counsel, she moved to Arkansas in 1974, and married Bill Clinton in 1975. She was later named the first female partner at Rose Law Firm in 1979, and was twice listed as one of the one hundred most influential lawyers in America. She was the First Lady of Arkansas from 1979 to 1981 and 1983 to 1992 and was active in a number of organizations concerned with child welfare, as well as sitting on the boards of Wal-Mart and several other corporations.As First Lady of the United States, her major initiative, the Clinton health care plan, failed to gain approval from the U.S. Congress in 1994. In 1997 and 1999, Clinton played a role in advocating for the establishment of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, the Adoption and Safe Families Act, and the Foster Care Independence Act. She became the only First Lady to be subpoenaed, testifying before a federal grand jury as a consequence of the Whitewater controversy in 1996. She was never charged with any wrongdoing in this or any of the several other investigations during her husband's administration. The state of her marriage to Bill Clinton was the subject of considerable public discussion following the Lewinsky scandal in 1998.After moving to New York, Clinton was elected as senator for New York State in 2000. That election marked the first time an American First Lady had run for public office; Clinton is also the first female senator to represent New York. In the Senate, she initially supported the George W. Bush administration on some foreign policy issues, which included voting for the Iraq War Resolution. She has subsequently opposed the administration on its conduct of the war in Iraq, and has opposed it on most domestic issues. She was reelected by a wide margin in 2006. In the 2008 presidential nomination race, Clinton won more primaries and delegates than any other female candidate in American history, but after a long campaign, Senator Barack Obama became the party's presumptive nominee in June 2008 and Clinton endorsed him.Early life and educationEarly lifeHillaryIn 1995, Hillary Clinton said her mother had named her after Sir Edmund Hillary, who, with Sherpa Tenzing, was the first mountaineer to scale Mount Everest, and that was the reason for the unusual "two L's" spelling of her name. However, the Everest climb did not take place until 1953, more than five years after Clinton was born. In October 2006, a Clinton spokeswoman said she was not in fact named after the mountain climber; rather, this account of her name's origin "was a sweet family story her mother shared to inspire greatness in her daughter, to great results I might add." See  and  Diane Rodham was born at Edgewater Hospital in Chicago, Illinois. She was raised in a United Methodist family,Clinton 2003, p. 7. first in Chicago, and then, from the age of three, in suburban Park Ridge, Illinois.Clinton 2003, p. 9. Her father, Hugh Ellsworth Rodham, was a child of Welsh and English immigrants; he managed a successful small business in the textile industry.Clinton 2003, p. 8. Her mother, Dorothy Emma Howell, of English, Scottish, French, French Canadian, and Welsh descent, was a homemaker. She has two younger brothers, Hugh and Tony.As a child, Hillary Rodham was a teacher's favorite at her public schools in Park Ridge. She participated in swimming, baseball and other sports, and earned many awards as a Brownie and Girl Scout.Morris 1996, p. 113.Bernstein 2007, p. 29. She attended Maine East High School, where she participated in student council, the school newspaper, and was selected for National Honor Society.Bernstein 2007, pp. 30–31. For her senior year she was redistricted to Maine South High School, where she was a National Merit Finalist and graduated in 1965. Her mother wanted her to have an independent, professional career, while her father, otherwise a traditionalist, held the modern notion that his daughter's abilities and opportunities should not be limited by gender.Bernstein 2007, p. 13.Raised in a politically conservative household,Brock 1996, p. 4. Her father was an outspoken Republican, while her mother kept quiet but was "basically a Democrat." See also Clinton 2003, p. 11. at age thirteen Rodham helped canvass South Side Chicago following the very close 1960 U.S. presidential election, where she found evidence of electoral fraud against Republican candidate Richard Nixon.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 19. She then volunteered to campaign for Republican candidate Barry Goldwater in the U.S. presidential election of 1964. p. 266. Rodham's early political development was shaped most by her high school history teacher (like her father, a fervent anti-communist), who introduced her to Goldwater's classic The Conscience of a Conservative,Troy 2006, p. 15. and by her Methodist youth minister (like her mother, concerned with issues of social justice), with whom she saw and met civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. in Chicago in 1962.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 18–21. The teacher, Paul Carlson, and the minister, Donald Jones, came into conflict in Park Ridge; Clinton would later see that "as an early indication of the cultural, political and religious fault lines that developed across America in the next forty years" (Clinton 2003, p. 23).CollegeIn 1965, Rodham enrolled at Wellesley College, where she majored in political science. During her freshman year, she served as president of the Wellesley Young Republicans;Clinton 2003, p. 31. Gives organization's prior name. with this Rockefeller Republican-oriented group, pp. 27–28 she supported the elections of John Lindsay and Edward Brooke.Brock 1996, pp. 12–13. She later stepped down from this position, as her views changed regarding the American Civil Rights Movement and the Vietnam War. In a letter to her youth minister at this time, she described herself as "a mind conservative and a heart liberal."Bernstein 2007, p. 50. Bernstein states she believed this combination was possible and that no equation better describes the adult Hillary Clinton. In contrast to the 1960s current that believed in radical actions against the political system, she sought to work for change within it. In her junior year, Rodham became a supporter of the anti-war presidential nomination campaign of Democrat Eugene McCarthy. Following the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., Rodham organized a two-day student strike and worked with Wellesley's black students to recruit more black students and faculty. In early 1968, she was elected president of the Wellesley College Government Association and served through early 1969; she was instrumental in keeping Wellesley from being embroiled in the student disruptions common to other colleges. A number of her fellow students thought she might some day become the first woman President of the United States. So she could better understand her changing political views, Professor Alan Schechter assigned Rodham to intern at the House Republican Conference, and she attended the "Wellesley in Washington" summer program. Rodham was invited by moderate New York Republican Representative Charles Goodell to help Governor Nelson Rockefeller’s late-entry campaign for the Republican nomination. Rodham attended the 1968 Republican National Convention in Miami. However, she was upset by how Richard Nixon's campaign portrayed Rockefeller and by what she perceived as the convention's "veiled" racist messages, and left the Republican Party for good.Returning to Wellesley for her final year, Rodham wrote her senior thesis about the tactics of radical community organizer Saul Alinsky under Professor Schechter (which, years later while she was First Lady, was suppressed at White House request and became the subject of some speculation). In 1969, she graduated with a Bachelor of Arts, with departmental honors in political science. Following pressure from some fellow students,Clinton 2003, pp. 38–39. she became the first student in Wellesley College history to deliver their commencement address. Her speech received a standing ovation lasting seven minutes. She was featured in an article published in Life magazine, The article features Rodham and two student commencement speakers from other schools, with photos and excerpts from their speeches. due to the response to a part of her speech that criticized Senator Edward Brooke, who had spoken before her at the commencement.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 34–36. She also appeared on Irv Kupcinet's nationally syndicated television talk show as well as in Illinois and New England newspapers.Bernstein 2007, p. 70. That summer, she worked her way across Alaska, washing dishes in Mount McKinley National Park and sliming salmon in a fish processing cannery in Valdez (which fired her and shut down overnight when she complained about unhealthy conditions).Clinton 2003, pp. 42–43. Clinton would later write, and repeat on the Late Show with David Letterman, that sliming fish was the best preparation she would ever have for living in Washington. See also Morris 1996, p. 139.Law schoolRodham then entered Yale Law School, where she served on the editorial board of the Yale Review of Law and Social Action. During her second year, she worked at the Yale Child Study Center,Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 42–43. learning about new research on early childhood brain development and working as a research assistant on the seminal work, Beyond the Best Interests of the Child (1973).Bernstein 2007, p. 75.The authors of Beyond the Best Interests of the Child were Center director Al Solnit, Yale Law professor Joe Goldstein, and Anna Freud. She also took on cases of child abuse at Yale-New Haven Hospital, and volunteered at New Haven Legal Services to provide free legal advice for the poor. In the summer of 1970, she was awarded a grant to work at Marian Wright Edelman's Washington Research Project, where she was assigned to Senator Walter Mondale's Subcommittee on Migratory Labor. There she researched migrant workers' problems in housing, sanitation, health and education.Morris 1996, pp. 142–143. Edelman later became a significant mentor.Bernstein 2007, pp. 71–74.In the late spring of 1971, she began dating Bill Clinton, also a law student at Yale. That summer, she interned at the Oakland, California, law firm of Treuhaft, Walker and Burnstein.Bernstein 2007, pp. 82–83. The firm was well-known for its support of constitutional rights, civil liberties, and radical causes (two of its four partners were current or former Communist Party members); Rodham worked on child custody and other cases. Gerstein finds it is unclear exactly which cases beyond child custody ones Rodham worked on at the Treuhaft firm. Anti-Clinton writers such as Barbara Olson would later charge Hillary Clinton with never repudiating Treuhaft's ideology, and for retaining social and political ties with his wife and fellow communist Jessica Mitford. (Olson 1999, pp. 56–57) Research by The New York Sun in 2007 revealed that Mitford and Hillary Clinton were not close, and had a falling out over a 1980 Arkansas prisoner case. See  Clinton canceled his original summer plans, in order to live with her in California; the couple continued living together in New Haven when they returned to law school. The following summer, Rodham and Clinton campaigned in Texas for unsuccessful 1972 Democratic presidential candidate George McGovern.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 48–49. She received a Juris Doctor degree from Yale in 1973, having stayed on an extra year in order to be with Clinton.Bernstein 2007, p. 89. Clinton first proposed marriage to her following graduation, but she declined. She began a year of post-graduate study on children and medicine at the Yale Child Study Center. Her first scholarly article, "Children Under the Law", was published in the Harvard Educational Review in late 1973. Discussing the new children's rights movement, it stated that "child citizens" were "powerless individuals"Troy 2006, p. 21. and argued that children should not be considered equally incompetent from birth to attaining legal age, but that rather courts should presume competence except when there is evidence otherwise, on a case-by-case basis. The article became frequently cited in the field.This Google Scholar search result produces nearly one hundred hits showing citations of her paper in academic literature.Marriage and family, law career and First Lady of ArkansasFrom the East Coast to ArkansasDuring her post-graduate study, Rodham served as staff attorney for Edelman's newly founded Children's Defense Fund in Cambridge, Massachusetts,Bernstein 2007, pp. 91–92. and as a consultant to the Carnegie Council on Children. During 1974 she was a member of the impeachment inquiry staff in Washington, D.C., advising the House Committee on the Judiciary during the Watergate scandal.Clinton 2003, pp. 65–69. Under the guidance of Chief Counsel John Doar and senior member Bernard Nussbaum, Rodham helped research procedures of impeachment and the historical grounds and standards for impeachment.Bernstein 2007, pp. 94–96, 101–103. The committee's work culminated in the resignation of President Richard Nixon in August 1974.By then, Rodham was viewed as someone with a bright political future; Democratic political organizer and consultant Betsey Wright had moved from Texas to Washington the previous year to help guide her career;Bernstein 2007, p. 62. Wright thought Rodham had the potential to become a future senator or president. p. 277. Meanwhile, Clinton had repeatedly asked her to marry him, and she had continued to demur.Bernstein 2007, pp. 90, 120. However, after failing the District of Columbia bar examClinton 2003, p. 64. According to Carl Bernstein's 2007 biography, two-thirds (551 of 817) of the candidates had passed, and Rodham did not tell even close friends of the failure until revealing it thirty years later in her autobiography. See A Woman in Charge, p. 92. and passing the Arkansas exam, Rodham came to a key decision. As she later wrote, "I chose to follow my heart instead of my head".Clinton 2003, p. 69. Excerpted at  She thus followed Bill Clinton to Arkansas, rather than staying in Washington where career prospects were brighter. Clinton was at the time teaching law and running for a seat in the U.S. House of Representatives in his home state. In August 1974, she moved to Fayetteville, Arkansas, and became one of only two female faculty members in the School of Law at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville,Clinton 2003, p. 70. where Bill Clinton also taught. She still harbored doubts about marriage, concerned that her separate identity would be lost and that her accomplishments would be viewed in the light of someone else's.Bernstein 2007, pp. 62, 90, 117.Early Arkansas yearsHillary Rodham and Bill Clinton bought a house in Fayetteville in the summer of 1975, and Hillary finally agreed to marriage.Bernstein 2007, p. 120. Their wedding took place on October&nbsp;11, 1975, in a Methodist ceremony in their living room.Clinton 2003, p. 75. She kept the name Hillary Rodham, later writing that she had done so to keep their professional lives separate and avoid seeming conflicts of interest, although her decision upset both their mothers.Clinton 2003, pp. 91–92. Bill Clinton had lost the Congressional race in 1974, but in November 1976 was elected Arkansas Attorney General, and so the couple moved to the state capital of Little Rock.Clinton 2003, p. 78. There, in February 1977, Rodham joined the venerable Rose Law Firm, a bastion of Arkansan political and economic influence.Bernstein 2007, pp. 128, 130. The firm was actually called Rose, Nash, Williamson, Carroll, Clay & Giroir at the time; it simplified its name to Rose Law Firm in 1980. She specialized in patent infringement and intellectual property law, while also working pro bono in child advocacy; she rarely performed litigation work in court.Bernstein 2007, pp. 131–132.Rodham maintained her interest in children's law and family policy, publishing the scholarly articles "Children's Policies: Abandonment and Neglect" in 1977 and "Children's Rights: A Legal Perspective" in 1979. The latter continued her argument that children's legal competence depended upon their age and other circumstances, and that serious medical rights cases, judicial intervention was sometimes warranted. An American Bar Association chair later said, "Her articles were important, not because they were radically new but because they helped formulate something that had been inchoate." Historian Garry Wills would later describe her as "one of the more important scholar-activists of the last two decades", while conservatives said her theories would usurp traditional parental authority, allow children to file frivolous lawsuits against their parents, and argued that her work was legal &quot;crit&quot; theory run amok.Olson 1999, p. 57.Also in 1977, Rodham co-founded the Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families, a state-level alliance with the Children's Defense Fund.Bernstein 2007, p. 154. And later that same year, President Jimmy Carter (for whom Rodham had done 1976 campaign coordination work in IndianaClinton 2003, pp. 77–78.) appointed her to the board of directors of the Legal Services Corporation, and she served in that capacity from 1978 until the end of 1981. From mid-1978 to mid-1980For the start date, see Brock 1996, p. 96. Secondary sources give inconsistent dates as to when her time as chair ended. Primary sources indicate that sometime between about April 1980 and September 1980, Rodham was replaced as chair by F. William McCalpin. See  Rodham is still chair after having given birth "a few weeks ago"; Chelsea Clinton was born on February&nbsp;27, 1980. And see  pp. 388–403, exact reference p. 398, which shows McCalpin as chair in September 1980. she served as the chair of that board, the first woman to do so.Morris 1996, p. 225. During her time as chair, funding for the Corporation was expanded from $90&nbsp;million to $300&nbsp;million; subsequently she successfully fought President Ronald Reagan's attempts to reduce the funding and change the nature of the organization.Bernstein 2007, p. 133.Following her husband's November 1978 election as Governor of Arkansas, Rodham became First Lady of Arkansas in January 1979, her title for a total of twelve years (1979–1981, 1983–1992). Clinton appointed her chair of the Rural Health Advisory Committee the same year, where she successfully secured federal funds to expand medical facilities in Arkansas's poorest areas without affecting doctors' fees.Bernstein 2007, p. 147.In 1979, Rodham became the first woman to be made a full partner of Rose Law Firm.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 60. From 1978 until they entered the White House, she had a higher salary than her husband.Bernstein 2007, p. 130. During 1978 and 1979, while looking to supplement their income, Rodham made a spectacular profit from trading cattle futures contracts;Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 66–67. an initial $1,000 investment generated nearly $100,000 when she stopped trading after ten months.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 73–76. The couple also began their ill-fated investment in the Whitewater Development Corporation real estate venture with Jim and Susan McDougal at this time.On February&nbsp;27, 1980, Rodham gave birth to a daughter, Chelsea, her only child. In November 1980, Bill Clinton was defeated in his bid for reelection.Later Arkansas yearsand First Lady Nancy Reagan.]] Bill Clinton returned to the governor's office two years later by winning the election of 1982. During her husband's campaign, Rodham began to use the name Hillary Clinton, or sometimes "Mrs. Bill Clinton", to assuage the concerns of Arkansas voters;Bill Clinton's advisers thought her use of her maiden name to be one of the reasons for his 1980 gubernatorial reelection loss. During the following winter, Vernon Jordan, Jr. suggested to Hillary Rodham that she start using the name Clinton, and she began to do so publicly with her husband's February 1982 campaign announcement. She later wrote that "I learned the hard way that some voters in Arkansas were seriously offended by the fact that I kept my maiden name" (Clinton 2003, pp. 91–93; see also Morris 1996, p. 282). she also took a leave of absence from Rose Law in order to campaign for him full-time.Bernstein 2007, p. 166. As First Lady of Arkansas, Hillary Clinton was named chair of the Arkansas Educational Standards Committee in 1983, where she sought to reform the state's court-sanctioned public education system.Bernstein 2007, pp. 170–175. Bernstein states that "the political battle for education reform ... would be her greatest accomplishment in public life until she was elected to the U.S. Senate." In one of the Clinton governorship's most important initiatives, she fought a prolonged but ultimately successful battle against the Arkansas Education Association, to establish mandatory teacher testing as well as state standards for curriculum and classroom size. In 1985, she also introduced Arkansas's Home Instruction Program for Preschool Youth, a program that helps parents work with their children in preschool preparedness and literacy. p. 295. She was named Arkansas Woman of the Year in 1983 and Arkansas Mother of the Year in 1984.Morris 1996, p. 330.Brock 1996, pp. 176–177.Clinton continued to practice law with the Rose Law Firm while she was First Lady of Arkansas. She earned less than the other partners, as she billed fewer hours,Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 63. but still made more than $200,000 in her final year there. She seldom did trial work, but the firm considered her a "rainmaker" because she brought in clients, partly thanks to the prestige she lent the firm and to her corporate board connections. She was also very influential in the appointment of state judges. Bill Clinton's Republican opponent in his 1986 gubernatorial reelection campaign accused the Clintons of conflict of interest, because Rose Law did state business; the Clintons deflected the charge by saying that state fees were walled off by the firm before her profits were calculated.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 80–81.From 1982 to 1988, Clinton was on board of directors, sometimes as chair, of the New World Foundation, which funded a variety of New Left interest groups.Troy 2006, p. 29. From 1987 to 1991, she chaired the American Bar Association's Commission on Women in the Profession,Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 82–84. which addressed gender bias in the law profession and induced the association to adopt measures to combat it. She was twice named by the National Law Journal as one of the 100&nbsp;most influential lawyers in America: in 1988 and in 1991.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 87–88. When Bill Clinton thought about not running again for governor in 1990, Hillary considered running herself, but private polls were unfavorable and in the end he ran and was reelected for the final time.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 85; Bernstein 2007, pp. 187–189.Clinton served on the boards of the Arkansas Children's Hospital Legal Services (1988–1992) and the Children's Defense Fund (as chair, 1986–1992). In addition to her positions with non-profit organizations, she also held positions on the corporate board of directors of TCBY (1985–1992), Bio entry. Wal-Mart Stores (1986–1992) and Lafarge (1990–1992). TCBY and Wal-Mart were Arkansas-based companies that were also clients of Rose Law. Clinton was the first female member on Wal-Mart's board, added following pressure on chairman Sam Walton to name a woman to the board. Once there, she pushed successfully for Wal-Mart to adopt more environmentally friendly practices, was largely unsuccessful in a campaign for more women to be added to the company's management, and was silent about the company's famously anti-labor union practices.1992 Bill Clinton presidential campaignHillary Clinton received sustained national attention for the first time when her husband became a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination of 1992. Before the New Hampshire primary, tabloid publications printed claims that Bill Clinton had had an extramarital affair with Arkansas lounge singer Gennifer Flowers. In response, the Clintons appeared together on 60 Minutes, where Bill Clinton denied the affair but acknowledged he had caused "pain" in their marriage. This joint appearance was credited with rescuing his campaign.Troy 2006, pp. 39–42; Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 94–96. During the campaign, Hillary Clinton made culturally dismissive remarks about Tammy Wynette and her outlook on marriage,During the political damage control over the Gennifer Flowers episode during the 1992 campaign, Hillary Clinton said in the joint 60 Minutes interview, "I'm not sitting here as some little woman 'standing by my man' like Tammy Wynette. I'm sitting here because I love him and I respect him, and I honor what he's been through and what we've been through together." The seemingly sneering reference to country music provoked immediate criticism that Clinton was culturally tone-deaf, and Tammy Wynette herself did not like the remark because her classic song "Stand by Your Man" is not written in the first person. See  Wynette added that Clinton had "offended every true country music fan and every person who has 'made it on their own' with no one to take them to a White House." See  A few days later, on Prime Time Live, Hillary Clinton apologized to Wynette. Clinton would later write that she had been careless in her choice of words and that "the fallout from my reference to Tammy Wynette was instant — as it deserved to be — and brutal." See Clinton 2003, p. 108. The two women later resolved their differences, with Wynette appearing at a Clinton fund raiser. and about women staying home and baking cookies and having teas,Less than two months after the Tammy Wynette remarks, Hillary Clinton was facing questions about whether she could have avoided possible conflicts of interest between her governor husband and work given to the Rose Law Firm, when she remarked, "I've done the best I can to lead my life ... You know, I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies and had teas, but what I decided to do was fulfill my profession, which I entered before my husband was in public life" (Clinton 2003, p. 109). The "cookies and teas" part of this statement prompted even more culture-based criticism of Clinton's apparent distaste for women who had chosen to be homemakers; the remark became a recurring campaign liability (Bernstein 2007, pp. 205–206). Clinton subsequently offered up some cookie recipes as a way of making amends, and would later write of her chagrin: "Besides, I've done quite a lot of cookie baking in my life, and tea-pouring too!" (Clinton 2003, p. 109). that were ill-considered by her own admission. Bill Clinton said that electing him would get "two for the price of one" or "buy one, get one free", referring to the prominent role his wife would assume.Brock 1996, p. 261. Beginning with Daniel Wattenberg's August 1992 The American Spectator article "The Lady Macbeth of Little Rock", Hillary Clinton's own past ideological and ethical record came under conservative attack.First Lady of the United StatesRole as First LadyWhen Bill Clinton took office as president in January 1993, Hillary Rodham Clinton became the First Lady of the United States, and announced that she would be using that form of her name. Her announcement was parodied by the May 1993 film spoof Hot Shots! Part Deux, in which all the female characters were given the middle name "Rodham"; see IMDB entry. She was the first First Lady to hold a post-graduate degree Clinton had the first post-graduate degree through regular study and scholarly work. Eleanor Roosevelt had been previously awarded a post-graduate honorary degree. Clinton's successor Laura Bush became the second First Lady with a post-graduate degree. and to have her own professional career up to the time of entering the White House. She was also the first to take up an office in the West Wing of the White House: the First Lady usually stays in the East Wing. She is regarded as the most openly empowered presidential wife in American history, save for Eleanor Roosevelt.Troy 2006, p. xii.courtesy of Marine One, 1993. ]] Some critics called it inappropriate for the First Lady to play a central role in matters of public policy. Supporters pointed out that Clinton's role in policy was no different from that of other White House advisors and that voters were well aware that she would play an active role in her husband's presidency. Bill Clinton's campaign promise of "two for the price of one" led opponents to refer derisively to the Clintons as "co-presidents", or sometimes the Arkansas label "Billary". The pressures of conflicting ideas about the role of a First Lady were enough to send Clinton into "imaginary discussions" with the also-politically-active Eleanor Roosevelt; The Eleanor Roosevelt "discussions" were first reported in 1996 by The Washington Post writer Bob Woodward; they had begun from the start of Hillary Clinton's time as First Lady. See  Following the Democrats' loss of congressional control in the 1994 elections, Clinton had engaged the services of human potential expert Jean Houston. Houston encouraged Clinton to pursue the Roosevelt connection, and while no psychic techniques were used with Clinton, critics and comics immediately suggested that Clinton was holding séances with Eleanor Roosevelt. The White House stated that this was merely a brainstorming exercise, and a private poll later indicated that most of the public believed these were indeed just imaginary conversations, with the remainder believing that communication with the dead was actually possible. See  In her 2003 autobiography, Clinton titled an entire chapter "Conversations with Eleanor", and stated that holding "imaginary conversations is actually a useful mental exercise to help analyze problems, provided you choose the right person to visualize. Eleanor Roosevelt was ideal a trail-blazer and controversial First Lady." (Clinton 2003, pp. 258–259) from the time she came to Washington, she also found refuge in a prayer group of The Fellowship that featured many wives of conservative Washington figures.Bernstein 2007, pp. 313–314. Triggered in part by the death of her father in April 1993, she publicly sought to find a synthesis of Methodist teachings, liberal religious political philosophy, and Tikkun editor Michael Lerner's "politics of meaning" to overcome what she saw as America's "sleeping sickness of the soul" and that would lead to a willingness "to remold society by redefining what it means to be a human being in the twentieth century, moving into a new millennium." Other segments of the public focused on her appearance, which had evolved over time from inattention to fashion during her days in Arkansas,Clinton 2003, pp. 110–111. to a popular site in the early days of the World Wide Web devoted to showing her many different, and much analyzed, hairstyles as First Lady, pp. 72–73. to an appearance on the cover of Vogue magazine in 1998.Health care and other policy initiativesfavorable/unfavorable ratings, 1992–1996.Data for table is from  See also  for confirmation of trend line and historical interpretation.]] In 1993, Bill Clinton appointed Hillary Clinton to head and be the chairwoman of the Task Force on National Health Care Reform, hoping to replicate the success she had in leading the effort for Arkansas education reform.Bernstein 2007, pp. 170–175. The recommendation of the task force became known as the Clinton health care plan, a comprehensive proposal that would require employers to provide health coverage to their employees through individual health maintenance organizations. The plan was quickly derided as "Hillarycare" by its opponents; some protesters against it became vitriolic, and during a July 1994 bus tour to rally support for the plan, she was forced to wear a bulletproof vest at times.Bernstein 2007, pp. 400–402.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 139–140. The plan did not receive enough support for a floor vote in either the House or the Senate, although both chambers were controlled by Democrats, and proposal was abandoned in September 1994. Clinton later acknowledged in her book, Living History, that her political inexperience partly contributed to the defeat, but mentioned that many other factors were also responsible. The First Lady's approval ratings, which had generally been in the high-50s percent range during her first year, fell to 44&nbsp;percent in April 1994 and 35&nbsp;percent by September 1994.Bernstein 2007, pp. 240, 380, 530. The Whitewater investigations were also a factor in her decline. Republicans made the Clinton health care plan a major campaign issue of the 1994 midterm elections, which saw a net Republican gain of fifty-three seats in the House election and seven in the Senate election, winning control of both; many analysts and pollsters found the plan to be a major factor in the Democrats' defeat, especially among independent voters. Opponents of universal health care would continue to use "Hillarycare" as a pejorative label for similar plans by others.Along with Senators Ted Kennedy and Orrin Hatch, she was a force behind passage of the State Children's Health Insurance Program in 1997, a federal effort that provided state support for children whose parents were unable to provide them with health coverage, and conducted outreach efforts on behalf of enrolling children in the program once it became law. She promoted nationwide immunization against childhood illnesses and encouraged older women to seek a mammogram to detect breast cancer, with coverage provided by Medicare. She successfully sought to increase research funding for prostate cancer and childhood asthma at the National Institutes of Health. The First Lady worked to investigate reports of an illness that affected veterans of the Gulf War, which became known as the Gulf War syndrome. Together with Attorney General Janet Reno, Clinton helped create the Office on Violence Against Women at the Department of Justice. In 1997, she initiated and shepherded the Adoption and Safe Families Act, which she regarded as her greatest accomplishment as First Lady. In 1999, she was instrumental in passage of the Foster Care Independence Act, which doubled federal monies for teenagers aging out of foster care. As First Lady, Clinton hosted numerous White House conferences, including ones on Child Care (1997), on Early Childhood Development and Learning (1997), and on Children and Adolescents (2000). She also hosted the first-ever White House Conference on Teenagers (2000) and the first-ever White House Conference on Philanthropy (1999).Hillary Clinton traveled to 79&nbsp;countries during this time, breaking the mark for most-traveled First Lady held by Pat Nixon. In a September 1995 speech before the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, Clinton argued very forcefully against practices that abused women around the world and in the People's Republic of China itself, declaring "that it is no longer acceptable to discuss women's rights as separate from human rights" and resisting Chinese pressure to soften her remarks. She was one of the most prominent international figures during the late 1990s to speak out against the treatment of Afghan women by the Islamist fundamentalist Taliban. pp. 70, 182. She helped create Vital Voices, an international initiative sponsored by the United States to promote the participation of women in the political processes of their countries.Whitewater and other investigationsThe Whitewater controversy was the focus of media attention from the publication of a New York Times report during the 1992 presidential campaign, and throughout her time as First Lady. The Clintons had lost their late-1970s investment in the Whitewater Development Corporation;Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 72–73. at the same time, their partners in that investment, Jim and Susan McDougal, operated Madison Guaranty, a savings and loan institution that retained the legal services of Rose Law Firm and may have been improperly subsidizing Whitewater losses. Madison Guaranty later failed, and Clinton's work at Rose was scrutinized for a possible conflict of interest in representing the bank before state regulators that her husband had appointed; she claimed she had done minimal work for the bank. Independent counsels Robert Fiske and Kenneth Starr subpoenaed Clinton's legal billing records; she said she did not know where they were. The records were found in the First Lady's White House book room after a two-year search, and delivered to investigators in early 1996.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 158–160. The delayed appearance of the records sparked intense interest and another investigation about how they surfaced and where they had been; Clinton attributed the problem to disorganization that resulted from their move from the Arkansas Governor's Mansion and the effects of a White House renovation.Clinton 2003, p. 331 After the discovery of the records, on January&nbsp;26, 1996, Clinton made history by becoming the first First Lady to be subpoenaed to testify before a Federal grand jury. After several Independent Counsels investigated, a final report was issued in 2000 which stated that there was insufficient evidence that either Clinton had engaged in criminal wrongdoing.walk down Pennsylvania Avenue to start Bill Clinton's second term in office. January&nbsp;20, 1997.]]Other investigations took place during Hillary Clinton's time as First Lady. Scrutiny of the May 1993 firings of the White House Travel Office employees, an affair that became known as "Travelgate", began with charges that the White House had used audited financial irregularities in the Travel Office operation as an excuse to replace the staff with friends from Arkansas.Bernstein 2007, pp. 327–328. The 1996 discovery of a two-year-old White House memo caused the investigation to focus more on whether Hillary Clinton had orchestrated the firings and whether the statements she made to investigators regarding her role in the firings were true.Bernstein 2007, pp. 439–444. The 2000 final Independent Counsel report concluded she was involved in the firings and that she had made "factually false" statements, but that there was insufficient evidence that she knew the statements were false, or knew that her actions would lead to firings, to prosecute her. Following deputy White House counsel Vince Foster's July 1993 suicide, allegations were made that Hillary Clinton had ordered the removal of potentially damaging files (related to Whitewater or other matters) from Foster's office on the night of his death. Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr investigated this, and by 1999 Starr was reported to be holding the investigation open, despite his staff having told him there was no case to be made. When Starr's successor Robert Ray issued his final Whitewater reports in 2000, no claims were made against Hillary Clinton regarding this. In March 1994 newspaper reports revealed her spectacular profits from cattle futures trading in 1978–1979; allegations were made in the press of conflict of interest and disguised bribery, and several individuals analyzed her trading records, but no official investigation was made and she was never charged with any wrongdoing. An outgrowth of the Travelgate investigation was the June 1996 discovery of improper White House access to hundreds of FBI background reports on former Republican White House employees, an affair that some called "Filegate"; accusations were made that Hillary Clinton had requested these files and that she had recommended hiring an unqualified individual to head the White House Security Office. The 2000 final Independent Counsel report found no substantial or credible evidence that Hillary Clinton had any role or showed any misconduct in the matter.Lewinsky scandalfavorable/unfavorable ratings, 1997–2000.]] In 1998, the Clintons' relationship became the subject of much speculation and gossip when it was revealed that the President had had extramarital sexual activities with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.Troy 2006, pp. 176–177. Events surrounding the Lewinsky scandal eventually led to the impeachment of Bill Clinton. When the allegations against her husband were first made public, Hillary Clinton stated that they were the result of a "vast right-wing conspiracy",Troy 2006, p. 183. characterizing the Lewinsky charges as the latest in a long, organized, collaborative series of charges by Clinton political enemies,Clinton was referring to the Arkansas Project and its funder Richard Mellon Scaife, Kenneth Starr's connections to Scaife, Regnery Publishing and its connections to Lucianne Goldberg and Linda Tripp, Jerry Falwell, and others. See  rather than any wrongdoing by her husband. She later said that she had been misled by her husband's initial claims that no affair had taken place.Troy 2006, p. 187. After the evidence of President Clinton's encounters with Lewinsky became incontrovertible and he admitted to her his unfaithful behavior, she issued a public statement reaffirming her commitment to their marriage,Bernstein 2007, p. 517. but privately was reported to be furious at himBernstein 2007, pp. 512, 518. and was unsure if she wanted to stay in the marriage.Bernstein 2007, p. 521.There was a mix of public reactions to Hillary Clinton after this: some women admired her strength and poise in private matters made public, some sympathized with her as a victim of her husband's insensitive behavior, others criticized her as being an enabler to her husband's indiscretions, while still others accused her of cynically staying in a failed marriage as a way of keeping or even fostering her own political influence.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 195. Overall, her public approval ratings in the wake of the revelations shot upward to around 70&nbsp;percent, the highest they had ever been.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 195. In her 2003 memoir, she would attribute her decision to stay married to love: "No one understands me better and no one can make me laugh the way Bill does. Even after all these years, he is still the most interesting, energizing and fully alive person I have ever met."Clinton 2003, p. 94. Traditional dutiesClinton initiated and was Founding Chair of the Save America's Treasures program, a national effort that matched federal funds to private donations for the purpose of preserving and restoring historic items and sites, including the flag that inspired "The Star-Spangled Banner" and the First Ladies Historic Site in Canton, Ohio. She was head of the White House Millennium Council, and hosted Millennium Evenings, a series of lectures that discussed futures studies, one of which became the first live simultaneous webcast from the White House. Clinton also created the first Sculpture Garden there, which displayed large contemporary American works of art loaned from museums in the Jacqueline Kennedy Garden.In the White House, Clinton placed donated handicrafts of contemporary American artisans, such as pottery and glassware, on rotating display in the state rooms. She oversaw the restoration of the Blue Room to be historically authentic to the period of James Monroe, p. liii. the redecoration of the Treaty Room into the presidential study along nineteenth century lines, pp. 248–249. and the redecoration of the Map Room to how it looked during World War II. Clinton hosted many large-scale events at the White House, such as a St. Patrick's Day reception, a state dinner for visiting Chinese dignitaries, a contemporary music concert that raised funds for music education in public schools, a New Year's Eve celebration at the turn of the twenty-first century, and a state dinner honoring the bicentennial of the White House in November 2000.Senate election of 2000 The long-serving United States Senator from New York, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, announced his retirement in November 1998. Several prominent Democratic figures, including Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, urged Clinton to run for Moynihan's open seat in the United States Senate election of 2000.Bernstein 2007, p. 530. When she decided to run, Clinton and her husband purchased a home in Chappaqua, New York, north of New York City in September 1999. She became the first First Lady of the United States to be a candidate for elected office.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 204. At first, Clinton was expected to face Rudy Giuliani, the Mayor of New York City, as her Republican opponent in the election. However, Giuliani withdrew from the race in May 2000 after being diagnosed with prostate cancer and having developments in his personal life become very public, and Clinton instead faced Rick Lazio, a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives representing New York's 2nd congressional district. Throughout the campaign, Clinton was accused of carpetbagging by her opponents, as she had never resided in New York nor participated in the state's politics prior to this race. Clinton began her campaign by visiting every county in the state, in a "listening tour" of small-group settings.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 210. During the campaign, she devoted considerable time in traditionally Republican Upstate New York regions. Clinton vowed to improve the economic situation in those areas, promising to deliver 200,000&nbsp;jobs to the state over her term. Her plan included specific tax credits to reward job creation and encourage business investment, especially in the high-tech sector. She called for personal tax cuts for college tuition and long-term care.The contest drew national attention. Lazio blundered during a September debate by seeming to invade Clinton's personal space trying to get her to sign a fundraising agreement. The campaigns of Clinton and Lazio, along with Giuliani's initial effort, spent a record combined $90&nbsp;million. Clinton won the election on November&nbsp;7, 2000, with 55&nbsp;percent of the vote to Lazio's 43&nbsp;percent.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 212–213. She was sworn in as United States Senator on January&nbsp;3, 2001.United States Senator   by Vice President Al Gore in the Old Senate Chamber, as President Clinton and daughter Chelsea look on. January&nbsp;3, 2001.]]First termUpon entering the Senate, Clinton maintained a low public profile and built relationships with senators from both parties. She forged alliances with religiously inclined senators by becoming a regular participant in the Senate Prayer Breakfast.Bernstein 2007, p. 548.Clinton has served on five Senate committees: Committee on Budget (2001–2002), Committee on Armed Services (since 2003), Committee on Environment and Public Works (since 2001), Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (since 2001) and Special Committee on Aging. She is also a Commissioner of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (since 2001).Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, Clinton sought to obtain funding for the recovery efforts in New York City and security improvements in her state. Working with New York's senior senator, Charles Schumer, she was instrumental in quickly securing $21&nbsp;billion in funding for the World Trade Center site's redevelopment.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 231–232. She subsequently took a leading role in investigating the health issues faced by 9/11 first responders.Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 238–239. Clinton voted for the USA Patriot Act in October 2001. In 2005, when the act was up for renewal, she worked to address some of the civil liberties concerns with it, before voting in favor of a compromise renewed act in March 2006 that gained large majority support.Clinton strongly supported the 2001 U.S. military action in Afghanistan, saying it was a chance to combat terrorism while improving the lives of Afghan women who suffered under the Taliban government. Clinton voted in favor of the October 2002 Iraq War Resolution, which authorized United States President George W. Bush to use military force against Iraq, should such action be required to enforce a United Nations Security Council Resolution after pursuing with diplomatic efforts. (However, Clinton voted against the Levin Amendment to the Resolution, which would have required the President to conduct vigorous diplomacy at the U.N., and would have also required a separate Congressional authorization to unilaterally invade Iraq. She did vote for the Byrd Amendment to the Resolution, which would have limited the Congressional authorization to one year increments, but the only mechanism necessary for the President to renew his mandate without any Congressional oversight was to claim that the Iraq War was vital to national security each year the authorization required renewal.)favorable/unfavorable ratings, 2001–2007.]] After the Iraq War began, Clinton made trips to both Iraq and Afghanistan to visit American troops stationed there. On a visit to Iraq in February 2005, Clinton noted that the insurgency had failed to disrupt the democratic elections held earlier, and that parts of the country were functioning well. Noting that war deployments were draining regular and reserve forces, she co-introduced legislation to increase the size of the regular United States Army by 80,000&nbsp;soldiers to ease the strain. (no longer free) In late 2005, Clinton said that while immediate withdrawal from Iraq would be a mistake, Bush's pledge to stay "until the job is done" was also misguided, as it gave Iraqis "an open-ended invitation not to take care of themselves." She criticized the administration for making poor decisions in the war, but said it was more important to solve the problems in Iraq. Her stance caused frustration among those in the Democratic party who favored immediate withdrawal. Clinton supported retaining and improving health benefits for veterans, and lobbied against the closure of several military bases.Senator Clinton voted against President Bush's two major tax cut packages, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 and the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003. Clinton voted against both the 2005 confirmation of John G. Roberts as Chief Justice of the United States and the 2006 confirmation of Samuel Alito to the United States Supreme Court.In 2005, Clinton called for the Federal Trade Commission to investigate how hidden sex scenes showed up in the controversial video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. Along with Senators Joe Lieberman and Evan Bayh, she introduced the Family Entertainment Protection Act, intended to protect children from inappropriate content found in video games. In July 2004 and June 2006, Clinton voted against the Federal Marriage Amendment that sought to prohibit same-sex marriage.Looking to establish a "progressive infrastructure" to rival that of American conservatism,Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 401. Clinton played a formative role in conversations that led to the 2003 founding of former Clinton administration chief of staff John Podesta's Center for American Progress;Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 313. shared aides with Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, founded in 2003;Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, pp. 267–269. advised and nurtured the Clintons' former antagonist David Brock's Media Matters for America, created in 2004; and following the 2004 Senate elections, successfully pushed new Democratic Senate leader Harry Reid to create a Senate war room to handle daily political messaging.Reelection campaign of 2006In November 2004, Clinton announced that she would seek a second Senate term. The early frontrunner for the Republican nomination, Westchester County District Attorney Jeanine Pirro, withdrew from the contest after several months of poor campaign performance. Clinton easily won the Democratic nomination over opposition from anti-war activist Jonathan Tasini. Clinton's eventual opponents in the general election were Republican candidate John Spencer, a former mayor of Yonkers, along with several third-party candidates. Throughout the campaign, Clinton consistently led Spencer in the polls by wide margins. She won the election on November&nbsp;7, 2006 with 67&nbsp;percent of the vote to Spencer's 31&nbsp;percent, carrying all but four of New York's sixty-two counties. Clinton spent $36&nbsp;million for her reelection, more than any other candidate for Senate in the 2006 elections. She was criticized by some Democrats for spending too much in a one-sided contest, while some supporters were concerned she did not leave more funds for a potential presidential bid in 2008. page A1. In the following months she transferred $10&nbsp;million of her Senate funds toward her presidential campaign.Second termNavy Admiral Mike Mullen responds to a question during his 2007 confirmation hearing with the Senate Armed Services Committee.]]Clinton opposed the Iraq War troop surge of 2007 and supported a February 2007 non-binding Senate resolution against it, which failed to gain cloture. In March 2007 she voted in favor of a war spending bill that required President Bush to begin withdrawing troops from Iraq within a certain deadline; it passed almost completely along party lines but was subsequently vetoed by President Bush. In May 2007 a compromise war funding bill that removed withdrawal deadlines but tied funding to progress benchmarks for the Iraqi government passed the Senate by a vote of 80-14 and would be signed by Bush; Clinton was one of those who voted against it. Clinton responded to General David Petraeus's September 2007 Report to Congress on the Situation in Iraq by saying, "I think that the reports that you provide to us really require a willing suspension of disbelief." In September 2007 she voted in favor of a Senate resolution calling on the State Department to label the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps "a foreign terrorist organization", which passed 76-22.In March 2007, in response to the dismissal of U.S. attorneys controversy, Clinton called on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to resign. In May and June 2007, regarding the high-profile, hotly debated comprehensive immigration reform bill known as the Secure Borders, Economic Opportunity and Immigration Reform Act of 2007, Clinton cast a number of votes in support of the bill, which eventually failed to gain cloture.As the financial crisis of 2007–2008 reached a peak with the liquidity crisis of September 2008, Clinton supported the proposed bailout of United States financial system, voting in favor of the $700 billion Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, saying that it represented the interests of the American people. It passed the Senate 74–25.Presidential campaign of 2008 Clinton had been preparing for a potential candidacy for United States President since at least early 2003.Bernstein 2007, pp. 550–552. On January&nbsp;20, 2007, Clinton announced via her web site the formation of a presidential exploratory committee for the United States presidential election of 2008. She stated, "I'm in, and I'm in to win."Gerth and Van Natta Jr. 2007, p. 5. No woman has ever been nominated by a major party for President of the United States. In April 2007, the Clintons liquidated a blind trust that had been established when Bill Clinton became president in 1993, in order to avoid the possibility of ethical conflicts or political embarrassments in the trust as Hillary Clinton undertook her presidential race. Later disclosure statements revealed that the couple's worth was now upwards of $50&nbsp;million, and that they had earned over $100&nbsp;million since 2000, with most of it coming from Bill Clinton's books, speaking engagements, and other activities., San Jose, California, February&nbsp;1, 2008.]] Clinton led the field of candidates competing for the Democratic nomination in opinion polls for the election throughout the first half of 2007. Most polls placed Senator Barack Obama of Illinois and former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina as Clinton's closest competitors in the early caucus and primary election states. Clinton and Obama both set records for early fundraising, swapping the money lead each quarter, while Clinton generally maintained her lead in the polls. In late August 2007, a major contributor to, and "bundler" for, Clinton's campaign, called a "HillRaiser", Norman Hsu, was revealed to be a 15-years-long fugitive in an investment fraud case. He was also suspected of having broken campaign finance law regarding his bundling collections. &lt;/ref&gt; The Clinton campaign said it would refund to 260&nbsp;donors the full $850,000 in bundled donations raised by Hsu, who was subsequently indicted on new investment fraud charges. By September 2007, opinion polling in the first six states holding Democratic primaries or caucuses showed that Clinton was leading in all of them, with the races being closest in Iowa and South Carolina. By October 2007, national polls had Clinton far ahead of any Democratic competitor. At the end of October, Clinton suffered what writers for The Washington Post, ABC News, The Politico and other outlets characterized as a rare poor debate performance against Obama, Edwards, and her other opponents. Subsequently, the race tightened considerably, especially in the early caucus and primary states of Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina, with Clinton losing her lead in some polls by December.in Minneapolis, Minnesota, two days before Super Tuesday 2008.]] In the first vote of 2008, she placed third with 29.45&nbsp;percent of the state delegate selections in the January&nbsp;3, 2008 Iowa Democratic caucus to Obama's 37.58&nbsp;percent and Edwards' 29.75&nbsp;percent. Obama gained ground in national polling in the next few days, with all polls predicting a win for him, sometimes by double digits, in the New Hampshire primary. However, Clinton gained a surprise win there on January&nbsp;8, defeating Obama by 39&nbsp;percent to 37&nbsp;percent and tieing with him for delegates. Explanations for her New Hampshire comeback varied but often centered on her being seen more sympathetically, especially by women, after her eyes welled with tears and her voice broke while responding to a voter's question the day before the election. The nature of the contest fractured in the next few days, when several remarks by Bill Clinton and other surrogates, and one remark by Hillary Clinton concerning Martin Luther King, Jr. and Lyndon B. Johnson,Hillary Clinton said to a news correspondent asking for reaction to an Obama remark earlier in the day about his possibly representing false hope: “I would point to the fact that that Dr. King’s dream began to be realized when President Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, when he was able to get through Congress something that President Kennedy was hopeful to do, the President before had not even tried, but it took a president to get it done. That dream became a reality, the power of that dream became real in people’s lives because we had a president who said we are going to do it, and actually got it accomplished.” See for transcript:  See for actual interview:  were perceived by many as, accidentally or intentionally, limiting Obama as a racially oriented candidate or otherwise denying the post-racial significance and accomplishments of his campaign. Despite attempts by both Hillary Clinton and Obama to downplay the issue, Democratic voting became more polarized as a result, with Clinton losing much of her support among African Americans. She lost by a 55–27&nbsp;percent margin to Obama in the January&nbsp;26 South Carolina primary, setting up, with Edwards soon dropping out, an intense two-person contest for the twenty-two February&nbsp;5 Super Tuesday states. Bill Clinton had made more statements attracting criticism for their perceived racial implications late in the South Carolina campaign, and by now his role was seen as damaging enough to her that a wave of supporters within and outside of the campaign said the former President "needs to stop." On Super Tuesday, Clinton won the largest states, such as California, New York, New Jersey and Massachusetts while Obama won more states; they almost evenly divided the total number of delegates and the total popular vote.Kevin Rudd (right) in March 2008]] Obama then won the next eleven caucuses and primaries, often by large margins, and extended the overall delegate lead from Clinton. On March&nbsp;4, Clinton broke the string of losses by winning in Ohio among other places, while Obama scored wins then and in the following week. Throughout the campaign, Obama dominated caucuses, and did well in primaries where African Americans or younger, college-educated, or more affluent voters were heavily represented; Clinton did well in primaries where Hispanics or older, non-college-educated, or working-class white voters predominated. Former Democratic vice-presidential nominee Geraldine Ferraro's claim that Obama's lead was solely due to his being African-American helped revive the racially tinged aspect of the contest; Ferraro resigned from the Clinton campaign's finance committee as Clinton repudiated the remarks. Meanwhile, some Democratic party leaders expressed concern that the drawn-out campaign between the two could damage the winner in the general election contest against presumptive Republican nominee John McCain, especially if an eventual triumph for Clinton was won via party-appointed superdelegates. Clinton's admission in late March—following the airing of video—that her campaign statements about having been under hostile fire from snipers during a 1996 visit to U.S. troops at Tuzla Air Base in Bosnia-Herzegovina were not true attracted considerable media attention, and the contradiction risked undermining both her credibility and her claims of foreign policy expertise as First Lady.&lt;/ref&gt; On April&nbsp;22 she won the Pennsylvania primary by 9 points, keeping her campaign alive. However, on May&nbsp;6, a narrow win in the Indiana primary coupled with a large loss in the North Carolina primary damaged her chances and led to speculation about whether she could or would remain in the race. She vowed to stay on through the remaining primaries, and a 41-point win in the May&nbsp;13 West Virginia primary left her "more determined than ever to carry on this campaign". On May&nbsp;31, the Democratic National Committee agreed to seat the Michigan and Florida delegates at the national convention, but to give each of them half a vote, narrowing the delegate gap between Clinton and Obama while increasing the number of delegates needed to win the nomination. However, Obama retained a lead even after Clinton won the Puerto Rico primary on June&nbsp;1.Following the final primaries on June&nbsp;3, 2008, Obama had gained enough delegates to become the presumptive nominee. In a speech before her supporters on June&nbsp;7, Clinton ended her campaign and endorsed Obama, declaring, "The way to continue our fight now to accomplish the goals for which we stand is to take our energy, our passion, our strength and do all we can to help elect Barack Obama." By campaign's end, Clinton had won 1,640&nbsp;pledged delegates to Obama's 1,763, a 3.6&nbsp;percentage point difference; at the time of the clinching, Clinton had 286&nbsp;superdelegates to Obama's 395, with those numbers widening to 256 versus 438 once Obama was acknowledged the winner. Clinton and Obama each received over 17 million votes during the nomination process, The popular vote count for a nomination process is unofficial, and meaningless in determining the nominee. It is difficult to come up with precise totals due to some caucus states not reporting popular vote totals and thus having to be estimated. It is further difficult to compare Clinton and Obama's totals, due to only her name having been on the ballot in the Michigan primary. with both breaking the previous record. Clinton also eclipsed, by a very large margin, Shirley Chisholm's mark for most primaries and delegates won by a woman. In 1972, Chisholm won 152 delegates and one no-delegates "beauty contest" primary.Political positions In a Gallup poll conducted during May 2005, 54&nbsp;percent of respondents considered Senator Clinton a liberal, 30&nbsp;percent considered her a moderate, and 9&nbsp;percent considered her a conservative.Several organizations have attempted to measure her place on the political spectrum scientifically:National Journal's 2004 study of roll-call votes assigned Clinton a rating of 30 in the political spectrum, relative to the then-current Senate, with a rating of 1 being most liberal and 100 being most conservative. National Journal's subsequent rankings placed her as the 32nd-most liberal senator in 2006 and 16th-most liberal senator in 2007.A 2004 analysis by political scientists Joshua D. Clinton of Princeton University, Simon Jackman and Doug Rivers of Stanford University found her to be likely the sixth-to-eighth-most liberal Senator.The Almanac of American Politics, edited by Michael Barone and Richard E. Cohen, rated her votes from 2003 through 2006 as liberal or conservative, with 100 as the highest rating, in three areas: Economic, Social, and Foreign; averaged for the four years, the ratings are: Economic = 75&nbsp;liberal, 23&nbsp;conservative; Social = 83&nbsp;liberal, 6&nbsp;conservative; Foreign = 66&nbsp;liberal, 30&nbsp;conservative. Average = 75&nbsp;liberal, 20&nbsp;conservative.See  And 2006 edition of same, 1152. The scores for individual years are rating 100, format: liberal, (conservative): 2003: Economic = 90 (7), Social = 85 (0), Foreign = 79 (14). Average = 85 (7). 2004: Economic = 63 (36), Social = 82 (0), Foreign = 58 (41). Average = 68 (26). 2005: Economic = 84 (15), Social = 83 (10), Foreign = 66 (29). Average = 78 (18). 2006: Economic = 63 (35), Social = 80 (14), Foreign = 62 (35). Average = 68 (28).Various interest groups have given Senator Clinton scores or grades as to how well her votes align with the positions of the group:Through 2007, she has an average lifetime 93&nbsp;percent "Liberal Quotient" from Americans for Democratic Action. Average consists of a 95 in 2001 through 2004 and 2006, a 100 in 2005, and a 75 in 2007 (the decline was due to missed votes while campaigning for president).Through 2007, she has a lifetime 8&nbsp;percent rating from the American Conservative Union. Lifetime rating is given.She received an 'A' (excellent) on the Drum Major Institute's 2005 Congressional Scorecard on middle-class issues.The American Civil Liberties Union has given her a 75&nbsp;percent lifetime rating through September 2007. Breakdown is 3/5 60% for 2001–2002, 7/9 78% for 2003–2004, 10/12 83% for 2005–2006, 4/6 67% for 2007– , for a total of 24/32 75%.NARAL Pro-Choice America consistently gave her a 100&nbsp;percent pro-choice rating from 2002 to 2007.The League of Conservation Voters has given her a lifetime 90&nbsp;percent pro-environment action rating through 2006.Americans for Better Immigration has given her a lifetime grade of 'D-' (very near failing) through October 2007 on their Immigration-Reduction Report Card.The National Rifle Association gave her an 'F' (failing) rating in 2006 for her stance on Second Amendment issues.Writings and recordingsAs First Lady of the United States, Clinton published a weekly syndicated newspaper column titled "Talking It Over" from 1995 to 2000, distributed by Creators Syndicate. It focused on her experiences and those of women, children and families she encountered during her travels around the world.In 1996, Clinton presented a vision for the children of America in the book It Takes a Village: And Other Lessons Children Teach Us. The book was a ''New York Times'' Best Seller,Bernstein 2007, p. 446. and Clinton received the Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album in 1997 for the book's audio recording. The title refers to an African proverb that states "It takes a village to raise a child".Other books released by Clinton when she was First Lady include Dear Socks, Dear Buddy: Kids' Letters to the First Pets (1998) and An Invitation to the White House: At Home with History (2000). In 2001, she wrote the foreword to the children's book Beatrice's Goat.In 2003, Clinton released a 562-page autobiography, Living History. In anticipation of high sales, publisher Simon &amp; Schuster paid Clinton a near-record advance of $8&nbsp;million.Bernstein 2007, p. 544. The book set a first-week sales record for a non-fiction work, went on to sell more than one million copies in the first month following publication, and was translated into twelve foreign languages. Clinton's audio recording of the book earned her a nomination for the Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album.Cultural and political imageHillary Clinton has frequently been featured in the media and popular culture from a wide spectrum of perspectives. In 1995, New York Times writer Todd Purdum labeled Clinton "the First Lady as Rorschach test", an assessment echoed at the time by feminist writer and activist Betty Friedan, who said, "Coverage of Hillary Clinton is a massive Rorschach test of the evolution of women in our society."Clinton has often been described in the popular media as a polarizing figure, with some arguing otherwise. pp. 66–68. James Madison University political science professor Valerie Sulfaro's 2007 study used the American National Election Studies' "feeling thermometer" polls, which measure the degree of opinion about a political figure, to find that such polls during Clinton's First Lady years confirm the "conventional wisdom that Hillary Clinton is a polarizing figure", with the added insight that "affect towards Mrs. Clinton as first lady tended to be very positive or very negative, with a fairly constant one fourth of respondents feeling ambivalent or neutral." University of California, San Diego political science professor Gary Jacobson's 2006&nbsp;study of partisan polarization found that in a state-by-state survey of job approval ratings of the state's senators, Clinton had the fourth-largest partisan difference of any senator, with a 50&nbsp;percentage point difference in approval between New York's Democrats and Republicans. Northern Illinois University political science professor Barbara Burrell's 2000&nbsp;study found that Clinton's Gallup poll favorability numbers broke sharply along partisan lines throughout her time as First Lady, with 70 to 90&nbsp;percent of Democrats typically viewing her favorably while 20 to 40&nbsp;percent of Republicans did. University of Wisconsin political science professor Charles Franklin analyzed her record of favorable versus unfavorable ratings in public opinion polls, and found that there was more variation in them during her First Lady years than her Senate years. The Senate years showed favorable ratings around 50&nbsp;percent and unfavorable ratings in the mid-40&nbsp;percent range; Franklin noted that, "This sharp split is, of course, one of the more widely remarked aspects of Sen. Clinton's public image." McGill University professor of history Gil Troy titled his 2006 biography of her Hillary Rodham Clinton: Polarizing First Lady, and wrote that after the 1992 campaign, Clinton "was a polarizing figure, with 42&nbsp;percent the public saying she came closer to their values and lifestyle than previous first ladies and 41&nbsp;percent disagreeing."Troy 2006, p. 60. Troy further wrote that Hillary Clinton "has been uniquely controversial and contradictory since she first appeared on the national radar screen in 1992" and that she "has alternately fascinated, bedeviled, bewitched, and appalled Americans."Troy 2006, p. 4.Burrell's study found women consistently rating Clinton more favorably than men by about ten percentage points during her First Lady years. Jacobson's study found a positive correlation across all senators between being women and receiving a partisan-polarized response. Colorado State University communication studies professor Karrin Vasby Anderson describes the First Lady position as a "site" for American womanhood, one ready made for the symbolic negotiation of female identity. In particular, Anderson states there has been a cultural bias towards traditional first ladies and a cultural prohibition against modern first ladies; by the time of Clinton, the First Lady position had become a site of heterogeneity and paradox. Burrell, as well as biographers Jeff Gerth and Don Van Natta, Jr., note that Clinton achieved her highest approval ratings as First Lady late in 1998, not for any professional or political achievement of her own but for being seen as the victim of her husband's very public infidelity. University of Pennsylvania communications professor Kathleen Hall Jamieson saw Hillary Clinton as an exemplar of the double bind, who though able to live in a "both-and" world of both career and family, nevertheless "became a surrogate on whom we projected our attitudes about attributes once thought incompatible", leading to her being placed in a variety of no-win situations. University of Indianapolis English professor Charlotte Templin found political cartoonists using a variety of stereotypes — such as gender reversal, radical feminist as emasculator, and the wife the husband wants to get rid of — to portray Hillary Clinton as violating gender norms.Over fifty books and scholarly works have been written about Hillary Clinton, from many different perspectives. A 2006 survey by The New York Observer found "a virtual cottage industry" of "anti-Clinton literature", put out by Regnery Publishing and other conservative imprints, with titles such as Madame Hillary: The Dark Road to the White House, Hillary's Scheme: Inside the Next Clinton's Ruthless Agenda to Take the White House, and Can She Be Stopped? : Hillary Clinton Will Be the Next President of the United States Unless .... Books praising Clinton did not sell nearly as well (other than the memoirs written by her and her husband). When she ran for Senate in 2000, a number of fundraising groups such as Save Our Senate and the Emergency Committee to Stop Hillary Rodham Clinton sprang up to oppose her. Van Natta, Jr. found that Republican and conservative groups viewed her as a reliable "bogeyman" to mention in fundraising letters, on a par with Ted Kennedy and the equivalent of Democratic and liberal appeals mentioning Newt Gingrich.Going into the early stages of her presidential campaign for 2008, a Time magazine cover showed a large picture of her, with two checkboxes labeled "Love Her", "Hate Her", while Mother Jones titled its profile of her "Harpy, Hero, Heretic: Hillary". Democratic netroots activists consistently rated Clinton very low in polls of their desired candidates, while some conservative figures such as Bruce Bartlett and Christopher Ruddy were declaring a Hillary Clinton presidency not so bad after all  and an October 2007 cover of The American Conservative magazine was titled "The Waning Power of Hillary Hate". By December 2007, communications professor Jamieson observed that there was a large amount of misogyny present about Clinton on the Internet, up to and including Facebook and other sites devoted to depictions reducing Clinton to sexual humiliation. She noted that, in response to widespread commenting on the nature of Clinton's laugh, that "We know that there's language to condemn female speech that doesn't exist for male speech. We call women's speech shrill and strident. And Hillary Clinton's laugh was being described as a cackle." Following Clinton's "choked up moment" and related incidents before the January 2008 New Hampshire primary, both The New York Times and Newsweek found that discussion of gender's role in the campaign had moved into the national political discourse. Newsweek editor Jon Meacham summed the relationship between Clinton and the American public by saying that the New Hampshire events, "brought an odd truth to light: though Hillary Rodham Clinton has been on the periphery or in the middle of national life for decades ... she is one of the most recognizable but least understood figures in American politics."Awards and honorsClinton has received over a dozen awards and honors during her career, from both American and international organizations, for her activities concerning health, women, and children.Electoral history      Further readingFootnotesReferencesExternal linksOfficial sites Hillary Clinton at the Internet Movie Database Official Biography of First Lady Clinton.Congressional links Site directory          |-                                 Category:Alumnae of women's universities and colleges Category:American legal academics Category:American memoirists Category:American Methodists Category:Dutch Americans Category:Americans of English descent Category:Americans of French Canadian descent Category:Americans of Scottish descent Category:Welsh Americans Category:Arkansas lawyers Category:Female lawyers Category:Female United States presidential candidates Clinto, Hillary Rodham Category:First Ladies of the United States Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Hillary Rodham Clinton Category:New York Democrats Category:People from Park Ridge, Illinois Category:Spouses of United States state governors Category:United States Senators from New York Category:Current members of the United States Senate Category:Video game censorship Category:Wal-Mart people Category:Wellesley College alumni Category:Westchester County, New York politicians Category:Yale Law School alumni Category:College Republicans Category:Former conservatives Category:United States presidential candidates, 2008af:Hillary Clinton ar:هيلاري كلينتون az:Hillari Klinton bn:হিলারি ক্লিনটন zh-min-nan:Hillary Rodham Clinton be-x-old:Хілары Клінтан bs:Hillary Clinton br:Hillary Clinton bg:Хилъри Клинтън ca:Hillary Rodham Clinton cs:Hillary Clintonová cy:Hillary Rodham Clinton da:Hillary Clinton de:Hillary Clinton et:Hillary Clinton el:Χίλαρι Κλίντον es:Hillary Rodham Clinton eo:Hillary Rodham Clinton eu:Hillary Rodham Clinton fa:هیلاری کلینتون fr:Hillary Rodham Clinton ga:Hillary Rodham Clinton gl:Hillary Clinton ko:힐러리 클린턴 hi:हिलेरी रोढम क्लिंटन hr:Hillary Rodham Clinton io:Hillary Clinton id:Hillary Clinton is:Hillary Clinton it:Hillary Clinton he:הילרי רודהם קלינטון jv:Hillary Clinton ka:ჰილარი კლინტონი sw:Hillary Rodham Clinton ku:Hillary Clinton la:Hillaria Clinton lb:Hillary Clinton lt:Hillary Rodham Clinton hu:Hillary Clinton ml:ഹിലരി ക്ലിന്റണ്‍ mr:हिलरी क्लिंटन ms:Hillary Rodham Clinton nl:Hillary Clinton ja:ヒラリー・クリントン no:Hillary Clinton nn:Hillary Rodham Clinton oc:Hillary Rodham Clinton pl:Hillary Rodham Clinton pt:Hillary Clinton ksh:Hillary Clinton ro:Hillary Rodham Clinton ru:Клинтон, Хиллари sq:Hillary Clinton simple:Hillary Rodham Clinton sk:Hillary Rodhamová-Clintonová sl:Hillary Clinton sr:Хилари Клинтон fi:Hillary Clinton sv:Hillary Clinton ta:இலரி கிளின்டன் te:హిల్లరీ క్లింటన్ th:ฮิลลารี คลินตัน vi:Hillary Clinton tr:Hillary Rodham Clinton uk:Клінтон Гілларі wuu:希拉里·克林顿 yi:הילערי ראדהעם קלינטאן zh-yue:希拉莉 bat-smg:Hillary Rodham Clinton zh:希拉里·克林顿