 The rheas are species of flightless ratite birds in the genus Rhea, native to South America. There are two extant species: the Greater or American Rhea and the Lesser or Darwin's Rhea. The genus name was given in 1752 by Paul Mohring and adopted as the English common name. Mohring's reason for choosing this name, from the Rhea of classical mythology, is not known.Description and biologyRheas are large, flightless birds with grey-brown plumage, long legs and long necks. These birds stand to about the size of 5 feet 5 inches (1.68 m).An introduction to study of birds. London, 1835, p 400, 5 feet 5 inches Their wings are comparatively large for a flightless bird and are spread while running, to act like sails. Unlike most birds, rheas have only three toes which is probably an adaptation to allow faster running. They are omnivorous, preferring broad-leafed plants, but also eating seeds, roots, fruit, insects, and small vertebrates.The recognised subspecies are:Greater Rhea Rhea americanaR. a. americana, found in campos of north and east BrazilR. a. intermedia, southeast Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul) and UruguayR. a. nobilis, east ParaguayR. a. araneipes, Paraguay to Bolivia and Brazilian Mato GrossoR. a. albescens, plains of Argentina south to Rio NegroLesser Rhea Rhea pennataR. p. garleppiR. p. tarapacensisR. p. pennataReproductionRheas are polygamous, with males courting between two to twelve females. After mating, the male builds a nest, in which each female lays her eggs in turn. The nest consists of a simple scrape in the ground, lined with grass and leaves. The male incubates from ten to sixty eggs; the chicks hatch within 36 hours of each other. The females, meanwhile, may move on and mate with other males. While caring for the young, the males will charge at any perceived threat that approach the chicks including female rheas and humans. The young reach full adult size in about six months, but do not breed until they reach two years of age. ReferencesExternal linksRhea videos on the Internet Bird Collection Category:Ratites Category:Flightless birds Category:Birds of Brazil Category:Birds of Argentina Category:Birds of Chile Category:Birds of Uruguay Category:Higher-level bird taxa restricted to the Neotropics Category:Birds of South America Category:Genera of birdsgn:Andu ay:Suri da:Nanduer de:Nandus es:Rhea eo:Reao fr:Rhea hr:Nandui it:Rheae he:ננדו lt:Nandas hu:Nandufélék nl:Nandoes ja:レア (鳥類) no:Nanduer pl:Nandu pt:Ema qu:Suri ru:Нанду sk:Nandu fi:Nandut sv:Nanduer tr:Ñandú zea:Nandoes