Erich Kleiber (August 5, 1890 &ndash; January 27, 1956) was an Austrian-born conductor.Born in Vienna, Kleiber studied in Prague. In 1923, after conducting a stirring performance of Beethoven's Fidelio at the Berlin State Opera, he became that institution's music director.He was known for his interpretations of the standard symphonic and operatic repertoire, as well as for championing new works. In 1925, for example, he conducted the première of Alban Berg's opera, Wozzeck. When Berg's second opera Lulu was branded Entartete Musik (degenerate music) by the Nazi Party, Kleiber resigned from his post at the Berlin Opera in protest. He was not Jewish.  Kleiber also repudiated his contract with La Scala in Milan in April of 1939, saying that "...since la Scala is denied for Jews...both as a Christian and an artist, I can no longer cooperate." (Cited in "Notes from Abroad" in The Musical times, April, 1939.)Later he moved to Buenos Aires, where he worked at the Colón Theater, becoming its music director. Here he specialized in the German operatic repertoire, particularly the works of Wagner. Through the prestige of his name, he was able to attract such luminaries to the Colón as Emanuel List, Kirsten Flagstad, Viorica Ursuleac (in her only American appearances) and Set Svanholm. Some of his performances from this period have been available on CDs of varying quality, depending upon the conditions under which the original recordings were made. He took Argentinian citizenship in 1938.After World War II, he was offered his old position at the Berlin State Opera, which was now in the Russian zone of the city, but after discovering that the Communists were no more to his taste than the Nazis had been, he resigned without having conducted a single performance. He became a roving guest conductor, never again having any permanent post.Erich Kleiber made a few recordings, mainly for Decca. Two operatic recordings are especially remarkable: Mozart's "Le Nozze di Figaro" and Richard Strauss's "Der Rosenkavalier". The former was included in Gramophone Magazine's 100 Grest Recordings.His son, Carlos Kleiber, was himself a world-renowned conductor.notesBibliographyJohn Russell, Erich Kleiber: A Memoir (1957)Tomislav Vichev, Kleiber's Era (2002)External linksDiscographyKleiber's eraBiography, Annotated bibliography and Discography and Web links    Category:1890 births Category:1956 deaths Category:Austrian conductors Category:Music directors (opera) Category:Austrian musicians Category:Argentine conductors Category:Musicians who emigrated to escape Nazism Category:People from Viennabg:Ерих Клайбер da:Erich Kleiber de:Erich Kleiber es:Erich Kleiber fr:Erich Kleiber it:Erich Kleiber he:אריך קלייבר nl:Erich Kleiber ja:エーリヒ・クライバー pl:Erich Kleiber ru:Клайбер, Эрих fi:Erich Kleiber zh:埃里希·克莱伯