  Canton, Ohio. United States | Instrument = Vocals, guitar, keyboards, drums, pan flute | Genre = Alternative metalIndustrial metalHeavy metalHard rockDisputed Subgenres  | Occupation = Singer-songwriter/poet, Musician, Artist | Years_active = 1989-present | Label = Nothing Records, Interscope | Associated_acts = Marilyn Manson Mrs. Scabtree Brian Hugh Warner (born January 5, 1969), better known by his stage name Marilyn Manson, is an American musician and artist, known for his outrageous stage persona and image as the lead singer of the eponymous band. His stage name was formed from the names of actress Marilyn Monroe and convicted murderer http://www.2violent.com/closing_argument.html&lt;/ref&gt;, Charles Manson.BiographyEarly lifeManson was born in Canton, Ohio, the son of Barb (née Wyer) and Hugh Warner. His father was a Catholic and his mother Episcopalian. According to his autobiography The Long Hard Road Out of Hell, Manson is of German and Polish ancestry on his father's side. He was raised in his mother's religion, attending Heritage Christian School, though he later transferred out, graduating from Cardinal Gibbons High School in 1987. In 1990, Manson was a college student attending Broward Community College. He was working toward a journalism degree, and gaining experience in the field by writing music articles for a South Florida lifestyle magazine, 25th Parallel when he met several of the musicians to whom his own band would later be compared, including My Life With the Thrill Kill Kult and Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails.MusicManson formed Marilyn Manson &amp; the Spooky Kids in Florida in 1989 (the name was shortened to Marilyn Manson in 1992). While with The Spooky Kids, he was involved with Jeordie White (also known as Twiggy Ramirez) and Stephen Gregory Bier Jr. (also known as Madonna Wayne Gacy) in two side-projects: Satan on Fire, a faux-Christian death metal ensemble where he played bass guitar, and drums in Mrs. Scabtree, a collaborative band formed with White and then girlfriend Jessicka (vocalist with the band Jack Off Jill) as a way to combat contractual agreements that prohibited Marilyn Manson from playing in certain clubs. In the summer of 1993, the band drew the attention of Trent Reznor. Reznor produced their 1994 debut album, Portrait of an American Family and released it on his Nothing Records label. The band began to develop a cult following, which grew larger with the release of Smells Like Children in 1995. That EP yielded the band's first big MTV hit with "Sweet Dreams (Are Made Of This)", a cover of the 1983 Eurythmics hit. Antichrist Superstar (co-produced by Trent Reznor) was an even greater success. In the US alone, three of the band's albums have been awarded platinum certification, three more gold, and the band has had three releases debut in the top ten, including two number-one albums.Manson first worked as a producer with the band Jack Off Jill. He helped name the band and produce most of the band's early recordings, and also played guitar on the song "My Cat" and had the band open most of his South Florida shows. Manson later wrote the liner notes to the band's album Humid Teenage Mediocrity 1992-1995, a collection of early Jack Off Jill recordings.Manson has appeared as a guest performer on DMX's album Flesh of My Flesh, Blood of My BloodManson Hooks Up With DMX October 23, 1998". Retrieved June 18, 2007. and on Godhead's 2000 Years of Human Error album — the only album released on his vanity label Posthuman.Manson's latest musical project is a cover of the Danny Elfman song "This is Halloween" that was included on the soundtrack of the 2007 3D re-release of the 1993 Tim Burton film The Nightmare Before Christmas.Film and televisionManson made his film debut in 1997, as an actor in David Lynch's Lost Highway. Since then he has appeared in a variety of minor roles and cameos, including Party Monster; then-girlfriend Rose McGowan's 1998 film Jawbreaker; Asia Argento's 2004 film The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things; Rise; and The Hire: Beat The Devil, the sixth installment in the BMW Films series. He was interviewed in Michael Moore's political documentary Bowling for Columbine discussing possible motivations for the Columbine massacre and allegations that his music was somehow a factor. He has appeared in animated form in Clone High and participated in several episodes of the MTV series Celebrity Deathmatch, becoming the show's unofficial champion and mascot; he often performed the voice for his claymated puppet, and contributed the song "Astonishing Panorama of the Endtimes" to the soundtrack album.In July 2005, Manson told Rolling Stone that he was shifting his focus from music to filmmaking - "I just don't think the world is worth putting music into right now. I no longer want to make art that other people &mdash; particularly record companies &mdash; are turning into a product. I just want to make art."He is currently working on his directorial debut, Phantasmagoria: The Visions of Lewis Carroll, In the film, he plays Lewis Carroll, author of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Rather than a web-only release, he decided to give the estimated $4.2 million budget film a conventional cinema release, originally slated for mid-2007. The film will have an original music soundtrack with previously unreleased songs. Production of the film has been postponed until an undefined period following the Eat Me, Drink Me tour.ArtManson claimed in a 2004 interview with i-D magazine to have begun his career as a watercolor painter in 1999 when he made five-minute concept pieces and sold them to drug dealers. On September 13-14, 2002, his first show, The Golden Age of Grotesque, was held at the Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions Centre. Art in America's Max Henry likened them to the works of a "psychiatric patient given materials to use as therapy" and said his work would never be taken seriously in a fine-art context, writing that the value was "in their celebrity, not the work". On September 14-15, 2004, Manson held a second exhibition on the first night in Paris and the second in Berlin. The show was named ‘Trismegistus’ which was also the title of the center piece of the exhibit – a large, three-headed Christ painted onto an antique wood panel from a portable embalmers table.Manson named his self-proclaimed art movement Celebritarian Corporation. He has coined a slogan for the movement: “We will sell our shadow to those who stand within it.” In 2005 he said that the Celebritarian Corporation has been "incubating for seven years" which if correct would indicate that Celebritarian Corporation, in some form, started in 1998.Celebritarian Corporation is also the namesake of an art gallery owned by Manson, called the Celebritarian Corporation Gallery of Fine Art in Los Angeles for which his third exhibition was the inaugural show. From April 2-17, 2007, his recent works were on show at the Space 39 Modern & Contemporary in Florida. 40 pieces from this show traveled to Germany's Gallery Brigitte Schenk in Cologne to be publicly exhibited from June 28 - July 28, 2007. Manson was refused admittance to Kölner Dom (Cologne Cathedral), when he was in the city to attend the opening night. This was, according to Manson, due to his makeup. Other sources gave different reasons, however.Video gamesManson made an appearance in the video game Area 51 as Edgar a Grey Alien. His song "Cruci-Fiction In Space" is featured in a commercial for a video game, The Darkness. His likeness is also featured on the Celebrity Deathmatch video game for which he recorded a song for the soundtrack (2003). The song "Use your fist and not your mouth" was the credits score of the game Cold Fear as well as Spawn: Armageddon.AbsintheManson launched Mansinthe, his own brand of Swiss made absinthe, which has received mixed reviews ranging from critics who compared the drink's odor to sewage water and described the taste as being "as bad as piss." and that the website for the product might install malicious software on your computer.Official Mansinthe site spreads malicious software To coming second to Versinthe in an Absinthe top 5Esquire Mansinthe 2nd in top 5 and winning a Gold medal at the 2008 San Francisco World Spirits Competition.The Heirophant - Marilyn Manson Encyclopedia and Community&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Personal lifeManson is six feet and three inches (190cm) tall His Autobiography.Prior to dating Rose McGowan, and Melissa Romero, Manson was linked to Michele Greenberg who is portrayed as 'Rachelle' in his book 'The Long Hard Road Out of Hell' and "may have a child fathered by Warner". Prior to his relationship with Von Teese, he was engaged to actress Rose McGowan.Manson dated a woman named Melissa "Missi" Romero. As explained in his autobiography The Long Hard Road Out of Hell, during the production of Antichrist Superstar, she became pregnant with Manson's child; however, she had an abortion during her second trimester.Marriage to Dita Von TeeseHe had been a long time fan of Dita Von Teese, and was a member of her website. They first met when he asked her to dance in one of his music videos. Though she was unable to, the two kept in contact. On his 32nd birthday, she arrived with a bottle of absinthe, and they became a couple. He proposed on March 22, 2004 and gave her a 1930s-era, 7-carat, European round-cut diamond engagement ring.On November 28, 2005, Manson and von Teese were married in a private, non-denominational ceremony in their home. A larger ceremony was held on December 3 at Gurteen Castle in Kilsheelan, County Tipperary, Ireland, the home of their friend, Gottfried Helnwein. The wedding was officiated by surrealist film director and comic book writer Alejandro Jodorowsky. They reportedly exchanged vows in front of approximately 60 guests, including burlesque performer Catherine D'lish, Lisa Marie Presley, Eric Szmanda, Jessicka and Christian Hejnal. The bride wore a royal purple silk taffeta gown, made by Vivienne Westwood, a tri-corned hat designed by Stephen Jones and a matching Mr. Pearl corset. Moschino designed an additional wardrobe for the rest of the weekend, exclusively for Von Teese. The reception music was provided by the retro German band Palast Orchester mit Max Raabe. Guests were invited to participate in skeet shooting, archery and falconry in the days following the wedding. The wedding pictures appeared in the March 2006 edition of Vogue under the heading "The Bride Wore Purple". Hamish Bowles, "The Bride Wore Purple", Vogue, March 2006 http://www.helnwein.com/presse/selected_articles/artikel_2551.htmlOn December 30, 2006 Von Teese filed for divorce due to "irreconcilable differences". ET.com and People claimed that Manson was having an extramarital affair with then 19-year-old actress Evan Rachel Wood, who is to co-star in his upcoming horror film Phantasmagoria: The Visions of Lewis Carroll, and features in the video for his 2007 single, "Heart-Shaped Glasses".Marilyn Manson's Alleged Affair ETonline.com Jan 10, 2006. Retrieved June 21, 2007. The relationship was confirmed by Von Teese in an interview with the Sunday Telegraph, "I get the impression he thinks I was unsupportive, but the truth is I wasn't supportive of his lifestyle, and someone else came along who was." Manson's alcohol abuse and distant behavior were also cited as cause for the split. He is reportedly fighting for custody of the couple's three cats. A judgement of divorce was entered in Los Angeles Superior Court on December 27, 2007.Condemnation from PETAAfter media comments from Manson that he wears his signature black leather pants 24/7,[ http://www.furisdead.com/feat_worst_dressed_winner.asp PETA Announces 'Worst-Dressed' Celebrities of 2008] animal rights group PETA added Manson to PETA’s ‘Worst-Dressed Celebrities of 2008’.Kate, Aretha, Lindsay &amp; Eva Top PETA Worst Dressed ListLawsuitsIn 1997, former guitarist and songwriter Scott Putesky "Daisy Berkowitz", filed suit against Manson seeking unpaid royalties for his contributions to the band's output up to that period, including the recently released Antichrist Superstar. The case was concluded in 1998, although the outcome was confidential.In a civil battery suit, David Diaz, a security officer from a concert in Minneapolis, Minnesota on October 27 2000, sued for $75,000 in a Minneapolis federal court. The federal court jury found in Manson's favor.In a civil suit presented by Oakland County, Michigan, Manson was charged with sexual misconduct against another security officer, Joshua Keasler, during a concert in Clarkston, Michigan on July 30 2001. Oakland County originally filed assault and battery and criminal sexual misconduct charges, but the judge reduced the latter charge to misdemeanor disorderly conduct. Manson pleaded no contest to the reduced charges, paid a $4,000 fine, and later settled the lawsuit under undisclosed terms.On April 3 2002 Maria St. John filed in Los Angeles Superior Court accusing Manson of providing her adult daughter, Jennifer Syme, with cocaine and instructing her to drive while under the influence.On August 2 2007, former band member Stephen "Pogo/Madonna Wayne Gacy" Bier filed a lawsuit against Manson unpaid "partnership proceeds" seeking $20 million in back pay. Several details from the lawsuit leaked to the press. In November 2007, additional papers were filed saying that Manson purchased a child's skeleton and masks made of human skin. He also allegedly bought stuffed animals, such as a grizzly bear and two baboons, and a collection of Nazi memorabilia. In December 2007, Manson countersued, claiming that Bier failed to fulfill his duties as a bandmember to play for recordings and to promote the band. In September 2008, it was reported that Scott Putesky had sided with Bier in the lawsuit. http://93x.com/blog.asp?id=889612&amp;SBID=4444&lt;/ref&gt;DiscographyPortrait of an American Family (1994)Smells Like Children (1995)Antichrist Superstar (1996)Remix &amp; Repent (1997)Mechanical Animals (1998)The Last Tour on Earth (1999)Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) (2000)The Golden Age of Grotesque (2003)Lest We Forget: The Best of (2004)Eat Me, Drink Me (2007)Filmography Lost Highway (1997)Spawn (song) (1997)Private Parts (song) (1997)Jawbreaker (1999)House on Haunted Hill (song) 1999)Clone High (2000)Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2 (song) (2000)From Hell (score, 2001)Not Another Teen Movie (song, 2001)Life as a House (Song) (2001)Resident Evil (score, 2002)Bowling for Columbine (interview, 2002)Queen of the Damned (song) (2002)The Hire: Beat The Devil (2003)Party Monster (2003)Doppelherz (director,score) 2003)The Heart Is Deceitful Above All Things (2004)''Saw II (song, 2005)House of Wax (song, 2005)Living Neon Dreams (2006)Rise: Blood Hunter (2006)Funny Games (song) (2008)Phantasmagoria: The Visions of Lewis Carroll (acting, directing, writing, score) (2009)King Shot (2009)BooksThe Long Hard Road Out of Hell (1998)Holy Wood UnreleasedReferencesExternal links Marilyn Manson and the Spooky KidsMarilyn Manson's Official Web siteMarilyn Manson on MySpaceMarilyn Manson Trilogy Series, Research and DocumentaryLyrics of :Marilyn Manson by albumsThe Marilyn Manson wikiWikiality Marilyn Manson Truthiness Biography  Category:American film actors Category:American male singers Category:American painters Category:American rock singers Category:American writers Category:German-Americans Category:Americans of Polish descent Category:American autobiographers Category:Florida musicians Category:Marilyn Manson Category:Ohio musicians Category:Broward College alumni Category:German-American actors Category:People from Canton, Ohio Category:Resident Evil composers Category:Semi-protectedals:Marilyn Manson bs:Marilyn Manson bg:Мерилин Менсън cs:Brian Warner da:Marilyn Manson (person) de:Brian Hugh Warner et:Marilyn Manson (laulja) es:Marilyn Manson eo:Marilyn Manson eu:Marilyn Manson fr:Marilyn Manson ko:마릴린 맨슨 hr:Marilyn Manson (osoba) io:Marilyn Manson it:Marilyn Manson he:מרילין מנסון hu:Marilyn Manson nl:Marilyn Manson (zanger) no:Marilyn Manson oc:Marilyn Manson pl:Marilyn Manson pt:Marilyn Manson ro:Marilyn Manson ru:Мэрилин Мэнсон sk:Brian Warner sl:Marilyn Manson fi:Marilyn Manson (muusikko) sv:Marilyn Manson tr:Marilyn Manson zh:瑪莉蓮·曼森 (歌手)