Eugen Drewermann born June 20 1940 in Bergkamen near Dortmund, Germany is a German church critic, theologian, peace activist and former Roman Catholic priest. Recipient of several awards, most recently the 2007 Erich-Fromm Award, which he shared with musician Konstantin Wecker for his work towards peace, his work has been translated into more than a dozen languages. His popularity as a church critic was evident when Der Spiegel ran a cover story on him in its 1993 Christmas issue.Drewermann is best-known in Germany for his work toward a non-violent form of Christianity, which, he believes, requires an integration of Depth psychology into Exegesis and Theology. Trained in philosophy, theology, psychoanalysis, and comparative religious studies, he criticized the Roman-Catholic church's literal and biologistic interpretations of miracles, the virgin birth, Ascension, and Resurrection as superstitious and medieval and called on Rome to understand biblical stories symbolically in such a way that they can become present and healing to readers today. Drewermann's controversial opinions on Catholic dogma, especially the Virgin birth of Jesus lead to a letter expressing "deep worry," in 1986 by then-Cardinal Ratzinger,A Violent God-Image: An Introduction to the Work of Eugen Drewermann, p. 17.Beier, M. (2006).  Pope Benedict XVI, to Drewermann's archbishop, Johannes Joachim Degenhardt. The struggle propelled Drewermann into the public limelight and culminated in 1991 after he published a radical critique of what he considers to be the Vatican's psychologically cruel and mentally enslaving clergy ideal (Kleriker: Psychogramm eines Ideals Psychogram of an ideal). Archbishop Degenhardt of Paderborn and the Catholic Bishops Conference of Germany engaged in a long drawn-out and heated debate with Drewermann which was closely followed by media and public. As a consequence, on October 8 1991 the Archbishop disallowed him to teach at the Catholic Seminary of Paderborn and, shortly afterwards, revoked his license to preach 1992.Drewermann left the Catholic Church on his 65th birthday on June 20, 2005, a decision he broadly announced on Sandra Maischbergers Talkshow in German televisionMenschen bei Maischberger: 2005 - Schluss mit lustig? ARD-Sendung vom 13. Dezember 2005.Early lifeSon of a Lutheran father and a Catholic mother, Drewermann, after finishing highschool (Abitur) in Germany, studied philosophy in Münster, theology in Paderborn and psychoanalysis in Göttingen.Professional lifeOrdained as a Catholic priest in 1966, he worked as a diocesan priest, student chaplain, and eventually began work in 1974 as assistant priest in the parish of St. George in Paderborn. At the same time, he worked as a psychotherapist, and from 1979 also held lectures in comparative religious studies and dogmatics at the Catholic Theological Faculty in Paderborn. He continues to hold lectures in Studium generale at Paderborn and talks at other universities. http://www.freewebs.com/drewermann-eugen/newseventsveranstaltungen.htmInfluenced by Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, and more recent psychoanalysts, Drewermann radically reinterprets biblical texts according to psychoanalytic, poetic, and existential criteria. His method of interpretation has been clearly outlined in the 1984-1985 two-volume work Tiefenpsychologie und Exegese. His interpretations are as immediate as poetry and aim to rediscover particularly the therapeutic message of Jesus and of the Hebrew prophets, both for the individual and for society at large.A central topic of Drewermann is the specific way humans experience Angst (fear) due to our self-reflective capacity. He maintains that religion has as its central task to help calm our human anxiety and to stop its devastating effects on all levels of human life, in its personal, social, and global manifestations. Among his more than 80 books are dozens of titles presenting non-moralistic reinterpretations of nearly all biblical texts, including a monumental three-volume scholarly treatise on Genesis 2-11 (Strukturen des Bösen, 1977-8) and a two-volume commentary on the Gospel of Mark; a number of titles on urgent social issues such as war (Der Krieg und das Christentum, 1981), the environment (Der tödliche Fortschritt, 1982), and burning moral issues such as abortion, living will, suicide (Psychoanalyse und Moraltheologie', 1982-4, 3 vols); and, most recently, half a dozen volumes on the question of God in light of the findings of modern anthropology (1998), biology (1999), cosmology (2002), neurology (2006-2007); a depth psychological analysis of more than twenty of the most well-known fairy tales by the Brothers Grimm and one by Hans Christian Andersen.Since 1992, Drewermann has been working as a freelance author and speaker. He has frequent appearances in German TV talk shows and is invited to lecture all over Germany, Europe, and the world. He currently has his own monthly call-in radio show titled Redefreiheit (Freedom of Speech) in Bremenhttp://www.radiobremen.de/nordwestradio/redefreiheit/, which was preceded by a prior regular call-in radio show in Berlin. After the September 11, 2001 attacks he said on his Berlin radio program that the attacks were an expression of complex systemic and historical dynamics in which both sides in the terror war have contributed to the conflict. As a Westerner, he called on the West to take responsibility for its own contribution to the development of the current crisis and stressed especially the role of American foreign policy in the Middle East. He urged the U.S. not to retaliate, but to avoid an escalation of violence.He has appeared twice with the Dalai Lama in Zurich, and has written a book with him on the dialogue among religions.Drewermann has uttered strong and controversial political opinions. He was against the Gulf War, the Iraq War, German participation in the NATO war against Afghanistan, and Israeli Air Raids during the 2006 Lebanon War. In the name of the German Peace Movement, he asked to abolish not only Walter Mixa's office as Military Bishop of Germany but the German Army, i.e., Bundeswehr, as suchhttp://www.friedenskooperative.de/netzwerk/om08-121.htm Speech hold at Bremen Peace March Eastern 2008. Drewermann has signed public calls to support postcommunist Linksparteihttp://www.presseportal.de/pm/41150/723097/die_linke/ Call to elect Linkspartei 2005 and delivers speeches on conferences and protest demonstrations of the left Linker Protest http://www.focus.de/politik/deutschland/g8-gipfel/linker-protest_aid_62344.html Spiel mir das Lied vom Sozialismus Die Linke hat in Bad Doberan zur Kapitalismuskritik geladen. Eugen Drewermann predigt, Oskar Lafontaine schaukelt sich auf, und die Menge singt dazu (Play it again, the song of capitalism. The lefts invites to critizie capitalism in Bad Doberan. Drewermann preaches, Lafontaine gets in the mood and the crowd sings along). In Focus (German magazine) - by Iris Mayer, Focus-online, 04.06.07.CriticismSome catholic scholars saw a focus in Drewermanns work on individual psychology without taking into consideration christian communities and christian tradition Gerhard Lohfink, Rudolf Pesch Tiefenpsychologie und keine Exegese. Eine Auseinandersetzung mit Eugen Drewermann. Katholisches Bibelwerk; Auflage: 2., Aufl. (1988) ISBN 3-460-04291-5. Drewermann would reduce the historical relevance of the Gospel and Revelation to a mere collection of text used to cure individual fear. A similar approach on Drewemanns work came from psychological scholars Albert Görres and Helmuth Benesch Benesch, Helmuth, Enzyklopädisches Wörterbuch klinische Psychologie und Psychotherapie. (Stichwort:) Angsttheorien, Weinheim 1995, Beltz, S. 89 .Catholic scholar Klaus Bergerhttp://www.faz.net/s/RubC17179D529AB4E2BBEDB095D7C41F468/Doc~E5B508C246BCD46BDBF96C6D76FDFE465~ATpl~Ecommon~Scontent.html Spiel's noch einmal (Play it again), Klaus Berger in der FAZ, 21. November 2003  accused Drewermann to use an outdated state of research and to uphold ancient misunderstandings of the Old Testament. A pseudo Marcionism and a unspecific use use of biblical and in general religious texts is pointed out by protestant scholar Manfred Oeming.The political views of Drewermann have been critized in an explicitly polemical response by Uwe Birnstein and Klaus-Peter Lehmann as being based on a traditional German antipolitical and romantical view and reducing all social aspects to individual fear and personal understanding and goodwillUwe Birnstein / Klaus-Peter Lehmann: Phänomen Drewermann. Politik und Religion einer Kultfigur, Eichborn Frankfurt am Main 1998 ISBN 3-8218-0457-2. Peter Neuhaus, in his comparison of the Political Theology of Johannes Baptist Metz and the theology of Drewermann, counters that Drewermann's theology is imminently social in its critique and does not share in antipolitical or romantic views of politics.  Peter Neuhaus: Erinnerung als Brückenkategorie: Anstöße zur Vermittlung zwischen der Politischen Theologie von Johann Baptist Metz und der Tiefenpsychologischen Theologie Eugen Drewermann. LIT Verlag, Münster 2001.Josef Isensee, a Catholic german laywer and specialist for Constitutional law sees in Drewermann the prototype of a self proclaimed church critic using strong opinions to gain profile and public awareness and profiting on the very organizational body he was member for the most time of his lifeJosef Isensee, Die Zukunftsfähigkeit des deutschen Staatskirchenrechts - Gegenwärtige Legitimationsprobleme (The future of the German state church law and ongoing problems of legitimization) in Isensee/Rees/ Rüfner Hrsg., Dem Staat, was des Staates - der Kirche, was der Kirche ist (Unto the State the things which are the State's, and unto the Church the things that are the Church's), Berlin 1999.Selected worksIn English1991: Open Heavens: Meditations for Advent and Christmas (1st German edition, 1990). Trans. by David J. Krieger. Ed. by Joan Marie Laflamme and Bernd Marz.1993: Discovering the Royal Child Within: a Spiritual Psychology of 'The Little Prince' (1st German edition, 1984). Trans. by P. Heinegg.1994: Discovering the God Child Within: A Spiritual Psychology of the Infancy of Jesus (1st German edition, 1986). Trans. by P. Heinegg.1994: Dying We Live: Meditations for Lent and Easter (1st German edition, 1993). Trans. by Linda M. Maloney and John Drury. Ed. by Linda M. Maloney.In German1977-1978: Strukturen des Bösen (Habilitationsschrift)1981: Das Mädchen ohne Hände1981: Der tödliche Fortschritt: Von der Zerstörung der Erde und des Menschen im Erbe des Christentums1982-1984: Psychoanalyse und Moraltheologie (3 Bände)1984: Das Eigentliche ist unsichtbar. Der kleine Prinz tiefenpsychologisch gedeutet1984-1985: Tiefenpsychologie und Exegese1987/88: Das Markusevangelium1989: Kleriker: Psychogramm eines Ideals1989: Ich steige hinab in die Barke der Sonne. Meditationen zu Tod und Auferstehung1991: Die Spirale der Angst. Der Krieg und das Christentum1992: Giordano Bruno oder Der Spiegel des Unendlichen. Roman1992: Wenn der Himmel die Erde berührt. Meditationen zu den Gleichnissen Jesu1992: Die Botschaft der Frauen. Das Wissen der Liebe.1992: Lieb Schwesterlein, laß mich herein - Grimms Märchen tiefenpsychologisch gedeutet (enthält Interpretationen zu Das Mädchen ohne Hände, Marienkind, Der Trommler, Brüderchen und Schwesterchen, Die kluge Else und Frau Holle)1992: Rapunzel, Rapunzel, laß dein Haar herunter - Grimms Märchen tiefenpsychologisch gedeutet. (Enthält Interpretationen zu Schneeweißchen und Rosenrot, Der goldene Vogel, Die Kristallkugel, Rapunzel, Dat Mäken von Brakel, Meister Pfriem, Der Herr Gevatter, Gevatter Tod und Fundevogel)1992-1995: Das Matthäusevangelium1993: Dogma, Angst und Symbolismus (Glauben in Freiheit 1)1996: Jesus von Nazareth: Befreiung zum Frieden (Jesus of Nazareth: Liberation for Peace). (Glauben in Freiheit 2 Faith, vol. 2).1998: Der sechste Tag: Die Herkunft des Menschen und die Frage nach Gott (The Sixth Day: The Origin of Humanity and the Question of God). (Glauben in Freiheit 3: Religion und Naturwissenschaft, Part 1 Faith, vol. 3: Religion and Natural Science, part 1).1998: Daß auch der Allerniedrigste mein Bruder sei. Dostojewski - Dichter der Menschlichkeit1999: ... und es geschah so: Die moderne Biologie und die Frage nach Gott (... And It Was So: Modern Biology and the Question of God.)(Glauben in Freiheit, vol. 3: Religion und Naturwissenschaft, Part 2: Biologie und Theologie Faith, vol. 3: Religion and Natural Science, part 2: Biology and Theology).2001: Wozu Religion? Eugen Drewermann im Gespräch mit Jürgen Hoeren (Herder spektrum)2002: Im Anfang ...: Die moderne Kosmologie und die Frage nach Gott(In the Beginning ...: Modern Cosmology and the Question of God). (Glauben in Freiheit 3: Religion und Naturwissenschaft, Part 3: Kosmologie und Theologie Faith, vol. 3: Religion and Natural Science, part 3: Cosmology and Theology).2003: Religiös bedingte neurotische Erkrankungen2003: Aschenputtel2003: Der Froschkönig2003: Eugen Drewermann - Rebell oder Prophet? Der unbequeme Theologe im Gespräch mit Felizitas von Schönborn (edition q)2004: Hänsel und Gretel2004: Moby-Dick2004: Wenn die Sterne Götter wären. Moderne Kosmologie und Glaube. Im Gespräch mit Jürgen Hoeren. Herder, ISBN 34512834842005: Dornröschen2006: Heilende Religion - Überwindung der Angst2006: Atem des Lebens - Das Gehirn: Die moderne Neurologie und die Frage nach Gott. (Breath of Life: Modern Neurology and the Question of God: Section 1: The Brain) (Glauben in Freiheit 3: Religion und Naturwissenschaft, Part 4: Neurologie und Theologie, Section 1 Faith, vol. 3: Religion and Natural Science, Part 4/1: Neurology and Theology). Patmos, ISBN 34912100032007: Atem des Lebens - Die Seele: Die moderne Neurologie und die Frage nach Gott. (Breath of Life: Modern Neurology and the Question of God: Section 1: The Soul) (Glauben in Freiheit 3: Religion und Naturwissenschaft, Part 4: Neurologie und Theologie, Section 2 Faith, vol. 3: Religion and Natural Science, Part 4/2: Neurology and Theology). Patmos, ISBN 3491210011Eugen Drewermann. "Die Rechtlosigkeit der Kreatur im christlichen Abendland oder: von einer wichtigen Ausnahme". Interdisziplinäre Arbeitsgemeinschaft Tierethik (Hrsg.). Tierrechte - Eine interdisziplinäre Herausforderung. Erlangen 2007. ISBN 978-3-89131-417-3NotesExternal linksEugen Drewermann Pages: first comprehensive English site with links to news, quotations, books, and video & audio.Eine Webseite zum Werk Eugen Drewermanns: comprehensive German website.Links to Drewermann talks, videos &amp; audioCalendar of future (and past) talks/lectures by Drewermann, includes dates, locations, and links.Eugen Drewermann Pages Video &amp; Audio links: most complete site of video & audio links available--continuously updatedVideo of his lecture &quot;Wie hältst Du's mit den Tieren oder: von der Notwendigkeit einer neuen Ethik&quot; at the Interdisciplinary Lectures on Animal Rights at the Ruprecht-Karls-University Heidelberg on the 19th of October 2006Secondary literature Category:Dissident Roman Catholic theologians Category:People from North Rhine-Westphalia Category:Roman Catholic theologians Category:1940 births Category:Living people Category:German Christian pacifists Category:German psychologists Category:German theologianscs:Eugen Drewermann de:Eugen Drewermann es:Eugen Drewermann fr:Eugen Drewermann nl:Eugen Drewermann pl:Eugen Drewermann sk:Eugen Drewermann