Poales is an order of flowering plants in the monocotyledons, and includes families of plants such as the grasses, bromeliads, and sedges.Recent studies (Bremer, 2000) place the origin of the Poales in South America nearly 115 million years ago. The earliest known fossils include pollen and fruits that have been dated to the late Cretaceous. The flowers are typically small, enclosed by bracts, and arranged in an inflorescence (except in the genus Mayaca, with solitary terminal flowers). The flowers of many species are wind pollinated; the seeds usually contain starch.The APG II system (2003) accepts the order and places it in clade commelinids, in the monocots. It uses this circumscription:order Poalesfamily Anarthriaceaefamily Bromeliaceaefamily Centrolepidaceaefamily Cyperaceaefamily Ecdeiocoleaceaefamily Eriocaulaceaefamily Flagellariaceaefamily Hydatellaceae (since transferred out of the monocots)family Joinvilleaceaefamily Juncaceaefamily Mayacaceaefamily Poaceaefamily Rapateaceaefamily Restionaceaefamily Sparganiaceaefamily Thurniaceaefamily Typhaceaefamily XyridaceaeThe APG system (1998) adopted the same placement, although it used the spelling "commelinoids", and used the following circumscription (i.e., it did not include the plants in families Abolbodaceae, Bromeliaceae and Mayacaceae in the order):order Poalesfamily Anarthriaceaefamily Centrolepidaceaefamily Cyperaceaefamily Ecdeiocoleaceaefamily Eriocaulaceaefamily Flagellariaceaefamily Hydatellaceaefamily Joinvilleaceaefamily Juncaceaefamily Poaceaefamily Prioniaceaefamily Restionaceaefamily Sparganiaceaefamily Thurniaceaefamily Typhaceaefamily XyridaceaeThe Cronquist system did not include an order named Poales, assigning these families to the orders Bromeliales, Cyperales, Hydatellales, Juncales, Restionales and Typhales.In early systems an order including the grass family did not go by the name Poales but by a descriptive botanical name such as Graminales in the Engler system (update of 1964) and in the Hutchinson system (first edition, first volume, 1926), Glumiflorae in the Wettstein system (last revised 1935) or Glumaceae in the Bentham &amp; Hooker system (third volume, 1883).UsesBy far the most important family economically is the family of grasses (Poaceae, syn. Gramineae), which includes barley, maize, millet, rice, and wheat. It is also the largest family in the order, far outnumbering its competitors:Poaceae: 12,000 speciesCyperaceae: 5,000 speciesBromeliaceae: 1,400 speciesEriocaulaceae: 1,150 speciesReferencesBremer, K. (2000). Gondwanan Evolution of the Grass Alliance of Families (Poales). Evolution 56: 1374-1387. online: [http://www.bioone.org/bioone/?request=get-abstract&amp;issn=0014-3820&amp;volume=056&amp;issue=07&amp;page=1374 Abstract ]Judd, W. S., C. S. Campbell, E. A. Kellogg, P. F. Stevens, M. J. Donoghue (2002). Plant Systematics: A Phylogenetic Approach, 2nd edition. pp. 276-292 (Poales). Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, Massachusetts. ISBN 0-87893-403-0 .Linder, H. Peter and Paula J. Rudall. 2005. Evolutionary History of the Poales. Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics 36: 107-124.Small, J. K. (1903). Flora of the Southeastern United States, 48. New York, U.S.A.External linksNCBI Taxonomy BrowserAPWebCategory:Poalesca:Poal cs:Lipnicotvaré da:Græs-ordenen de:Süßgrasartige et:Kõrreliselaadsed es:Poales eu:Poales fr:Poales ko:벼목 id:Poales is:Grasbálkur it:Poales he:דגנאים jv:Poales hu:Pázsitfüvek ms:Poales nl:Poales ja:イネ目 no:Poales pl:Wiechlinowce pt:Poales ru:Злакоцветные simple:Poales sr:Poales fi:Poales sv:Poales vi:Bộ Hòa thảo uk:Тонконогоцвіті zh:禾本目