 | Origin = Berkeley, California, U.S. | Occupation = Musician | Genre = Punk rockSka punkStreet punkHardcore punkPsychobilly | Years_active = 1985–present | Associated_acts = Basic RadioOperation IvyDownfallMDCRancidShaken 69Devil's BrigadeSocial Distortion   Matthew "McCall" Freeman (born Roger Matthew Freeman on June 14 1966) is an American musician. He is best known for his bass guitar work with the punk rock bands Operation Ivy and Rancid.HistoryPersonalMatt Freeman was born in Connecticut and grew up in Albany, California. Freeman grew up in a faith oriented family where he learned to write music.FriendsHis brother Andrew taught him first how to play guitar and then he learned the bass. He met Tim Armstrong when they were only five years old. They played in Little League together and attended Albany Middle School and Albany High School together. Matt played the trumpet as a kid, and later learned how to play the trombone and played in a Jazz band. He learned how to play the guitar, and eventually began playing bass. They got into punk when Armstrong got a tape of punk bands from his older brother, and began playing music together. They were in a series of bands, the first of which was Basic Radio, who broke up in late 1986 or early 1987.EquipmentFreeman plays a variety of Fender American Precision and Jazz basses through Ampeg amplifiers.Playing styleAs a teenager he made numerous attempts to start even a "garage band" but failed and continued learning the art that he called music. In a promotional interview streamed from the Rancid website before the release of Rancid 2000, Freeman talked about learning bass by playing along with The Who records. He typically uses a hard pick but will at times use his fingers. Freeman used fingering much more on "Indestructible" and also uses it on slower tracks such as "Wrongful Suspicion."Freeman uses scales and arpeggios in his basslines as opposed to "motoring" through a chord progression's root notes as is typical of punk bass playing and often embellishes with chromatic passing tones (most commonly between the 3rd and 5th of a chord). Freeman's solos in the songs "Maxwell Murder," "White Knuckle Ride" and "Axiom" are among his most lauded. During live shows when Rancid plays "Maxwell Murder", guitar player Lars Frederiksen often introduces Freeman as "the greatest fucking bass player in the world!" after the extended solo.Singing styleThough Armstrong and Frederiksen are the principal singers in Rancid, Freeman has taken the lead vocal duties in a handful of songs through the years, notably debuting on "Rejected" on Rancid's first album. In Rancid's latest up-and-coming (presently untitled) album, Freeman takes lead vocals on the track "L.A River". The album has been rumored for release in September 2008. His distinct and throaty singing voice has been jokingly compared to a bullfrog.BandsOperation Ivy and DownfallIn May of 1987, Freeman and Armstrong formed the band Operation Ivy. After Operation Ivy broke up in May 1989, they formed a new band, Downfall, which included all but one member of Operation Ivy and two additional members. Downfall recorded a 10-song album which has never been released, then broke up. Freeman and Armstrong next formed Generator, who played a number of shows, but are not known to have recorded anything. After that, Freeman played with the political punk band MDC for about a year.Dance Hall CrashersAfter Operation Ivy, Freeman and Armstong formed the ska band The Dance Hall Crashers, however they left the band shortly after its formation. The band went on to become moderately successful throughout the 90s.Gr'ups and RancidHe joined The Gr'ups in 1991. In 1992, Freeman and Armstrong recruited drummer Brett Reed and formed Rancid. Rancid is his most successful band yet. He considered Rancid a side project until Armstrong had proved to him that he had his alcoholism under control. Guitarist Lars Frederiksen joined the band later in 1993. Their partnership has continued with Freeman contributing basslines to selected tracks by the Transplants, one of Armstrong's side projects.OthersHe also plays in Shaken 69, formed in '94/'95 and Auntie Christ formed in '96.Another one of his side projects is Devil's Brigade which is a psychobilly band similar to Rancid.Guest appearanceMatt Freeman provided backing vocals for the Tiger Army songs "Towards Destiny" and "Power of Moonlite".Social DistortionDuring Rancid's 2004 hiatus, Freeman replaced bassist John Maurer in Social Distortion but did not appear on their latest album Sex, Love and Rock 'n' Roll. Freeman did not stay in the band permanently and he was replaced by current bassist Brent Harding in late 2004.Health issuesFollowing his departure from Social Distortion, Freeman was diagnosed with lung cancer in May 2005, but was dismissed as abnormal tissue growth and not terminal to his health in June 2005.http://operationivy.com/forums/viewtopic.php?p=202037#202037 He had been a smoker for 20 years but had quit, seemingly by coincidence, shortly prior to this. He learned to play the mandolin so he would have something to do with his hands as heard on Lars Frederiksen and the Bastards.DiscographyWith [[Operation Ivy (band)|Operation Ivy]]Turn It Around! 2x7&quot; compilation album (1987, Maximumrocknroll)Hectic EP (1988, Lookout! Records)The Thing That Ate Floyd compilation album (1988, Lookout! Records)Energy (1989, Lookout! Records)Plea for Peace (1992)'69 Newport 7" (1993, Very Small Records)Rock Against Bush, Vol. 2 compilation album (2004, Fat Wreck Chords)With [[Downfall (band)|Downfall]]They Don't Get Paid, They Don't Get Laid, But Boy Do They Work Hard! compilation album (1989, Maximumrocknroll)Very Small World compilation album (1991, Very Small Records)Can of Pork compilation album (1992, Lookout! Records)With [[MDC (band)|MDC]]Millions of Dead Cops II LP (1991, R Radical Records)With [[Rancid (band)|Rancid]]Rancid EP (1992, Lookout! Records)Rancid (1993, Epitaph Records)Radio Radio Radio (1993, Fat Wreck Chords)Let's Go (1994, Epitaph Records)...And Out Come the Wolves (1995)Roots Radicals (1995)Ruby Soho (1995)Life Won't Wait (1998)Rancid (2000)BYO Split Series, Vol. 3 (2002)Indestructible (2003)TBA (2008)With [[The Gr'ups]]The Gr'ups (1992)Vinyl Retentive compilation album (1993, Very Small Records)With [[Auntie Christ]]Life Could Be a Dream (1997)   Category:1966 births Category:Living people Category:American punk rock bass guitarists Category:California musicians Category:Rancid Category:Social Distortion membersde:Matt Freeman es:Matt Freeman fr:Matt Freeman it:Matt Freeman nl:Matt Freeman pl:Matt Freeman pt:Matt Freeman sv:Matt Freeman