  Côte-d'Or is a department in the eastern part of France.HistoryCôte-d'Or is one of the original 83 departments created during the French Revolution on March 4, 1790. It was formed from part of the former province of Burgundy.GeographyThe department is part of the current region of Bourgogne. It is surrounded by the departments of Yonne, Nièvre, Saône-et-Loire, Jura, Aube, and Haute-Marne.A chain of hills called the Plateau de Langres runs from north-east to south-west through the department to the north of Dijon and continues south-westwards as the Côte d'Or escarpment, which is named from the department's name. It is the south-east facing slope of the escarpment which is the site of the celebrated Burgundy vineyards. To the west of the Plateau de Langres, towards Champagne, lies the densely wooded district of Châtillonais. To the south-east of the plateau and escarpment, the department lies in the broad, flat-bottomed valley of the middle course of the Saône.Rivers include:The SaôneThe Seine rises in the southern end of the Plateau de Langres.The Ouche rises on the dip slope of the escarpment and flows to the Saône via Dijon.The Armançon rises on the dip slope of the escarpment and flows north-westward.The Arroux rises on the dip slope of the escarpment at the southern end of the department.ClimateThe climate of the department is temperate, with abundant rain on the west side of the central range.EconomyThis is a premier wine-growing region of France. Other crops include cereal grains and potatoes. Sheep and cattle are also raised in the department. The region is famous for its Dijon mustard.There are coal mines and heavy industry, including steel, machinery, and earthenware. The industries most developed in Côte-d’Or areagriculture and food (14% of employees)metallurgy and metal manufacture (12% of employees)chemicals, rubber and plastics (12% of employees)pharmacyelectrical and electronic components and equipmentwood and paper industries.The big works are generally in the conurbation of Dijon although biggest (CEA Valduc) is at Salives in the Plateau de Langres. There is also the SEB metal works at Selongey below the plateau on the margin of the Saône plain and the Valourec metalworking group at Montbard in the west of the départment on the River Brenne near its junction with the Armançon. The Pharmaceutical industry has shown the greatest growth in recent years. However, since the Dijon employment statistics zone includes the urban and administrative centre of the Burgundy region, the service sector is proportionately bigger there in relation to the industrial, than in the other three zones of Côte-d'Or.Reference Industrie en Bourgogne websiteDemographicsThe inhabitants of the department are called Côte-d'Oriens.TourismSome of the major tourist attractions are the Gothic abbey church of Saint-Seine-l'Abbaye and the Romanesque abbey church at Saulieu, as well the Château de Bussy Rabutin at Bussy-le-Grand. The Abbey of Cîteaux, headquarters of the Cistercian Order, lies to the east of Nuits-Saint-Georges in the south of the department.See also Côte-d'Or Tourism GuideFrench wineCantons of the Côte-d'Or departmentCommunes of the Côte-d'Or departmentArrondissements of the Côte-d'Or departmentExternal links Prefecture website General council website  Photos Galery about Dijon and cote d'or* Cote-d'Oran:Costa d'Oro frp:Couta-d’Or br:Côte-d'Or bg:Кот д'Ор (департамент) ca:Costa d'Or cv:Кот-д'Ор ceb:Côte-d'Or cs:Côte-d'Or cy:Côte-d'Or da:Côte-d'Or de:Côte-d’Or es:Côte-d'Or eo:Côte-d'Or eu:Urrezko Kosta fr:Côte-d'Or id:Côte-d'Or (departemen) it:Côte-d'Or pam:Côte-d'Or la:Côte-d'Or (praefectura Franciae) lb:Departement Côte-d'Or lt:Kot Doras nl:Côte-d'Or ja:コート＝ドール県 no:Côte-d'Or nn:Côte-d'Or oc:Còsta d'Aur nds:Côte-d'Or pl:Côte-d'Or pt:Côte-d'Or ro:Côte-d'Or ru:Кот-д’Ор sk:Côte-d'Or sl:Côte-d'Or sr:Златна обала fi:Côte-d'Or sv:Côte-d'Or vi:Côte-d'Or tg:Департаменти Кот д'Ор uk:Кот-д’Ор vec:Côte-d'Or zh:科多尔省