BeOS is an operating system for personal computers which began development by Be Inc. in 1991. It was first written to run on BeBox hardware. BeOS was optimized for digital media work and was written to take advantage of modern hardware facilities such as symmetric multiprocessing by utilizing modular I/O bandwidth, pervasive multithreading, preemptive multitasking and a custom 64-bit journaling file system known as BFS. The BeOS GUI was developed on the principles of clarity and a clean, uncluttered design. The API was written in C++ for ease of programming. It has POSIX compatibility and access to a command line interface through the bash shell, although internally it is not a Unix-derived operating system.BeOS was positioned as a platform which could be used by a substantial population of desktop users and a competitor to Microsoft Windows and Linux. However, it was ultimately unable to achieve a significant market share and proved commercially unviable for Be Inc. The company was acquired by Palm Inc. and today BeOS is mainly used and developed by a small population of enthusiasts.Be Inc. sued  Microsoft claiming that Hitachi had been pressured to dissuade them from selling PCs loaded with BeOS, and that Compaq had been pressured not to market an Internet appliance in partnership with Be. BeOS also claimed that Microsoft acted to artificially depress Be Inc's IPO. The case was eventually settled out of court with no admission of liability on Microsoft's part.HistoryInitially designed to run on AT&amp;T Hobbit-based hardware, BeOS was later modified to run on PowerPC-based processors: first Be’s own systems, later Apple’s PReP and CHRP platforms, with the hope that Apple Computer would purchase or license BeOS as a replacement for its then aging Mac OS. Apple CEO Gil Amelio started negotiations to buy Be Inc., but negotiations stalled when Be CEO Jean-Louis Gassée wanted $200 million; Apple was unwilling to offer any more than $125 million. Apple’s board of directors decided NeXTSTEP was a better choice and purchased NeXT in 1996 for $429 million, bringing back Apple co-founder Steve Jobs.Apple Confidential: The Day They Almost Decided To Put Windows NT On The Mac Instead Of OS X! -http://macspeedzone.com/archive/art/con/be.shtml&lt;/ref&gt; To further complicate matters for Be, Apple refused to disclose certain architectural information about its G3 line of computers&mdash;information Be deemed critical to making BeOS work on the latest hardware from Apple. Terra Soft Solutions was, however, able to port Linux to these machines without Apple’s assistance.In 1997, Power Computing began bundling BeOS (on a CD for optional installation) with its line of PowerPC-based Macintosh clones. These systems could dual boot either the Mac OS or BeOS, with a startup screen offering the choice.Due to Apple’s moves and the mounting debt of Be Inc., BeOS was soon ported to the Intel x86 platform with its R3 release in March 1998. Through the late 1990s, BeOS managed to create a niche of followers, but the company failed to remain viable. As a last-ditch effort to increase interest in the failing operating system, Be Inc. released a stripped-down, but free, copy of BeOS R5 known as BeOS Personal Edition (BeOS PE). BeOS PE could be started from within Microsoft Windows or Linux, and was intended to nurture consumer interest in its product and give developers something with which they could tinker.Be Inc. also released a stripped-down version of BeOS for Internet Appliances (BeIA), which soon became the company’s business focus in place of BeOS. BeOS PE and BeIA proved to be too little too late, and in 2001 Be’s intellectual property was sold to Palm, Inc. BeOS R5 is considered the last official version, but BeOS R5.1 “Dano", which was under development before Be’s sale to Palm and included the BONE networking stack, was leaked to the public shortly after the company’s demise.After the split from Palm, PalmSource used parts of BeOS' multimedia framework for their failed Palm OS Cobalt productPalmSource Introduces Palm OS Cobalt, PalmSource press release, Feb 10, 2004. With the takeover of PalmSource, the BeOS rights now belong to Access Co.ContinuationDespite the end of Be Inc, BeOS remains popular among devoted followers. The BeOS community still develops free software and has even released patches, drivers and various updates to BeOS. The main source of BeOS-related software can be found at BeBits.The BeOS user interface was notable at the time for being almost completely unthemeable, even with third party hacks. The BeOS theme of yellow, changing length tabs on the top of windows, and relatively plain grey interface widgets was enforced. This UI remained relatively unchanged from 1995, but had been completely overhauled by the time of the leaked Dano release. An Easter egg in the OS allowed changing the title bar look-and-feel to a few others (Mac OS 8, Amiga Workbench, and Windows 98 appearances) and in Dano, this had been extended to be a feature allowing changing of the title bar and scroll bars. No other interface widgets could be changed. There is a pre-Dano third party program WindowShade that allows the colors of the title bar and window frame to be changed, but the appearance remained the same.The plain BeOS R5 GUI is commonly cloned, either as the main UI, such as in TriangleOS, or as a theme, such as for GNOME.Version HistoryReleaseDateHardwareDR1–DR5October 1995AT&amp;T HobbitDR6 (developer release)January 1996PowerPCDR7April 1996DR8September 1996Advanced Access Preview ReleaseMay 1997PR1 (preview release)June 1997PR2October 1997R3March 1998PowerPC and Intel x86R3.1June 1998R3.2July 1998R4November 4, 1998R4.5 (“Genki”)June 1999R5 PE/Pro (“Maui”)]]March 2000R5.1 (“Dano”)]]November 2001Intel x86Projects to recreate BeOSBeOS was well respected by a small but loyal user base which was disappointed when Be Inc. failed commercially and no further enhancement of the operating system would be possible. In the years that followed a handful of projects formed to recreate BeOS or key elements of the OS with the eventual goal of then continuing where Be Inc. left off. To ensure that the OS could not be “taken away” from the Be community again, and to attract the efforts of volunteer programmers, these projects were all free/open-source software. The modular nature of the original BeOS facilitated recreating the operating system a piece at a time, inserting the newly coded modules into a working BeOS system to test compatibility. Eventually all of the “servers” (interworking modules of code) were to be replaced with original, freely licensed code.But within a few years, some of them lost momentum and were discontinued. The domain name for Blue Eyed OS has lapsed and been taken up by another party, and the most recent release available on the Cosmoe web site is from 2004. As of 2008, active work continues on E/OS, an operating system based on the Linux kernel that is attempting to reimplement only the APIs for BeOS and several other operating systems, and on Haiku, a complete reimplementation of the BeOS operating system.On April 2nd 2008, it was announced that Haiku was "Self-Hosting", meaning that it can now be built from within itself, thus reaching a critical step on the path to Alpha and Beta releases of a Binary Compatible and Open Source version of the final BeOS R5, released in 2001.BeOS Workstation is about the last “distro” offering Be, but with open software, to replace licensed software, most of the OS has been replaced or re-created as such.Projects to continue BeOSZETA was a commercially available operating system based on the BeOS R5.1 codebase. Originally developed by YellowTAB, the operating system was then distributed by magnussoft. During the development by YellowTAB, the company received criticism from the BeOS community for refusing to discuss their legal position with regard to the BeOS code-base (perhaps for contractual reasons). Access Co. (which bought the PalmSource, until then, the holders of the intellectual property associated the BeOS) has since declared that YellowTAB had no right to distribute a modified version of BeOS, and magnussoft has ceased distribution of the operating system.Products using BeOSBeOS (and now Zeta) continue to be used in media appliances such as the Edirol DV-7 video editors from Roland corporation which run on top of a modified BeOS and the TuneTracker radio automation software that runs on BeOS and Zeta, but is also sold as a “Station-in-a-Box” with the Zeta operating system included.The Tascam SX-1 digital audio recorder runs a heavily modified version of BeOS that will only launch the recording interface software.iZ Technology sells the RADAR 24, a hard disc-based, 24-track professional audio recorder based on BeOS 5.Magicbox, a manufacturer of signage and broadcast display machines, uses BeOS to power their Aavelin product line.The Casablanca-''KRON'' from MacroSystemMacroSystem&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; runs a modified version of BeOS 5. A dedicated computer built to edit video and audio, using a built in hard disk, CD-R(W)/DVD-R(W), and SD capabilities included to store media for later use and/or presentation. Made primarily for Schools and Universities.Final Scratch – the 12” vinyl timecode record-driven DJ software/hardware system was first developed on BeOS. The ‘ProFS’ version was sold to a few dozen world-class DJs prior to the 1.0 release, which ran on a Linux virtual partition.See alsoAccess Co.OpenTracker – Filemanager from BeOS, officially and freely licensedNetPositive – Default web browser of BeOSbootmanGobe ProductiveComparison of operating systemsList of BeOS programsReferencesExternal linksGet BeOS 5 Personal Edition as a free download (Most likely to be documented for early 2000-01 hardware.)Mirror of the old www.be.com siteBeBits is a comprehensive file repository for BeOS applications.BeOS Celebrating Ten YearsBeGroovy A blog dedicated to all things BeOS BeOS: The Mac OS X might-have-been, reghardware.co.ukYouTube videos A brief overview of the BeOS featuresProgramming the Be Operating System – An O'Reilly Open Book (out of print)Category:BeOS Category:Window-based operating systems Category:Discontinued softwareca:BeOS cs:BeOS de:BeOS es:BeOS eo:BeOS fr:BeOS ko:BeOS ia:BeOS it:BeOS lt:BeOS hu:BeOS ms:BeOS nl:BeOS ja:BeOS no:BeOS pl:BeOS pt:BeOS ro:BeOS ru:BeOS sk:BeOS fi:BeOS sv:BeOS tr:BeOS uk:BeOS zh:BeOS