 Chien-Shiung Wu (; May 13, 1912 – February 16, 1997) was a Chinese-born American physicist with an expertise in radioactivity. She worked on the Manhattan Project (to enrich the uranium fuel) and disproved the conservation of parity. Her nicknames included the “First Lady of Physics”, “Madame Curie of China,” and “Madame Wu.” She died after her second stroke on February 16, 1997.ChinaAlthough her ancestral family home is Taicang (in Jiangsu Province, China), she was born in 1912, in Shanghai, but was raised in Liuhe, a city about 30 miles from Shanghai. Her father, Wu Zhongyi (), was a proponent of gender equality and founded Mingde Women's Vocational Continuing School. She left her hometown at the age of eleven to go to the Suzhou Women's Normal School No.&nbsp;2. Her mother was Fan Fuhua ().She was admitted to the National Central University in Nanjing in 1929. According to the government regulations of the time, normal school students entering universities needed to serve as teachers for one year, so in 1929 she went to teach in the Public School of China () founded by Hu Shi in Shanghai. From 1930 to 1934, she studied in the Physics Department of National Central University (renamed Nanjing University in 1949). For two years after her graduation, she did postgraduate study and worked as an assistant at Zhejiang UniversityAmericaIn 1936, she went to the USA with a female friend, Dong Ruofen (), a chemist from Taicang, China. Wu studied at the University of California, Berkeley under Ernest Orlando Lawrencehttp://www.columbia.edu/cu/record/archives/vol22/vol22_iss15/record2215.16.html and received her Ph.D in 1940.She married Luke Chia-Liu Yuan, also a physicist, two years later. They had a son, Vincent (), who became a physicist as well. The family moved to the East Coast, where Wu taught at Smith College, Princeton University, (1942－44) and Columbia University (1944－1980).At Columbia she contributed to the Manhattan Project by developing a process to separate uranium isotopes by gaseous diffusion and by developing improved Geiger counters. She assisted Tsung-Dao Lee personally in his parity laws development (with Chen Ning Yang) by providing him with a possible test method for beta decay in 1956 that worked successfully. Some consider this very instrumental in the creation of the laws, but she did not share their Nobel Prize – a fact widely blamed on sexism by the selection committee.Her book Beta Decay (1965) is still a standard reference for nuclear physicists.She later conducted research into the molecular changes in the deformation of hemoglobins that cause sickle-cell disease.Wu set precedents for womankind on several occasions. She was:the first female instructor in the Physics Department of Princeton University;the first woman with a Princeton honorary doctorate;the first female President of the American Physical Society (1975, through an election).HonorsWu won numerous honors and recognitions:Member of the National Academy of Sciences (elected 1958)Research Corporation Award 1958Achievement Award, American Association of University Women 1960Comstock Award, National Academy of Sciences 1964Chi-Tsin Achievement Award, Chi-Tsin Culture Foundation, Taiwan 1965Scientist of the Year Award, Industrial Research Magazine 1974Tom W. Bonner Prize, American Physical Society 1975National Medal of Science (U.S.) 1975Wolf Prize in Physics, Israel 1978Honorary Fellow Royal Society of EdinburghFellow American Academy of Arts and SciencesFellow American Association for the Advancement of ScienceFellow American Physical SocietyAt the time of her death, Wu was Pupin Professor Emerita of Physics at Columbia.External linksChien-Shiung Wu in CWP at UCLA Wu Chien Shiung Education Foundation (Chinese-English bilingual)Eulogy-biography (Columbia)A large black/white photo and a mini-bio Category:1912 births Category:1997 deaths Category:American physicists Category:Manhattan Project people Category:Nuclear physicists Category:Women physicists Category:Chinese Americans Category:National Medal of Science laureates Category:Wolf Prize in Physics laureates Category:Columbia University faculty Category:Nanjing University alumni Category:Zhejiang University alumni Category:Zhejiang University faculty Category:Naturalized citizens of the United States Category:Princeton University faculty Category:Smith College faculty Category:University of California, Berkeley alumni Category:Fellows of the American Physical Society Category:Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciencesde:Chien-Shiung Wu es:Chien-Shiung Wu fr:Chien-Shiung Wu it:Wu Jianxiong ht:Chien-Shiung Wu nl:Wu Chien-Shiung ja:呉健雄 pl:Chien-Shiung Wu ru:У Цзяньсюн sv:Chien-Shiung Wu zh:吴健雄