Arnold Böcklin (16 October 1827 &ndash; 16 January 1901) was a symbolist Swiss painter.Life and artHe studied at Düsseldorf where he became a friend of Ludwig Andreas Feuerbach. Originally a landscape painter, his travels through Brussels, Zurich, Geneva and Rome, exposed him to classical and Renaissance art, and the Mediterranean landscape. These new influences brought allegorical and mythological figures into his compositions. In 1866 he resided at Bâle, in 1871 in Munich, in 1885 in Hottingen (Switzerland) and at the end of his life in Fiesole near Florence. ]] Influenced by Romanticism his painting is symbolist within the Art Nouveau style. His pictures portray mythological, fantastical figures along classical architecture constructions (revealing often an obsession with death) creating a strange, fantasy world.Böcklin is best known for his five versions of ''Isle of the Dead'', which partly evokes the English Cemetery, Florence, close to his studio and where his baby daughter Maria had been buried.LegacyBöcklin exercised an influence on Surrealist painters like Max Ernst and Salvador Dalí, and on Giorgio de Chirico.Otto Weisert designed an Art Nouveau typeface in 1904 and named it “Arnold Böcklin” in his honor.Böcklin's paintings, especiallyyyy The Isle of the Dead, inspired several late-Romantic composers. Sergei Rachmaninoff and Heinrich Schülz-Beuthen both composed symphonic poems after it, and in 1913 Max Reger composed a set of Four Tone Poems after Böcklin of which the third movement is The Isle of the Dead (The others are The Hermit playing the Violin, At play in the waves and Bacchanal). Hans Huber's second symphony is entitled "Böcklin-Sinfonie", after the artist and his paintings.Rachmaninoff was also inspired by Böcklin’s painting The Return when writing his Prelude in B Minor, Op. 32, No. 10.  Jonathan Yungkans: Liner notes to the complete Benno Moiseiwitsch Rachmaninoff recordings 1937-43  Ates Orga: Liner notes to Demidenko plays RachmaninovH.R.Gieger has a picture called "Hommage to Boecklin", based upon &quot;Isle of the Dead&quot;ReferencesExternal linksBocklin in &quot;History of Art&quot;Böcklin biography and images at CGFAA gallery of art from Arnold Böcklin70 different engravings by Arnold Böcklin on display with translationsToteninsel.net: an encyclopedia in progress dedicated to A.Bocklin's Isle of the Dead: copies, parodies, inspirations... Category:1827 births Category:1901 deaths Category:People from Basel-City Category:Symbolist painters Category:Swiss paintersals:Arnold Böcklin bg:Арнолд Бьоклин ca:Arnold Böcklin cs:Arnold Böcklin de:Arnold Böcklin es:Arnold Böcklin fr:Arnold Böcklin gl:Arnold Böcklin it:Arnold Böcklin la:Arnoldus Boecklin lv:Arnolds Bēklins hu:Arnold Böcklin nl:Arnold Böcklin ja:アルノルト・ベックリン no:Arnold Böcklin pl:Arnold Böcklin ru:Бёклин, Арнольд fi:Arnold Böcklin sv:Arnold Böcklin tr:Arnold Böcklin uk:Беклін Арнольд zh:阿诺德·勃克林