 This article is about the Ahaggar Mountains. For the tribe, see Ahaggar Tuareg Tribe.The Ahaggar Mountains (Tuareg: idurar uhaggar), also known as the Hoggar, are a highland region in central Sahara, or southern Algeria near the Tropic of Cancer. They are located about 1,500&nbsp;km&nbsp;(900&nbsp;mi) south of the capital, Algiers and just west of Tamanghasset. The region is largely rocky desert with an average altitude of more than 900 metres (2,953 feet) above sea level. The highest peak is at 3,003 meters (Mount Tahat). Assekrem is a famous and often visited point where le Père de Foucauld lived in the summer of 1905.DescriptionThe mountain range is mostly volcanic rock and contains a hot summer climate, with a cold winter climate (temperature fall below 0°C in the winter). The mountains are young--about 2 million years old. Rainfall is rare and sporadic. However, since the climate is less extreme than most other areas of the Sahara, the Ahaggar Mountains are a major location for biodiversity and host relict species. The Ahaggar Mountains compose the West Saharan montane xeric woodlands ecoregion. The main city nearby the Ahaggar is Tamanghasset, built in a desert valley or wadi.Today, the Ahaggar region is a prime tourist destination in Algeria.Cultural significanceThe Ahaggar massif is the land of the Tuaregs or Kel Ahaggar. The tomb of Tin Hinan, the god believed to be the ancestor of the Tuareg is located at Abalessa, an oasis near Tamanghasset. According to legend, the origins of Tim Lam are from Tafilalt region in the Moroccan Atlas Mountains.National parkIt is also one of the national parks of the country. Gallery image:Hoggar1.jpg image:Hoggar2.jpg image:Hoggar3.jpg image:Hoggar4.jpg image:Hoggar5.jpg Image:Asskrem Hoggar 3.jpg image:Hoggar7.jpg Image:Asskrem Hoggar 2.jpg image:Hoggar10.jpg Image:Hoggar dpuis assekrem.jpg Image:Caravane hoggar1.jpg Image:Hoggar caravane2.jpg Image:Hoggar peinture rupestre1.JPG Image:Hoggar Tamanghasset Algeria.jpg image:Hoggar9.jpg Image:Hoggar peinture rupestre2.JPG See alsoEcotourismSaharan rock artReferences External links A website about the parkPark data on UNEP-WPMC (Location of the national park)Category:Mountain ranges of Algeria Category:Rock art Category:Tuareg Category:Tamanrasset Province ar:جبال هقار bg:Ахагар cs:Ahaggar da:Ahaggar de:Ahaggar et:Ahaggar el:Αχαγκάρ es:Ahaggar eo:Ahaggar fr:Hoggar it:Ahaggar lt:Achagaras nl:Ahaggar ja:ホガール山地 no:Ahaggar pl:Ahaggar pt:Hoggar ro:Ahaggar sq:Ahagar sk:Ahaggar sl:Ahagar sr:Ахагар fi:Ahaggar sv:Ahaggar th:เทือกเขาอาฮักการ์ uk:Ахаггар zh:阿哈加爾高原