 | birth_place = Saphai VDC-9, Dhanusha, Nepal | spouse = | party = Nepali Congress | religion = Hindu  Ram Baran Yadav () (born February 4 1948) is the current President of Nepal. He was elected in July 2008 and is the country's first President. He previously served as Minister of Health and as General Secretary of the Nepali Congress party.Yadav was born in Sapahi VDC-9, Dhanusha. The son of Thani and Ramrati Yadav, he studied medicine in the Calcutta Medical CollegeThe Telegraph - Calcutta (Kolkata) | International | From Calcutta to Nepal helm&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and the School of Tropical Medicine of the University of Calcutta in India.As per the decision of Nepali Congress to contest in local body election, Dr Yadav contested for the chairman of Ward No. 9 of Sapahi Panchayat in 1987 and was elected unanimously. After securing membership of Panchayat as a prerequisite to contest district chairmanship election Yadav contested for chairman of district Panchayat election in 1987, but he lost. Yadav was arrested during the Jana Andolan in 1990 and jailed for three months, but was released with the establishment of multi-party democracy.President Of Nepal&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Yadav was the Minister of State for Health in the 1991-1994 Nepali Congress government.http://www.healthnet.org.np/users/dixit/ANNEX-III.PDF&lt;/ref&gt; He was elected to the House of Representatives in the 1999 election as a candidate of the Nepali Congress.Election Commission of Nepal After that election, he became Minister of Health.N980412&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Front Pagers May 31st, 1999 / Jestha 17, 2056 Awake Weekly Chronicle (Nepal)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In May 2007, Yadav's residence in Janakpur was attacked by militants of the Janatantrik Terai Mukti Morcha (JTMM). The JTMM put up a seizure notice at the house, hoisted their flags at it and detonated a bomb.The Tribune, Chandigarh, India - World&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Yadav contested the Dhanusa-5 constituency in the April 2008 Constituent Assembly election. He won the seat, obtaining 10392 votes.Ca Election report&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Yadav was elected as the first President of Nepal in a second round of voting on July 21 2008. He received 308 out of the 590 votes cast in the Constituent Assembly,No Nepali president candidate wins simple majority_English_Xinhua&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Nepalnews.com, news from Nepal as it happens&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; defeating Ram Raja Prasad Singh, who had been nominated by the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist), in a second round of voting. Yadav was sworn in as President on July 23, 2008. Chief Justice Kedar Prasad Giri administered the oath of office and secrecy to Yadav at the presidential palace, Shital Niwas, Rastrapati Bhawan, at 3:45 pm. Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala, inter alia were present. Yadav also administered oath to Vice-President Parmananda Jha.thehimalayantimes.com, Yadav Sworn-in as First President of Nepal.nepalnews.com, President Yadav, VP Jha sworn inPersonal lifeYadav has two sons (Dr. Chandra Mohan Yadav and Chandra Shekhar Yadav) and a daughter (Anita Yadav). His wife died in 1983. He is a Madheshi, an ethnic minority of Nepal.References     |-     Category:1948 births Category:Constituent Assembly members of Nepal Category:Current national leaders Category:Living people Category:Nepalese expatriates in India Category:Nepalese Hindus Category:Nepalese politicians Category:Presidents of Nepal Category:University of Calcutta alumniar:رام بان ياداف da:Ram Baran Yadav de:Ram Baran Yadav et:Rāmvaraṇ Yādav el:Ραμ Μπαράν Γιαντάβ es:Ram Baran Yadav fr:Ram Baran Yadav hi:रामवरण यादव it:Ram Baran Yadav kn:ರಾಮ ಬರಣ ಯಾದವ್ ml:രാംബരണ്‍ യാദവ്‌ nl:Ram Baran Yadav ne:रामवरण यादव new:रामवरण यादव ja:ラムバラン・ヤーダブ pl:Ram Baran Yadav pt:Ram Baran Yadav ru:Ядав, Рам Баран fi:Ram Baran Yadav ta:ராம் பரன் யாதவ் vi:Ram Baran Yadav zh:拉姆·亚达夫