  | place of birth = | date of death = | place of death = | date of burial = | place of burial =Archangel Cathedral |Ivan V Alekseyevich Romanov (Russian: Иван V Алексеевич,  — ) was a joint tsar of Russia (with his younger half-brother Peter I) who co-reigned between 1682 and 1696. He was the youngest son of Alexis I of Russia and Maria Miloslavskaya. His reign was only formal, since he had serious physical and mental disabilities. He sat still for hours at a time http://www.xs4all.nl/~kvenjb/madmonarchs/ivan5/ivan5_bio.htm and needed assistance in order to walk.Ivan V was the 11th child of Tsar Alexis. As he was eye-sore and infirm, his capacity for supreme power was challenged by the party of the Naryshkins, who aspired to bring Natalia Naryshkina's son, Peter I, to the throne. Upon the death of Feodor III of Russia in April 1682, their enemies insinuated that the Naryshkins had Ivan strangled, thus fomenting the Moscow Uprising of 1682, which was put to an end only after Ivan was demonstrated by his relatives to the furious crowd.On 25 June the same year, Ivan and Peter were crowned in the Cathedral of the Dormition as "dvoetsarstvenniki" (double tsars). A special throne with two seats was executed for the occasion (now on display in the Kremlin Armoury). Although Ivan was considered the "senior tsar", actual power was wielded by his elder sister, Sophia Alekseyevna. In 1689, when she realized that power was slipping from her hands, she attempted to raise another riot, speculating that the Naryshkins had destroyed Ivan's crown and were poised to set his room on fire. However, Ivan's tutor, Prince Prozorovsky, persuaded him to change sides, whereupon Ivan declared his allegiance to his brother's cause.During the last decade of his life, Ivan was completely overshadowed by the more energetic Peter I. He spent his days with his wife, Praskovia Saltykova, caring about little but "praying and fasting day and night". Ivan's purported debility did not prevent him from producing robust offspring in the shape of five daughters, one of whom — Anna Ivanovna — would assume the throne in 1730. At the age of 27 he was described by foreign ambassadors as senile, paralytic and almost blind. He died two years later and was interred in the Archangel Cathedral.See alsoTsars of Russia family tree      Category:Russian tsars Category:House of Romanov Category:People from Moscow Category:Modern child rulers Category:1666 births Category:1696 deaths Category:Orthodox monarchsaf:Iwan V van Rusland ar:إيفان الخامس be:Іван V, цар і вялікі князь усяе Русі bg:Иван V ca:Ivan V de Rússia da:Ivan 5. af Rusland de:Iwan V. (Russland) es:Iván V de Rusia fr:Ivan V de Russie hr:Ivan V., ruski car id:Ivan V dari Rusia it:Ivan V di Russia he:איוואן החמישי ka:ივანე V (რუსეთი) lv:Ivans V Romanovs hu:V. Iván orosz cár mr:आयव्हन पाचवा, रशिया nl:Ivan V van Rusland ja:イヴァン5世 pl:Iwan V Romanow pt:Ivan V da Rússia ru:Иван V sr:Иван V Романов sh:Ivan V., ruski car fi:Iivana V sv:Ivan V zh:伊凡五世