 Ursa Major () is a constellation visible throughout the year in most of the northern hemisphere. Its name means Great Bear in Latin, and is associated with the legends of Callisto and Cynosura.Notable featuresThe seven brightest stars, located in the Bear's hindquarters and tail, form the well-known Big Dipper asterism. (In United Kingdom and Ireland, this asterism is known as the Plough.) Except for Dubhe and Alkaid, the stars of the Big Dipper all have proper motions heading towards a common point in Sagittarius. A few other such stars have been identified, and together they are called the Ursa Major Moving Group.In addition to the ursa major, another asterism comes from Arab culture, a series of three pairs of stars:ν and ξ Ursae Majoris, Alula Borealis and Australis, the "first leap";λ and μ Ursae Majoris, Tania Borealis and Australis, the "second leap";ι and κ Ursae Majoris, Talitha Borealis and Australis, the "third leap".These stars are found along the southwest border of the constellation, the bear's toes.Mizar, a star in the Big Dipper, forms the famous optical double star with Alcor.The stars Merak (β Ursae Majoris) and Dubhe (α Ursae Majoris) are known as the "pointer stars" because they are helpful for finding Polaris, also known as the North Star. By visually tracing a line from Merak through Dubhe and continuing, one's eye will land on Polaris, accurately indicating true north.W Ursae Majoris is the prototype of a class of contact binary variable stars, and ranges between 7.75m and 8.48m.47 Ursae Majoris has a planetary system with two confirmed planets, 2.54 times and 0.76 times the mass of Jupiter.Several bright galaxies are found in Ursa Major, including the pair Messier 81 (one of the brightest galaxies in the sky) and Messier 82 above the bear's head, and Pinwheel Galaxy (M101), a beautiful spiral northwest of η Ursae Majoris. The other notable spiral galaxies Messier 108 and Messier 109 may also be found in this other constellation. Altogether, the constellation contains about 50 galaxies observable through amateur telescope. The bright planetary nebula Owl Nebula (M97), named for its appearance, can be found along the bottom of the bowl of the Big Dipper. Of note as a curiosity more than an interesting deep sky object is Messier 40, a double star that Messier nonetheless included in his catalogue.The Hubble Deep Field is located to the northeast of δ Ursae Majoris.Ursa Major was one of the 48 constellations listed by Ptolemy. It is one of the most widely-known constellations, having been mentioned by such poets as Homer, Spenser, Shakespeare, Tennyson and Bertrand Cantat. The Finnish epic Kalevala mentions it, and Vincent Van Gogh painted it upside downMythologyThe constellation of Ursa Major has been seen by many distinct civilizations as a bear.Gibbon, William B. "Asiatic parallels in North American star lore: Ursa Major" in the Journal of American Folklore. 77(305), 236–250, July 1964. In one sequence, together with the nearby Ursa Minor, it is associated with the myth of Callisto, in another the myth of Cynosura.In another tale, Ursa Major was associated with the Hesperides. With Ursa Minor, Boötes, Draco, and Hercules it may have inspired the myth of the Apples of the Hesperides, one of The Twelve Labours of Hercules. In one myth, Zeus lusts after a young woman named Kallisto, a nymph of Artemis. Hera, Zeus's wife, jealously turns the Kallisto into a bear. Kallisto, while in bear form later encounters her son Arcas. Arcas almost shoots the bear, but to avert the tragedy, Zeus sweeps them both into the sky, forming Ursa Major.One of the few star groups mentioned in the Bible (Job 9:9; 38:32; Amos 5:8 — Orion and the Pleiades being others), Ursa Major was also pictured as a bear by both the Jewish people and most North American peoples. However, as bears do not have long tails, they considered Alioth, Mizar, and Alkaid to be either three cubs following their mother or three hunters. ("The Bear" was mistranslated as "Arcturus" in the Vulgate and the error persisted in the KJV. Later translations have corrected this.)The Iroquois Native Americans also interpreted Alioth, Mizar, and Alkaid as three hunters pursuing the Great Bear. According to one version of their myth, the first hunter (Alioth) is carrying a bow and arrow to strike down the bear. The second hunter (Mizar) carries a large pot — the star Alcor — on his shoulder in which to cook the bear while the third hunter (Alkaid) hauls a pile of firewood to light a fire beneath the pot.In Burmese, Pucwan Tārā (pronounced "bazun taja") is the name of a constellation comprising stars from the head and forelegs of Ursa Major; pucwan is a general term for prawn, shrimp, crab, lobster, etc. Europeans see Ursa Major as a wagon. English as a plough. Ancient Egyptians as 'Bull's Thigh'. Chinese as 'government' and 'Northern measure' and Hebrew and Arabs as a 'coffin'.Graphic visualisationHevelius' work depicts an attempt to represent the constellation as a bear.  made of Ursa Major. The drawing is made as if being viewed from outside the celestial sphere.]]The constellation features prominently in van Gogh's painting "Starry Night Over the Rhone." Van Gogh placed it on the southern sky. See alsoUrsa MinorReferencesIan Ridpath and Wil Tirion (2007). Stars and Planets Guide, Collins, London. ISBN 978-0007251209. Princeton University Press, Princeton. ISBN 978-0691135564.External linksThe Deep Photographic Guide to the Constellations: Ursa MajorAAVSO: The Myths of Ursa MajorThe Origin of the Greek ConstellationsStar Tales – Ursa MajorCategory:Ursa Major constellation Category:Constellationsar:الدب الأكبر (كوكبة) af:Groot Beer ast:Sietestrellu az:Böyük Ayı bn:সপ্তর্ষি মণ্ডল be:Сузор'е Вялікая Мядзведзіца bg:Голяма мечка (съзвездие) ca:Óssa Major cs:Souhvězdí Velké medvědice co:Ursa Major da:Store Bjørn de:Großer Bär el:Μεγάλη Άρκτος es:Osa Mayor eo:Granda Ursino (konstelacio) fa:خرس بزرگ (صورت فلکی) fr:Grande Ourse fur:Cjar mat ga:An Béar Mór gv:Yn Çheeaght gl:Ursa Major ko:큰곰자리 hr:Veliki medvjed id:Ursa Major it:Orsa Maggiore (costellazione) he:הדובה הגדולה ka:დიდი დათვი (თანავარსკვლავედი) la:Ursa Maior (sidus) lv:Lielais Lācis lb:Ursa Major (Stärebild) lt:Didieji Grįžulo Ratai ln:Ndambákole hu:Nagy Medve csillagkép ml:സപ്തര്‍ഷിമണ്ഡലം (നക്ഷത്രരാശി) mdf:Кече nah:Cītlalocēlōtl nl:Grote Beer ja:おおぐま座 no:Store bjørn nn:Store bjørn pl:Wielka Niedźwiedzica pt:Ursa Major ro:Ursa Mare ru:Большая Медведица (созвездие) simple:Ursa Major sk:Súhvezdie Veľká medvedica sl:Veliki medved (ozvezdje) fi:Iso karhu sv:Stora björnen ta:அர்சா மேஜர் th:กลุ่มดาวหมีใหญ่ vi:Đại Hùng tr:Ursa Major uk:Велика Ведмедиця (сузір'я) ur:دب اکبر fiu-vro:Susirattaq wa:Tchår Pôcet (sitoelreye) zh:大熊座