Yermak redirects here. For the ship, see Icebreaker Yermak.Yermak Timofeyevich (Russian: Ерма́к Тимофе́евич, also Ermak) (born between 1532 and 1542 – August 5 or 6, 1585), Cossack leader and explorer of Siberia. His exploration of Siberia marked the beginning of the expansion of Russia towards this region and its colonization. ("Timofeyevich" is his patronimic, not the last name, so in references he must be looked up as "Yermak" or "Yermak Timofeyevich"; his last name, if any, is unknown).In 1558, the Stroganov merchant family received their first patent for colonizing "the abundant region along the Kama River", and in 1574 lands over the Ural Mountains along the rivers Tura and Tobol. They also received permission to build forts along the Ob and Irtysh rivers. Around 1577, the Stroganovs hired the Cossack leader Yermak to protect their lands from attacks of the Siberian khan Kuchum.In 1579 or 1581 Yermak began his voyage into the depths of Siberia. After a few victories over the khan's army, Yermak's people defeated Kuchum's main forces after a 3-day battle (October 23–25, 1582) on the banks of Irtysh. The remains of the khan's army retreated to the steppes. On October 26, Yermak captured the capital of the Siberia Khanate, Qashliq (17 km from the city of Tobolsk). Since Kuchum still had enough forces to resist, he suddenly attacked Yermak on August 6, 1585 in the dead of night and killed most of his people. Yermak was wounded and tried to swim across the Wagay River (Irtysh's tributary), but drowned under the weight of his own chainmail. The remains of Yermak's forces under the command of M. Mescheryak retreated from Qashliq.Yermak's exploration of Siberia is reflected in the so-called Siberian Chronicles. His life and death have been subjects for numerous Russian songs, books, and paintings since the 16th century.]]== See also == Icebreaker YermakHistory of SiberiaExploration of AsiaRussian conquest of SiberiaYermak Timofeyevich (English)ReferencesThis article incorporates text from the Great Soviet Encyclopedia Yermak Yermak  Yermak Yermak Category:Explorers of Siberia Yermak Category:Characters of Russian folklore Category:Characters in Bylina Category:History of Siberia Category:Deaths by drowningbg:Ермак Тимофеевич de:Jermak Timofejewitsch es:Yermak Timoféyevich fr:Yermak Timofeyevitch it:Ermak Timofeevič lt:Jermakas nl:Jermak no:Jermak Timofejevitsj pl:Jermak Timofiejewicz pt:Yermak Timofeyevich ro:Ermak Timofeevici ru:Ермак Тимофеевич sr:Јермак Тимофејевич