  The Tigris is the eastern member of the two great rivers that define Mesopotamia, along with the Euphrates, which flows from the mountains of southeastern Turkey through Iraq.EtymologyThe original Sumerian name was Idigna or Idigina, probably from *id (i)gina "running water",F. Delitzsch, Sumerisches Glossar, Leipzig (1914), IV, 6, 21. which can be interpreted as "the swift river", contrasted to its neighbor, the Euphrates, whose leisurely pace caused it to deposit more silt and build up a higher bed than the Tigris. This form was borrowed and gave rise to Akkadian Idiqlat. Either through a Persian intermediary or directly from Akkadian, the word was adopted into Greek as Tigris ("Τίγρις" which is also Greek for "tiger"). In the Hebrew Bible, the river was called חִדֶּ֫קֶל (Ḥiddẹqel, KJV Hiddekel)Pahlavi tigr means "arrow", in the same family as Old Persian tigra-'' "pointed" (compare ''tigra-xauda),  Modern Persian têz "sharp". However, it does not appear that this was the original name of the river, but that it (like the Semitic forms of the name) was coined as an imitation of the indigenous Sumerian name. This is similar to the Persian name of the Euphrates, Ufratu, which does have a meaning in Persian, but is still modeled after the Sumerian name Purattu.Another name for the Tigris, used from the time of the Persian Empire, is Arvand Rud, literally Arvand River. Today the name Arvand Rud is the Persian name for the confluence of the Euphrates and Tigris rivers which in Arabic is called Shatt al-Arab.The name of the Tigris in languages that have been important to the region: , Turkey.]] , Iraq.]]LanguageName for TigrisAkkadian]]akk|Idiqlat''Arabic]]ar|دجلة, Aramaic]]arc|דיגלת , Armenian]]hy|Տիգրիս, Greek]]ἡ Τίγρης, -ητος, ;Hebrew]]he|חידקל , Hurrian]]xhuAranzahE. Laroche, ''Glossaire de la langue Hourrite, Paris (1980), p. 55.Kurdish]]ku|DîclePersian]]peo|Tigrā; Middle Persian:; Modern Persian: ''Sumerian]]sux|Idigna/Idigina'' Syriac]]syr|ܕܩܠܬ Turkish]]tr|Dicle]]DescriptionThe Tigris is approximately 1,900 km (1,200 miles) long, rising in the Taurus Mountains of eastern Turkey about 25 km (15 mi) SE of the city of Elazig and just a few miles from the source of the Euphrates River, flowing in a generally southeasterly direction until it joins the Euphrates near al-Qurnah in southern Iraq. The two rivers together form the Shatt al-Arab waterway, which empties into the Persian Gulf. The Tigris is fed from the east by four tributary streams: the Great Zab, the Little Zab, the ‛Adhaim, and the Diyala.The Tigris unites with the Euphrates near Basra, and from this junction to the Persian Gulf the stream is known as the Shatt-al-Arab. According to Pliny and other ancient historians, the Euphrates originally had its outlet into the sea separate from that of the Tigris.Pliny: Natural History, VI, XXVI, 128-131Baghdad, the capital of Iraq, stands on the banks of the Tigris. The port city of Basra straddles the Shatt al-Arab. In ancient times, many of the great cities of Mesopotamia stood on or near the Tigris, drawing water from it to irrigate the civilization of the Sumerians. Notable Tigris-side cities included Nineveh, Ctesiphon, and Seleucia, while the city of Lagash was irrigated by Tigris water delivered to it via a canal dug around 2400 BC. Saddam Hussein's hometown, Tikrit, is also located on the river and derives its name from it.The Tigris has long been an important transport route in a largely desert country. It is navigable as far as Baghdad by shallow-draft vessels, but rafts are needed for transport upstream to Mosul. River trade declined in importance during the 20th century as the Basra-Baghdad-Mosul railway and roads took over much of the freight traffic.Management and water quality, Iraq.]]The Tigris is heavily dammed in Iraq and Turkey, to provide water for irrigating the arid and semi-desert regions bordering the river valley. Damming has also been important for averting floods in Iraq, to which the Tigris has historically been notoriously prone following snowmelt in the Turkish mountains around April. Recent Turkish damming of the river has been the subject of some controversy, both for its environmental effects within Turkey and its potential to reduce the flow of water downstream. Mosul Dam, located on the Tigris, is the largest dam in Iraq.Coalition forces destroyed Iraq's water treatment plants during the 1990 Gulf War, affecting the water quality of the Tigris. Since the 2003 invasion of Iraq the United States Agency for International Development has refurbished, expanded and improved water and sewage treatment plants and reports significant improvement in water quality.ReligionThe Tigris appears twice in the Bible. In the Book of Genesis, the Tigris is the third of the four rivers branching off the river issuing out of the Garden of Eden.Genesis 2:14 Daniel received one of his visions "when I was by that great river the Tigris".Daniel 10:4MythologyIn Sumerian mythology, the Tigris was created by the god Enki, who ejaculated and filled the river with flowing water.Jeremy A. Black, The Literature of Ancient Sumer, Oxford University Press 2004, ISBN 0199263116 p. 220-221ReferencesSee alsoAssyriaCradle of civilizationEuphratesIlisu Dam Campaign campaign against a planned dam on Tigris in TurkeyList of places in IraqMesopotamiaTigris-Euphrates alluvial salt marshal-QurnahExternal linksLivius.org: TigrisBibliography on Water Resources and International Law Peace Palace LibraryCategory:Assyria Category:Mesopotamia Category:Rivers of Turkey Category:Rivers of Iraq Category:International rivers Category:History of Iraq Category:Shatt al-Arab basinaf:Tigrisrivier ar:دجلة arc:ܕܩܠܬ ast:Tigris bn:টাইগ্রিস zh-min-nan:Tigris Hô be:Рака Тыгр bs:Tigris bg:Тигър (река) ca:Tigris cv:Тигр (юханшыв) cs:Tigris cy:Afon Tigris da:Tigris de:Tigris et:Tigris el:Τίγρης ποταμός es:Tigris eo:Tigriso eu:Tigris fa:دجله fr:Tigre (fleuve) fy:Tigris gl:Río Tigris ko:티그리스 강 hy:Տիգրիս hr:Tigris id:Sungai Tigris is:Tígris it:Tigri he:חידקל jv:Kali Tigris sw:Hidekeli ku:Dîcle la:Tigris (flumen) lv:Tigra lt:Tigras (upė) ln:Tigre mk:Тигар (река) ml:ടൈഗ്രിസ് mr:तैग्रिस नदी nl:Tigris ja:チグリス川 no:Tigris pl:Tygrys (rzeka) pt:Rio Tigre ro:Tigru (râu) ru:Тигр (река) scn:Tigri simple:Tigris sk:Tigris sl:Tigris sr:Тигар (река) sh:Tigris fi:Tigris sv:Tigris vi:Tigris tg:Дарёи Тигрис tr:Dicle Nehri uk:Тигр (річка) ur:دریائے دجلہ diq:Roê Dicley zh:底格里斯河