   John Youie Woodruff (July 5, 1915 &ndash; October 30, 2007) was an American athlete and winner of the 800 metre run at the 1936 Summer Olympics.Born in Connellsville, Fayette County, Pennsylvania, U.S., "Long" John Woodruff was only a freshman at the University of Pittsburgh in 1936 when he placed second at the National AAU meet and first at the Olympic Trials, earning a spot on the U.S. Olympic team. Despite his inexperience, he was the favorite in the Olympic 800 metre run, and he did not disappoint. In one of the most exciting races in Olympic history, Woodruff became boxed in by other runners and was forced to stop running. He then came from behind to win in 1:52.9. The New York Times described the race:  He remembers the anguish of his Olympic race: “Phil Edwards, the Canadian doctor, set the pace, and it was very slow. On the first lap, I was on the inside, and I was trapped. I knew that the rules of running said if I tried to break out of a trap and fouled someone, I would be disqualified. At that point, I didn’t think I could win, but I had to do something.”  Woodruff was a 21-year-old college freshman, an unsophisticated and, at , an ungainly runner. But he was a fast thinker, and he made a quick decision.  “I didn’t panic,” he said. “I just figured if I had only one opportunity to win, this was it. I’ve heard people say that I slowed down or almost stopped. I didn’t almost stop. I stopped, and everyone else ran around me.”  Then, with his stride of almost , Woodruff ran around everyone else. He took the lead, lost it on the backstretch, but regained it on the final turn and won the gold medal. http://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/01/sports/othersports/01olympics.html?_r=1&amp;oref=slogin During a career that was curtailed by World War II, Woodruff won one AAU (Amateur Athletic Union) title in 800 m in 1937 and won both  and  IC4A titles from 1937 to 1939. Woodruff also held a share of the world 4 x  relay record while competing with the national team.Woodruff graduated in 1939, with a major in sociology, and then earned a Masters Degree in the same field from New York University in 1941. He entered military service in 1941 as a Second Lieutenant and was discharged as a Captain in 1945. He reentered military service during the Korean War, and left in 1957 as a Lieutenant Colonel. He was the Battalion commander of the 369th Artillery later the 569 Transportation Battalion New York Army National Guard.Woodruff also worked as a teacher in New York City, a special investigator for the New York Department of Welfare, a recreation center director for the New York City Police Athletic League, a parole officer for the state of New York, a salesperson for Schieffelin and Co. and an assistant to the Center Director for Edison Job Corps Center in New Jersey. John Woodruff is buried at Crown Hill Cemetery, Indianapolis (section 46, lot 86).TriviaEach year, a 5-kilometer road race is held in Connellsville to honor Woodruff.Woodruff was a member of Alpha Phi Alpha, the first intercollegiate Greek-letter organization established for African Americans.http://www.powerfulpaac.com/modules.php?op=modload&amp;name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=41&amp;mode=thread&amp;order=0&amp;thold=0External linksJohn Woodruff, Connellsville's Olympic Champion by Jim KriekThe John Woodruff Story by Julie BertschPittsburgh Post-Gazette article on Woodruff's 70th anniversary of raceArticle on Woodruff, 70 years after his Olympic raceNY Times ObituaryJohn Woodruff - Condolence book (Hungarian) Category:1915 births Category:2007 deaths Category:American middle distance runners Category:Athletes at the 1936 Summer Olympics Category:Olympic athletes of the United States Category:Sportspeople from Pittsburgh Category:University of Pittsburgh alumni Category:University of Pittsburgh athletes Category:Burials at Crown Hill Cemetery, Indianapolis de:John Woodruff el:Τζον Γούντραφ es:John Woodruff fr:John Woodruff nl:John Woodruff ja:ジョン・ウッドラフ no:John Woodruff pl:John Woodruff fi:John Woodruff