   | website = www.massport.com/logan/ | r1-number = 4L/22R | r1-length-f = 7,861 | r1-length-m = 2,396 | r1-surface = Asphalt | r2-number = 4R/22L | r2-length-f = 10,005 | r2-length-m = 3,050 | r2-surface = Asphalt | r3-number = 9/27 | r3-length-f = 7,000 | r3-length-m = 2,134 | r3-surface = Asphalt | r4-number = 14/32 | r4-length-f = 5,000 | r4-length-m = 1,524 | r4-surface = Asphalt | r5-number = 15L/33R | r5-length-f = 2,557 | r5-length-m = 779 | r5-surface = Asphalt | r6-number = 15R/33L | r6-length-f = 10,083 | r6-length-m = 3,073 | r6-surface = Asphalt | stat-year = 2007 | stat1-header = Aircraft operations | stat1-data = 399,537 | stat2-header = Passengers | stat2-data = 28,102,455 | footnotes = Source: FAA, retrieved 2007-03-15, MassportMassport http://www.massport.com/logan/about_stati.html.General Edward Lawrence Logan International Airport  in the East Boston neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, United States (and partly in the Town of Winthrop, Massachusetts), is one of the 20 busiest airports in the U.S., with over 27 million passengers a year. The airport serves as a focus city for AirTran Airways, American Airlines, US Airways, and JetBlue Airways.It covers 2,400 acres (10 km²), has six runways, and employs an estimated 16,000 people., The airport has service to destinations in the United States, as well as Canada, the Cape Verde Islands, the Caribbean, Europe, and Mexico. The distinctive central control tower, nearly a dozen stories high, is a local landmark with its pair of segmented elliptical pylons and a six-story platform trussed between them.Boston Logan Airport is the 7th busiest airport in the USA based on international traffic, ranking ahead of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport and behind San Francisco International Airport. In 2005, it handled 6,978,780 international passengers.Historyaircraft.]] Originally called Boston Airport, Logan opened on September 8, 1923, and was used primarily by the Massachusetts Air Guard and the Army Air Corps. At that time, it was known as Jeffery Field. The first scheduled commercial passenger flights were initiated by Colonial Air Transport between Boston and New York City in 1927.The airport has expanded over the years, including the addition of 1,800 acres (7 km²) built on landfill in Boston Harbor and the incorporation of the former Governors and Apple Islands. As a consequence the airport is almost entirely surrounded by water. In 1952, the airport became the first in the United States with an indirect rapid transit connection. In 1956, the state renamed the airport as General Edward Lawrence Logan International Airport after a Spanish-American War hero from South Boston.The era of the jumbo jet began at Logan during the summer of 1970 when Pan Am inaugurated daily Boeing 747 service to London Heathrow Airport. Non-stop flights to London now are scheduled by British Airways, American Airlines, and Virgin Atlantic.When Terminal E opened in 1974, it was the second largest international arrivals facility in the United States. Since that time the number of international travelers using Logan has tripled. International long-haul travel has been the fastest growing market sector at Logan and has led the Massachusetts Port Authority (Massport) to embark on a major airport renewal project. The international terminal at Logan has been completely modified and upgraded into an elegant and impressive facility in recent years. Terminal E is a common-use facility, meaning all ticket counters and gates are shared among the international carriers.Massport's relationship with neighboring communities has been highly strained since the mid-1960s, when the agency took control of a significant parcel of residential land and popular fishing area adjacent to the northwest side of the airfield. This project was undertaken to extend Runway 15R/33L, which would later become Logan's longest runway. Residents of the affected neighborhood, known as Wood Island, were bought out of their homes and forced to relocate. Public opposition came to a head when hordes of residents lay down in the streets in an attempt to block bulldozers and supply trucks from reaching the intended construction zone.Many area residents who were old enough at the time still harbor intense nostalgia for the former Wood Island Park, and this issue remains a primary source of the enmity that exists towards Massport.A November 2006 issue of the Winthrop Transcript featured a front-page article about the operations of air traffic control at Logan. The article described the inside of the Logan tower as being approximately the size of a master bedroom and staffed by eight controllers. In one corner of the room, next to a coffee pot and Danish tray, were strategically-placed large bottles of antacids.Air Traffic Control for Logan Airport is handled at the Boston Consolidated TRACON facility in Merrimack, New Hampshire, which opened in 2004 and serves most of New England's airspace.In March 2007, the Boston Herald revealed that Massachusetts State Police personnel were the beneficiaries of a hidden perk that authorized a $40 daily stipend for troopers who commuted to work using their own vehicles, despite a sufficient inventory of take-home cruisers. Although the policy, upon public disclosure, was immediately eliminated for troopers patrolling the Massachusetts Turnpike, sources claim that a similar perk still remains in place for troopers stationed at Logan. Massport has thus far refused to confirm or deny this.Construction has been completed on an additional runway, 14-32. This runway was first proposed in 1973, but had been delayed by court action.A scene from the 2006 film The Departed was filmed on location at Logan, inside the connector bridge between Terminal E and the Central Parking Garage.Parts of the recent Delta Air Lines 2007 "Anthem" commercial were filmed inside Terminal A as well as the connector bridge between Terminal A and Central Parking.On April 9, 2008, Massport announced that Grand China Airlines had formally applied to the Civil Aviation Administration of China for approval to operate daily non-stop passenger flights to Boston from Beijing using Boeing 787 aircraft. According to Massport, due to delays in production of the 787, the service is not likely to begin before 2010.http://massport.com/about/press_news_Hainan_Application.html Application for Boston/Beijing Service Filed with Chinese Government  This is also consistent with government regulations on Chinese route approval, which has allocated all Chinese routes up through 2009.  Hub-to-China flights could begin in '09. Boston Herald.Wong, Nicole C. (2008 February 15). Massport seeks to lure more foreign flights. The Boston Globe: Globe-Trotting (blog). Retrieved on 2008 March 22 Logan last had service to Asia in July 2001, when Korean Air discontinued service to Seoul, Korea, which operated with a stop in Washington, D.C.Howe, Peter J. (2007 September 14). A jet to help Boston's dreams take off. The Boston Globe. Retrieved on 2008 January 3.Facilities and aircraftLogan International Airport covers an area of  which contains six runways:Runway 4L/22R: 7,861 x 150 ft (2,396 x 46 m), Surface: AsphaltRunway 4R/22L: 10,005 x 150 ft (3,050 x 46 m), Surface: AsphaltRunway 9/27: 7,000 x 150 ft (2,134 x 46 m), Surface: AsphaltRunway 14/32: 5,000 x 100 ft (1,524 x 30 m), Surface: AsphaltRunway 15L/33R: 2,557 x 100 ft (779 x 30 m), Surface: AsphaltRunway 15R/33L: 10,083 x 150 ft (3,073 x 46 m), Surface: AsphaltFor 12-month period ending September 30, 2006, the airport had 409,066 aircraft operations, an average of 1,120 per day: 60% scheduled commercial, 32% air taxi and 8% general aviation.New runway opensOn November 23 2006, Runway 14-32 officially opened to air traffic, Logan's first major runway addition in more than forty years. The new runway is unidirectional, with 32 used for landings and 14 for takeoffs. Massport is barred by a court order from using the runway for overland landings or takeoffs, except in emergencies.Opposition to the construction of 14-32 had been fierce even among residents of nearby communities such as Winthrop and Revere, two areas which &mdash; by all accounts &mdash; were supposed to benefit from a reduction in noise levels once the new runway opened up. With construction now having been completed, more wrangling has erupted over guidelines governing use of the new airstrip. Local communities are aggressively pushing for a minimum runway-use threshold of 11.5-knot northwest winds, slightly higher than the 10-knot threshold espoused by Massport. There has also been heated debate over a recent FAA proposal to lower the decision height for pilots.The new runway reduces the need for the existing Runway 15L-33R, which, at only  long, represents what is perhaps the shortest hard-surface runway at any major airport in the United States. In 1988, Massport had proposed an  extension to this airstrip (a project which would have required additional filling-in of land along an important clam bed), but was thwarted by a court injunction.Boston's Hyatt Harborside Hotel, which sits only a few hundred yards from the runway threshold, was built primarily to prevent Massport from ever extending 14-32 or using it for takeoffs or landings over the city. Massachusetts lawmakers carefully chose the location of the hotel--directly in the runway centerline--prior to its construction in 1992.According to Massport records, the very first aircraft to use the new airstrip was a Continental Express ERJ 145 regional jet landing on Runway 32, on the morning of December 2 2006.Centerfield taxiwayIn April 2007, the FAA issued a green light for construction of a new center field taxiway long-sought by Massport to alleviate airfield congestion. The proposed  taxiway will be located directly between, and parallel to, Runways 4R-22L and 4L-22R. News of the project receiving FAA approval has stirred up predictable outrage among Logan's neighboring residents.FAA: Environmental Impact Statement - Airside Improvements Planning Project - Centerfield TaxiwayFBOsThe airport is served by several Fixed Base Operators (FBO), which handle fueling, ground handling, aircraft cleaning, cargo service, and aircraft maintenance. They include Swissport USA and Penauille Servisair. General aviation, which is adjacent to the North Cargo area, is handled by Signature Flight Support.Terminals, airlines, and destinationsLogan International Airport has four terminals, all connected by shuttle buses and walkways. Moving walkways also connect the terminals to a central parking garage. Terminals A, C and E have their own buildings, B is split into north and south. Only Terminal E has U.S. Customs and Immigration services, so all international flights arrive there except for those coming from locations with U.S. customs preclearance. The largest airline at Boston Logan is JetBlue carrying 15.72% of passengers, followed by American Airlines (14.89%), US Airways (14.72%), Delta Air Lines (13.67%), and United Airlines (10.52%)http://www.transtats.bts.gov/airports.asp?pn=1.Terminal ALogan's newly built Terminal A, which replaced a previous building that was once occupied by Eastern Airlines, opened to passengers on March 16, 2005. The building is the first airport terminal in the United States to be LEED certified for environmentally friendly design by the U.S. Green Building Council. Among the building's features are heat-reflecting roof and windows, low-flow faucets and waterless urinals, self-dimming lights, and storm water filtration. The 22 gates in Terminal A increase the number of gates at Logan to 102.Continental Airlines (Cleveland, Houston-Intercontinental, Newark)Continental Express operated by Chautauqua Airlines (Cleveland)Continental Express operated by ExpressJet Airlines (Cleveland, Newark)Delta Air Lines (Atlanta, Bermuda, Cancún October 18, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers December 18, Orlando, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City, Tampa, West Palm Beach)Delta Connection operated by Chautauqua Airlines (Columbus (OH))Delta Connection operated by Comair (Baltimore/Washington, Bangor, Charlottetown seasonal, Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky, Columbus (OH), Halifax, Myrtle Beach seasonal, New York-JFK, Philadelphia, Raleigh/Durham, Tampa, Washington-Reagan)Delta Shuttle operated by Delta Air Lines (New York-LaGuardia)Terminal BNorth PierAmerican Airlines (Aruba seasonal, Chicago-O'Hare, Dallas/Fort Worth, London-Heathrow, Los Angeles, Miami, Paris-Charles de Gaulle seasonal, Providenciales seasonal, San Francisco, San Juan (PR), Santo Domingo, St. Louis, St. Thomas seasonal)American Eagle (Columbus (OH), New York-JFK, New York-LaGuardia, Raleigh/Durham, Toronto-Pearson, Washington-Reagan)Spirit Airlines (Fort Lauderdale, Myrtle Beach)South PierAir Canada (Toronto-Pearson)Air Canada Jazz (Halifax, Montréal, Ottawa, Toronto-Pearson)Alaska Airlines (Portland (OR), Seattle/Tacoma)US Airways (Aruba, Bermuda seasonal, Cancún, Charlotte, Grand Cayman, Las Vegas, Montego Bay, Nassau seasonal, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Punta Cana seasonal, San Juan (PR))US Airways Express operated by Air Wisconsin (Buffalo, Indianapolis, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Richmond, Rochester (NY))US Airways Express operated by Chautauqua Airlines (Philadelphia, Richmond)US Airways Express operated by Colgan Air (Albany, Augusta (ME), Bar Harbor, Presque Isle, Rockland October 31, Syracuse)US Airways Express operated by Piedmont Airlines (Buffalo, Harrisburg, Pittsburgh)US Airways Express operated by Republic Airlines (Buffalo, Indianapolis, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Rochester (NY))US Airways Shuttle operated by US Airways (New York-LaGuardia, Washington-Reagan)Terminal COn the night of February 28, 2006, the Terminal D gates (the three gates at the north end of the terminal) were renumbered and labeled as part of Terminal C.AirTran Airways (Akron/Canton, Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, Chicago-Midway seasonal, Fort Myers seasonal, Milwaukee seasonal, Newport News/Williamsburg, Orlando seasonal, Sarasota/Bradenton seasonal, Tampa seasonal, West Palm Beach seasonal)Cape Air (Hyannis, Lebanon November 2, Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket, Plattsburgh, Provincetown, Rockland November 1, Rutland, Saranac Lake)JetBlue Airways (Aruba, Austin, Bermuda seasonal, Buffalo, Cancún, Charlotte, Chicago-O'Hare, Denver, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers, Jacksonville (FL), Las Vegas, Long Beach, Nassau, New Orleans, New York-JFK, Oakland, Orlando, Pittsburgh, Raleigh/Durham, Richmond, San Diego, San Juan (PR) seasonal, Santo Domingo seasonal, Seattle/Tacoma, Tampa, Washington-Dulles, West Palm Beach)Midwest Airlines (Kansas City Fall 2008, Milwaukee)Midwest Connect operated by Republic Airlines (Kansas City) Fall 2008 New Midwest Connect/Republic routesUnited Airlines (Chicago-O'Hare, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington-Dulles)United Express operated by Mesa Airlines (Washington-Dulles)Terminal E (International Terminal)Boeing 747 during a temporary closure due to heavy snow falls]] Terminal E handles all international arrivals as well as the following airlines:Aer Lingus (Dublin, Shannon)Air France (Paris-Charles de Gaulle)Air One (Milan-Malpensa)Alitalia (Rome-Fiumicino)British Airways (London-Heathrow)Finnair (Helsinki) seasonalIberia Airlines (Madrid)Icelandair (Reykjavik)Lufthansa (Frankfurt, Munich seasonal)Lufthansa operated by PrivatAir (Munich begins October 26)Lufthansa - U.S. Press Releases May 22, 2008Northwest Airlines (Amsterdam, Detroit, Minneapolis/St. Paul)Northwest Airlink operated by Compass Airlines (Memphis)Northwest Airlink operated by Pinnacle Airlines (Indianapolis)SATA International (Lisbon, Porto seasonal, Terceira seasonal, Ponta Delgada) charterwww.abreu-tours.com/static_us/sata.pdfSwiss International Air Lines (Zürich)TACV (Praia)Virgin Atlantic (London-Heathrow)Airline loungesSince many major domestic and international airlines have a large presence at Logan, there are several airline lounges.Aer Lingus operates a Gold Circle Lounge in Terminal E.American Airlines operates an Admirals Club in Terminal B.British Airways operates a First Lounge and a Terraces Lounge in Terminal E.Continental Airlines operates a Presidents Club in Terminal A. https://www.continental.com/web/en-us/content/travel/airport/lounge/locations/all.aspx?SID=0B3C20E5F2A1495D9CFD651F5DDDABC1 CO Lounge LocationsDelta Air Lines operates a Crown Room Club in the Satellite Terminal.Lufthansa operates a Senator Lounge and a Business Lounge in Terminal E.Northwest Airlines operates a WorldClubhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northwest_Airlines#WorldClubs in Terminal E.United Airlines operates a Red Carpet Club in Terminal C.US Airways operates a US Airways Club in Terminal B.Virgin Atlantic operates a Clubhouse Lounge in Terminal E.http://www.virgin-atlantic.com/en/us/whatsonboard/clubhouses/bostonclubhouse.jsp Virgin Atlantic-Boston ClubhouseCargoLogan Airport has two cargo facilities (North Cargo adjacent to Terminal E and South Cargo adjacent to Terminals A and B). The airport is served by the several cargo carriers:ABX AirAirNet SystemsCapital Cargo InternationalDHLFedEx ExpressSkylink ExpressUPS AirlinesGround transportationThe MBTA's Silver Line SL1 bus rapid transit service connects South Station, a major MBTA Commuter Rail, Amtrak, Red Line subway and bus transportation hub in the downtown Boston financial district, with all Logan terminals. There is also an Airport stop on the MBTA's Blue Line subway service. The Blue Line stop is not in the airport terminal itself; free shuttles bring passengers from the train station to the terminal buildings. Massport's Logan Express bus service also serves the areas of Braintree, Framingham, Peabody, and the Anderson Regional Transportation Center in Woburn.    Limousine pickup is also very common at the airport. Limousine drivers are not allowed to leave their vehicles at the designated pickup areas and pickup locations vary depending on the terminal. For Terminal A, the pickup location is on the arrival level, outside baggage claim, in a small parking lot across the road. For Terminal B (both north and south sides), pickup is at the curbside on the departure level. At Terminal C, pickup is also on the departure level at the second and third islands. At Terminal E, pickup is on the arrival level in a small parking lot across the road.Taxi operations are coordinated at each terminal by Massport. Massport's regulations have reduced the number of taxis allowed to wait in front of the terminal at any one time, and prohibit taxis from picking up fares at any location other than the designated taxi stands located at each terminal. A large staging area near the South Cargo complex serves as the waiting area for taxis, before they are called to the taxi stands to replenish the supply.The MBTA operates a water shuttle connecting Logan with downtown Boston, Quincy, and Hull. On demand service from the airport to various locations on the downtown waterfront is provided by a fleet of water taxis. A free shuttle bus ferries passengers between the airport dock and the various terminals.By road, the airport is at the eastern terminus of the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90), which provides easy access from the west via the Ted Williams Tunnel. From the south, travellers on Interstate 93 can connect to the Masspike east, through the Ted Williams Tunnel and take exit 26 to reach the airport. From the north, I-93 traffic to the airport uses the Callahan Tunnel, Route 1A North. From the North Shore, access is via Route 1A South. Additionally, road traffic from most of downtown Boston, Back Bay and Fenway/Boston University should use the Callahan Tunnel. The westbound twin tunnel to the Callahan Tunnel is known as the Sumner Tunnel. Eastbound travel through the tunnels is free, but there is a $3.50 toll for westbound travel.On July 10 2006, the connector tunnel leading from the Massachusetts Turnpike to the Ted Williams Tunnel was closed due to a ceiling collapse that killed a woman. This complicated airport access from the south and west. This connector tunnel was part of the Big Dig project which extended the Massachusetts Turnpike to the airport via the Ted Williams Tunnel. Access from I-90 Eastbound was restored in August 2006, and access to I-90 Westbound was restored on December 23 2006. I-90 access was completely restored the weekend of January 14 2007.Notable incidentsOn October 4th 1960, an Eastern Airlines propeller driven Lockheed L-188 Electra crashed into the sea while attempting to take off from Logan Airport. 62 people died and 9 people survived, incurring serious injuries.On July 31 1973, Delta Air Lines Flight 723, operated on a DC-9 airplane, crashed into a seawall at Logan Airport, causing the deaths of all 83 passengers and 6 crew members on board. One of the passengers initially survived the accident but died in hospital.In 2001, two of the aircraft involved in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175, departed from Logan Airport. Both aircraft were flown into the World Trade Center's Twin Towers of New York, destroying the buildings. United and American Airlines have mounted American flags on the gates from which the flights departed that day.Related AirportsTo address Logan Airport's overcrowding, Massport has designated Manchester-Boston Regional Airport in Manchester, New Hampshire and T. F. Green Airport in Providence, Rhode Island as the second and third airports of Boston. Massport does not operate these facilities.For a time, Massport also operated scheduled flights at Hanscom Field in Bedford, Massachusetts and Worcester Regional Airport in Worcester, each of which are operated by Massport.See alsoMassachusetts World War II Army AirfieldsReferencesExternal linksMassport: Logan AirportTerminal Map of Logan International AirportAirport Wayfinder: BostonNoise ComplaintsCategory:1923 establishments Category:Airports in Massachusetts Category:Transportation in Boston, Massachusetts Category:Defunct World War II USAAF Fieldsde:Logan International Airport es:Aeropuerto Internacional Logan fr:Aéroport international Logan hi:लोगान हवाई अड्डा id:Bandar Udara Internasional Logan nl:Internationale luchthaven Boston ja:ジェネラル・エドワード・ローレンス・ローガン国際空港 pl:Port lotniczy Boston simple:Logan International Airport sv:Logan International Airport th:ท่าอากาศยานนานาชาติโลแกน zh:波士顿罗根国际机场 ru:Логан (аэропорт)