Walter Houser Brattain (February 10, 1902–October 13, 1987) was an American physicist at Bell Labs who, along with John Bardeen and William Shockley, invented the transistor. They shared the 1956 Nobel Prize in Physics for their invention. He devoted much of his life to research on surface states.Early life and educationHe was born to Ross R. Brattain and Ottilie Houser in Amoy, China on February 10, 1902 and spent the early part of his life in Springfield, Oregon and Washington in the United States. He was raised in Washington on a cattle ranch owned by his parents, and earned his B.S. degree in physics and mathematics at Whitman College in Walla Walla, Washington. Brattain earned that degree in 1924 and an M.A. degree from the University of Oregon in 1926. He then moved eastward, taking his Ph.D. degree in physics at the University of Minnesota in 1929. Brattain's advisor was John T. Tate, and his thesis was on electron impact in mercury vapor. In 1928 and 1929 he worked at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, D.C., and in 1929 was hired by Bell Telephone Laboratories.Brattain's concerns at Bell Laboratories in the years before World War II were first in the surface physics of tungsten and later in the surfaces of the semiconductors cuprous oxide and silicon. During World War II Brattain devoted his time to developing methods of submarine detection under a contract with the National Defense Research Council at Columbia University.Career in physicsFollowing the war, Brattain returned to Bell Laboratories and soon joined the semiconductor division of the newly-organized Solid State Department of the laboratories. William Shockley was the director of the semiconductor division, and early in 1946 he initiated a general investigation of semiconductors that was intended to produce a practical solid state amplifier.Crystals of pure semiconductors (such as silicon or germanium) are very poor conductors at ambient temperatures because the energy that an electron must have in order to occupy a conduction energy level is considerably greater than the thermal energy available to an electron in such a crystal. Heating a semiconductor can excite electrons into conduction states, but it is more practical to increase conductivity by adding impurities to the crystal. A crystal may be doped with a small amount of an element having more electrons than the semiconductor, and those excess electrons will be free to move through the crystal; such a crystal is an n-type semiconductor. One may also add to the crystal a small amount of an element having fewer electrons than the semiconductor, and the electron vacancies, or holes, so introduced will be free to move through the crystal like positively-charged electrons; such a doped crystal is a p-type semiconductor.At the surface of a semiconductor the level of the conduction band can be altered, which will increase or decrease the conductivity of the crystal. Junctions between metals and n-type or p-type semiconductors, or between the two types of semiconductors, have asymmetric conduction properties, and semiconductor junctions can therefore be used to rectify electrical currents. In a rectifier, a voltage bias that produces a current flow in the low-resistance direction is a forward bias, while a bias in the opposite direction is a reverse bias.Semiconductor rectifiers were familiar devices by the end of World War II, and Shockley hoped to produce a new device that would have a variable resistance and hence could be used as an amplifier. He proposed a design in which an electric field was applied across the thickness of a thin slab of a semiconductor. The conductivity of the semiconductor changed only by a small fraction of the expected amount when the field was applied, which John Bardeen (another member of Shockley's division) suggested was due to the existence of energy states for electrons on the surface of the semiconductor.ReferencesWalter H. Brattain – Biography Category:1902 births Category:1987 deaths Category:American inventors Category:American physicists Category:Americans of Scottish descent Category:Experimental physicists Category:Nobel laureates in Physics Category:Quantum physicists Category:Scientists at Bell Labs Category:Semiconductor physicists Category:Whitman College alumni Category:University of Minnesota alumni Category:University of Oregon alumni Category:People from Springfield, Oregonbn:ওয়াল্টার হাউজার ব্র্যাটেইন bg:Уолтър Братейн ca:Walter Houser Brattain cs:Walter Houser Brattain de:Walter H. Brattain es:Walter Houser Brattain eo:Walter Houser Brattain fr:Walter Houser Brattain gl:Walter Houser Brattain ko:월터 브래튼 hi:वॉल्टर ब्रैट्टैन io:Walter H. Brattain id:Walter Brattain it:Walter Houser Brattain sw:Walter Brattain ht:Walter Houser Brattain ml:വാള്‍ട്ടര്‍ എച്ച്. ബ്രാറ്റെയിന്‍ nl:Walter Brattain ja:ウォルター・ブラッテン no:Walter Houser Brattain oc:Walter H. Brattain pl:Walter Houser Brattain pt:Walter Houser Brattain ro:Walter Houser Brattain ru:Браттейн, Уолтер Хаузер sl:Walter Houser Brattain fi:Walter Houser Brattain sv:Walter H. Brattain zh:沃尔特·豪泽·布喇顿