 |media=40 or 160&nbsp;GB Internal Hard disk |operatingsystem=Mac OS X v10.4.7 (Front Row-based, not user accessible.) |input=Apple Remote, iPhone, iPod touch (via (Remote) |memory=256&nbsp;MB DDR2 SDRAM |cpu=Intel 1.0&nbsp;GHz "Crofton" |dimensions=197x197x28&nbsp;mm (7.7x7.7x1.1&nbsp;in) Apple TV is a digital media receiver device manufactured, marketed and sold by Apple. It is a network device designed to play digital content originating from any Mac OS X or Windows computer running iTunes onto an enhanced-definition or high-definition widescreen television. Apple TV can function as either a home theater-connected iPod device or a digital media receiver, depending on the needs of the user. It was first announced at a special press event in San Francisco, California on September 12, 2006, by Apple CEO Steve Jobs.The devices started shipping on March 21, 2007. This initial version shipped with 40&nbsp;GB of storage. A second version with a larger 160&nbsp;GB hard disk started shipping on May 31, 2007.HistoryApple TV was first announced at a special press event in San Francisco, California on September 12, 2006, where Apple CEO Steve Jobs also announced enhanced fifth generation iPods, the addition of films to the iTunes Store and the release of version 7 of iTunes. The final product name was not announced at the event, but was instead referred to by its codename iTV.&lt;/ref&gt;Jobs again previewed Apple TV during his January 9 keynote speech at the 2007 Macworld Expo, where he announced that Apple would begin taking pre-orders for the device. Apple TV started shipping on March 21, 2007.A second version with a larger 160&nbsp;GB hard disk started shipping on May 31, 2007. On January 15, 2008, Jobs announced a major software upgrade to the Apple TV system (dubbed 'Take Two') at the 2008 San Francisco Macworld Event. The free update removed the requirement for another computer running the iTunes software client to stream or load content to the device. The update also added the ability to rent and purchase movies and music from the iTunes Store directly from the device, as well as download podcasts and stream photos live from MobileMe and Flickr.FeaturesApple TV connects to a television or other video equipment through either High-Definition Multimedia Interface (HDMI) or component video connections. The product does not come with any connecting cables in the box (other than an AC power cable), so the user must supply either a HDMI cable or component video/stereo audio cables.Although Apple's website states that an enhanced-definition or high-definition widescreen television is required, Apple confirmed to MacLife that the unit does work with standard definition TVs with component video connectors,&lt;/ref&gt; but the picture may be vertically stretched if the TV does not support anamorphic widescreen (a video encoding technique used to optimize the vertical picture by aspect ratio). Audio is supported via a digital optical port, analog (RCA connector) audio ports, and through the HDMI port. The device connects to other computers either through an Ethernet connection, or wirelessly through the standard IEEE 802.11b, g, and n wireless protocols. A USB port is also included on the device, but is reserved for service and diagnostics.Remote controlApple TV comes with the standard Apple Remote, although compatible universal remotes are known to work. Apple TV can optionally be paired with one particular remote to prevent conflicts from other IR-capable devices.Out of the box, the default setting is unpaired which means any Apple Remote works with the device. Apple plans to continue offering new features through automatic software upgrades, leaving the door open to further utilization of its hardware capabilities and new software developments.On July 10, 2008, Apple released Remote, a free application that allows for a Wi-Fi-based remote control of the iTunes library on the Apple TV and computers of the Mac line using Apple's line of devices with iPhone OS 2.0 (currently the iPhone and iPod touch), on the App Store. That same day, Apple released the Apple TV 2.1 software update that added both recognition for the iPhone and iPod touch as remote control devices and support for MobileMe.Synchronization and streamingIn synchronization mode, Apple TV works in a similar way to the iPod. It is paired with an iTunes library on a single computer and can then synchronize with that library, copying content to its own hard drive. After syncing, Apple TV is not required to remain connected to the network for the device to continue functioning.&lt;/ref&gt; Sync modes include "automatic" for synchronizing all iTunes content to the hard drive (in a specific priority), or "selected content" to only synchronize specified content.However, syncing iTunes content to Apple TVs hard drive is not required, and Apple TV can also function as a peer-to-peer digital media receiver, streaming content from iTunes libraries and playing the content over the network. Streaming performance of movies and TV shows purchased from the iTunes Store over an 802.11g wireless network was described by CNET's John P. Falcone as "impressive". Apple TV also includes the unapproved wireless-n standard for streaming 720p High-definition video (HD) content.Practical Technology comments that using the built-in streaming capabilities of Apple TV negates the need for more storage and Macworld's Christopher Breen says the "cramped" space and slow synchronization on the 40&nbsp;GB model would be an issue if not for Apple TV's good streaming capabilities. Third-party functionality extends streaming beyond the home network to enable streaming of Apple TV content across the Internet.Apple TV can stream content from up to five computers/iTunes libraries and five Apple TVs can be linked to the same iTunes library. On a single network, iLounge's Jeremy Horwitz tested "two Apple TVs with one computer, multiple computers with one Apple TV, and multiple computers with multiple Apple TVs" and all tests passed successfully. However Jeremy did note that syncing multiple Apple TVs simultaneously in the same environment might cause network slowdowns.With the 'Take 2' software update announced by Steve Jobs at Macworld 2008, Apple TV is capable of acting as a pure stand-alone device, no longer requiring a computer running iTunes on Mac OS X or Windows to stream or sync content to it. The update allows users to access the iTunes store directly through the Apple TV and purchase music, movies, and television directly. At the same announcement, Apple unveiled movie rentals through iTunes, which can be streamed/synced from another computer running iTunes or downloaded directly.Look and feelused on Mac OS X.]] Apple TV presents a simple interface based on the Front Row software for Mac OS X 10.4+ computers. Content is organized into six groups (Movies, TV Shows, Music, YouTube, Podcasts, and Photos), and is presented in the initial menu along with options that allow the user to change "Settings" and "Sources". These initial menu options then lead to other submenus. The included Apple Remote is used to navigate through the menus by using the up or down buttons and selecting options with the play button. The left/right buttons are used to perform rewind and fast-forward functions while viewing video content, but also perform previous song/next song functionality when selecting audio-only content. The remote does not control audio volume on Apple TV.Aside from "Movies" and "TV Shows" content, the "TV Shows" options allows the user to sort contents by show or date and the "Movies" option also allows the user to view movie trailers for new releases, just as the Front Row software does on a Mac. All video content, including movies, TV shows, music videos, and video podcasts, includes bookmark functionality. Apple TV automatically bookmarks video content midstream to continue playback at a later time. The "Music" submenu offers similar options to those found on an iPod, presenting the available music sorted by Artist, Album, Songs, Genres, and Composers, as well as offering a shuffle option and listing available audiobooks. As categories are selected with the remote, animated album art is displayed on the side of the display for the contents of the selected category. While playing "audio-only" content such as music and audio podcasts, Apple TV periodically moves album art and content info on the TV display to prevent burn-in on video displays."YouTube" support was added with the ability of receiving direct streams from YouTube in the version 1.1 update on June 20, 2007. The 1.1 update also added parental controls to control access to YouTube content. Under the "Podcasts" section, both video and audio-only podcasts are supported. TWiT's Leo Laporte notes that the podcast support in the Apple TV puts podcasts on the same level as other media and media companies have already begun producing Apple TV-compatible video podcasts. The "Settings" option lets the user pair the device with a remote, update the system software, and configure various video and audio settings. The "Sources" option is for pairing the device with other computers, whether for syncing or streaming. Both options require the user to enter a code in iTunes to authorize access.The ability to access pictures from .Mac and Flickr was added to the Apple TV with the 'Take 2' software update in February 2008.Content supportContent has to be in certain formats to play on the Apple TV. It supports video encoded with either the H.264 video codec for a maximum resolution of 720p (up to 1280x720&nbsp;pixels) at 25&nbsp;frame/s or the MPEG-4 video codec for a maximum resolution of 720x432 (432p) or 640x480&nbsp;pixels at 30&nbsp;frame/s. Audio can be encoded with AAC (16-320&nbsp;kbit/s), MP3 (16-320&nbsp;kbit/s, with VBR), Apple Lossless, AIFF, or WAV audio codecs. It also has support for files encrypted with the FairPlay Digital Rights Management technology. For photos it supports the JPEG, BMP, GIF, TIFF, and PNG image file formats. Attempts to sync unsupported content to Apple TV will result in iTunes error message(s) because iTunes supports more formats than Apple TV.Apple TV supports content purchased or rented from the iTunes store. A user can purchase iTunes Store content from Apple TV itself or stream/sync purchased/rented content from a Mac or PC running the iTunes software client.Apple TVs audio chip supports 7.1 surround sound, and some High Definition rentals from iTunes are offered with Dolby Digital 5.1 surround sound. In 2007, the Apple TV only officially supported Dolby Pro Logic simulated 5.1, though unofficially the full 5.1 Surround Sound digital discrete works if a 5.1-capable receiver is connected via the optical cable to Apple TV and the audio content is encoded as lossless.Aside from content obtained from the iTunes Store, Apple included an "Export to Apple TV" option in an update to their QuickTime software that was released days before Apple TV started shipping. This allows content in some formats that the device doesn't support to be re-encoded into accepted formats for playback on the device. Applications which make use of QuickTime to export media also have access to the "Export to Apple TV" option, for example iMovie. Some third-party content conversion tools also provide "Export to Apple TV" options and Macworld has created a guide for using the tools to convert media to Apple TV-compatible formats.Specificationsfor firmware updates, Ethernet, HDMI, component video and audio, and optical audio.]]Processorurl=http://www.appleinsider.com/articles/07/03/28/whats_inside_an_apple_tv_tear_down_reveals_almost_all.html|title=What's inside an Apple TV: Tear-down reveals (almost) all|accessdate=2007-08-01|publisher=AppleInsider|date=2007-03-28GraphicsVRAM]])MemoryDDR2]] SDRAMHard driveGB]] hard diskConnectivityNetworkingOutputAudioPowerW]] power supplyDimensionsin]])Weightlb]])Video and audio cables are not included with Apple TV.*480p is the lowest TV resolution officially supported by Apple; 480i is unofficially supported.Modifications and hacksAs soon as the Apple TV was released, users began examining it to see if it could be modified. Hacks were available for Apple TV within days of the release. Apple is not currently preventing users from installing Apple TV hacks, but users are warned that applying hacks will void the product's warranty.News sites were reporting that some users had worked out how to upgrade the hard drive on their Apple TVs, add AC-3 (Dolby Digital) 5.1 channel support, add support for other codecs,, allow the AppleTV to display Composite (non-HDTV) color output and create Front Row plugins. AppleTVHacks.net and FatWallet.com offered a US$1000 reward for an external USB drive hack to utilize the USB "service port". On July 28, 2007, the USB hack was released for version 1.0 of the Apple TV firmware; it does not work on the "YouTube" version 1.1 firmware.Particular attention was paid to the device's operating system, which had been described by Walt Mossberg before the release as "a modified version of the Mac operating system." Users worked out how to access the device remotely through SSH, how to get Apple TV's version of Front Row running on other Apple computers, and how to install regular versions of Mac OS X v10.4 or Linux on the device.Initially, hacking required physical changes to the hardware; the bottom rubber panel must be removed (which is near impossible to do perfectly) and the hard drive connected to a computer. This leaves the rubber not fully connected and a sticky residue on the bottom metal. It is an aesthetic barrier to modification. Nevertheless, the community-created "Patchstick" project enabled Apple TV owners to add software modifications since spring 2007. All a user had to do was download a Patchstick image to a USB drive and reboot the Apple TV from the drive.In 2007, Mauricio Pastrana found and publishedHow to use your Apple TV under Composite with colorHacking AppleTV: Como usar tu aTV en una tele normal a way to enable the Apple TV to output color through composite videoTUAW (unofficial Apple weblog) : Found Footage: Apple TV Composite Hack in Full Color. Albeit not a product-changing modification, this hardware-based hack, which requires inexpensive hardware to trick the built-in operating system,Reghardware: How to get colour composite-video from an Apple TV enabled users with non-HDTV TV sets, for which the AppleTV was originally designedArs at Macworld: Questions about the AppleTV, to connect Apple TVs to themWired Blogs: Apple TV Hacked to Output Full Composite Color.The Apple TV 1.1 update removes any hacks that are installed. The device can easily be re-hacked, but support for remote file system mounting is removed along with RemoteManagement, AppleFileServer and many other components. By late June, hackers restored most capabilities that were lost after the update. A "safe update" process was created to retain Apple TV network and USB capabilities by manually installing updated files from AppleTV 1.1 (such as the YouTube player) onto an AppleTV while retaining the 1.0 kernel.The same happened with AppleTV "Take 2" (the 2.0 update), where all hacks were erased upon update. However, many options have surfacedHackTV Take 2: The AppleTV Hack Upgrade Liveblog which allow for the full feature set to be reinstalledTake 2 Safe Update. The most common method used to install the hack is the patchstick. aTV: plug and play Apple TV hackingLimitationsFunctionalityConcerns were raised about the Apple TV when it was originally released regarding the dependency on connectivity to a home computer via iTunes. Although users can view YouTube as well as movie and TV previews directly through the Internet, most functionality used to depend on content originating from an iTunes-connected home computer. Some of Apple TV's competitors could download movie content directly from the Internet, but an Apple TV user could not purchase or download iTunes content directly from Apple TV until the January 2008 update, which now allows all Apple TVs to download content from the iTunes Store directly without the use of a computer. Apple's Mac mini in many ways is a more expensive, and fuller featured substitute that addresses many issues of past and current AppleTV models.Other concerns have been expressed about the lack of personal video recorder capabilities on Apple TV, Apple TV does not contain a TV tuner, but a tuner and PVR capability can be applied on the connected home computer through a third party. The PVR software will connect to iTunes, enabling scheduled HDTV recordings to automatically appear on Apple TV for playback.Some people feel that the Front Row interface is lacking standard iTunes functionality, including rating items, synchronizing from more than one computer, shuffling, interrupting a shuffle, displaying a video timeline, Internet radio support, and games.ContentApple TV is seen by some to have limited out-of-the-box support for video and audio codecs, although Apple TV supports the same MP4 and H.264 codecs the video iPod and iPhone do. Media conversion tools are available, but conversion "almost always" involves a loss of quality as well as the time and effort costs to perform the conversions.Image quality of Apple TV content has also been noted as a concern. 1080i or 1080p HD content (e.g. content originating from HD cameras) must be downgraded in quality for use on Apple TV. Users without the technical knowledge to convert HD content to lower quality may have to resort to downloading low-quality iTunes Store movie content. Note that iTunes Store 720p HD-quality content is available via video podcasts. Apple also offers 4 Mbit/s H.264 720p HD movies for rental via iTunes. For comparison, broadcast and cable HD movies are up to 19 Mbit/s MPEG2 720p and Blu-ray HD movies are up to 40 Mbit/s H.264 or VC-1 1080p.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MPEG-2#ATSC_and_ISDB-T&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_high_definition_optical_disc_formats&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;[http://blogs.zdnet.com/Ou/?p=962 Here’s what fake HD video looks like | George Ou | ZDNet.com]Yahoo!'s Ben Patterson has criticized Apple for having "lost interest" in the Apple TV with "a full six months passing since the last Apple TV software update". However, this criticism, while warranted, was stated in advance of the Apple TV "Take 2" update in February 2008.HardwareApple TV content cannot be used with older televisions, although 480i is unofficially supported as long as the TV supports component video connectivity. RCA/composite video and F/RF connectors are not included on the Apple TV device. Reviewers have noted that Apple is "future-proofing", and "if you do not have HDTV now, you will in the future".An Apple Remote can be used on a Macintosh computer for both Front Row navigation as well as volume control, but cannot be used the same way on Apple TV. Mainstream universal remotes have been updated for use with Apple TV and can be used to control volume.Apple TV comes with only a power cable. Apple has teamed up with a third party to provide cables for its customers. A USB port is included on the device, but it is reserved for service use only.The Apple TV device runs "very hot", sometimes reaching 44°&nbsp;C (111°&nbsp;F). According to Apple, this is normal. There is no off button or function on the Apple TV (although there is a sleep function) so the only way to cool the Apple TV is to unplug it in sleep mode.Former limitationsIn March 2007, reviewers mentioned the lack of expansion options once the hard drive on the 40&nbsp;GB model fills up. In late May 2007, Apple introduced a version of the Apple TV with 160&nbsp;GB of storage space. Another former limitation required photos to be synced to the device, but this was fixed in a June 2007 iTunes update.In 2007, the Apple TV was unable to purchase content without streaming or syncing it from a Mac or PC. It was also unable to play Dolby Digital 5.1 surround as QuickTime and Apple TV did not ship with an AC-3 codec, and iTunes Store content only supported 4.0 surround sound. In January 2008, Apple announced the 'Take 2' software update, allowing users to purchase TV shows and movies directly from Apple TV, and to rent movies in standard or high definition with Dolby Digital 5.1 surround. The update also allows pictures to be viewed from Flickr.The 2.2 update added the ability to add songs to On-The-Go playlists as well as the ability to generate Genius playlists. Many users complained about the lack of 'Genius' functionality after the release of iTunes 8.0. It also meant that users could buy HD television shows.SalesWithin the first week of presales in January 2007, Apple TV was the top selling item at the Apple Store. Orders exceeded 100,000 units by the end of January and Apple began ramping-up to sell over a million units prior to the 2007 holiday season. Analysts began to see the device as a "DVD killer" that has the ability to enable multiple services. Analysts also predicted that Apple could sell up to 1.5&nbsp;million units in the first year. Besides the Apple Store, Best Buy was one of the first retailers to carry the device; Target and Costco followed shortly thereafter.Two months into sales, Forrester Research predicted that Apple will only sell a million Apple TV units, since advertisement-supported content will win the war against paid content. Forrester predicted that cable companies will be the clear winners over content providers such as the iTunes Store. Shortly thereafter, Apple released YouTube functionality and Jobs stated that Apple TV is a "DVD player for the Internet". Market analysts immediately saw that YouTube on Apple TV "provides a glimpse of this product's potential and its future evolution", but overall, analysts have mixed reactions regarding the future of Apple TV. Some negative reactions followed after Jobs referred to the device as a "hobby", implying it was less significant than the Macintosh, iPod, and iPhone.See alsoAirPort Express, the audio-only antecedent of Apple TV (by use of AirTunes).Apple Interactive Television Box, a set-top box developed by Apple in the mid-1990s.Apple Bandai Pippin, a multimedia set-top entertainment networking device designed by Apple and sold during the mid-1990s.Home theater PCMacintosh TV, Apple's first attempt at computer-television integration in the early 1990s.Mac Mini, Apple's smallest full featured computer which competes with AppleTV as a higher end home theater PC.Media centerMedia PCReferencesExternal links*Apple TV &ndash; official product siteApple TV Support &ndash; official product supportApple TV Complete Disassembly Category:2007 introductions Category:Apple Inc. hardware Category:Digital media receivers Category:Television technologyar:أبل تي في de:Apple TV es:Apple TV fa:اپل تی‌وی fr:Apple TV ko:애플 TV is:Apple TV it:Apple TV he:Apple TV nl:Apple TV ja:Apple TV no:Apple TV pl:Apple TV pt:Apple TV ru:Apple TV sk:Apple TV fi:Apple TV sv:Apple TV zh:Apple TV