 | dateofdeath =  | country =  | height = | weight = | currentteam = | discipline = Road | role = Rider | ridertype = | amateurteams = | amateuryears = | proyears = | proteams = | majorwins = 1947 Tour de France | updated = May 24, 2008 Jean Robic (born June 10 1921 in Vouziers (Champagne-Ardenne) &ndash; died Claye-Souilly, October 6 1980 ) was a French road racing cyclist, who won the 1947 Tour de France. Robic was a professional cyclist from 1943 to 1961, and died in a car accident near Claye-Souilly.Robic is best known for winning the Tour de France in 1947, when he went against tradition and attacked the race leader, Pierre Brambilla, on the last day. Robic secured enough of an advantage by accelerating on the Côte de Bon Secours on leaving Rouen that he was able to secure overall victory when the race finished that day in Paris.Robic was easily recognised for much of his career by the leather crash helmet that he wore, a precaution he took in a career notable for frequent crashes and injuries. The helmet won him the nickname of "tête de cuir", or leather-head; his short stature also brought him the nickname "Biquet", or "sonny".His was not an easy personality and he won few friends with his bad language and easy temper. In 1959, Robic finished the Tour de France stage to Chalon-sur-Saône outside the time limit. The stage was won by the British rider, Brian Robinson, with an unusually large lead of 20 minutes. Other riders were required to finish the day within a set percentage of the winner's time and Robic didn't make it. Normally the judges would make an exception for a former winner but Robic's personality is said to have gone against him and he was put out of the race.Robic found it hard to fit into ordinary life when his career ended. For a long time he went without work. At others, he tried stunts such as being the referee of professional wrestling bouts, where his shortness encouraged wrestlers to throw him out of the ring.A fellow professional, André Mahé, said in Procycling in 2007 that Robic's personality and self-importance was such that he would stand in the doorway of a restaurant until all the diners had noticed him and then announce: "Oui! C'est moi - Robic!"Palmarès     1945 national cyclo-cross championship1947Critérium International de cyclo-crossTour de France:Winner stages 4, 7 and 15Winner overall classification1948A Travers Lausanne1949Tour de France:Winner stage 114th place overall classification1950 World Championship cyclo-crossRoma-Napoli-Roma1952Bol d'or des Monédières ChaumeilPolymultipliéeEtten-LeurTour de France:Winner stage 155th place overall classification1953Tour de France:Winner stage 11External linksOfficial Tour de France results for Jean Robic    Category:French cyclists Category:Tour de France winners Category:Road accident deaths in France Category:Cyclo-cross cyclists Category:1921 births Category:1980 deathsbr:Jean Robic ca:Jean Robic da:Jean Robic de:Jean Robic es:Jean Robic fr:Jean Robic it:Jean Robic nl:Jean Robic ja:ジャン・ロビック pl:Jean Robic pt:Jean Robic