  Paul Abadie (10 December 1812&ndash;2 August 1884) was a French architect and building restorer.He worked on the restoration of Notre-Dame de Paris, Église Sainte-Croix of Bordeaux, Saint-Pierre of Angoulême and Saint-Front of Périgueux. He won the competition to design the Basilica of the Sacré Cœur on Montmartre in Paris, and saw construction commence on it, though he died long before its completion in 1914.Paul Abadie (Jnr.) was born on November 9th 1812 in Paris. A son of Paul Abadie, who was also an architect in France. He entered the School of Fine Arts (Ecole des Beaux-Arts) in 1835; under the direction of the Monsieur Achille Leclère. Abadie was known to be interested in the restoration of medieval monuments and buildings; namely the Church of S. Front and the Cathedral of Angouleme. He also designed the Hotel de Ville at Angouleme. In 1874 he replaced Viollet-de-Duc as architect of Notre Dame. Abadie began the Basilica, but unfortunately died during construction, on August 2nd 1884.The work of Paul Abadie is no longer much appreciated by academics as he was fanciful, destroyed much Romanesque heritage, and had no compunction about adding whimsical sculptures of his own manufacture on capitals and corbels. In particular, his transformation of Périgeux Cathedral is deplored by local residents. An example of his wilful implantations of false Romanesque sculpture is to be found in the clover-leaf church of St Michel d'Entraygues near Angoulême. Here, he has introduced a capital featuring a triple-headed Green Man with horns and a diabolical expression. It should be noted that - despite its intriguing shape - this small church has no connection with the Templars, but was built to receive pilgrims on the way to Compostela.Article by Charles Daras, President of the Angoulême Archaeological and Historical Society.Notes Category:French architects Category:1812 births Category:1884 deathscs:Paul Abadie de:Paul Abadie es:Paul Abadie fr:Paul Abadie it:Paul Abadie lt:Paul Abadie hu:Paul Abadie nl:Paul Abadie pl:Paul Abadie pt:Paul Abadie ru:Абади, Поль sv:Paul Abadie