Demetrius I (337-283 BC, Greek: Δημήτριος), called Poliorcetes (Greek: Πολιορκητής) ("The Besieger"), son of Antigonus I Monophthalmus and Stratonice, was a king of Macedon (294 - 288 BC). He belonged to the Antigonid dynasty.BiographyAt the age of twenty-two he was left by his father to defend Syria against Ptolemy the son of Lagus; he was totally defeated in Battle of Gaza, but soon partially repaired his loss by a victory in the neighbourhood of Myus. In the Spring of 310, he was soundly defeated when he tried to expel Seleucus I Nicator from Babylon; his father was defeated in the Autumn. As a result of this Babylonian War, Antigonus lost almost two thirds of his empire: all eastern satrapies became Seleucus'.After several campaigns against Ptolemy on the coasts of Cilicia and Cyprus, Demetrius sailed with a fleet of 250 ships to Athens. He freed the city from the power of Cassander and Ptolemy, expelled the garrison which had been stationed there under Demetrius of Phalerum, and besieged and took Munychia (307 BC). After these victories he was worshipped by the Athenians as a tutelary deity under the title of Soter (σωτήρ) ("Preserver").In the campaign of 306 BC against Ptolemy he defeated Menelaus, Ptolemy's brother, in the naval Battle of Salamis, completely destroying the naval power of Egypt. In 305 BC, now bearing the title of king bestowed upon him by his father, he endeavoured to punish the Rhodians for having deserted his cause; his ingenuity in devising new siege engines in his unsuccessful attempt to reduce the capital gained him the title of Poliorcetes. Among his creations were a battering ram  long, requiring 1000 men to operate it; and a wheeled siege tower named "Helepolis" (or "Taker of Cities") which stood  tall and  wide, weighing 360,000 pounds. [Ier Poliorcète (pièce).jpg|thumb|300px|Coin of Demetrius I (337-283 BC). Greek inscription reads ΒΑΣΙΛΕΩΣ ΔΗΜΗΤΡΙΟΥ ([coin of King Demetrius).]]He returned a second time to Greece as liberator. But his licentiousness and extravagance made the Athenians long for the government of Cassander. Among his outrages was his courtship of a young boy named Democles the Handsome. The youth kept on refusing his attention but one day found himself cornered at the baths. Having no way out and being unable to physically resist his suitor, he took the lid off the hot water cauldron and jumped in. His death is seen as a mark of honor for himself and his country. In another instances, he waived a fine of 50 talents imposed on a citizen in exchange for the favors of Cleaenetus, that man's son.Plutarch, Life of DemetriosHe also roused the jealousy of Alexander's Diadochi; Seleucus, Cassander and Lysimachus united to destroy him and his father. The hostile armies met at the Ipsus in Phrygia (301 BC). Antigonus was killed, and Demetrius, after sustaining severe losses, retired to Ephesus. This reversal of fortune stirred up many enemies against him—the Athenians refused even to admit him into their city. But he soon afterwards ravaged the territory of Lysimachus and effected a reconciliation with Seleucus, to whom he gave his daughter Stratonice in marriage. Athens was at this time oppressed by the tyranny of Lachares, but Demetrius, after a protracted blockade, gained possession of the city (294 BC) and pardoned the inhabitants for their former misconduct.In the same year he established himself on the throne of Macedonia by murdering Alexander V, the son of Cassander. But his new position was continually threatened by Pyrrhus, who took advantage of his occasional absence to ravage the defenceless part of his kingdom (Plutarch, Pyrrhus, 7 if.); at length, the combined forces of Pyrrhus, Ptolemy and Lysimachus, assisted by the disaffected among his own subjects, obliged him to leave Macedonia in 288 BC.He passed into Asia and attacked some of the provinces of Lysimachus with varying success. Famine and pestilence destroyed the greater part of his army, and he solicited Seleucus' support and assistance. But before he reached Syria hostilities broke out, and after he had gained some advantages over his son-in-law, Demetrius was totally forsaken by his troops on the field of battle and surrendered to Seleucus.His son Antigonus offered all his possessions, and even his own person, in order to procure his father's liberty. But all proved unavailing, and Demetrius died after a confinement of three years (283 BC). His remains were given to Antigonus and honoured with a splendid funeral at Corinth.His descendants remained in possession of the Macedonian throne till the time of Perseus, when Macedon was conquered by the Romans in 168 BC.Literary ReferencesDemetrius appears (under the Greek form of his name, Demetrios) in L. Sprague de Camp's historical novel,'' The Bronze God of Rhodes'', which largely concerns itself with his siege of Rhodes.Alfred Duggan's novel Elephants and Castles provides a lively fictionalised account of his life.ReferencesSee alsoWinged Victory of Samothrace       Category:283 BC deaths Category:337 BC births Category:Hellenistic generals Category:Macedonian monarchsbs:Demetrije I Poliorket ca:Demetri Poliorcetes cs:Démétrios I. Poliorkétés cy:Demetrius Poliorcetes de:Demetrios I. Poliorketes et:Demetrios Poliorketes el:Δημήτριος ο Πολιορκητής es:Demetrio I de Macedonia fr:Démétrios Ier Poliorcète ko:데메트리오스 1세 (마케도니아) hr:Demetrije I. Poliorket it:Demetrio I Poliorcete hu:I. Démétriosz Poliorkétész mk:Деметриј I Полиоркет nl:Demetrius Poliorcetes ja:デメトリオス1世 (マケドニア王) pl:Demetriusz I Poliorketes pt:Demétrio I da Macedónia ru:Деметрий I Полиоркет sk:Démétrios Poliorkétés sr:Деметрије Полиоркет fi:Demetrios I zh:德米特里一世 (马其顿)