 Sigur Rós () are an Icelandic post-rock band with melodic, classical and minimalist elements. The band is known for its ethereal sound and lead singer Jónsi Birgisson's falsetto voice.History''Von'' (1997) and ''von brigði'' (1998)  Jón Þór (Jónsi) Birgisson (guitar and vocals), Georg Hólm (bass) and Ágúst Ævar Gunnarsson (drums) formed the group in Reykjavík in August 1994.&lt;/ref&gt; Their name is taken from Jónsi's younger sister [[Sigurrós]] (which when translated into English means 'Victory Rose'), who was born the same day as the band was formed. They soon won a record deal with the local [[Sugarcubes]]-owned record label, [[Bad Taste (record label)|Bad Taste]]. In 1997, they released ''[[Von (album)|Von]]'' (, meaning &quot;hope&quot;) and in 1998 a remix collection named ''[[Von brigði]]'' (). The name is Icelandic wordplay: ''Vonbrigði'' means &quot;disappointment&quot;, but ''Von brigði'' means &quot;variations on ''Von''&quot;. The band was joined by [[Kjartan Sveinsson]] on keyboards in 1998. He is the only member of Sigur Rós with musical training, and therefore has contributed most of the orchestral and string arrangements for their later work.''Ágætis byrjun'' (1999) International acclaim came with 1999's Ágætis byrjun (IPA: 'bɪrjʏn; in English: "An alright start"). The album's reputation spread by word of mouth over the following two years. Soon critics worldwide hailed it as one of the great albums of its time, and the band was playing support to established acts such as Radiohead. Three songs, Ágætis byrjun', "Svefn-g-englar", and a live take of the then-unreleased "Njósnavélin" (later named "Untitled #4") appeared in the Cameron Crowe film Vanilla Sky. The two songs also subsequently appeared in the US version of the television series ''Queer as Folk''. Their music has also appeared in the TV series 24 with Ný batterí, CSI with "Svefn-g-englar" and CSI Miami. In 2004, Wes Anderson used "Starálfur" in The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou as did the Emmy winning 2005 TV film The Girl in the Café and "Untitled 3" (a.k.a. Samskeyti) can be heard in the final scene from the Gregg Araki film Mysterious Skin. They are also used in Enki Bilal's Immortel (Ad Vitam).After the release of Ágætis byrjun, the band became well known for Jónsi's signature style of playing guitar with the bow from a cello, accentuated with reverb, creating a sweeping, fluid sound that is unique for an electric guitar.''Rímur'' (2001) In 2001, Sigur Rós christened their newly-completed studio by recording an EP with an Icelandic fisherman named Steindór Andersen. The EP contains six songs, all of which feature Steindór Andersen reciting traditional Icelandic poetry called rímur. Sigur Rós accompany him on three songs. Two songs feature Steindór alone. The last song on the EP, "Lækurinn", is a duet with Sigurður Sigurðarson. 1000 copies of the EP were printed and sold in the spring tour of 2001. The EP was sold in a blank white paper case.''( )'' (2002) Drummer Ágúst left the band after the recording of Ágætis byrjun and was replaced by Orri Páll Dýrason. In 2002, their highly anticipated follow-up album ( ) was released. Upon release all tracks on the album were untitled, though the band later published song names on their website. All of the lyrics on ( ) are sung in Vonlenska, also known as Hopelandic, a constructed language of nonsense syllables which resembles the phonology of the Icelandic language. It has also been said that the listener is supposed to interpret their own meanings of the lyrics which can then be written in the blank pages in the album booklet.Sigur Rós collaborated with Radiohead in October 2003, to compose music for Merce Cunningham's dance piece Split Sides; Sigur Rós’s three tracks were named Ba Ba Ti Ki Di Do, and released in March 2004, while Radiohead's contribution was never released. Sigur Rós' 1997 debut album Von found a U.S. and U.K. release in October 2004.''Takk...'' (2005)  Their fourth album, Takk... (IPA: 'tʰaʰk; in English: "Thanks...") employs the distinctive sound of their second album in a more rock oriented structure with greater use of the guitar, and was released in September 2005. "Hoppípolla" (IPA: 'hɔʰpiˌpʰɔtl̥a), the second official single from Takk..., was released in November alongside a new studio remake of "Hafsól" (IPA: 'hafsoʊ̯l), a song that was previously released on the band's 1997 debut, Von. "Hoppípolla" was used in the trailers for the BBC's natural history series Planet Earth in 2006, as well as the closing credits for the 2006 FA Cup final and ITV's coverage of the 2006 Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race, adverts for the BBC's coverage of England games during the 2006 FIFA World Cup, on television advertisements for RTÉ's Gaelic games coverage in Ireland and on an advert for Oxfam. It was also used in the final scene of the movie Penelope and for the trailer of the film Children of Men. Following this, demand for the single grew. It was made more widely available by EMI in consequence.An extended Sæglópur EP (IPA: 'saɪ̯ˌkloʊ̯pʏr) was released in July 2006 in most parts of the world and in August in the United States. Its original release was scheduled in May, but because of the sudden demand of "Hoppípolla" it was pushed back from that date. Sigur Rós recorded three new songs to appear on the EP ("Refur", "Ó friður", and "Kafari"). In July 2006, Sigur Rós finished a major world tour with stops in Europe, the United States, where they played a headline show at the Hollywood Bowl, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Japan. Upon return to their homeland, Sigur Rós provided a series of free surprise outdoor concerts throughout Iceland in July and August, playing in various venues such as abandoned bunkers and community coffee shops, all of which were included in the 2007 documentary film Heima. They also performed twice in the United States in February.&lt;/ref&gt;''Heima'' and ''Hvarf-Heim'' (2007)  , playing an acoustic set before screening Heima]] In August 2007, a limited DVD+CD edition of the 2002 soundtrack to the documentary Hlemmur was released. Hvarf-Heim (IPA: Hvarf: 'kʰvarf; Heim: 'hɛɪ̯m) was released on 5 November (6 November in the U.S.), a double compilation album containing studio versions of previously unreleased songs — "Salka" 'salka, "Hljómalind" 'ɬʲoʊ̯maˌlɪnt (formerly known as "Rokklagið"), "Í Gær" 'caɪ̯r and "Von" —, on Hvarf, and acoustic studio versions of the songs: "Samskeyti" ('samˌscɛɪ̯tɪ), "Starálfur" 'starˌaʊ̯lvʏr, "Vaka" 'va:ka, "Ágætis Byrjun", "Heysátan" 'hɛɪ̯saʊ̯tan and "Von", on Heim. On the same day (20 November in the U.S.) Heima, a live DVD of the previous summer’s Iceland tour, was released. Just prior to the release of Hvarf-Heim, on 29 October, a single named Hljómalind was released. A tentative date for a DVD+CD release of the 2002 orchestral piece Odin's Raven Magic is set for January 2008.To promote their film Heima, the band scheduled a series of premiere screenings throughout the world, featuring a short acoustic set before the film and a question-and-answer session afterwards.''Með suð í eyrum við spilum endalaust'' (2008) The band's fifth regular studio album (IPA: sʏð i ˈeiːrʏm vɪð ˈspɪːlʏm ˈɛntaløyst; in English: "With a Buzz in Our Ears We Play Endlessly"), recorded with producer Flood in downtown Reykjavík, was released on June 23 2008 to generally positive reviews. It was said to be stylistically different from their earlier releases, featuring fewer strings and more guitar. The final track "All Alright" is the band's first to be sung in English, though all the other lyrics are in Icelandic.The band have been announced as a headlining act for the 2008 Splendour in the Grass Festival in Byron Bay, Australia , Latitude Festival 2008  and the 2008 La Route du Rock Festival in St Malo, France.. In addition, the band performed a late-night set at the 2008 Bonnaroo Music Festival in Manchester, Tennessee.The band released the first song from the album entitled "Gobbledigook" for free on their website, along with a music video.On June 8, the whole album was made available for free streaming on their website and Last.fm.2008 Autumn Tour In the Fall of 2008 Sigur Rós embarked on a world tour supporting their newly released album Með suð í eyrum við spilum endalaust. The band played as a four piece without Amiina and the brass band. This was the first time the band had played as a four piece in 7 years. The band started their tour on 17th September 2008 in the United States at the United Palace Theater in New York City. The tour is to carry on until the end of November finishing in London Alexandra Palace on 21st November 2008. The Majority of the tour is European with the exception of the United States, Canada and Japan.VonlenskaVonlenska is a term used to describe the gibberish sung by the band,interview with the band that describes the etymology in particular Birgisson. It is also commonly known by the English translation of its name, Hopelandic. It takes its name from “Von”, a song on Sigur Rós’s debut album Von where it was first used.Vonlenska is not an actual language people speak in, as it lacks a consistent grammar structure, word meaning, or even distinct words as such. Instead, it consists of emotive syllables and phonemes; the band’s website describes it as “a form of gibberish vocals that fits to the music”.Information about vonlenska on the official website Most of the syllable strings sung by Birgisson are repeated many times throughout each song, and in the case of ( ), throughout the whole album.Songs featuring VonlenskaFrom Von:"Von"From Ágætis byrjun:"Olsen Olsen""Ágætis byrjun" (Towards the end)From ( ):All songs with vocals are sung exclusively in Vonlenska.From Takk...:"Hoppípolla" (Following the Icelandic line "En ég stend alltaf upp")"Sé lest""Sæglópur" (With Icelandic at the beginning and at the end)"Mílanó""Gong""Andvari"From Hvarf"Salka""Hljómalind""Í Gær""Von""Hafsól" (In the middle and towards the end)From Heim"Vaka""Ágætis byrjun" (Towards the end)"Von"From "Með suð í eyrum við spilum endalaust":"Festival""Ára bátur" (Following the Icelandic line "Ég fór, þú fórst" + entire second half)"Fljótavik" (Towards the end)"All Alright" (One line towards the end)Other Songs"Fönklagið""Gítardjamm""Nýja Lagið""Heima" VersionMembersJón Þór “Jónsi” Birgisson – vocals, guitar, bowed guitar, keyboards, harmonica, banjoGeorg “Goggi” Hólm – bass guitar, glockenspielKjartan “Kjarri” Sveinsson – keyboard, piano, organs, guitar, flute, tin whistle, oboe, banjo (1998–present)Orri Páll Dýrason – drums, keyboards (1999–present)Former membersÁgúst Ævar Gunnarsson – drums (1994–1999)DiscographyFor a complete list, see Sigur Rós discography.CoversNew Jersey post-hardcore band Thursday recorded a cover of "Ny Batterí" that was rumored to be for a compilation album; the track later appeared as the bonus song for the UK and Japanese releases of War All the Time.Kronos Quartet released the song "Flugufrelsarinn (The Fly Freer)" on Plays Sigur Ros - Single.&quot;Flugufrelsarinn&quot; as part of Visual Music program at Kronos Quartet websiteAmerican Band We Are Scientists included a cover version of "Hoppípolla" on their album of rarities and B-sides entitled Crap Attack.NotesExternal linksOfficial siteOfficial FansiteSigur Rós Japan official siteSvefn-G-Englar Music Video at Eithiriel.comSigur Rós interview at musicOMH.comHvarf Heim Review[http://www.rcrdlbl.com/2007/11/19/to_the_end_of_the_world_with_sigur_r_s/ SEEN: More on Sigur Ros and Heima][http://www.heimafilm.com Heima Film Site] - Official site for Heima, the film by Sigur RósCategory:Sigur Rós Sigur Ros Sigur Ros Sigur Ros Sigur Ros Category:Musical groups established in 1994ca:Sigur Rós cs:Sigur Rós cy:Sigur Rós da:Sigur Rós de:Sigur Rós et:Sigur Rós el:Sigur Rós es:Sigur Rós eo:Sigur Rós fa:سگو رش fr:Sigur Rós gl:Sigur Rós is:Sigur Rós it:Sigur Rós he:סיגור רוס lv:Sigur Rós lt:Sigur Rós hu:Sigur Rós nah:Sigur Rós nl:Sigur Rós ja:シガー・ロス no:Sigur Rós nn:Sigur Rós pl:Sigur Rós pt:Sigur Rós ru:Sigur Rós sk:Sigur Rós sl:Sigur Rós fi:Sigur Rós sv:Sigur Rós th:ซีกือร์โรส tr:Sigur Rós zh:詩格洛絲