The Teutoburg Forest () is a range of low, forested mountains in the German states of Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia which was believed to be the scene of a decisive battle in AD 9. Until the 19th century the official name of the mountain ridge was Osning.GeographyThe Teutoburger Wald is a northern extension of the central European uplands, extending eastward toward the Weser river, southward from the town of Osnabrück and southeastwards to Paderborn. It is divided by a broad valley, where the city of Bielefeld is located, into the two portions called Northern Teutoburg Forest and Southern Teutoburg Forestr. Except for a short piece in the south of Osnabrück, which belongs to the Bundesland Lower-Saxony, the whole forest is part of North Rhine-Westphalia.The highest elevation in the Southern Teutoburg Forest is the Velmerstot (468&nbsp;m) (south of Horn-Bad Meinberg). In the Northern Teutoburg Forest the highest elevation is the Dörenberg (331&nbsp;m) (north of Bad Iburg).The river Ems has its source in the southernmost portion of the Teutoburg Forest.[http://www.cometogermany.com/ENU/about_germany/master_tlregion-id148.htm?cc_lang= Teutoburg Forest at Destination Germany]History]]The forest was the site of a battle between the Roman Empire and an alliance of Germanic tribes in AD 9. The location of the battle was identified by the Roman historian Gaius Cornelius Tacitus as saltus Teutoburgiensis (saltus meaning a forest valley in Latin), and the encounter was therefore called the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest. Moreover, recent excavations suggest that the final stages of the battle took place farther north, at Kalkriese, north of Osnabrück.Today the Teutoburg Forest is divided in two National Parks:"Naturpark Nördlicher Teutoburger Wald-Wiehengebirge", northwest part between Bielefeld and Osnabrück"Naturpark Eggegebirge und südlicher Teutoburger Wald" between Bielefeld and DiemeltalHermann's Memorial and renaming of the OsningArminius (aka Hermann the Cherusker), leader of the Germanic tribes during the battle, became something of a legend for his overwhelming victory over the Romans. During the period of national renaissance in the wake of the Napoleonic wars, he was seen as an early protagonist of German resistance to foreign rule and a symbol of national unity. A monumental statue of Arminius commemorating the battle, known as the Hermannsdenkmal (the "Hermann monument"), was erected on the Grotenburg hill near Detmold, near the site where the most popular theory of the time placed the battle. The monument was dedicated in 1875 by Emperor Wilhelm I. Wilhelm I was the new emperor over a unified Germany after the fall of the Old Empire in 1806. He got his own monumental statue at the north of the Osning, called Porta Westfalica, set up at the hill Wittekindsberge. In order to create a national landscape the Osning mountains came to be named today as the "Teutoburg Forest", see also Teutonic. However, the old name survived among the local population.It is also the forest in which the composer Johannes Brahms liked to walk during his stay in Detmold. ReferencesCategory:Forests and woodlands of Germany Category:Mountains and hills in North Rhine-Westphalia Category:Geography of Lower Saxonyda:Teutoburgerskoven de:Teutoburger Wald et:Teutoburgi mets es:Bosque Teutónico eo:Teutoburger Wald fr:Forêt de Teutberg ko:토이토부르크 숲 it:Foresta di Teutoburgo la:Teutoburgiensis saltus nl:Teutoburgerwoud pl:Las Teutoburski pt:Floresta de Teutoburgo ro:Teutoburger Wald ru:Тевтобургский лес fi:Teutoburgin metsä sv:Teutoburgerskogen zh:条顿堡森林