   Aiden is an American post-hardcoreAiden - Conviction (Victory Records) - Album reviews - Music - Entertainment - Manchester Evening News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; band from Seattle, WashingtonAiden - Conviction | Music | CD | Reviews | Static Multimedia&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; that formed in the spring of 2003. They took their name from the character in the movie The Ring. The current members are wiL Francis (vocals), Jake Davison (drums), Nick Wiggins (bass), and Angel Ibarra (guitar). wiL originally played bass but took over lead vocals when their previous vocalist left.HistoryAiden's first full-length album Our Gang's Dark Oath was released on Dead Teenager Records in 2004. It was recorded while Jake Davison and Angel Ibarra were still in high school, being released shortly after they had left.Later in 2005, the band was signed to Victory Records. Their second album and debut for Victory Records titled Nightmare Anatomy was released October 4, 2005.On October 31st, 2006, Aiden released an EP/DVD titled Rain in Hell. While the CD was not well received, the acoustic track "Silent Eyes" and the opening track "A Candlelight Intro" hinted towards a broadening of Aiden's musical style. They did a cover of Billy Idol's Classic song "White Wedding", showing their roots in 80's music. The DVD included 3 music videos and a live performance of Aiden's Never Sleep Again Tour in Chicago. During October and November 2006, Aiden played the "Never Shave Again Tour" with Silverstein and It Dies Today. In 2006, they contributed a remix of "The Last Sunrise" for the soundtrack to Underworld: Evolution and had their song "Die Romantic" featured on the EA Sports' game NCAA MVP Baseball 2006. The band has achieved a cult following amongst Kerrang! readers, which also helped them become part of the 2006 Kerrang Awards in August, taking home the award of "Best International Newcomer" as well as being part of the Kerrang XXV tour in January 2006. In May and June of that year Aiden toured with the Finnish band HIM. They also played the 2006 Warped Tour that summer.Aiden contributed a cover of Nirvana's "Drain You" to Higher Voltage, a CD given away free with Kerrang! magazine.In April 2007, Aiden played an arena tour of the UK supporting Lostprophets with Taking Back Sunday. They also played the 2007 Taste Of Chaos North American Tour alongside The Used, 30 Seconds to Mars, Senses Fail, Saosin, Chiodos, and Evaline. They recently played a West Coast tour, followed by a national tour, Confessions in the Dark Tour, with Drop Dead, Gorgeous, Still Remains, and 1997. They recently completed the International Taste of Chaos tour. Aiden's song 'One Love' appears in Resident Evil Extinction, and their song 'We Sleep Forever' is featured in the motion picture Dead SilenceThe band's third studio album entitled Conviction was released August 21, 2007. It marks a complete change of style in the band's musical direction. On the 9th October 2007, through a MySpace bulletin the band announced that they were filming their next music video, for the song "Moment", so confirming it as the next single.The band played a show in Anchorage, Alaska in January 2008, introducing their U.S. tour with Madina Lake in February and March, 2008. This was the first part of their three-part "World by Storm Tour", the second part of which was a month-long Europe tour with Kill Hannah from late March to late April 2008. The third part, a tour from Massachusetts back to their home base in Seattle, was to occupy much of May 2008, but the band pulled out of the tour after two shows, according to their web site for "personal reasons". However, the band did reinstate the final two shows, in Spokane and Seattle, near their home base.They also played The Bamboozle festival in East Rutherford, New Jersey in May 2008. In addition, Aiden recorded their own version of Ashley Massaro's theme music 'Lets Light a Fire Tonight' for the bonus edition of WWE The Music, Vol. 8.On May 20, 2008, the band announced on their website that Jake Wambold was no longer a member of Aiden. They played their first live show as a four piece in Spokane, Washington on May 24th, 2008.Francis has started a web site and a myspace page for a side project called "William Control", details of which have not been announced. William Control is a sort of alter-ego to wiL, and the album will consist of dark content, lyric wise, which wiL stated in a Kerrang! interview did not suit Aiden. William Control has its debut album, Hate Culture, hitting stores October 28th. To pre-order the CD and a T-shirt, click here! William Control has announced a small UK tour running from November 1st - 7th.Tickets.com - Browse&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Aiden will also appear on the soundtrack to The Lost Boys: The Tribe with a cover of the theme song "Cry Little Sister".Aiden recently announced a full European tour in October, their first since the departure of Jake W. According to a bulletin Ibarra posted on Myspace, a U.S. tour is to follow in November.Current memberswiL Francis  (vocals)Angel Ibarra (Guitar)Nick Wiggins (Bass)Jake Davison (drums)Former membersJake Wambold (Guitar) (2003-2008)DiscographyAlbumsOur Gangs Dark Oath (2004)Nightmare Anatomy (2005)- #196 USConviction (2007)- #54 USEPsA Split of Nightmares - Split EP with Stalin's War (2004)Rain in Hell (2006)SinglesYearTitleChart PositionsAlbumUK Indie ChartUK Rock Chart2004"I Set My Friends on Fire"--Our Gangs Dark Oath"Fifteen"--2005"Knife Blood Nightmare"--Nightmare Anatomy"The Last Sunrise"--"Die Romantic"--2007"We Sleep Forever"--Rain in HellOne Love]]"131Conviction2008]]Moment]]"--2008"Cry Little Sister"--The Lost Boys: The TribeReferencesExternal linksOfficial Aiden WebsiteAiden's Official MyspaceVictory Records' Aiden profilePhotos from Worcester, MA 9/25/07 at thrashmag.comAiden Community on BuzznetCategory:2000s music groups Category:Washington musical groups Category:Musical groups established in 2003 Category:Victory Records artistsde:Aiden es:Aiden fr:Aiden it:Aiden nl:Aiden pl:Aiden pt:Aiden sk:Aiden fi:Aiden sv:Aiden