celebrating Divine Liturgy in Greek Catholic Church in Presov, eastern Slovakia.]]A liturgy is the customary public worship done by a specific religious group, according to their particular traditions. The word may refer to an elaborate formal ritual such as the Eastern Orthodox Divine Liturgy and Catholic Mass, or a daily activity such as the Muslim salat (see Oxford Dictionary of World Religions, p.582&ndash;3) and Jewish shacharit. Not infrequently in Christianity, a distinction is made between "liturgical" and "non-liturgical" churches based on the elaboration and/or antiquity of the worship, but this obscures the universality of public worship as a religious phenomenon.Underhill, E., Worship (London: Bradford and Dickens, 1938), pp. 3-19. Thus, even the open or waiting worship of Quakers is liturgical, since the waiting itself until the spirit moves individuals to speak is a prescribed form of Quaker worship, sometimes referred to as "the liturgy of silence."Dandelion, P., The Liturgies of Quakerism, Liturgy, Worship and Society Series (Aldershot, England and Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2005). Typically in Christianity, however, the term "the liturgy" normally refers to a standardized order of events observed during a religious service, be it a sacramental service or a service of public prayer.As a religious phenomenon, liturgy is a communal response to the sacred through activity reflecting praise, thanksgiving, supplication, or repentance. Ritualization may be associated with life events such as birth, coming of age, marriage, and death. It thus forms the basis for establishing a relationship with a divine agency, as well as with other participants in the liturgy. Methods of dress, preparation of food, application of cosmetics or other hygienic practices are all considered liturgical activities. Repetitive formal rites, in some ways similar to liturgies, are natural and common in all human activities such as organized sports venues.EtymologyThe word comes from the Classical Greek word λειτουργία (leitourgia) meaning "public work". In the Greek city-states, it had a different sense: some public good which a wealthy citizen arranged at his own expense, either voluntarily or by law. At Athens, the Assembly assigned liturgies to the wealthy, and there was a law by which any man who had been assigned a liturgy while a richer man had had none could challenge him either to undertake the liturgy or to exchange property with him.The church use of the term comes from its frequent and historic use in the Greek text of the New Testament (eg Acts 13:2). It referred to a public and deliberate, well-defined ceremony. It is often translated as "minister" or "worship" in English language Bibles.OtherAn American brutal death metal band goes by the name of Liturgy.See alsoChristian liturgyDivine LiturgyMass (liturgy)Jewish servicesReferences  tags -- Bowker, John, ed. (1997) Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-213965-7.Jones, Cheslyn, Geoffrey Wainwright, and Edward Yarnold, eds. (1978) ''The Study of Liturgy. London: SPCK.&quot;What Do Quakers Believe?&quot;. Quaker Information Center, Philadelphia, PA, 2004.External linksCatholic Encyclopedia articleOrthodox Tradition and the LiturgyJewish Encyclopedia: LiturgyContemporary Christian Liturgy Website History, theory, practiceThe Indult Tridentine Rite of MassWork of the PeopleLiturgical Studies-Korean Online CommunityCategory:Religious behaviour and experience Category:Ritual Category:Christian liturgy, rites, and worship services Category:Prayerar:طقس ديني bg:Литургия cs:Liturgie da:Liturgi de:Liturgie et:Liturgia el:Λειτουργική es:Liturgia eo:Liturgio fr:Liturgie hr:Bogoslužje ia:Liturgia la:Liturgia lt:Liturgija hu:Liturgia nl:Liturgie ja:典礼 no:Liturgi nn:Liturgi nrm:Litourgie pl:Liturgia pt:Liturgia ru:Литургия sq:Liturgjia sk:Liturgia sr:Литургија fi:Liturgia sv:Liturgi uk:Літургія bat-smg:Lėturgėjė