 A nest box (or nestbox also called birdhouse) is a man-made box provided for animals to nest in. Nest boxes are most frequently utilized for wild and domesticated birds, but certain species of mammal may also use them.ConstructionBoxes are usually wooden, though some for birds are made from concrete or mixtures of wood and concrete, called woodcrete. Metal nest boxes are also marketed, but these are generally unsuitable for outdoor use, as they can overheat easily in sunshine.The majority are cuboid, and many have a sloping roof. Many have a hinged top, side or front to provide access for cleaning, bird ringing or, when used for domesticated species, to give the breeder access to the young. Boxes may either have an entrance hole or be open-fronted. Some nest boxes can be highly decorated and complex. Designs mimicking human house design or other structures are common in some gardens.  ]]BirdsDifferent sizes of nest-box suit different species of birds with very small boxes attracting wrens and treecreepers and very large ones attracting ducks and owls. The maintenance of nest-boxes to remove old nest material and any parasites is important if they are to be successfully re-used. Budgerigars and some other birds raised domestically will not usually mate unless a nest box is available.BatsBat boxes differ from bird nest-boxes in having a (usually) much smaller opening, often on the underside of the box. Populations of many bat species are becoming threatened because of ecological pressures and the provision of appropriate bat-boxes can help support locally important populations. Bats are also becoming popular sources of natural mosquito and insect control in some parts of the world. A single bat can eat 500 to 1,000 mosquitoes a night as well as numerous garden pests. Directions for making the open bottom bat houses for small and large colonies,&lt;/ref&gt; as well as locations to purchase them are available on the internet.&lt;ref Name=&quot;Boleky&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; Bat houses are an ecologically friendly way of controlling mosquitoes as pesticides mostly kill the mosquitoes' predators rather than mosquitoes.&lt;ref name=&quot;Brown&quot;&gt; Australian Bat Box projects have been running for over 12 years in particular at [[The Organ Pipes National Park]]. Currently there are 42 roost boxes using the &quot;Stebbings Design&quot; which have peaked at 280 bats roosting in them. The biggest problem with roosting boxes of any kind is the ongoing maintenance, you don't just put them up and forget them! These problems include boxes falling down, wood deteriaating and pest such as ants the occasional rat, possums and spiders. These maintenance issues mean that if there is not a commitment, the artifical habitat you have provided and the work you have done will be wasted.&lt;/ref&gt;Other creaturesNest boxes are marketed not only for birds and bats, but also for other mammals, especially arboreal ones such as squirrels and possums. Depending on the animal, these boxes are used for roosting, breeding, or both.It should be noted that wasps may build their nests inside a nest box. People maintaining boxes should be duly prepared for this eventuality. Wasp nests are best removed during winter.exiting a nest box]]ReferencesExternal linksNest box page from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.Nest box plans: bluebirds, purple martins and others.How to build a nest box.Category:Animal shelters Category:Conservation Category:Ornithology Category:Bird terminology Category:Woodworkingcs:Ptačí budka de:Nistkasten et:Pesakast es:Caja nido fr:Nichoir ko:새집 hu:Mesterséges madárodú nl:Nestkast ja:巣箱 nn:Fuglekasse pl:Skrzynka lęgowa ro:Adăposturi pentru porumbei simple:Birdbox fi:Linnunpönttö sv:Fågelholk