 In human anatomy, the perineum is generally defined as the surface region in both males and females between the pubic symphysis and the coccyx. The perineum is the region of the body inferior to the pelvic diaphragm and between the legs.A diamond-shaped area on the inferior surface of the trunk which includes the anus and, in females, the vagina.Gray, Henry. Anatomy of the Human Body. Philadelphia: Lea & Febiger, 1918; Bartleby.com, 2000. Its definition varies: it can refer to only the superficial structures in this region, or it can be used to include both superficial and deep structures.The perineum corresponds to the outlet of the pelvis.The anogenital distance is a measure of male feminisation measuring the distance between the anus and the base of the penis. Studies show that the perineum is twice as long in males as in females. Validity of anogenital distance as a marker of in utero phthalate exposure. PMID 16393642 Measuring the anogenital distance in neonatal humans has been suggested as a noninvasive method to predict neonatal and adult reproductive disorders.Michelle Welsh, et al.: Identification in rats of a programming window for reproductive tract masculinization, disruption of which leads to hypospadias and cryptorchidism. J. Clin. Invest., 13 March 2008.BoundariesIts deep boundaries are as follows:in front: the pubic arch and the arcuate ligament of the pubisbehind: the tip of the coccyxon either side: the inferior rami of the pubis and Ischium, and the sacrotuberous ligamentIn Alfred Kinsey's 1967 report, he concluded that the perineum was one of the 6 key erogenous zones for males.TrianglesA line drawn transversely across in front of the ischial tuberosities divides the space into two triangles:NameLocationContentsPerineal fasciaThe terminology of the perineal fascia can be confusing, and there is some controversy over the nomenclature. This stems from the fact that there are two parts to the fascia, the superficial and deep parts, and each of these can be subdivided into superficial and deep parts.The layers and contents are as follows, from superficial to deep:1) Skin2) superficial perineal fascia: Subcutaneous tissue divided into two layers: (a) A superficial fatty layer, and (b) Colles' fascia, a deeper, membranous layer.3) deep perineal fascia and muscles:superficial perineal pouchtransversus perinei superficialis]], bulbospongiosus, ischiocavernosus4) fascia and muscles of pelvic floor (levator ani, coccygeus)Areas of the perineumThe region of the perineum can be considered a distinct area from pelvic cavity, with the two regions separated by the pelvic diaphragm. The following areas are thus classified as parts of the perineal region:perineal pouches: superficial and deep (see above for details)Ischioanal fossa - a fat filled space at the lateral sides of anal canal. It is bounded laterally by obturator internus muscle, medially by pelvic diaphragm and anal canal. Its base is the skin.Anal canalPudendal canal - contains internal pudendal artery and the pudendal nerve.Additional imagesImage:Gray239.png|Diameters of inferior aperture of lesser pelvis (female).
Image:Gray405.png|The perineum. The integument and superficial layer of superficial fascia reflected. 
Image:Gray408.png|Muscles of the female perineum.
Image:Gray542.png|The superficial branches of the internal pudendal artery.
Image:Gray1077.png|The posterior aspect of the rectum exposed by removing the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx.
Image:Gray1119.png|Stages in the development of the external sexual organs in the male and female.
Image:Male-perineum.jpg|Photograph of the male genital area, highlighting the perineum.
Image:Female-anus-and-perineum.jpg|Photograph of Female anus and perineum,highlighting the perineum.ReferencesSee alsoPelvic floorDeep perineal pouchErogenous zoneExternal linksCategory:Perineum Category:Pelvisar:عجان bg:Перинеум cs:Hráz (anatomie) da:Mellemkød de:Perineum et:Lahkliha el:Περίνεο es:Periné fa:میاندوراه fr:Périnée ko:회음부 it:Perineo la:Perineum lt:Tarpvietė hu:Gát (biológia) nl:Perineum ja:会陰 nds:Damm (Anatomie) pl:Krocze pt:Períneo ro:Perineu ru:Промежность simple:Perineum fi:Väliliha sv:Mellangård vi:Hội âm uk:Промежина zh:會陰