 | location = Marseille | deathdate =  | deathplace = Valmondois | nationality = French | field = Printmaking, Painting, Sculpture | training = | movement = | works = | patrons = | awards = Honoré Daumier (February 26, 1808 &ndash; February 10, 1879), was a French printmaker, caricaturist, painter, and sculptor, whose many works offer commentary on social and political life in France in the 19th century. A prolific draftsman who produced over 4000 lithographs, he was perhaps best known for his caricatures of political figures and satires on the behavior of his countrymen, although posthumously the value of his painting has also been recognized.[http://www.hammer.ucla.edu/collections/1/ Honoré Daumier: A Finger on the Pulse]Early lifeDaumier was born in Marseille to Jean-Baptiste Louis Daumier and Cécile Catherine Philippe. His father Jean-Baptiste was a glazier whose literary aspirations led him to move to Paris in 1814, seeking to be published as a poet.Rey, page 10. In 1816 the young Daumier and his mother followed Jean-Baptiste to Paris. Daumier showed in his youth an irresistible inclination towards the artistic profession, which his father vainly tried to check by placing him first with a huissier, for whom he was employed as an errand boy, and later, with a bookseller. In 1822 he became protégé to Alexandre Lenoir, a friend of Daumier's father who was an artist and archaeologist. The following year Daumier entered the Académie Suisse. He also worked for a lithographer and publisher named Belliard, and made his first attempts at lithography.Having mastered the techniques of lithography, Daumier began his artistic career by producing plates for music publishers, and illustrations for advertisements. This was followed by anonymous work for publishers, in which he emulated the style of Charlet and displayed considerable enthusiasm for the Napoleonic legend.Published works]]When, during the reign of Louis Philippe, Charles Philipon launched the comic journal, La Caricature, Daumier joined its staff, which included such powerful artists as Devéria, Raffet and Grandville, and started upon his pictorial campaign of satire, targeting the foibles of the bourgeoisie, the corruption of the law and the incompetence of a blundering government. His caricature of the king as Gargantua led to Daumier's imprisonment for six months at Ste Pelagic in 1832. Soon after, the publication of La Caricature was discontinued, but Philipon provided a new field for Daumier's activity when he founded the Le Charivari.Daumier produced his social caricatures for Le Charivari, in which he held bourgeois society up to ridicule in the figure of Robert Macaire, hero of a popular melodrama. In another series, L'histoire ancienne, he took aim at the constraining pseudo-classicism of the art of the period. In 1848 Daumier embarked again on his political campaign, still in the service of Le Charivari, which he left in 1860 and rejoined in 1864.SculpturesDaumier was not only a prolific lithographer, draftsman and painter, but he also produced a notable number of sculptures in unbaked clay. In order to save these rare specimen from destruction, some of these busts were reproduced first in plaster. Bronze sculptures were posthumously produced from the plaster. The major 20th century foundries were Rudier and Valsuani.PaintingsIn addition to his prodigious activity in the field of caricature &mdash; the list of Daumier's lithographed plates compiled in 1904 numbers no fewer than 3,958 &mdash; he also painted. Except for the searching truthfulness of his vision and the powerful directness of his brushwork, it would be difficult to recognize the creator of Robert Macaire, of Les Bas bleus, Les Bohémiens de Paris, and the Masques, in the paintings of Christ and His Apostles (Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam), or in his Good Samaritan, Don Quixote and Sancho Panza, Christ Mocked, or even in the sketches in the Ionides Collection at South Kensington.As a painter, Daumier, one of the pioneers of naturalism, did not meet with success until a year before his death in 1878, when M. Durand-Ruel collected his works for exhibition at his galleries and demonstrated the range of the talent of the man who has been called the "Michelangelo of caricature". At the time of the exhibition, Daumier was blind and living in a cottage at Valmondois, which Corot placed at his disposal. It was there that he died.LegacyBaudelaire noted of him: l'un des hommes les plus importants, je ne dirai pas seulement de la caricature, mais encore de l'art moderne. (One of the most important men, I will not say only of caricature, but further of modern art.)An exhibition of his works was held at the École des Beaux-Arts in 1900.Today, Daumier's works are found in many of the world's leading art museums, including the Louvre, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Rijksmuseum. He is celebrated for a range of works, including a large number of paintings (29) and drawings (49) depicting the life of Don Quijote, a theme that fascinated him for the last part of his life.Daumier's 200th birthday was celebrated in 2008 with a number of exhibitions in Asia, America, Australia and Europe.Gallery Image:Honoré Daumier - Gargantua.jpg|''Gargantua''. Litograph, 1831. Image:Honoré Daumier 003.jpg|''Crispin and Scapin'', 1858-1860. Image:1858 comediens 280.jpg|''Les Comediens de Société''. Lithograph published in Le Charivari, 1858. Image:DR3248 13.jpg|"NADAR élevant la Photographie à la hauteur de l'Art" (NADAR elevating Photography to Art). Lithograph published in Le Boulevard, 1862. Image:Honoré Daumier 032.jpg|''Les Joueurs d'échecs'' (The chess players), 1863. Image:1864 trains 200.jpg|''Les Trains de Plaisir'' (The trains of pleasure). Lithograph published in Le Charivari, 1864. Image:1864 0227 discussion 280.jpg|''Une discussion littéraire à la deuxième Galerie'' (A literary discussion at the second gallery). Lithograph published in Le Charivari, 1864. Image:Honoré_Daumier_034.jpg|''Le Wagon de troisième classe'' (The third-class wagon), 1864. Image:Daumier Sedan.jpg|''La capitulation de Sedan'' (The capitulation of Sedan). Lithograph published in Le Charivari, 1870. Image:Honoré Daumier 006.jpg|''The Print Lover''.Painting, c.1857-1860. Image:Le Malade imaginaire.jpg|''The Imaginary Malady''.Painting. External linksDaumier Website, complete website on Daumier's life and work; Bibliography, Exhibitions etc.Daumier Lithographs and some information at [[Brandeis University]]Prints at the Art Institute of ChicagoWorks at the Musée d'Orsay: paintings and especially good selection of sculpturesBiography and examples of paintings, prints, and sculpture from the Hammer collectionsNotesReferencesRey, Robert, Honoré Daumier, Harry N. Abrams. ISBN 8109-0064-5 Category:Realist artists Category:French painters Category:French printmakers Category:French caricaturists Category:French cartoonists Category:People from Marseille Category:1808 births Category:1879 deathsbg:Оноре Домие ca:Honoré Daumier cs:Honoré Daumier da:Honoré Daumier de:Honoré Daumier et:Honoré Daumier es:Honoré Daumier fr:Honoré Daumier gl:Honoré Daumier hr:Honoré Daumier it:Honoré Daumier he:אונורה דומיה hu:Honoré Daumier nl:Honoré Daumier ja:オノレ・ドーミエ no:Honoré Daumier pl:Honoré Daumier pt:Honoré Daumier ru:Домье, Оноре sr:Оноре Домије fi:Honoré Daumier sv:Honoré Daumier zh:奥诺雷·杜米埃