 Jacques Le Goff (born January 1, 1924 in Toulon) is a prolific French historian specializing in the Middle Ages, particularly the 12th and 13th centuries.Le Goff champions the Annales School movement, which emphasizes long-term trends over politics, diplomacy, and war, which characterized 19th century historical research. From 1972 to 1977, he was the head of the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS). He was a leading figure of New History, related to cultural history. Le Goff argues that the Middle Ages formed a civilization of its own, distinct from both the Greco-Roman antiquity and the modern world.LifeA prolific medievalist of international renown, Le Goff is the principal heir and continuator of the movement known as Annales School (Ecole des Annales), founded by his master Marc Bloch. He succeeded Fernand Braudel in 1972 at the head of the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS) and was succeeded by François Furet in 1977. Along with Pierre Nora, he was one of the leading figure of New History (Nouvelle histoire) in the 1970s.Since then he has dedicated himself to studies on the historical anthropology of Western Europe during medieval times. He is well known for contesting the very name of "Middle Ages" and its chronology, highlighting achievements of this period and variations inside it, in particular by attracting attention to the Renaissance of the 12th century.In his 1984 book The Birth of Purgatory he argued that the conception of purgatory as a physical place, rather than merely as a state, dates to the 12th century, the heyday of medieval otherworld-journey narratives such as the Irish Visio Tnugdali, and of pilgrims' tales about St. Patrick's Purgatory, a cavelike entrance to purgatory on a remote island in Ireland.purgatory, page 4 of 6An agnostic, Le Goff presents an equidistant position between the detractors and the apologists of the Middle Ages. His opinion is that the Middle Ages formed a civilization of its own, distinct of both the Greco-Roman antiquity and the modern world.Among his recent works are two widely accepted biographies, a genre his school did not give much relevance to: the life of Louis IX, the only King of France to be canonized, and the life of Saint Francis of Assisi, the Italian mendicant friar.In 2004 Le Goff received the Dr A.H. Heineken Prize for History from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. Press release at KNAW websiteSelected bibliographyWorksTime, Work, & Culture in the Middle Ages, translated by Arthur Goldhammer. (Chicago & London: University of Chicago Press, 1980)Constructing the Past: Essays in Historical Methodology, edited by Jacques Le Goff and Pierre Nora. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1985)The Medieval Imagination, translated by Arthur Goldhammer. (Chicago & London: University of Chicago Press, 1988)Your Money or Your Life: Economy and Religion in the Middle Ages, translated by Patricia Ranum. (New York : Zone Books, 1988)Medieval Civilization, 400-1500, translated by Julia Barrow. (Oxford: Blackwell, 1988)The Medieval World, edited by Jacques Le Goff, translated by Lydia G. Cochrane. (London: Parkgate, 1990)The Birth of Purgatory, translated by Arthur Goldhammer. (Aldershot: Scolar Press, 1990)History and Memory, translated by Steven Rendall and Elizabeth Claman. (New York: Columbia University Press, 1992)Intellectuals in the Middle Ages, translated by Teresa Lavender Fagan. (Oxford: Blackwell, 1993)Saint Louis (Paris: Gallimard, 1996)Saint Francis of Assisi, trans. Christine Rhone (London: Routledge, 2003)The Birth of Europe, translated by Janet Lloyd. (Oxford: Blackwell, 2005)Notes ReferencesMiri Rubin, ed. The Work of Jacques Le Goff and the Challenges of Medieval History (Cambridge: Boydell, 1997)External linksDan David Prize, Dan David Prize laureate 2007Did St Louis really exist?The history of innovation and revoltIl Medioevo Europeo di Jacques Le Goff Category:1924 births Category:Living people Category:French agnostics Category:French historians Category:French medievalists Category:Alumni of the École Normale Supérieure Category:Historiographers Category:Philosophy of historybe-x-old:Жак Ле Гоф cs:Jacques Le Goff de:Jacques Le Goff et:Jacques Le Goff es:Jacques Le Goff fr:Jacques Le Goff it:Jacques Le Goff he:ז'אק לה גוף la:Iacobus Le Goff lt:Jacques Le Goff nl:Jacques Le Goff pl:Jacques Le Goff pt:Jacques Le Goff ru:Ле Гофф, Жак sk:Jacques Le Goff fi:Jacques Le Goff tr:Jacques Le Goff