  &lt;/ref&gt; |
HighestElevUS = 13,161 |
HighestElev = 4,011 | 
MeanElevUS = 5,692   |
MeanElev =1,735 | 
LowestPoint = [[Red Bluff Reservoir]]&lt;ref name=usgs/&gt; | 
LowestElevUS = 2,842   |
LowestElev = 866
| 
ISOCode = US-NM | 
Website = www.newmexico.gov  New Mexico () is a state located in the southwestern region of the United States of America. It has been inhabited by Native American populations and has been part of the Imperial Spanish viceroyalty of New Spain, part of Mexico, and a U.S. territory. Among U.S. states, New Mexico has the highest percentage of Hispanic Americans, comprising both recent immigrants and descendants of Spanish colonists.Hispanics in New Mexico were 42 percent of the total state population, the highest proportion for any state&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It also has the third-highest percentage of Native Americans after Alaska and Oklahoma, and the fifth-highest total number of Native Americans after California, Oklahoma, Arizona, and Texas. The tribes represented in the state consist of mostly Navajo and Pueblo peoples. As a result, the demographics and culture of the state are unique for their strong Spanish, Mexican, and American Indian cultural influences. The climate of the state is highly arid and its territory is mostly covered by mountains and desert. At a population density of 15 per square mile, New Mexico is the sixth most sparsely inhabited U.S. State.==Geography== ]]  The state's total area is . The eastern border of New Mexico lies along 103° W longitude with the state of Oklahoma, and three miles (5 km) west of 103.5° W longitude with Texas. On the southern border, Texas makes up the eastern two-thirds, while the Mexican states of Chihuahua and Sonora make up the western third, with Chihuahua making up about 90% of that. The western border with Arizona runs along the 109° 03' W longitude. The 37° N latitude parallel forms the northern boundary with Colorado. The states New Mexico, Colorado, Arizona, and Utah come together at the Four Corners in the northwestern corner of New Mexico. New Mexico, although a large state, has little water. Its surface water area is only about . New Mexico's average precipitation rate is only  a year.The landscape ranges from wide, rose-colored deserts to broken mesas to high, snow-capped peaks. Despite New Mexico's arid image, heavily forested mountain wildernesses cover a significant portion of the state, especially towards the north. The Sangre de Cristo Mountains, the southernmost part of the Rocky Mountains, run roughly north-south along the east side of the Rio Grande (Big River) in the rugged, pastoral north. The most important of New Mexico's rivers are the Rio Grande, Pecos, Canadian, San Juan, and Gila. The Rio Grande is the eighth longest river in the U.S.Cacti, yuccas, creosote bush, sagebrush, and desert grasses cover the broad, semiarid plains that cover the southern portion of the state.The Federal government protects millions of acres of New Mexico as national forests including:Carson National ForestCibola National Forest (headquartered in Albuquerque)Lincoln National ForestSanta Fe National Forest (headquartered in Santa Fe)Gila National ForestGila WildernessAreas managed by the National Park Service include:&lt;/ref&gt;Aztec Ruins National Monument at AztecBandelier National Monument in Los AlamosCapulin Volcano National Monument near CapulinCarlsbad Caverns National Park near CarlsbadChaco Culture National Historical Park at NageeziEl Camino Real de Tierra Adentro National Historic TrailEl Malpais National Monument in GrantsEl Morro National Monument in RamahFort Union National Monument at WatrousGila Cliff Dwellings National Monument near Silver CityOld Spanish National Historic TrailPecos National Historical Park in PecosPetroglyph National Monument near AlbuquerqueSalinas Pueblo Missions National Monument at MountainairSanta Fe National Historic TrailWhite Sands National Monument near AlamogordoVisitors also frequent the surviving native pueblos of New Mexico. Tourists visiting these sites bring significant monies to the state. Other areas of geographical and scenic interest include Kasha-Katuwe Tent Rocks National Monument and the Valles Caldera National Preserve. The Gila Wilderness lies in the southwest of the state.History  The first known inhabitants of New Mexico were members of the Clovis culture of Paleo-Indians. Indeed the culture is named for the New Mexico city where the first artifacts of this culture were discovered. Later inhabitants include Native Americans of the Anasazi and the Mogollon cultures. By the time of European contact in the 1500s, the region was settled by the villages of the Pueblo peoples and groups of Navajo, Apache and Ute.  reflects changes in rural America.]] Francisco Vasquez de Coronado assembled an enormous expedition at Compostela in 1540–1542 to explore and find the mystical Seven Golden Cities of Cibola as described by Cabeza de Vaca who had just arrived from his eight-year ordeal traveling from Florida to Mexico. Coronado's men found several mud baked pueblos in 1541, but found no rich cities of gold. Further widespread expeditions found no fabulous cities anywhere in the Southwest or Great Plains. A dispirited and now poor Coronado and his men began their journey back to Mexico leaving New Mexico behind.Over 50 years after Coronado, Juan de Oñate founded the San Juan colony on the Rio Grande in 1598, the first permanent European settlement in the future state of New Mexico. Oñate pioneered the grandly named El Camino Real, "Royal Road," as a 700 mile (1,100 km) trail from the rest of New Spain to his remote colony. Oñate was made the first governor of the new Province of New Mexico. The Native Americans at Acoma revolted against this Spanish encroachment but faced severe suppression.  In 1609, Pedro de Peralta, a later governor of the Province of New Mexico, established the settlement of Santa Fe at the foot of the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. The city, along with most of the settled areas of the state, was abandoned by the Spanish for 12 years (1680-1692) as a result of the successful Pueblo Revolt. After the death of the Pueblo leader Popé, Diego de Vargas restored the area to Spanish rule. While developing Santa Fe as a trade center, the returning settlers founded the old town of Alburquerque in 1706 from existing surrounding communities, naming it for the viceroy of New Spain, the Duke of Alburquerque. The name later evolved into its present form of Albuquerque.Mexican provinceAs a part of New Spain, the claims for the province of New Mexico passed to independent Mexico following the 1810-1821 Mexican War of Independence. The Mexican province of Nuevo Mexico included all of present-day New Mexico, except the northeastern portion, which had been under French rule and was sold to the United States as part of the Louisiana Purchase in 1803. During the brief 26 year period of nominal Mexican control, Mexican authority and investment in New Mexico were weak, as their often conflicted government had little time or interest in a New Mexico that had been poor since the Spanish settlements started. Some Mexican officials, saying they were wary of encroachments by the growing United States, and wanting to reward themselves and their friends, began issuing enormous land grants (usually free) to groups of Mexican families as an incentive to populate the province.Small trapping parties from the United States had previously reached and stayed in Santa Fe, but the Spanish authorities officially forbade them to trade. Trader William Becknell returned to the United States in November 1821 with news that independent Mexico now welcomed trade through Santa Fe.William Becknell left Independence, Missouri, for Santa Fe early in 1822 with the first party of traders. The Santa Fe Trail trading company, headed by the brothers Charles Bent and William Bent and Ceran St. Vrain, was one of the most successful in the West. They had their first trading post in the area in 1826, and, by 1833, they had built their adobe fort and trading post called Bent's Fort on the Arkansas River. This fort and trading post, located about 200 miles (322 km) east of Taos, New Mexico, was the only place settled by whites along the Santa Fe trail before it hit Taos. The Santa Fe National Historic Trail follows the route of the old trail, with many sites marked or restored.  The Spanish Trail from Los Angeles, California to Santa Fe, New Mexico was primarily used by Hispanics, white traders and ex-trappers living part of the year in or near Santa Fe. Started in about 1829, the trail was an arduous 2,400 (3862 km) mile round trip pack train sojourn that extended into Colorado, Utah, Nevada and California and back, allowing only one hard round trip per year. The trade consisted primarily of blankets and some trade goods from Santa Fe being traded for horses in California.The Republic of Texas claimed the mostly vacant territory north and east of the Rio Grande when it successfully seceded from Mexico in 1836. New Mexico authorities captured a group of Texans who embarked an expedition to assert their claim to the province in 1841.American territoryFollowing the Mexican-American War, from 1846-1848 and the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848, Mexico ceded its mostly unsettled northern holdings, today known as the American Southwest and California to the United States of America in exchange for an end to hostilities, the evacuation of Mexico City and many other areas under American control. Mexico also received $15 million cash, plus the assumption of slightly more than $3 million in outstanding Mexican debts.The Congressional Compromise of 1850 halted a bid for statehood under a proposed antislavery constitution. Texas transferred eastern New Mexico to the federal government, settling a lengthy boundary dispute. Under the compromise, the American government established the Territory of New Mexico on September 9, 1850. The territory, which included most of the future states of Arizona, New Mexico, and parts of Colorado and Nevada, officially established its capital at Santa Fe in 1851.The United States acquired the southwestern boot heel of the state and southern Arizona below the Gila river in the mostly desert Gadsden Purchase of 1853. This purchase was desired when it was found that a much easier route for a proposed transcontinental railroad was located slightly south of the Gila river. The Southern Pacific built the second transcontinental railroad though this purchased land in 1881.During the American Civil War, Confederate troops from Texas briefly occupied the Rio Grande valley as far north as Santa Fe. Union troops from the Territory of Colorado re-captured the territory in March 1862 at the Battle of Glorieta Pass. The Territory of Arizona was split off as a separate territory on February 24, 1863.There were centuries of conflict between the Apache, the Navajo and Spanish-Mexican settlements in the territory. It took the federal government another 25 years after the Civil War to exert control over both the civilian and Native American populations of the territory. This started in 1864 when the Navajo were sent on &quot;The Long Walk&quot; to Bosque Redondo Reservation and then returned to most of their lands in 1868. The Apache were moved to various reservations and Apache wars continued until Geronimo finally surrendered in 1886.The railway encouraged the great cattle boom of the 1880s and the development of accompanying cow towns. The cattle barons could not keep out sheepherders, and eventually homesteaders and squatters overwhelmed the cattlemen by fencing in and plowing under the "sea of grass" on which the cattle fed. Conflicting land claims led to bitter quarrels among the original Spanish inhabitants, cattle ranchers, and newer homesteaders. Despite destructive overgrazing, ranching survived and remains a mainstay of the New Mexican economy.Albuquerque, the largest city in New Mexico, on the middle Rio Grande, was incorporated in 1889.StatehoodCongress admitted New Mexico as the 47th state in the Union on January 6, 1912. The admission of the neighboring State of Arizona on February 14, 1912 completed the contiguous 48 states.The struggle to gain voting rights for women came to be known as the "suffrage movement." In spite of efforts by suffrage organizers after 1915, New Mexico's legislature was one of the last to ratify the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution in 1920.For the first 25 years of statehood, the NM Supreme Court lived in cramped quarters in the Capitol. Not until 1937 as a result of a Public Works Administration Project, did the Supreme Court get its own building. That year, there was a diphtheria epidemic in Santa Fe resulting in 20 deaths before serum was flown in to end it.The United States government built the Los Alamos Research Center in 1943 amid the Second World War. Top-secret personnel there assembled the atomic bomb, first detonated at Trinity site in the desert on the White Sands Proving Grounds between Socorro and Alamogordo on July 16, 1945.Albuquerque expanded rapidly after the war. High-altitude experiments near Roswell in 1947 reputedly led to persistent but unproven suspicions that the government captured and concealed extraterrestrial corpses and equipment. The state quickly emerged as a leader in nuclear, solar, and geothermal energy research and development. Sandia National Laboratories, founded in 1949, carried out nuclear research and special weapons development at Kirtland Air Force Base south of Albuquerque and at Livermore, California.DemographicsCensus 2000 data; estimates through 2006As of 2005, New Mexico has an estimated population of 1,928,384, which is an increase of 25,378, or 1.3%, from the prior year and an increase of 109,338, or 6.0%, since the year 2000. This includes a natural increase since the last census of 74,397 people (that is 143,617 births minus 69,220 deaths) and an increase due to net migration of 37,501 people into the state. Immigration from outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 27,974 people, and migration within the country produced a net increase of 9,527 people.The center of population of New Mexico is located in Torrance County, in the town of Manzano. U. S. Census Bureau, Population and Population Centers by State: 2000As of 2006, 8.2% of the residents of the state were foreign-born.According to the Census Bureau, 1.5% of the population is Multiracial/Mixed-Race, a population larger than both the Asian and NHPI population groups. New Mexico has the highest percentage of people of Hispanic ancestry of any state, some recent immigrants and others descendants of Spanish colonists. The state also has a large Native American population, third, in percentage, behind Alaska and Oklahoma. Hispanics of colonial ancestry, along with recent Mexican immigrants, are present in most of the state, especially northern, central, and northeastern New Mexico. Mexican immigrants, legal or illegal, are prominent in southern parts of the state. Descendants of white American settlers, mostly of Irish English, and Spanish descent, from other parts of United States live in west, southwest, and southeast areas and main cities of the state. The northwestern corner of the state is primarily occupied by Native Americans, of which Navajos and Pueblos are the largest tribes. As a result, the demographics and culture of the state are unique for their strong American, Colonial Spanish, Mexican, and Native American cultural influences.2007 population estimatesNew Mexico's July 1, 2007 population was estimated at 1,969,915 by the United States Census Bureau's Population Estimates Program.    2000 Ancestry groupsAccording to the U.S. Census, the largest ancestry groups in New Mexico are:+AncestryPercentageMain article:Mexican]](18.1%) of TotalSee Mexican AmericanNative American]](10.3%)See Native Americans in the United StatesGerman]](9.8%)See German AmericanHispanic(9.4%)Hispanic American]]''Spanish]](9.3%)See Spanish AmericanEnglish]](7.6%)See English AmericanIrish]](7.3%)See Irish AmericanSome are mixtures of all of these groups and others.7.2% of New Mexico's population was reported as under 5 years of age, 28% under 18, and 11.7% were 65 or older. Females make up approximately 50.8% of the population.LanguagesAccording the 2000 U.S. Census, 28.76% of the population aged 5 and over speak Spanish at home, while 4.07% speak Navajo. MLA Language Map Data Center: Most spoken languages in New MexicoNew Mexico is commonly thought to have Spanish as an official language alongside English, due to the widespread usage of Spanish in the state. Although the original state constitution of 1912 provided for a temporarily bilingual government, New Mexico has no official language. Nevertheless, the state government publishes a driver's manual as well as ballots in both languages (they are required to publish ballots in Spanish by federal law).The constitution provided that, for the following twenty years, all laws passed by the legislature be published in both Spanish and English, and thereafter as the legislature should provide.Prior to 1967, notices of statewide and county elections were required to be printed in English and "may be printed in Spanish." Additionally, many legal notices today are required to be published in both English and Spanish.[http://ourworld.compuserve.com/homepages/jwcrawford/nm-con.htm "Language Rights and New Mexico Statehood", The Excluded Student: Educational Practices Affecting Mexican Americans in the Southwest, Mexican American Education Study, Report III, Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1972, pp. 76-82]In 1995, New Mexico adopted a "State Bilingual Song," titled "New Mexico - Mi Lindo Nuevo México."ReligionReligious affiliationsAccording to a report compiled by the Association of Statisticians of American Religious Bodies, the largest denominations in 2000 were the Catholic Church with 670,511; the Southern Baptist Convention with 132,675; the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with 42,261; and the United Methodist Church with 41,597 adherents.   According to a 2008 survey by the Pew Research Center, the most common self-reported religious affiliation of New Mexico residents are:  Roman Catholic – 26%Evangelical Christian denominations – 25%Unaffiliated – 21%Mainline Protestant – 15%Other affiliations – 12%No answer – 1%Catholic Church hierarchyWithin the hierarchy of the Catholic Church, New Mexico belongs to the Ecclesiastical Province of Santa Fe. New Mexico has three dioceses, one of which is an archdiocese:Archdiocese of Santa FeDiocese of GallupDiocese of Las CrucesEconomyState income]]The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that New Mexico's total state product in 2003 was $57 billion. Per capita personal income in 2003 was $24,995, 48th in the nation.U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis websiteMajor industries/productsNew Mexico Industries by 2004 Taxable Gross Receipts (000s)Retail Trade12,287,061Construction5,039,555Other Services (excluding Public Administration)4,939,187Professional, Scientific and Technology Services3,708,527Accommodation and Food Services2,438,460Wholesale Trade2,146,066Health Care and Social Assistance1,897,471Utilities1,654,483Mining and Oil and Gas Extraction1,238,211Manufacturing926,372Information and Cultural Industries849,902Unclassified Establishments725,405Real Estate and Rental and Leasing544,739Finance and Insurance254,223Transportation and Warehousing221,457Public Administration159,013Educational Services125,649Arts, Entertainment and Recreation124,017Admin & Support, Waste Management & Remediation73,062Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting71,853Management of Companies and Enterprises48,714Totals39,473,429Source: State of New Mexico Department of LaborAgricultural and miningCattle and dairy products top the list of major animal products of New Mexico. Cattle, sheep, and other livestock graze most of the arable land of the state throughout the year.Limited, scientifically controlled dryland farming prospers alongside cattle ranching. Major crops include hay, nursery stock, pecans, and chile peppers. Hay and sorghum top the list of major dryland crops. Farmers also produce onions, potatoes, and dairy products. New Mexico specialty crops include piñon nuts, pinto beans, and chiles.The Carlsbad and Fort Sumner reclamation projects on the Pecos River and the nearby Tucumcari project provide adequate water for limited irrigation in those areas of the desert and semiarid portions of the state where scant rainfall evaporates rapidly, generally leaving insufficient water supplies for large-scale irrigation. Located upstream of Las Cruces, the Elephant Butte Reservoir provides a major irrigation source for the extensive farming along the Rio Grande. Other irrigation projects use the Colorado River basin and the San Juan River.Lumber mills in Albuquerque process pinewood, the chief commercial wood of the rich timber economy of northern New Mexico.Mineral extraction: New Mexicans derive much of their income from mineral extraction. Even before European exploration, Native Americans mined turquoise for making jewelry.Anderson, Lee. &quot; The History of American Indian Jewelry &quot; - Anderson's Americana Indian & Western Shows After the Spanish introduced refined silver alloys they were incorporated into the Indian jewelry designs. New Mexico produces uranium ore (see Uranium mining in New Mexico), manganese ore, potash, salt, perlite, copper ore, beryllium, and tin concentrates.EnergyNew Mexico is rich in fossil fuel and renewable energy resources. Major petroleum and natural gas deposits are located in the Permian Basin in southeast New Mexico and in the San Juan Basin in the northwest. The San Juan Basin Gas Area is the largest field of proved natural gas reserves in the United States. According to the Energy Information Administration, State crude oil output is typically just over 3 percent of the annual U.S. total, and natural gas output is nearly 10 percent of the U.S. total. New Mexico also contains major coal deposits in the northwest corner of the State. Nine tenths of electricity production in the State is from coal-fired plants. Much of New Mexico’s geologically active Rocky Mountain region holds geothermal power potential, and pockets of the State are suitable for wind power development. New Mexico’s southern deserts offer the State's most concentrated solar power potential.The Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) is located 26 miles (42 km) southeast of Carlsbad, in the Chihuahuan Desert. Here nuclear wastes are buried deep in carved out salt formation disposal rooms mined 2,150 feet (655 m) underground in a 2,000-foot (610 m) thick salt formation that has been stable for more than 200 million years. WIPP began operations on March 26, 1999.ManufacturingIndustrial output, centered around Albuquerque, includes electric equipment; petroleum and coal products; food processing; printing and publishing; and stone, glass, and clay products. Defense-related industries include ordnance. Important high-technology industries include lasers, data processing, and solar energy.Government and militaryFederal government spending is a major driver of the New Mexico economy. In 2005 the federal government spent $2.03 on New Mexico for every dollar of tax revenue collected from the state. This rate of return is higher than any other state in the Union. The federal government is also a major employer in New Mexico providing more than a quarter of the state's jobs.Many of the federal jobs relate to the military; the state hosts three air force bases (Kirtland Air Force Base, Holloman Air Force Base, and Cannon Air Force Base); a testing range (White Sands Missile Range); and an army proving ground and maneuver range (Fort Bliss - McGregor Range).In addition to the National Guard, New Mexico has a New Mexico State Defense Force. Other minor locations include the New Mexico Army National Guard Headquarters in Santa Fe county and the National Guard Armory in far northern Rio Rancho in Sandoval county.Other federal installations include national observatories and the technology labs of Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) and Sandia National Laboratories (SNL). SNL conducts electronic and industrial research on Kirtland AFB, on the southeast side of Albuquerque. These installations also include the missile and spacecraft proving grounds at White Sands. Other federal agencies such as the National Park Service, the United States Forest Service, and the United States Bureau of Land Management are a big part of the state's rural employment base.Tourism and retirementVirgin Galactic, the first space tourism company to develop commercial flights into space, has decided to put its world headquarters and mission control at Spaceport America in Upham, New Mexico (25 miles (40 km) south of Truth or Consequences); Virgin Galactic will have its inaugural launch of the VSS Enterprise spaceship in 2008, and will begin launching ordinary citizens in early 2009.Virgin Galactic's website overview of what is to come&quot;Spaceports&quot; from web blog with link to BBC videoScott Allen, &quot;Richard Branson - The Rebel Billionaire and the Ultimate Multipreneur&quot; from about.comThe New Mexico Tourism Department estimates that in Fiscal Year 2006 the travel industry in New Mexico generated expenditures of $6.5 billion.  The private service economy in urban New Mexico, especially in Albuquerque, has boomed in recent decades. Since the end of World War II, the city has gained an ever-growing number of retirees, especially among armed forces veterans and government workers. It is also increasingly gaining notice as a health conscious community, and contains many hospitals and a high per capita number of massage and alternative therapists. The warm, semiarid climate has contributed to the exploding population of Albuquerque, attracting new industries to New Mexico. By contrast, many heavily Native American and Hispanic rural communities remain economically underdeveloped.Movie and TVFeature films have used New Mexico as a location since The Indian School in 1898. Financial incentives and construction of facilities (such as The Albuquerque Studios)Schneider, Wolf&quot;Facilities fuel New Mexico production boom&quot;. The Hollywood Reporter. - September 18, 2007. have created opportunities for locally based crew members with production reaching an all time high in 2007. As of the end of August 2007, 30 major projects have been filmed in the state, more than in any other calendar year in history.Garson Studios The most established Movie production facility is on the campus of the College of Santa Fe. Garson Studios has helped turned out many feature length films with its soundstage and high tech equipment. url = http://www.garsonstudios.com/ • 14,000 Square Foot Soundstage • Dimensions: 127' l x 110' w x 33' h • Hard Cyclorama 77' l x 55' w x 24' h • 1600 amp./ 3-phase• Production offices • Wardrobe facilities • Ample phone/fax lines • High-speed Internet • Storage lockups • Ample fenced parking • Trailer hook-ups • Student interns • Short and long-term rentalsNew Mexico Filmmaker’s Intensive url = http://www.filmmakersintensive.com/ Funded in part by a $1 million grant from the state of New Mexico, the New Mexico Filmmakers Intensive builds on the national reputation of the Moving Image Arts Department at the College of Santa Fe. With state-of-the-art equipment, world-class facilities and an extraordinary faculty of film industry professionals, the goal of the New Mexico Filmmakers Intensive is to support and cultivate emerging voices in American cinema right here in New Mexico.Film and television post-production is also growing with companies such as Sony Imageworks establishing a permanent home in the state.Seimers, Erik&quot;Special effects company to open Duke City branch&quot;. Albuquerque Tribune. - May 27, 2007.TaxesBeginning in 2008, personal income tax rates for New Mexico range from 1.7% to 4.9%, within four income brackets.  Beginning in 2007, active-duty military salaries are exempt from the state income tax.New Mexico does not have a sales tax. Instead, it has a 5% gross receipts tax. In almost every case, the business passes along the tax to the consumer, so that the gross receipts tax resembles a sales tax. The combined gross receipts tax rate varies throughout the state from 5.125% to 7.8125%. The total rate is a combination of all rates imposed by the state, counties and municipalities. Beginning January 1, 2005, New Mexicans no longer pay taxes on most food purchases; however, there are exceptions to this program. Also beginning January 1, 2005, the state eliminated the tax on certain medical services.In general, taxes are not assessed on personal property. Personal household effects, licensed vehicles, registered aircraft, certain personal property warehoused in the state and business personal property that is not depreciated for federal income tax purposes are exempt from the property tax.Property tax rates vary substantially and depend on the type of property and its location. The state does not assess tax on intangible personal property. There is no inheritance tax, but an inheritance may be reflected in a taxpayer's modified gross income and taxed that way.Economic incentivesNew Mexico provides a number of economic incentives to businesses operating in the state, including various types of tax credits and tax exemptions. Most of the incentives are based on job creation.  New Mexico law allows governments to provide land, buildings, and infrastructure to businesses to promote job creation. Several municipalities have imposed an Economic Development Gross Receipts Tax (a form of Municipal Infrastructure GRT) that is used to pay for these infrastructure improvements and for marketing their areas.  The state provides financial incentives for film production.   The New Mexico Film Office estimated at the end of 2007 that the incentive program had brought more than 85 film projects to the state since 2003 and had added $1.2 billion to the economy.  Largest employers (Not ranked by size)NorthernCollege of Santa FeBoy Scouts of AmericaU.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM)Mesa Air GroupNavajo NationLos Alamos National LaboratoryWal-MartNew Mexico State GovernmentNew Mexico Department of TransportationNorthern New Mexico CollegeCentralPNM Resources and PNM Electric & Gas ServicesPresbyterian Health PlanSandia National LaboratoriesIntelUniversity of New MexicoNew Mexico State GovernmentKirtland Air Force BaseEasternAlbertson's SupermarketKmart CorporationU.S. Postal ServiceWal-MartNavajo Refining CompanyU.S. National Park Service (NPS)Allsup's Convenience StoresSouthwesternImmigration and Naturalization Service (INS)Lockheed Engineering and SciencesNew Mexico State UniversityLovelace HealthcarePepsi BottlingNew Mexico Institute of Mining and TechnologyU.S. Army (Fort Bliss)Source: Economic Research & Analysis Bureau New Mexico Department of LaborNew Mexico Department of Labor statisticsTransportationNew Mexico has long been an important corridor for trade and migration. The builders of the ruins at Chaco Canyon also created a radiating network of roads, some hundreds of miles long, from the mysterious settlement. Northern New Mexico was the terminus of the Camino Real, the Santa Fe Trail and the Old Spanish Trail. Today these are all recognized as National Historic Trails.Because of New Mexico's latitude, it is a naturally useful, year-round East-West transportation corridor for the United States. As a territory, the Gadsden Purchase increased New Mexico's land area for the purpose of the construction of a Southern transcontinental railroadWith the rise of rail transportation, New Mexico became a tourist destination. The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe promoted tourism in the region with emphasis on Native American imagery. Arguably, the most esteemed and famous passenger train in the United States was the Super Chief, which in its heyday traversed New Mexico on its 39 and one half hour journey from Chicago to Los Angeles.The automobile changed the character of New Mexico, marking the start of large scale immigration to the state from elsewhere in the United States. Settlers moving West during the Great Depression and post-War American culture immortalized the National Old Trails Highway, later U.S. Route 66. Today, the automobile is heavily relied upon in New Mexico for transportation.Urban mass transit Road transportation.]]   Federally numbered highwaysInterstate routes:Interstate 10Interstate 25Interstate 40East–West routes:U.S. Route 550U.S. Route 54U.S. Route 56U.S. Route 60U.S. Route 62U.S. Route 64U.S. Route 66 (decommissioned, sometimes signed as "Historic Route 66")U.S. Route 70U.S. Route 80U.S. Route 180U.S. Route 380U.S. Route 82U.S. Route 84North–South routesU.S. Route 85 (unsigned)U.S. Route 285U.S. Route 491Rail transportationFreightNew Mexico is served by two class I railroads, the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe and the Union Pacific.PassengerThe New Mexico Rail Runner Express is a commuter rail system serving the metropolitan area of Albuquerque, New Mexico. It began operation on July 14, 2006. The system is in Phase I of planned development, operating on an existing old ATSF, now BNSF right of way from Belen to Bernalillo. However, the entire line from Belen to Raton was recently sold to the state of New Mexico for the construction of phase II, which is currently underway and scheduled to open by late 2010. It will extend the line northward to Santa Fe.Amtrak's Southwest Chief passes through daily at stations in Gallup, Albuquerque, Lamy, Las Vegas, and Raton, offering connections to Los Angeles, Flagstaff, Kansas City, and Chicago. The Sunset Limited makes stops three times a week in Lordsburg, and Deming.Air transportationThe Albuquerque International Sunport is the state's primary port of entry for air transportationSpace transportationUpham, near Truth or Consequences is the location of the world's first commercial spaceport, Spaceport America. It is undeveloped and has one tenant, UP Aerospace, launching small payloads.UP Aerospace does launches ‘quickly and cheaply’, DenverBiz Journal, October 2008 http://denver.bizjournals.com/denver/stories/2008/10/06/story13.html?b=1223265600^1710262 Virgin Galactic, a space tourism company plans to make this their primary operating base.Law and governmentThe Constitution of 1912, as amended, dictates the form of government in the state.Governor Bill Richardson and Lieutenant Governor Diane Denish, both Democrats, won re-election in 2006. Their terms expire in January 2011. Governors serve a term of four years and may seek reelection. For a list of past governors, see List of New Mexico Governors.Other constitutional officers, all of whose terms also expire in January 2011, include Secretary of State Mary Herrera,NM Secretary of State's Office official web site Attorney General Gary King,NM Attorney General's Office official web site State Auditor Hector Balderas,NM State Auditor's Office official web site State Land Commissioner Patrick H. Lyons,NM State Lands official web site and State Treasurer James B. Lewis.NM State Treasuer's Office official web site Herrera, King, Balderas and Lewis are Democrats. Lyons is a Republican.The New Mexico State Legislature is comprising a 70-seat House of Representatives and a 42-seat Senate.New Mexico sent Democrat Jeff Bingaman to the United States Senate until January 2013 and Republican Pete V. Domenici until January 2009. Republicans Steve Pearce and Heather Wilson and Democrat Tom Udall represent the state in the United States House of Representatives. See New Mexico congressional map.State Officers Governor: Bill Richardson (D)Lieutenant Governor: Diane Denish (D)Secretary of State: Mary Herrera (D)Attorney General: Gary King (D)Treasurer: James B. Lewis (D)Commissioner of Public Lands: Patrick H. Lyons (R)Secretary of Education: Veronica García (D)Secretary of Agriculture: Miley Gonzalez (D)Adjutant General: General Kenny Montoya (D)U.S. Senators:Pete Domenici (R)Jeff Bingaman (D)Congressmen:Heather Wilson (R)Steve Pearce (R)Tom Udall (D)NM Speaker of the House: Ben Lujan (D)NM Majority Leader: W. Ken Martinez (D)NM Minority Leader: Thomas C. Taylor (R)NM Senate President pro tempore Timothy Jennings (D) PoliticsIn the past, New Mexico has given its electoral votes to all but two Presidential election winners since statehood. In these exceptions, New Mexicans supported Republican President Gerald Ford over Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter in 1976, and Democratic Vice President Al Gore over Texas Governor George W. Bush in 2000.Recently, New Mexico supported Democrats in 1992, 1996, and 2000. In 2004, George W. Bush narrowly won the state's electoral votes by a margin of 0.8 percentage points with 49.8% of the vote. Democrats hold majorities in 21 of the 33 counties of New Mexico, including Albuquerque, Las Cruces, two northwestern counties, and, by large margins, in six counties of Northern New Mexico (Santa Fe, Rio Arriba, Taos, Mora, San Miguel, and Guadalupe).The Democratic Party generally dominates state politics, and as of 2008 50% of voters were registered Democrats, 33% were registered Republicans, and 15% did not affiliate with either of the two major parties.Important Cities &amp; Counties]] ]] ]] ]]+ The 10 Most Populous New Mexico Cities2007 Census Bureau estimatesurl= http://www.census.gov/popest/cities/tables/SUB-EST2007-04-35.csvtitle= Table 4: Annual Estimates of the Population for Incorporated Places in New Mexico, Listed Alphabetically: April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2007 (SUB-EST2007-04-35)accessdate= 2008-07-17date= 2008-07-10format=CSVpublisher= US Census Bureau, Population DivisionRankCityCountyPopulation1City of AlbuquerqueBernalillo County]]518,2712City of Las Cruces]]Dona Ana County]]89,7223City of Rio Rancho]]Sandoval County]]75,9784City of Santa Fe]]Santa Fe County]]73,1995City of Roswell]]Chaves County]]45,5696City of Farmington]]San Juan County]]42,4257City of Alamogordo]]Otero County]]35,6078City of Clovis]]Curry County]]33,1829City of Hobbs]]Lea County]]29,60210City of Carlsbad]]Eddy County]]25,033+ The 5 Most Populous New Mexico Counties2007 Census Bureau estimatesurl= http://www.census.gov/popest/counties/tables/CO-EST2007-01-35.csvtitle= Annual Estimates of the Population for Counties of New Mexico: April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2007 (CO-EST2007-01-35)accessdate= 2008-06-25date= 2008-03-20publisher= US Census Bureau, Population DivisionRankCountyPopulation withincounty limitsLand Area sq. milesPopulationDensity per sq miLargest city1Bernalillo County629,2921,166540Albuquerque]]2Doña Ana County198,7913,80752Las Cruces]]3Santa Fe County142,9551,90975Santa Fe]]4San Juan County122,4275,51422Farmington]]5Sandoval County117,8663,71032Rio Rancho]]EducationSecondary educationColleges and universities Sports Notable professional sports teams based in New Mexico include the professional teams Albuquerque Isotopes (baseball), Albuquerque Thunderbirds (basketball), New Mexico Scorpions (ice hockey), and the New Mexico Wildcats (indoor football). The state universities field teams in many sports; teams include the University of New Mexico Lobos and the New Mexico State Aggies.Cultures and a bleached white cow's skull hang in a market near Santa Fe]] With a Native American population of 134,000 in 1990, New Mexico still ranks as an important center of American Indian culture. Both the Navajo and Apache share Athabaskan origin. The Apache and some Ute live on federal reservations within the state. With 16 million acres (6,500,000 ha), mostly in neighboring Arizona, the reservation of the Navajo Nation ranks as the largest in the United States. The prehistorically agricultural Pueblo Indians live in pueblos scattered throughout the state, many older than any European settlement.More than one-third of New Mexicans claim Hispanic origin, the vast majority of whom descend from the original Spanish colonists in the northern portion of the state. Most of the considerably fewer recent Mexican immigrants reside in the southern part of the state.There are many New Mexicans who also speak a unique dialect of Spanish. New Mexican Spanish has vocabulary often unknown to other Spanish speakers. Because of the historical isolation of New Mexico from other speakers of the Spanish language, the local dialect preserves some late medieval Castilian vocabulary considered archaic elsewhere, adopts numerous Native American words for local features, and contains much Anglicized vocabulary for American concepts and modern inventions.The presence of various indigenous Native American communities, the long-established Spanish and Mexican influence, and the diversity of Anglo-American settlement in the region, ranging from pioneer farmers and ranchers in the territorial period to military families in later decades, make New Mexico a particularly heterogeneous state.There are natural history and atomic museums in Albuquerque, which also hosts the famed Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta.A large artistic community thrives in Santa Fe. The capital city has museums of Spanish colonial, international folk, Navajo ceremonial, modern Native American, and other modern art. Another museum honors late resident Georgia O'Keeffe. Colonies for artists and writers thrive, and the small city teems with art galleries. In August, the city hosts the annual Santa Fe Indian Market, which is the oldest and largest juried Native American art showcase in the world.Performing arts include the renowned Santa Fe Opera which presents five operas in repertory each July to August, the Santa Fe Chamber Music Festival held each summer, and the restored Lensic Theater a principal venue for many kinds of performances. The weekend after Labor Day boasts the burning of Zozobra, a 50 ft (15 m) marionette, during Fiestas de Santa Fe.Writer D. H. Lawrence lived near Taos in the 1920s at the D. H. Lawrence Ranch where there is a shrine said to contain his ashes.Notable New MexicansMany New Mexicans-those who were born, raised, or lived a significant period in New Mexico-have gained local, national, and international prominence. New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson was one of the candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2008. Notable businessmen include Jeff Bezos, founder of Amazon.com, and Conrad Hilton, founder of the Hilton Hotels Corporation. New Mexicans have also studied outer space, notably NASA astronauts Sidney M. Gutierrez and Harrison Schmitt. Astronomer Clyde Tombaugh, a former New Mexico State University professor, discovered Pluto. Several New Mexicans have served roles in popular culture, including artist Georgia O'Keeffe, animator William Hanna, actor Neil Patrick Harris and actress Demi Moore, Pulitzer Prize winners Bill Mauldin and Ernie Pyle. Notorious criminals include outlaws Billy the Kid and Clay Allison. Indie Rock band The Shins are from Albuquerque.See alsoList of New Mexico-related topics  ReferencesFurther readingcaprock at Sunrise]] Hubert Howe Bancroft. The Works of Hubert Howe Bancroft, Vol. XVII. (History of Arizona and New Mexico 1530-1888) (1889); reprint 1962. online editionWarren Beck. Historical Atlas of New Mexico 1969.Thomas E. Chavez, An Illustrated History of New Mexico, 267 pages, University of New Mexico Press 2002, ISBN 0-8263-3051-7Joseph G. Dawdon III. Doniphan's Epic March; The 1st Missouri Volunteers in the Mexican War, Kansas Press http://www.kansaspress.ku.edu/dawdon.htmlRichard Ellis, ed. New Mexico Past and Present: A Historical Reader. 1971. primary sourcesLynne Marie Getz; Schools of Their Own: The Education of Hispanos in New Mexico, 1850-1940 (1997)Erlinda Gonzales-Berry, David R. Maciel, editors, The Contested Homeland: A Chicano History of New Mexico, 314 pages - University of New Mexico Press 2000, ISBN 0-8263-2199-2Nancie L. González; The Spanish-Americans of New Mexico: A Heritage of Pride (1969)Ramón A. Gutiérrez; When Jesus Came, the Corn Mothers Went Away: Marriage, Sexuality, and Power in New Mexico, 1500-1846 (1991)Paul L. Hain; F. Chris Garcia, Gilbert K. St. Clair; New Mexico Government 3rd ed. (1994)Tony Hillerman, The Great Taos Bank Robbery and other Indian Country Affairs, University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, 1973, trade paperback, 147 pages, (ISBN 0-8263-0530-X), storiesJack E. Holmes, Politics in New Mexico (1967),Paul Horgan, Great River, The Rio Grande in North American History, 1038 pages, Wesleyan University Press 1991, 4th Reprint, ISBN 0585380147, Pulitzer Prize 1955Sante Fe Trail: 72 References Kansas Historical Society http://www.kshs.org/research/collections/documents/bibliographies/transportation/santa_fe_trail.htmRobert W. Kern, Labor in New Mexico: Strikes, Unions, and Social History, 1881-1981, University of New Mexico Press 1983, ISBN 0-8263-0675-6Howard R. Lamar; The Far Southwest, 1846-1912: A Territorial History (1966, repr 2000)Robert W. Larson, New Mexico's Quest for Statehood, 1846-1912 (1968)John M. Nieto-Phillips, The Language of Blood: The Making of Spanish-American Identity in New Mexico, 1880s-1930s, University of New Mexico Press 2004, ISBN 08236324231Marc Simmons, New Mexico: An Interpretive History, 221 pages, University of New Mexico Press 1988, ISBN 0-8263-1110-5George I. Sánchez; Forgotten People: A Study of New Mexicans (1940; reprint 1996)Marc Simmons, New Mexico: An Interpretive History, 221 pages, University of New Mexico Press 1988, ISBN 0-8263-1110-5, good introductionFerenc M. Szasz; and Richard W. Etulain; Religion in Modern New Mexico (1997)David J. Weber, The Mexican Frontier, 1821-1846: The American Southwest under Mexico (1982)David J. Weber; Foreigners in Their Native Land: Historical Roots of the Mexican Americans (1973), primary sources to 1912External linksState GovernmentNew Mexico GovernmentNew Mexico's Blue Book On-Line - State of New Mexico, Secretary of State (print almanac of statistics and information)Bureau of Elections New Mexico Major and Minor Political PartiesNew Mexico State Databases - Annotated list of searchable databases produced by New Mexico state agencies and compiled by the Government Documents Roundtable of the American Library Association.Bureau of Business and Economic Research (BBER) at University of New Mexico (statistical information about the New Mexico economy)U.S. GovernmentEnergy Profile for New Mexico- Economic, environmental, and energy dataNew Mexico - Science In Your Backyard - United States Geological Society&quot;American Southwest&quot; - Discover Our Shared Heritage travel itinerary - National Park ServiceNew Mexico dataset - United States Census BureauNew Mexico state facts - Economic Research Service - United States Department of AgricultureDirectoryTourism   Category:New Mexico Category:States of the United States Category:States and territories established in 1912 Category:Former Spanish coloniesaf:Nieu-Mexiko ang:Nīwe Mexico ar:نيومكسيكو an:Nuebo Mexico frp:Novél-Mexique az:Nyu-Meksiko bn:নিউ মেক্সিকো zh-min-nan:New Mexico bs:New Mexico br:New Mexico bg:Ню Мексико ca:Nou Mèxic cv:Çĕнĕ Мексика cs:Nové Mexiko cy:New Mexico da:New Mexico de:New Mexico nv:Yootó hahoodzo et:New Mexico el:Νέο Μεξικό es:Nuevo México eo:Nov-Meksiko eu:Mexiko Berria fa:نیومکزیکو fo:New Mexico fr:Nouveau-Mexique fy:Nij Meksiko ga:Nua-Mheicsiceo gv:New Mexico gd:Meagsago Nuadh gl:Novo México ko:뉴멕시코 주 haw:Nū Mekiko hy:Նյու Մեքսիկո hi:नया मेक्सिको hr:Novi Meksiko io:Nova-Mexikia ig:New Mexico bpy:নিউ মেক্সিকো id:New Mexico ik:Tchiaq Mexiqo os:Нью-Мексико is:New Mexico it:Nuovo Messico he:ניו מקסיקו pam:New Mexico ka:ნიუ-მექსიკო kw:Meksiko Nowydh sw:New Mexico ht:Nou Meksiko ku:New Mexico lad:Nuevo México la:Novum Mexicum lv:Ņūmeksika lb:New Mexico lt:Naujoji Meksika lij:Nuevo Mexico hu:Új-Mexikó mk:Њу Мексико mi:New Mexico mr:न्यू मेक्सिको ms:New Mexico nah:Yancuīc Mēxihco nl:New Mexico ja:ニューメキシコ州 no:New Mexico nn:New Mexico oc:Nòu Mexic uz:N'yu-Meksiko pms:Neuv Méssich nds:Nee-Mexiko pl:Nowy Meksyk pt:Novo México ro:New Mexico (stat SUA) ru:Нью-Мексико sq:New Mexico scn:New Mexico simple:New Mexico sk:Nové Mexiko sl:Nova Mehika sr:Нови Мексико sh:Novi Meksiko fi:New Mexico sv:New Mexico ta:நியூ மெக்சிகோ th:มลรัฐนิวเม็กซิโก vi:New Mexico tr:New Mexico uk:Нью-Мексико ur:نیو میکسیکو vo:New Mexico yi:ניו מעקסיקא diq:New Mexico bat-smg:Naujė Meksėka zh:新墨西哥州