 | birthplace = Detroit, Michigan, U.S. | deathdate = | deathplace = | othername = | homepage = | academyawards = | spouse =  Thomas Roy "Tom" SkerrittMovies | A Familiar Face | Seattle Times Newspaper&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; (born August 25, 1933) is an Emmy Award-winning American actor who has appeared in over 40 films and more than 200 television episodes since 1962.BiographyCareerSkerritt made his television debut in 1962 in Combat! and his film debut in War Hunt, produced by Terry Sanders and released the same year. Skerritt's notable film appearances include M*A*S*H (1970; his huge role was pared down enormously by director Robert Altman), Harold and Maude (credited as "M. Borman") (1971), Big Bad Mama, Cheech &amp; Chong's Up In Smoke (1978), as Captain A.J. Dallas of the commercial towing vessel 'Nostromo' in Alien (1979), as a would-be astronaut in Contact (1997) and SpaceCamp (1986), and in Top Gun (1986), where he played opposite Tom Cruise as CDR Mike "Viper" Metcalf.He was the Rev. MacLean in A River Runs Through It (1992). He was in the movie Poison Ivy (1992) with Drew Barrymore and also played a sheriff in ''The Dead Zone'', a movie based on a Stephen King novel. In television he was in an episode of Hawaii Five-0 as a cop whose wife was murdered. He also appeared as Evan Drake in the television sitcom Cheers, played a judge on an episode of Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit, and starred in the television series Picket Fences (1992&ndash;1996) in the role of Sheriff Jimmy Brock, for which he won his Emmy. More recently, Skerritt has starred in Homeland Security and The Grid which is a Fox/BBC co-production. Both of these latter projects dealt with counter-terrorism.He also portrays the deceased William Walker on Brothers &amp; Sisters, having appeared in the pilot as well as in several flashbacks since. This is his second time playing the husband of Sally Field, the first being his role in the film Steel Magnolias. Recently, he has played the role of Ezekiel on ABC Family's Fallen miniseries. He appears as the guide on the showcase website for Microsoft's new operating system called Windows Vista. He recently appeared on Adult Swim's Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!, where the duo sang a jingle for him."I want Tom Skerritt, I don't want Brad Garrett," they sang. He expressed disappointment as he said "You didn't do a good job".Personal lifeSkerritt was born in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Helen, a homemaker, and Roy Skerritt, who worked in business.Tom Skerritt Biography (1933-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Tom Skerritt Biography - Yahoo! Movies&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; A 1951 graduate of Detroit's Mackenzie High School, Skerritt attended Wayne State University and the University of California at Los Angeles. Since 1988, he has divided his domestic life between his Lake Washington home in suburban Seattle, Washington and a home on Lopez Island in the San Juan Islands. Skerritt has four grown children (three sons and one daughter).ReferencesExternal linksTomSkerritt.comKelly Video Category:1933 births Category:American film actors Category:American television actors Category:Living people Category:People from Detroit, Michigan Category:People from Seattle, Washington Category:University of California, Los Angeles alumni Category:Wayne State University alumniar:توم سكيريت bg:Том Скерит cs:Tom Skerritt de:Tom Skerritt es:Tom Skerritt fr:Tom Skerritt it:Tom Skerritt nl:Tom Skerritt ja:トム・スケリット no:Tom Skerritt nds:Tom Skerritt pl:Tom Skerritt simple:Tom Skerritt sh:Tom Skerritt fi:Tom Skerritt sv:Tom Skerritt tr:Tom Skerritt