 , the smaller island is Medny.]] Commander Islands or Komandorski Islands (, Komandorskiye ostrova) are a group of treeless Russian islands located 175&nbsp;km east of the Kamchatka Peninsula in the Russian Far East, in the Bering Sea. The islands consist of Bering Island (95&nbsp;km by 15&nbsp;km), Medny Island (55&nbsp;km by 5&nbsp;km), and fifteen smaller ones, the largest of which are Kamen Toporkov (Puffin Rock, 0.15 km²) and Ariy Island, which are between 3 and 13 km west of the only settlement, Nikolskoye. Administratively, they compose Aleutsky District of Kamchatka Krai.GeographyThe Commander Islands are the westernmost extension of the Aleutian Islands, though they are separated from the rest of the chain by several hundred miles. The relief is somewhat diverse, encompassing folded-block mountains, volcanic plateaus, terraced plains, and low mountains. The geologic origins are long-extinct volcanoes on the edge of the Pacific and North American Plates. The highest point is Steller Peak on Bering Island at 755&nbsp;m. The highest point on Medny Island is Stenjeger's Peak at 647&nbsp;m.The climate is relatively mild and maritime, with frequent precipitation (220&ndash;240&nbsp;days/year). The cool summers are notoriously foggy.PopulationThe only permanently inhabited locality is the village of Nikolskoye on the northwest end of Bering Island, with an estimated population of&nbsp;750 as of 2005. The population consists almost entirely of Russians and Aleuts.Derbeneva OA, RI Sukernik, NV Volodko, SH Hosseini, MT Lott, and DC Wallace. 2002. "Analysis of Mitochondrial DNA Diversity in the Aleuts of the Commander Islands and Its Implications for the Genetic History of Beringia". American Journal of Human Genetics. 71, no. 2: 415-21. The majority of the islands' area, as well as much of the adjacent marine habitat (3,648,679&nbsp;ha), is taken up by the Komandorsky Zapovednik, a natural preserve. The economy is based primarily on fishing, mushroom gathering, the administration of the zapovednik, ecotourism, and government services.Natural historyDue to the high productivity of the Bering Sea shelf and the Pacific slope and their remoteness from human influence, the Commander Islands are marked by a great abundance of marine animal life and a relative paucity of terrestrial organisms.&lt;/ref&gt;  Notably, significant numbers of [[northern fur seal]]s (some 200,000 individuals) and [[Steller sea lion]]s (approximately 5,000 individuals) summer there, both on reproductive rookeries and non-reproductive haul-outs.  [[Sea otter]]s, [[common seal]]s, and [[spotted Seal|larga seals]] are likewise abundant.  Indeed, the [[sea otter]] population is stable and possibly increasing, even as their population is falling precipitously in the rest of the Aleutian islands.&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;The neighboring waters provide important feeding, wintering, and migrating habitat for many whale species, many of which are threatened or endangered. Among these are: sperm whales, orcas, several species of beaked whales and porpoises, humpbacks, and right whales.The much less diverse terrestrial fauna includes two distinct, endemic subspecies of arctic fox, (Alopex lagopus semenovi and A. l. beringensis). Though relatively healthy now, these populations had been significantly depleted in the past due to the fur trade. Most other terrestrial species, including wild reindeer, American mink, and rats have all been introduced to the islands by man.Over a million seabirds gather to nest on numerous large colonies along almost all the coastal cliffs. The most common are Northern Fulmar, Common, Brunnich's and Pigeon Guillemots, Horned and Tufted Puffins, cormorants, gulls, and kittiwakes including the extremely local Red-legged Kittiwake which nests in only a few other colonies in the world. Waterfowl and sandpipers are also abundant along the pre-lake depressions and river valleys of Bering Island, though largely absent from Medny Island. Migratory birds of note with critical nesting or feeding habitat on the islands include such species as Steller's Eider, Pacific Golden Plover, and Aleutian Tern. Raptors of note include the rare Steller's Sea Eagle and Gyrfalcon. In total, over 180&nbsp;bird species have been registered on the Commander Islands.&lt;/ref&gt;The fish fauna in the mountainous, fast running streams in composed primarily of migratory salmonids, including Arctic char, Dolly Varden, black spotted trout, chinook, sockeye, coho and pink salmon.Bering Island was the only known habitat of Steller's sea cows, an immense (over 4,000&nbsp;kg) sirenian similar to the manatee. The sea cow was hunted to extinction within forty years of its discovery in 1741.  The Spectacled Cormorant, a large essentially flightless bird in the cormorant family, was similarly driven to extinction by around 1850. There is no true forest on the Commander Islands. The vegetation is dominated by lichens, mosses and different associations of marshy plants with low grass and dwarf trees. Very tall umbellifers are also common. There are no amphibians or reptiles.History, the northern fur seal and the Steller sea lion drawn by Bering expedition member S. Khitrov.]] The Commander Islands received their name after Commander Vitus Bering, who died there in 1741 after his ship St.&nbsp;Peter wrecked on the otherwise uninhabited Bering Island on his return voyage from Alaska. Bering perished on the island along with much of the crew. His grave is marked in Bering island by a modest monument. About half of the crew did manage to survive the winter, thanks in part to the abundance of wildlife, notably the newly discovered Steller's sea cow, and the efforts of naturalist and physician Georg Wilhelm Steller, who cured many of the men from scurvy by compelling them to eat seaweed. &lt;/ref&gt;  Eventually, a smaller boat was rebuilt from the remains of the St.&amp;nbsp;Peter and the survivors found their way back to Kamchatka, heavily laden with valuable sea otter pelts.  The discovery of the sea otters sparked the great rush of fur-seeking &quot;Promyshlenniky&quot; which drove the Russian expansion into Alaska.  Steller's sea cow, whose habitat was apparently restricted to the kelp-beds around Bering Island, was exterminated by 1768. Aleut (Unangan) people were transferred to the Commander Islands early in 1825 by the Russian-American Company from the Aleutians for the seal trade. Most of the Aleuts inhabiting Bering Island came from Atka Island and those who lived on Medny Island came from Attu Island, both nowadays American possessions. A mixed language called Mednyj Aleut, with Aleut roots but Russian verb inflection, developed among the inhabitants. Today the population of the islands is about 2/3 Russian and 1/3 Aleut.The 1943 Battle of the Komandorski Islands took place in the open sea about  south of the islands. Lorelli, John A. (1984) The Battle of the Komandorski Islands, March 1943. Annapolis, Md: Naval Institute Press, ISBN 0870210939 Territorial disputesTwo smaller groups of rocks near Medny Island, Sea Lion Rock (, Sivuchy Kamen) and Sea Otter Rocks (, Kamni Bobrovyye), are regarded by some U.S. individuals as contested territory. However, the U.S. government makes no claim to the islands, and recognizes them as Russian territory http://www.state.gov/p/eur/rls/fs/20922.htm.See alsoPreobrazhenskoye, Kamchatka Oblast, an abolished village which existed on Medny IslandReferencesRichard Ellis Encyclopedia of the Sea New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2001External linksUnofficial website of the Commander Islands Photos of the Commander Islands Overview of the Kommandorsky ZapovednikDetails of their current situationCommander Islands at Natural Heritage Protection Fundhttp://statedepartmentwatch.org/GiveawaySummary.htmCategory:Islands of Russia Category:Aleutian Islands Category:Kamchatka Kraibn:কোমান্দর্স্কি দ্বীপপুঞ্জ be:Камандорскія астравы cs:Komandorské ostrovy de:Kommandeurinseln et:Komandorisaared es:Islas del Comandante eo:Komandorski-insularo fr:Îles Komandorski ko:코만도르스키예 제도 nl:Komandorski-eilanden ja:コマンドルスキー諸島 nn:Kommandørøyane pl:Wyspy Komandorskie pt:Ilhas Comandante ro:Insulele Comandorului ru:Командорские острова sr:Командирска острва sv:Kommendörsöarna uk:Командорські острови zh:科曼多尔群岛