Paul A. Rothchild (April 18, 1935 - March 30, 1995) was a prominent American record producer of the late 1960s and 1970s. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Rothchild grew up in Teaneck, New Jersey, and he graduated from Teaneck High School in 1953.He began his career on the Boston folk scene, recording and releasing recordings by local folk artists. He became a house producer for Jac Holzman's Elektra Records label in 1963, he worked extensively with renowned recording engineers Bruce Botnick, John Haeny and Fritz Richmond. Rothchild was wired into the LA scene. His house in Lookout Mountain was inhabited by many of the future musical superstars of 60's and 70's. He produced the original song demo of Crosby, Stills, &amp; Nash that landed the group a recording contract. Rothchild originated the concept "LEDO" ( Leadered / Equalized / Dolby / Original). This format insured the final tape would represent Rothchild's sonic vision for future generations.Rothchild is best known as the producer of the first six albums by The Doors, except for their last LP with Jim Morrison, L.A. Woman, when Rothchild withdrew from the production after disagreeing with the group over the album's musical direction. He also produced LPs and singles by John Sebastian, Joni Mitchell, Neil Young, Tom Paxton, Fred Neil, Tom Rush, The Paul Butterfield Blues Band, The Lovin' Spoonful, Tim Buckley, Love, Clear Light, Rhinoceros and Janis Joplin, including her final LP Pearl and her only no. 1 single, Me and Bobby McGee.In the 1970s, he produced The Outlaws' debut album for Arista Records, as well as producing Bonnie Raitt, Elliott Murphy and the soundtrack album for the Bette Midler film The Rose, which was loosely based on the life of Janis Joplin. He also produced the soundtrack to Oliver Stone's film The Doors, about the group and appeared in a small role in the film. In the latter film, he was played by Canadian character actor Michael Wincott.Rothchild died in 1995 from lung cancer, aged 59.&quot;Paul Rothchild, Record Producer, 59&quot;, The New York Times, April 3, 1995. Accessed May 5, 2008.References Category:The Doors Category:American record producers Category:People from Teaneck, New Jersey Category:Deaths from lung cancercs:Paul A. Rothchild de:Paul A. Rothchild es:Paul A. Rothchild fr:Paul A. Rothchild nl:Paul Rothchild pl:Paul A. Rothchild pt:Paul A. Rothchild