 |location = Wahoo, Nebraska |deathdate =  |deathplace = Palm Springs, California |yearsactive = 1922 - 1970 |spouse = Virginia Fox (1924-1956) |children = Richard D. Zanuck (b.1934)Darrilyn Zanuck DePineda |academyawards = Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award1938 Lifetime Achievement1945 Lifetime Achievement1951 Lifetime Achievement  Best Picture1941 How Green Was My Valley1947 Gentleman's Agreement1950 All About Eve |goldenglobeawards = Cecil B. DeMille Award1954 Lifetime Achievement  Darryl Francis Zanuck (September 5, 1902&ndash;December 22, 1979) was an Academy Award-winning producer, writer, actor, director, and studio executive who played a major part in the Hollywood studio system as one of its longest survivors (the length of his career being rivalled only by that of Adolph Zukor).Zanuck was born in Wahoo, Nebraska, the son of Louise Torpin and Frank Zanuck, a hotelier; his last name is of Dutch origin, and his father had Dutch and German ancestry. At six, he and his mother moved to Los Angeles, where the better climate could improve her poor health. At eight, he found his first movie job as an extra, but his disapproving father recalled him back to Nebraska. In 1917, despite being fourteen, he deceived a recruiter and joined the United States Army and served with the Nebraska National Guard in France. Returning to the U.S., he worked in many part-time jobs while he tried to find work as a writer. He managed to find work producing movie plots, selling his first story in 1922 to William Russell and his second to Irving Thalberg. He then worked for Mack Sennett and took that experience to Warner Brothers where he wrote stories for Rin Tin Tin and under a number of pseudonyms wrote over forty scripts from 1924-1929. He moved into management in 1929 and became head of production in 1931.In 1933 he left Warners to found Twentieth Century Pictures with Joseph Schenck and William Goetz, releasing their material through United Artists. In 1935 they bought out Fox studios to become Twentieth Century-Fox. Zanuck was vice-president of this new studio and took an interventionist approach, closely involved in editing and producing. During the war he worked for the army.In 1946, Zanuck said, "Television won't be able to hold on to any market it captures after the first six months. People will soon get tired of staring at a plywood box every night."In the 1950s he withdrew from the studio to concentrate on independent producing in Europe. He left his wife, Virginia Fox Zanuck, in 1956, and several movies he produced featured his girlfriend of moment, including the French singer Juliette Gréco.Charlotte Mosley, editor, In Tearing Haste: Letters Between Deborah Devonshire and Patrick Leigh-Fermor (John Murray, 2008)He returned to control of Fox in 1962, replacing Spyros Skouras, in a confrontation over the release of Zanuck's production of The Longest Day as the studio struggled to finish the difficult filming of Cleopatra (1963) . He made his son Richard D. Zanuck head of production. He became involved in a power struggle with the board and his son from around 1969. In May 1971 Zanuck was finally forced from 'his' studio.He died of jaw cancer in Palm Springs, California at the age of 77, and was interred in the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in the Westwood Village section of Los Angeles, California.For his contribution to the motion picture industry, Darryl F. Zanuck has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6336 Hollywood Blvd and has won 3 Thalberg Awards of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. On the present-day FOX lot, movies are shown in the Zanuck Theater.QuotesBy ZanuckOn discovering actress Gene Tierney "undeniably the most beautiful actress in movie history."In 1946 Zannuck said "(Television) won't be able to hold on to any market it captures after the first six months. People will soon get tired of staring at a plywood box every night."About ZanuckReferencesThackrey Jr., Thomas. (December 23, 1979). "Darryl F. Zanuck, Last of Movie Moguls, Dies at 77". Los Angeles Times, p. 1.External links Category:American film producers Category:American film studio executives Category:American military personnel of World War I Category:American military personnel of World War II Category:Nebraska entertainers Category:1902 births Category:1979 deaths Category:Dutch Americans Category:German-Americans Category:Producers who won the Best Picture Academy Awardde:Darryl F. Zanuck es:Darryl F. Zanuck fr:Darryl F. Zanuck it:Darryl F. Zanuck nl:Darryl F. Zanuck ja:ダリル・F・ザナック pl:Darryl F. Zanuck pt:Darryl F. Zanuck fi:Darryl F. Zanuck