 Staphylococcus epidermidis is a member of the bacterial genus Staphylococcus, consisting of Gram-positive cocci arranged in clusters. It is catalase-positiveTodar, Kenneth. 2007. Todar's Online Textbook of Microbiology.http://textbookofbacteriology.net/staph.html  and coagulase-negative and occurs frequently on the skin of humans and animals and in mucous membranes. It is a facultative anaerobe that grows by aerobic respiration or by fermentationStaphylococcus_epidermidis&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. It is sensitive to the antibiotic Novobiocin; a feature that distinguishes it from the other common coagulase negative organism S. saprophyticus. Due to contamination, S. epidermidis is probably the most common species found in laboratory tests.Although S. epidermidis is usually non-pathogenic, it is an important cause of infection in patients whose immune system is compromised, or who have indwelling catheters. Many strains produce a biofilm that allows them to adhere to the surfaces of medical prostheses.S. epidermidis is often resistant to a wide variety of antibiotics, including penicillin and methicillin.Colonies of S. epidermidis are typically small, white or yellow color, approximately 1-2 mm in diameter after overnight incubation. The organism is sensitive to desferrioxamine, and this test is used to distinguish it from almost all other staphylococci. Staphylococcus hominis, which is also sensitive, produces acid from trehalose, so it can usually be distinguished from S. epidermidis.The normal practice of detecting S.epidermidis is by using the Baird Parker agar with egg yolk supplement. Colonies appeared in small, black colonies while confirmation can be done using coagulase test. Increasingly, techniques such as Real-time PCR and Quantitative PCR and are being employed for the rapid detection and identification of Staphylococcus strains. Genomics and molecular biologyThe elucidation of the genomes of S. epidermidis and other coagulase-positive staphylococci, and a study of the molecular biology of S. epidermidis and its interaction with human host defenses, have provided detailed information on how these bacteria cause human disease. It has been shown that the repertoire and also the regulation of virulence factors in S. epidermidis may differ significantly from S. aureus. Information obtained from S. epidermidis may have paradigmatic character for many staphylococci and Gram-positive pathogens.See alsoMicrobiologyBiofilmsStaphylococcusReferences Category:Staphylococcaceaede:Staphylococcus epidermidis es:Staphylococcus epidermidis fr:Staphylococcus epidermidis it:Staphylococcus epidermidis nl:Staphylococcus epidermidis pl:Staphylococcus epidermidis pt:Staphylococcus epidermidis sr:Стафилококус епидермидис tr:Staphylococcus epidermidis