  Tapeworm is also an older name for a type of computer virus.Cestoda is a class of parasitic flatworms, commonly called tapeworms, that live in the digestive tract of vertebrates as adults and often in the bodies of various animals as juveniles. Taenia saginata, the beef tapeworm, can grow up to 40 feet long (12 m); other species may grow to over 100 feet (30 m).Overview Craig and Ito describe the gut-dwelling worm as segmented and band-like in its adult stage. Its first stage in tissues and organs of vertebrates, including humans, is the growth of a cyst-like juvenile (or metacestode). The potential cause of illness and disease is due to a metacestode stage happening in human tissues, rather than an adult tapeworm.The tegument is the body surface of the adult tapeworm. Tapeworms take the host's nutrients and do not attack the mucosa of the small intestine or remove blood. Infections, therefore, are benign. Most often hosts do not show any signs of illness. A carrier can notice the segments (proglottides) when using the bathroom, for instance, in the feces in a toilet bowl. Because tapeworms move around constantly, one may find them in undergarments.Life cycleThe life cycle of a tapeworm starts with a human eating undercooked, infected meat. The tapeworm will then grow and release small packages of fertilized eggs and sperm. These packages are excreted by the host. If they happen to land in grass, for instance, the package will open. By that time, the tape worm eggs will have developed. The eggs are released onto the grass. If a cow were to eat that grass, the eggs would become larvae and burrow into the cow's muscle. If that cow was eaten without being cooked thoroughly, the whole cycle would start again.AnatomyScolexThe worm's scolex ("head") attaches to the intestine of the definitive host. In some species, the scolex is dominated by bothria, which are sometimes called "sucking grooves", and function like suction cups. Other species have hooks and suckers that aid in attachment. Cyclophyllid cestodes can be identified by the presence of four suckers on their scolex, though they may have other structures.While the scolex is often the most distinctive part of an adult tapeworm, it is often unnoticed in a clinical setting as it is inside the patient. Thus, identifying eggs and proglottids in feces is important.Muscular systemThe main nerve center of a cestode is in its scolex. Motor and sensory innervation depends on the number and complexity of the scolex. Smaller nerves emanate from the commissures to supply the general body muscular and sensory ending. The cirrus and vagina are innervated and sensory endings around the genital pore are more plentiful than other areas. Sensory function includes both tactoreception and chemoreception.ProglottidsThe body is composed of successive segments (proglottids). The sum of the proglottids is called a strobila, which is thin, resembling a strip of tape, and is the source of the common name "tapeworm". Like some other flatworms, cestodes use flame cells (protonephridia) for excretion, which are located in the proglottids.Mature or gravid proglottids are released from the tapeworm and leave the host in its feces.Because each proglottid contains the male and female reproductive structures, they can reproduce independently. It has been suggested by some biologists that each should be considered a single organism, and that the tapeworm is actually a colony of proglottids.PathologyThe effects of cestodes are usually very minimal. Those who are infected often describe the following symptoms: abdominal discomfort and pain, cramps, colic, flatulence, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, dizziness, vomiting, restlessness, vertigo, headache, tiredness, malabsorption, anorexia, muscular pain, vitamin deficiency, megaloblastic anemia, weight loss (or gain), intestinal blockage, jejunal perforation, appendicitis, pancreatitis, pseudo-incontinence, pruritis ani, rectal-flutters, spontaneous voiding of segments from the anus, depression, and psychosis. In the past, through self-infection of Taenia solium (the pork tapeworm) there have been serious life-threatening infections of taeniais (also known as taeniosis) which increase the chances of neurocysticercosis.See also Diphyllobothrium (Fish tapeworm)CysticercosisList of parasites (human)Tapeworm infectionReferencesCampbell, Reece, and Mitchell, Biology, 1999Merck Manual of Medication Information, Second Home Edition, Online Version, Tapeworm Infection 2005Mayo Clinic Website on infectious diseases, [http://www.mayoclinic.com/health/tapeworm/DS00659/DSECTION=1 Mayo Clinic - Tapeworm Infection,] 2006Medline Plus - Taeniasis (tapeworm infection)University of South Carolina - School of Medicine - CESTODES (TAPE WORMS)External linksHow Disgusting are Tapeworms? Article from TalktotheVet.comCategory:Platyhelminthes Category:Parasitology Category:Parasitescs:Tasemnice de:Bandwürmer et:Paelussid es:Cestoda fr:Cestoda hr:Trakavice it:Cestoda ka:თასმისებური ჭიები la:Cestoda lv:Lenteņi lt:Kaspinuočiai hu:Galandférgek mk:Тенија nl:Lintwormen ja:サナダムシ no:Bendelormer pl:Tasiemce pt:Cestoda qu:Unkaka ru:Ленточные черви simple:Tapeworm sk:Pásomnice (Cestodes) sl:Trakulje sr:Пантљичара su:Cacing pita sv:Bandmaskar te:బద్దెపురుగు tr:Şeritliler uk:Стрічковий хробак zh:絛蟲綱