 |death_place = Cambridge, England |field = Chemistry, Biology |work_institution = University of ManchesterUniversity of California, BerkeleyBerkeley Radiation LaboratoryScience Advisory Committee |alma_mater = Michigan College of Mining and TechnologyUniversity of Minnesota |doctoral_advisor = |doctoral_students = |known_for = Calvin cycle |prizes = Nobel Prize for Chemistry (1961)Priestley MedalDavy MedalGold Medal Melvin Ellis Calvin (April 8, 1911 - January 8, 1997) was an American chemist most famed for discovering the Calvin cycle along with Andrew Benson and James Bassham, for which he was awarded the 1961 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He spent most of his five-decade career at the University of California, Berkeley.Calvin was born in St. Paul, Minnesota, the son of Jewish immigrants. His father was Lithuanian and his mother Georgian. He earned his Bachelor of Science from the Michigan College of Mining and Technology (now known as Michigan Technological University) in 1931 and his Ph.D. in chemistry from the University of Minnesota in 1935. He then spent the next four years doing postdoctoral work at the University of Manchester. He married Genevieve Jemtegaard in 1942, and they had three children, two daughters and a son.Calvin joined the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley in 1937 and was promoted to Professor of Chemistry in 1947. In 1963 he was given the additional title of Professor of Molecular Biology. He was founder and Director of the Laboratory of Chemical Biodynamics and simultaneously Associate Director of Berkeley Radiation Laboratory, where he conducted much of his research until his retirement in 1980.Using the carbon-14 isotope as a tracer, Calvin and his team mapped the complete route that carbon travels through a plant during photosynthesis, starting from its absorption as atmospheric carbon dioxide to its conversion into carbohydrates and other organic compounds. In doing so, the Calvin group showed that sunlight acts on the chlorophyll in a plant to fuel the manufacturing of organic compounds, rather than on carbon dioxide as was previously believed. In his final years of active research, he studied the use of oil-producing plants as renewable sources of energy. He also spent many years testing the chemical evolution of life and wrote a book on the subject Calvin, Melvin. Chemical evolution: molecular evolution towards the origin of living systems on the earth and elsewhere. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1969. ISBN 0198553420. that was published in 1969.ReferencesExternal linksNobel speech and biographmems/mcalvin.html Tribute by Glenn Seaborg and Andrew Bensonresearch on the carbon dioxide assimilation in plantsBiographical memoir by Glenn Seaborg and Andrew BensonU.S. Patent 4427511 Melvin Calvin - Photo-induced electron transfer method   Category:1911 births Category:1997 deaths Category:American chemists Category:American Jews Category:Guggenheim Fellows Category:Jewish American scientists Category:People from Saint Paul, Minnesota Category:Nobel laureates in Chemistry Category:Photosynthesis Category:National Medal of Science laureates Category:Michigan Technological University alumni Category:University of Minnesota alumni Category:Alumni of the University of Manchester Category:University of California, Berkeley faculty Category:Priestley Medalar:ملفين كالفن ca:Melvin Calvin cs:Melvin Calvin de:Melvin Calvin es:Melvin Calvin eo:Melvin Calvin fr:Melvin Calvin gd:Melvin Calvin ko:멜빈 캘빈 io:Melvin Calvin id:Melvin Calvin it:Melvin Calvin sw:Melvin Calvin lt:Melvin Calvin nl:Melvin Calvin ja:メルヴィン・カルヴィン oc:Melvin Calvin nds:Melvin Calvin pl:Melvin Calvin pt:Melvin Calvin ro:Melvin Calvin ru:Калвин, Мелвин sk:Melvin Calvin sl:Melvin Calvin fi:Melvin Calvin sv:Melvin Calvin zh:梅尔文·卡尔文