 Lesser celandine, (Ranunculus ficaria, syn. Ficaria grandiflora Robert Ficaria verna Huds.) is a low-growing, hairless perennial plant, with fleshy dark green, heart-shaped leaves. The plant is found throughout Europe and west Asia and is now introduced in North America. It prefers bare, damp ground and in the UK it is often a persistent garden weed.The flowers are yellow, turning white as they age.Ranunculus ficaria exists in both diploid (2n=16) and tetraploid (2n=32) forms which are very similar in appearance. However, the tetraploid type prefer more shady locations and frequently develops bulbils at the base of the stalk. These two variants are sometimes referred to as distinct sub-species,R. ficaria ficaria and R. ficaria bulbifer respectively.In Latin, 'celandine' can be translated as 'swallow', or 'when the swallows come home'. The flower is present when the swallows return in the spring.Life cycleAccording to Gilbert White, a diarist writing around 1800 in the Hampshire village of Selborne, the plants came out on February 21st, but it is more commonly reported to flower from March until May, and is sometimes called the "spring messenger" as a consequence.In non-native locationsIn many parts of the northern United States and Canada, lesser celandine is cited as an invasive species.Medicinal usesThe plant used to be known as Pilewort, as it was used to treat haemorrhoids. Supposedly the knobbly tubers of the plant resemble piles, and according to the Doctrine of signatures this resemblance suggests that pilewort could be used to cure piles. The German vernacular Scharbockskraut (Scurvywort) derives from the use of the early leaves, which are high in vitamin C, to prevent scurvy. References in literatureThe poet William Wordsworth was very fond of the flower and it inspired him to write three poems including the following from his ode to the celandine:I have seen thee, high and low,Thirty years or more, and yetT'was a face I did not know.Upon Wordsworth's death it was proposed that a celandine be carved on his memorial plaque inside the church of Saint Oswald at Grasmere, but unfortunately the Greater celandine Chelidonium majus was mistakenly used.C. S. Lewis mentions celandines in a key passage of The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, when Aslan comes to Narnia and the whole wood passes "in a few hours or so from January to May". The children notice "wonderful things happening. Coming suddenly round a corner into a glade of silver birch trees Edmund saw the ground covered in all directions with little yellow flowers - celandines" End of chapter 11, beginning of chapter 12.Celandines are also mentioned in J.R.R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings and the Silmarillion. The character Glorfindel was the lord of the house of the golden flower: a celandine.A reference appears in Tony Hendra's The Messiah of Morris Avenue: "He was kneeling on a carpet of violets and celandines." (p. 144)See alsoList of early spring flowersList of late spring flowersReferencesCategory:Ranunculaceae Category:Invasive plant species Category:Medicinal plantscs:Orsej jarní da:Almindelig Vorterod de:Scharbockskraut es:Ranunculus ficaria fr:Ficaire hsb:Niska maslenka lv:Pavasara mazpurenīte lt:Pavasarinis švitriešis nl:Gewoon speenkruid nn:Vårkål pl:Ziarnopłon wiosenny sk:Blyskáč jarný fi:Mukulaleinikki sv:Svalört uk:Пшінка весняна