 |Origin = Detroit, Michigan, United States |Genre = Hip hop |Occupation = Rapper, songwriter |Years_active = 2000 &ndash; present |Label = Worldwide Hustle |Associated_acts = Eminem, D12, G-Unit |URL = www.obietrice.com  Obie Trice III (born November 14 1977 as stated in the song "Follow My Life") is an American rapper from Detroit, Michigan. He began rapping at the age of 11, and had a number of underground hits such as "Respect", "My Club", "Dope Jobs Homeless", and "The Well Known Asshole" before he signed to Shady Records in 2000. Obie Trice credits himself for having no "rap name", but instead using his birth name/given name for performing, as also mentioned in one of his songs, "Rap Name".BiographyObie Trice was raised on Detroit's West Side by his mother, along with three brothers. He was given a karaoke machine by his mother when he was eleven and he used it to rhyme over instrumentals from artists such as N.W.A. By the age of fourteen, he was attending rap battle spots around Detroit, notably including the Hip Hop Shop, on which Obie commented,Obie Trice went by the name of Obie 1 during this time, but when he first met Proof, who was about to introduce him at the Hip Hop Shop, Proof asked him, "What's your name? Your real name, no gimmicks." He was then introduced as Obie Trice, and has kept his real name as his rap name.Anthony Bozza (May 21 2006). "Proof positive". The Observer. Accessed January 22 2008. Obie Trice was introduced to Eminem through D12 member Bizarre. Eminem was impressed when Obie freestyled for him in a car park through a window, whilst Eminem was in a car. Later, Obie received a call from his manager informing him that he would be having dinner with Eminem, and later that night they went to a Kid Rock party.Ruben Diaz (September 18, 2003). "Obie Trice: Real Name, No Gimmicks (Interview)". BallerStatus.com. Accessed January 22, 2008.Trice was officially signed in 2000. He first received public attention via a freestyle skit on the Devil's Night album, followed by the deliverance of the opening line "Obie Trice-real name, no gimmicks", off Eminem's The Eminem Show lead single, "Without Me", as well as the song "Drips"."Shady Ltd. Joins Obie Debut Album Promotion on Urban and Top 40 U.S. Radio Stations". Business Wire (September 30, 2003). Accessed January 22, 2008. Later in 2002, Obie rapped on songs for the ''8 Mile'' soundtrack, and also got a cameo appearance in the film as a rapper in a parking-lot.Trice's debut album, Cheers, was released on September 23 2003 with its first single "Got Some Teeth" being well received on radio in a number of countries. He also released the singles "The Set Up" and "Don't Come Down". The album consists of 17 tracks with production from Eminem, Dr. Dre, Timbaland, Mike Elizondo, Emile, Fredwreck and Mr. Porter. Artists featuring on Cheers include Busta Rhymes, Eminem, 50 Cent, Lloyd Banks, Dr. Dre, Nate Dogg and D12. The album was eventually certified platinum by the RIAA"2003 Ends With a Bang!". RIAA.com (18 December 2003). Accessed 23 September 2007..In 2005, he began work on his second album, entitled Second Round's on Me. The album was finally released on August 15 2006. Following the release of Second Round's on Me, he released a mixtape called Bar Shots with G-Unit's DJ Whoo Kid.In June 2008, Obie Trice departed from Shady Records. A misunderstanding was made where it was believed he was attacking the label and Eminem on a single titled "The Giant" but they were quickly dismissed.Tai Saint-Louis (30 June 2008). "Shady Records Issues Statement On Obie's Departure". AllHipHop.com. Accessed 1 July 2008.ShootingOn December 31 2005, Trice was shot twice while driving on the Lodge Expressway by Wyoming Avenue in Detroit. One of the bullets entered his head. Trice was able to drive off the expressway, where his girlfriend waved down the police."Rapper Obie Trice Shot In Detroit". Billboard (2 January 2006). Accessed 23 September 2007. He was taken to Providence Hospital and released later that day. Doctors are still contemplating whether or not to remove the bullet, as it may be too dangerous to operate.Shortly after his label-mate Proof was shot to death in a Detroit nightclub, a song emerged on the mixtape circuit called "Ride Wit Me". The song was dedicated to Proof. Trice made a speech at Proof's funeral, addressing the problem of black-on-black violence:In the single "Cry Now" from his second album, Trice addresses his shooting, as well as Eminem's rumored retirement,Christina Fuoco (9 August 2006). "LiveDaily Interview: Obie Trice". LiveDaily.com. Accessed 22 January 2008. referenced with the following line, "Rock City is my voice / The white boy has stepped down / So I will accept the crown." Obie Trice has since given insight as to why he feels the shooting occurred, and has labeled it "haterism", as well as a bad mind state by saying, "it’s a lot of do-or-die type individuals. They want to get that plug and there’s really more to the game then they think it is ... it’s competition on a real vicious level."Seth Berkman (2 July 2007). "Obie Trice: Take a Ride (Interview)". XXL. Accessed 25 January 2008. As of July 2007, the bullet is still lodged in Obie's skull.Leaving Shady RecordsObie Trice Left Shady Records on June 26th, 2008. This news was first put in to circulation by Hip-Hop blog Urban Lookout; a few days after they broke the news, a track (Giants) leaked confirming the rumor. Obie Trice Dropped From Shady/Interscope &quot;Obie Trice (signed to Shady/Interscope) has been dropped off of the label for unknown reasons.&quot;, Urban Lookout, 2008-06-26. Retrieved on 2008-07-02.Obie Trice is now signed to his own independent label named Worldwide Hustle[http://www.ballerstatus.com/article/news/2008/06/4997/ Baller Status - Obie Trice Leaves Shady Records (June 30, 2008)].Disputes A short while before the first Invasion mixtape was released, he became involved in a dispute between Eminem and Benzino; the dispute began with the line "Obie Trice/You's a buster" in a Benzino diss-track directed at Eminem and Shady Records. In response, Trice released the track "Welcome to Detroit City" (a track over the beat from Cam'ron's song "Welcome to New York City") on the first Invasion mixtape. He also joined his label-mates in the highly publicized dispute between Ja Rule and 50 Cent, appearing on DMX's "Go to Sleep", having a song "Shit Hits The Fan" with Dr. Dre and Eminem, and also a song with Eminem and D12 "Doe Ray Me", but never received a direct response from Ja Rule.DiscographyCheers (2003)Second Round's on Me (2006)Bottom's Up (2009)ReferencesExternal linksOfficial Obie Trice websiteOfficial Obie Trice Blog[http://www.soundslam.com/articles/reviews/reviews.php?reviews=obietr_second Obie Trice interview about Second Round's on Me] with SoundSlam.comInterview with XXLMag.com  Category:1977 births Category:African American rappers Category:Detroit rappers Category:Living people Category:People from Detroit, Michigan Category:Shady Records artists Category:Shooting survivorsar:أوبي ترايس ca:Obie Trice da:Obie Trice de:Obie Trice es:Obie Trice fr:Obie Trice id:Obie Trice it:Obie Trice he:אובי טרייס nl:Obie Trice no:Obie Trice pl:Obie Trice pt:Obie Trice ru:Трайс, Оби fi:Obie Trice sv:Obie Trice