Three Days Grace is a post-grunge band based in Canada. The band was formed under the name of Groundswell in Norwood, Ontario, Canada in 1992, their line-up consists of guitarist and lead vocalist Adam Gontier, drummer and back up vocalist Neil Sanderson, bassist and back up vocalist Brad Walst, and lead guitarist Barry Stock.HistoryWave of Popular Feeling (1992-1995)Wave of Popular Feeling was recorded since 1992 and released in 1995 by first TDG's line-up called Groundswell. The album was released in amount of 150 copies. Shortly after release Groundswell broke up. The line-up included five members: Adam Gontier (vocals, guitar), Neil Sanderson (backing vocals, drums), Brad Walst (bass), Phil Crowe (guitar) and Joe Grant (guitar). At this time Neil Sanderson also played in Trevor McNevan's first band called Oddball.Demo (1997-2002)In 1997 Adam Gontier, Neil Sanderson and Brad Walst united again to continue their musical work. They named their band Three Days Grace and became a cover band. With the help of Thousand Foot Krutch's Trevor McNevan TDG recorded a four-track demo-album, which released in amount of 100 copies. Three Days Grace toured with Thousand Foot Krutch as opening band.Three Days Grace (2003-2005)Upon completion of their first album, self-titled Three Days Grace, the band recruited Barry Stock to help with lead guitar to give Gontier breathing room on stage and on tour. The album's lead single, "I Hate Everything About You" reached number two on the US Modern Rock and number one on the Mainstream Rock charts and number two on the Canadian Rock charts. Their second single "Just Like You" gave the group a second number-one in Canada and also hit number one on rock charts in the US. This was soon followed by the release of the single "Home" which also turned out to be a radio success.In 2004, Gavin Brown won a Juno Award for his production work on Three Days Grace and "Try Honesty" by Billy Talent.One-X (2006-present)In 2005 Gontier was sent into rehab for an addiction to the pain killer Oxycodone. The song, "Gone Forever" is written about the Gontier's life without the drug. During rehab, Gontier had written several songs and once he returned to the band in 2006, they released the album One-X. It includes "Pain", "Animal I Have Become", "Riot", "Never Too Late", "Over and Over" and "Get Out Alive".In 2007, Gontier recorded a song called "I Don't Care" with the band Apocalyptica. The entire band was recently on tour with Breaking Benjamin and Seether, two other modern rock bands. Also, live, Gontier has sung with Seether in the song "Broken". He sings it as a duet by singing Amy Lee's part. In addition, Gontier teamed with Breaking Benjamin's Benjamin Burnley to sing "Dance With the Devil" on tour.On August 11, 2008, the band posted on their myspace page, a commercial for their first ever live DVD, entitled Live at the Palace. The DVD was released on Tuesday, August 19, 2008, and is available exclusively at Best Buy, as well as several other stores online in other countries including Australia stores such as BIGW, EzyDVD and Sanity.On October 7, 2008, Adam Gontier lends his voice to Avaaz.org, with other famous Canadian singers. In an effort to raise hope and awareness about politician, Harper's stance on the climate change and to fight his continued negative effects on the planet! The song will be used to mobilize Canadian voters to let their voices be heard in support of strong, concrete action on climate change. Song also featured Ed of Barenaked Ladies, Ryan of Hawksley Workman, Ben of Billy Talent, Jason of Broken Social Scene and many others. They named Artists United to Defeat Harper and Fight Climate Change.Third Studio AlbumThe band is currently in the process of writing and recording a new album, named "A Demon Within" Three Days Grace Thank You/Tour/New Album.Band membersAdam Gontier - lead vocals, rhythm guitarNeil Sanderson - drums, percussion, backing vocalsBrad Walst - bass guitar, backing vocalsBarry Stock - lead guitarDiscography1995: Wave of Popular Feeling (as "Groundswell")1998: Demo2003: Three Days Grace2006: One-X2008: ''Live at the PalaceReferencesExternal linksOfficial websiteOfficial Canadian websiteThe Official Fan Club for Three Days GraceThree Days Grace on last.fmCategory:Canadian rock music groups Category:2000s music groups Category:Post-grunge groups Category:Alternative metal musical groups Category:Toronto musical groupsda:Three Days Grace de:Three Days Grace es:Three Days Grace fa:تری دیز گریس fr:Three Days Grace ko:스리 데이스 그레이스 it:Three Days Grace he:Three Days Grace lt:Three Days Grace nl:Three days grace ja:スリー・ディズ・グレイス no:Three Days Grace uz:Three Days Grace pl:Three Days Grace pt:Three Days Grace ro:Three Days Grace ru:Three Days Grace sk:Three Days Grace fi:Three Days Grace sv:Three Days Grace