   |Died = Ibiza, Spain |Genre = Art rock, folk music, post-punk |Occupation = Singer-songwriterActress |Years_active = 1963–1988 |Instrument = VocalsHarmoniumHarpsichordTambourinePiano |Voice_type = Contraltohttp://www.musicianguide.com/biographies/1608004031/Nico.html&lt;/ref&gt; |Associated_acts = The Velvet UndergroundJohn CaleLou ReedKevin AyersJohn Cooper Clarke  Christa Päffgen (October 16, 1938?The date and location of her birth are disputed. Most sources state October 16, 1938, Cologne, Germany.  &ndash; July 18, 1988) was a German singer-songwriter, fashion model, actress, keyboard player and a Warhol Superstar, best known by her pseudonym Nico.As a musician, she is remembered for both her time in The Velvet Underground and her solo work.CareerEarly daysNico made her early fame as a model. After leaving school at 13, she started selling lingerie and soon was spotted by fashion insiders. A year later, her mother found her work as a model in Berlin.While on a modeling assignment in Ibiza, she met the photographer Herbert Tobias, who christened her "Nico" after his ex-boyfriend, filmmaker Nico Papatakis. She soon moved to Paris and worked for Vogue, Tempo, Vie Nuove, Mascotte Spettacolo, Camera, Elle, and other fashion magazines in the late 1950s.She also claimed to have been briefly hired by Coco Chanel. Despite having dropped out of school at an early age, Nico eventually became fluent in English, Italian, Spanish, and French.Before breakthroughAfter appearing in several television commercials, Nico landed a small role in Alberto Lattuada's film La Tempesta (1958), and then appeared in Rudolph Maté's For the First Time with Mario Lanza later that year.In 1959, she was invited to the set of Federico Fellini's La dolce vita and attracted the attention of the acclaimed director, who gave her a minor role in the film. By this time, she had moved to New York to take acting classes under the guidance of Lee Strasberg.After splitting her time between New York and Paris, she landed the lead role in Jacques Poitrenaud's Strip-Tease (1963). She recorded the title track, which was produced by Serge Gainsbourg but not released until 2001, when it was included on CD as part of the French compilation Le Cinéma de Serge Gainsbourg.During this period she gave birth to a son, Ari (born 1962), who was fathered by French actor Alain Delon. Although the child was raised mostly by Delon's parents, Delon always denied his paternity.Start of musical careerIn 1965, Nico met The Rolling Stones' founder and guitarist, Brian Jones, and recorded her first single, "I'm Not Sayin'" for Andrew Loog Oldham's Immediate label.Actor Ben Carruthers introduced her to Bob Dylan in Paris that summer. It is said that Dylan wrote the song "I'll Keep It With Mine" for her shortly afterwards.After being introduced by Bob Dylan, she began working with Andy Warhol and Paul Morrissey on their experimental films, including Chelsea Girls, The Closet, Sunset, and Imitation of Christ.The Velvet Underground and NicoWhile appearing in Warhol's films, Nico was introduced to The Velvet Underground, at that time the backup group for Warhol's Exploding Plastic Inevitable, a multimedia performance featuring film, music, lights and dancers. She soon began to work with the Velvet Underground, singing lead vocals on three songs ("Femme Fatale", "All Tomorrow's Parties" and "I'll Be Your Mirror") and backing vocals on another ("Sunday Morning") on their debut LP, The Velvet Underground and Nico.Released in 1967, the album became influential and lauded within rock music and art circles. Nico had a short-lived romantic relationship with the main singer and songwriter, Lou Reed. Around this era, she was also romantically involved with prominent musicians including John Cale (also from The Velvet Underground), Jim Morrison of The Doors, Jackson Browne, Brian Jones, Tim Buckley and Iggy Pop.Shortly after the Exploding Plastic Inevitable tour drew to a close in early 1967, Nico and The Velvet Underground parted ways. The exact reasons for her departure have not been made public, though both Reed and former Velvet Underground bassist John Cale played significant parts in various aspects of her solo career.Over the course of the next 20 years, she recorded a series of critically acclaimed albums, working with the likes of Brian Eno and Phil Manzanera. Cale was particularly involved in her music, producing four of her albums as well as arranging and playing various instruments on the recordings.Solo careerThe 1960sFor her debut album, 1967's Chelsea Girl,Nico: Chelsea Girl Nico recorded songs by, among others, Bob Dylan, Tim Hardin, Jackson Browne and Velvet Underground members Lou Reed, John Cale and Sterling Morrison, co-writing one song, "It Was a Pleasure Then", with Reed and Cale, an eight-minute piece with guitar and violin solos.Chelsea Girl is a traditional chamber-folk album that influenced the style of artists such as Leonard Cohen, with strings and flute arrangements superimposed by its producer. Nico was not satisfied with the finished album and had little say in production matters.For her LP The Marble Index, released in 1969,the marble index Nico wrote the lyrics and the bare bones of the music, mainly consisting of see-sawing harmonium chords. The arrangements were written by John Cale, who fleshed out Nico's songs with an array of folk and classical instruments. Frazier Mohawk produced the album. Nico's harmonium became her signature instrument for the rest of her career. The album combines classical elements with a European folk sound.The 1970sNico released two albums of her own in the 1970s: Desertshore (1970)Desertshore and The End (1974)The End ..., and contributed one track to a third, June 1, 1974.June, 1 1974 They were produced by John Cale (Desertshore was co-produced with Joe Boyd), who also played on each of the albums. On Desertshore, Cale plays most of the instruments. Nico wrote the music, sang, and played the harmonium. On The End, Cale plays a wide range of instruments including xylophone, synthesizer, acoustic guitar, and electric piano. That album featured Brian Eno, who played on the June 1, 1974 live album with Nico, Cale and Kevin Ayers (whose solo albums she contributed to).On December 13, 1974, Nico was the support act at Tangerine Dream's infamous concert at Reims Cathedral in Reims, France. The promoter had so greatly oversold the capacity of the venue that members of the audience could not move or reach the outside, eventually resulting in some fans urinating inside the cathedral hall.Orange Appeal - 25 years of ambient pioneers Tangerine Dream The Roman Catholic Church denounced these actions, ordered the rededication of the cathedral and banned future gigs on church property.The 1980sNico returned to New York in late 1979 where her comeback concert at CBGB in early 1980 was glowingly reviewed in the New York Times. She began playing regularly at the Mudd Club and other venues with Jim Tisdall accompanying her on harp and Gittler electric guitar, and they went on a sold-out tour of twelve cities in the East and Midwest. The Chicago appearance was voted best concert of the year by the alternative music press.Nico recorded her next studio album, Drama of Exile, in 1981.Drama of Exile It was a departure from her earlier work with John Cale and featured a mixture of rock and Middle Eastern arrangements. She recorded her final solo album, Camera Obscura, in 1985, with John Cale back as producer and The Faction (James Young and Graham Dids)Camera Obscura an experimental collection that featured Nico's version of the Richard Rodgers/Lorenz Hart song, "My Funny Valentine".Nico lived in Salford, Greater Manchester, sharing a house with two college students (Steve Turley and Neil Henney and some chickens) from Sheffield, and later formed a 'domestic partnership' with John Cooper Clarke.BBC - Music - Help/How to find&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; She was a vegetarian.Nico (I) - Biography&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;A number of Nico's performances towards the end of her life were recorded and released, including 1982's Heroine, 1986's Behind the Iron Curtain, and her final concert, Fata Morgana, recorded on June 6, 1988.Philippe Garrel filmsBetween 1970 and 1979, Nico made about seven films with French director Philippe Garrel. She met Garrel in 1969 and contributed the song "The Falconer" to his film, Le Lit de la Vierge. Soon after, she was living with Garrel and became a central figure in his cinematic and personal circles. Nico's first acting appearance with Garrel occurred in his 1972 film, La Cicatrice Intérieure. Nico also supplied the music for this film and collaborated closely with the director. She also appeared in the Garrel films Anathor (1972); the silent Jean Seberg biopic, Les Hautes Solitudes, released in 1974; Un ange passe (1975); Le Berceau de cristal (1976), starring Pierre Clementi, Nico and Anita Pallenberg; and Voyage au jardin des morts (1978). His 1991 film J'entends Plus la Guitare is dedicated to Nico. DeathFor over fifteen years, Nico was a heroin addict. Biographer Richard Witts speculated that the habit was caused by her traumatic experiences of war and of being an illegitimate child.In his book Songs They Never Play on the Radio, James Young, a member of her band in the 1980s, recalls many examples of Nico's fiendish behaviour due to the addiction. But just before her death, she had managed to kick the habit and had embarked on a regimen of exercise and healthy eating.On July 18, 1988, while on holiday with her son in Ibiza, Spain, Nico had a minor heart attack while riding a bicycle, and hit her head as she fell. A passing taxi driver found her unconscious, and had difficulty getting her admitted to local hospitals. She was incorrectly diagnosed as suffering from exposure, and she died the next day. X-rays later revealed a severe cerebral hemorrhage as the cause of her death.Nico was buried in her mother's plot in Grunewald Forest Cemetery in Berlin. A few friends played a tape of "Mütterlein", a song from Desertshore, at her funeral.LegacyNico has been an influence on many acts. Siouxsie and the Banshees, Patrick Wolf, Bauhaus, Stevie Nicks, Patti Smith, Morrissey, Björk, Coil, Jocelyn Pook, Fabienne Shine (who covered "All Tomorrow's Parties"), Dead Can Dance as well as numerous contemporary goth bands have all cited Nico as a major influence. Two of her songs, "The Fairest of the Seasons" and "These Days", both written by Jackson Browne and taken from Chelsea Girl, are featured in Wes Anderson's film The Royal Tenenbaums.Shannon Hoon of Blind Melon named his daughter 'Nico Blue' partly after Nico. Blind Melon's album Nico was released after Hoon's death.Hedwig and the Angry Inch, a movie written by John Cameron Mitchell, mentions Nico as an influential woman artist in its song, "Midnight Radio". Song is written by Stephen Trask.The Cult recorded the song "Nico", which celebrates the life of the singer, on their 2001 album Beyond Good And Evil.For her 2002 album, Kissin' Time, Marianne Faithful recorded "A Song for Nico", cowritten with Dave Stewart.Nico was portrayed by Christina Fulton in The Doors (1991). She was later portrayed by Meredith Ostrom in the 2006 film, Factory Girl, which chronicles the life of fellow "Warhol superstar", Edie Sedgwick.Natasha Khan from Bat for Lashes has quoted Nico as an influence in particular Desertshore. During 2007 she would start concerts with "Le Petit Chevalier" from that record.The rock band Anberlin named one of their songs after her: "Dance, Dance Christa Päffgen". The song also makes reference to her death, and her drug use.Acoustic Ladyland have a song called "Nico" on their album Last Chance Disco.Austin based band Shearwater dedicated their album Palo Santo to the memory of Nico. The opening song ("La Dame Et La Licorne") depicts Nico's tragic death at Ibiza, Spain.DiscographyStudio albumsYearTitle1967The Velvet Underground and Nico1967Chelsea Girl]]''1969The Marble Index]]''1970Desertshore1973The End]]''1981Drama of Exile (released in two versions)1985Camera Obscura]]''Live albumsYearTitle1974June 1, 19741982Do or Die: Nico in Europe1985Nico Live in Pécs1986Live Heroes1986Behind the Iron Curtain1987Nico in Tokyo1988Fata Morgana (Nico's Last Concert)1989Hanging Gardens1994Heroine2003Femme Fatale: The Aura Anthology (Drama of Exile expanded, plus live disc)2007All Tomorrow's Parties (live double album)Compilation albumsYearTitle1998Nico: The Classic Years2002Innocent & Vain - An Introduction to Nico2007Nico: The Frozen Borderline - 1968-1970SinglesYearTitle1965I'm Not Sayin' / The Last Mile (45 RPM Single)1981Saeta / Vegas (45 RPM Single, Flicknife Records FLS 206)BooksNico: The Life and Lies of an Icon by Richard Witts, (Virgin Books: London, 1992).Up-tight: the Velvet Underground Story by Victor Bockris and Gerard Malanga (Omnibus Press: London, 1995 reprint).Songs They Never Play On the Radio by James Young, (Bloomsbury Publishing Ltd: London, 1992).Nico: Photographies by Antoine Giacomoni, (Dragoon: Paris, 2002).Nico: Cible mouvante. Chansons, Poèmes, Journal by Nico, Jacques Pauvert and Ari Boulogne, (Pauvert: Paris, 2001).L'amour n'oublie jamais by Ari Boulogne, (Pauvert: Paris, 2001).Please Kill Me: The Uncensored Oral History of Punk by Legs McNeil and Gilliamn Mccain, (Grove Press: New York, 1996).LÜÜL: Ein Musikerleben zwischen Agitation Free, Ashra, Nico, der Neuen Deutschen Welle und den 17 Hippies by Lutz Ulbrich (Schwarzkopf & Schwarzkopf: Berlin, 2007).Film and playNico Icon (1995), documentary directed by Susanne Ofteringer(A more complete filmography.)Nico Icon Play by Stella Grundy premièred at Studio Salford on 5 September 2007Nico. Sphinx aus Eis by Werner Fritsch (2005)ReferencesExternal linksNico Web SiteHabits of Waste, Pt. 1 Evaluation of Nico's early workHabits of Waste, Pt. 2 Evaluation of Nico's later workNico, the Voice of Disaffected Youth - Audio story from National Public RadioNico (BBC Radio 4 Woman's Hour audio item)  Category:1938 births Category:1988 deaths Category:Contraltos Category:Female rock singers Category:German models Category:German female singers Category:German rock singers Category:German film actors Category:German female models Category:German vegetarians Category:The Velvet Underground Category:Warhol Superstars Category:Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute alumni Category:Dark cabaret musicians Category:Cycling road accident victimsbr:Nico ca:Nico de:Nico (Sängerin) es:Nico fr:Nico (chanteuse) it:Nico he:ניקו lt:Nico nl:Nico (Christa Päffgen) ja:ニコ no:Nico pl:Nico pt:Nico ru:Нико fi:Nico (muusikko) sv:Nico uk:Ніко zh:Nico