The Vietnam Veterans Memorial is a national war memorial located in Washington, D.C. It honors members of the U.S. armed forces who fought in the Vietnam War and who died in service or are still unaccounted for.Its construction and related issues have been the source of numerous controversies, some of which have resulted in additions to the memorial complex. The memorial currently consists of three separate parts: the Three Soldiers statue, the Vietnam Women's Memorial, and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Wall, which is the most recognized part of the memorial.The memorial was inspired by the 1971 establishment of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial State Park in Angel Fire, New Mexico, which was begun by the grief-stricken parents of Marine First Lieutenant David Westphall, who was among thirteen men in his unit killed in an ambush in Vietnam in 1968.Brochure of Vietnam Veterans Memorial State Park, Angel Fire, New MexicoThe main part of the memorial, which was completed in 1982, is located in Constitution Gardens adjacent to the National Mall, just northeast of the Lincoln Memorial. The memorial is maintained by the U.S. National Park Service, and receives around 3 million visitors each year. The Memorial Wall was designed by U.S. architect Maya Lin. The typesetting was performed by Datalantic in Atlanta, Georgia. In 2007, it was ranked tenth on the "List of America's Favorite Architecture" by the American Institute of Architects.History  April 30, 1975 – Fall of SaigonApril 27, 1979 – The Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund, Inc. (VVMF), was incorporated as a non-profit organization to establish a memorial to veterans of the Vietnam War. Much of the impetus behind the formation of the Fund came from a wounded Vietnam veteran, Jan Scruggs, who was inspired by the film The Deer Hunter. Eventually, $8.4 million was raised by private donations.July 1 1980 – Congress authorizes three acres near the Lincoln Memorial for the site. The "temporary" Munitions Building, built for War Department offices during World War I and finally razed in 1965, formerly occupied the site. The memorial is to be managed by the National Park Service under its National Mall and Memorial Parks group. A design competition is announced.December 29, 1980 – 2,573 register for design competition with a prize of $50,000.March 31, 1981 – 1,421 designs submitted. The designs are displayed at an airport hangar at Andrews Air Force Base for the selection committee, in rows covering more than  of floor space. Each entry was identified by number only, to preserve the anonymity of their authors. All entries were examined by each juror; the entries were narrowed down to 232, finally 39. The jury selected Entry Number 1026.May 6, 1981 – a jury of eight architects and sculptors (Harry Weese, Richard Hunt, Garret Eckbo, Costantino Nivola, James Rosati, Grady Clay, Hideo Sasaki, Pietro Belluschi, working with architectural advisor Paul Spreiregen)http://alum.mit.edu/ne/whatmatters/200209/index.html Vietnam Veterans Memorial lessons for September 11 unanimously selected a design by Maya Ying Lin, a 21 year old Yale University architecture student from Athens, Ohio, as the winner from 1,421 entries.January 1982 – The Three Soldiers was added to the design as a result of controversy over Lin's design.March 11 1982 – The design was formally approved.March 26, 1982 – Ground was formally broken.October 13, 1982 – U.S. Commission of Fine Arts approves erection of a flagpole to be grouped with sculptures.November 13, 1982 – Memorial dedication after a march to its site by thousands of Vietnam War veterans. As a National Memorial it was administratively listed on the National Register of Historic Places the same day.November 1984 – The Three Soldiers statue dedicated.November 11 1993 – Vietnam Women's Memorial was dedicated.1994 – The Pentagon, instead of adding two unidentified bodies of Vietnam veterans to the Tomb of the Unknowns, recommended that a display of medals be added behind the tomb with a plaque reading: "Let all know that the United States of America pays tribute to the members of the Armed Forces who answered their country's call." A Veterans Affairs subcommittee later changed the statement to read: "Let all know that the United States of America pays tribute to the members of the Armed Forces who served honorably in Southeast Asia during the Vietnam Era." Later, in 1998, Congress, prodded by the Vietnam-Era Caucus (composed of veteran Congressmen), discussed creating a "Vietnam Veterans Week" to honor the survivors of the war.November 10, 2004 – Dedication of memorial plaque honoring veterans who died after the war as a direct result of injuries suffered in Vietnam, but who fall outside Department of Defense guidelines.==Structure==  of the Wall taken on April 26, 2002 by the United States Geological Survey. The dots visible along the length of the angled wall are visitors. For a satellite view of the Wall in relation to other monuments, see Constitution Gardens.]]Memorial WallThe Memorial Wall, designed by Maya Ying Lin, is made up of two black granite walls 246&nbsp;feet 9&nbsp;inches (75&nbsp;meters) long. The walls are sunk into the ground, with the earth behind them. At the highest tip (the apex where they meet), they are 10.1&nbsp;feet (3&nbsp;m) high, and they taper to a height of eight inches (20cm) at their extremities. Granite for the wall came from Bangalore, Karnataka, India and was deliberately chosen because of its reflective quality. Stone cutting and fabrication was done in Barre, Vermont. Stones were then shipped to Memphis, Tennessee where the names were etched. The etching was completed using a photoemulsion and sandblasting process developed at GlassCraft by their research and development division (now known as Glassical, Inc.). The negatives used in the process are in storage at the Smithsonian Institution. When a visitor looks upon the wall, his or her reflection can be seen simultaneously with the engraved names, which is meant to symbolically bring the past and present together. One wall points toward the Washington Monument, the other in the direction of the Lincoln Memorial, meeting at an angle of 125° 12′. Each wall has 72 panels, 70 listing names (numbered 1E through 70E and 70W through 1W) and 2 very small blank panels at the extremities. There is a pathway along the base of the Wall, where visitors may walk, read the names, make a pencil rubbing of a particular name, or pray. Some people leave sentimental items there for their deceased loved ones, and non-perishable items are stored at the Museum and Archaeological Regional Storage Facility, with the exception of miniature American flags.Inscribed on the walls with the Optima typeface are the names of servicemen who were either confirmed to be KIA (Killed in Action) or remained classified as MIA (Missing in Action) when the walls were constructed in 1982. They are listed in chronological order, starting at the apex on panel 1E in 1959 (although it was later discovered that the first casualties were military advisers who were killed by artillery fire in 1957), moving day by day to the end of the eastern wall at panel 70E, which ends on May 25, 1968, starting again at panel 70W at the end of the western wall which completes the list for May 25, 1968, and returning to the apex at panel 1W in 1975. Symbolically, this is described as a "wound that is closed and healing." Information about rank, unit, and decorations are not given. The wall listed 58,159 names when it was completed in 1993; , there are 58,256 names, including 8 women. Approximately 1,200 of these are listed as missing (MIAs, POWs, and others), denoted with a cross; the confirmed dead are marked with a diamond. If the missing return alive, the cross is circumscribed by a circle (although this has never occurred ); if their death is confirmed, a diamond is superimposed over the cross. According to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund, "there is no definitive answer to exactly how many, but there could be as many as 38 names of personnel who survived, but through clerical errors, were added to the list of fatalities provided by the Department of Defense." Visitors can use directories to locate specific names.Beginning and ending timeline for those listed on the wallNovember 1, 1955 – Dwight D. Eisenhower deploys Military Assistance Advisory Group to train the South Vietnamese military units and secret police. However, the U.S. Department of Defense does not recognize such date since the men were supposedly only training the Vietnamese. The officially recognized date is the formation of the Military Assistance Command Viet-Nam, better known as MACV. This marks the official beginning of American involvement in the war as recognized by the memorial.June 8, 1956 – The first official death in Vietnam is U.S. Air Force Technical Sergeant Richard B. Fitzgibbon, Jr. of Stoneham, MA who was killed by another U.S. airman.October 21, 1957 – U.S. Army Special Forces Captain Harry G. Cramer is killed during a training action. He is added to the wall after its dedication.July 8, 1959 – Charles Ovnand and Dale R. Buis are killed by guerillas at Bien Hoa while watching the film The Tattered Dress. They are listed 1 and 2 at the wall's dedication. Ovnand's name is misspelled on the memorial as "Ovnard."April 30, 1975 – Fall of Saigon. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs uses May, 7, 1975 as the official end date for the Viet-Nam era as defined by Title 38 U.S. Code Section 101.May 15, 1975 – 18 Marines are killed on the last day of a rescue operation known as the Mayagüez incident with troops from the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. They are the last servicemen listed on the timeline (Daniel A. Benedett, Lynn Blessing, Walter Boyd, Gregory S. Copenhaver, Andres Garcia, Bernard Gause, Jr., Gary L. Hall, Joseph N. Hargrove, James J. Jacques, Ashton N. Loney, Ronald J. Manning, Danny G. Marshall, James R. Maxwell, Richard W. Rivenburgh, Elwood E. Rumbaugh, Antonio Ramos Sandovall, Kelton R. Turner, Richard Vande Geer).The Three Soldiers A short distance away from the wall is another part of the memorial, a bronze statue named The Three Soldiers (sometimes called The Three Servicemen). Negative reactions to Lin's design created a raging controversy; a compromise was reached by commissioning Frederick Hart (who had placed third in the original design competition) to produce a bronze figurative sculpture in the heroic tradition in order to complement the memorial wall. The statue was unveiled in 1984 and depicts three soldiers, purposefully identifiable as White American, Black American, and Hispanic American. The statue and the Wall appear to interact with each other, with the soldiers looking on in solemn tribute at the names of their dead comrades. The distance between the two allows them to interact while minimizing the impact of the addition on Lin's design.Women's Memorial Also part of the memorial is the Vietnam Women's memorial. It is located a short distance south of the Wall, north of the Reflecting Pool. It was designed by Glenna Goodacre and dedicated on November 11, 1993, to the women of the United States who served in the Vietnam War, most of whom were nurses. The woman looking up is named Hope, the woman praying is named Faith, and the woman tending to a wounded soldier is named Charity.In Memory memorial plaqueA memorial plaque, authorized by , was dedicated on November 10, 2004, at the northeast corner of the plaza surrounding the Three Soldiers statue to honor veterans who died after the war as a direct result of injuries suffered in Vietnam, but who fall outside Department of Defense guidelines. The plaque is a carved block of black granite,  by , inscribed "In memory of the men and women who served in the Vietnam War and later died as a result of their service. We honor and remember their sacrifice."Ruth Coder Fitzgerald, founder of The Vietnam War In Memory Memorial Plaque Project, worked for years and struggled against opposition to have the In Memory Memorial Plaque completed. The organization was disbanded, but their web site is maintained by the Vietnam War Project at Texas Tech University.ControversiesThe Vietnam War was one of the longest and most controversial wars in United States history. A stated goal of the memorial fund was to avoid commentary on the war itself, serving solely as a memorial to those who served. Nevertheless, a large number of controversies have surrounded the memorial.Despite this, or even perhaps partly due to it, the memorial seems to have been very successful in many ways. As noted above, it is visited by millions of people every year, and thousands of offerings and tokens are left by visitors.Design.]] The initial design for the complex was that of the memorial wall. The other elements were added later and were not part of the initial plans. The design was chosen by a panel of eight professional artists and architects. It is abstract in form, and strikingly in contrast to the figurative memorials, usually in white stone or bronze, whose tradition goes back hundreds, if not thousands of years. Thus, it did not meet many people's ideas of what a monument should look like.Veterans and others complained that it looked too much like an ugly scar in the ground, reflecting the attitude and stigma the American government and public had towards the war and its veterans. In particular, the fact that the wall sloped down below ground level caused some to claim that the monument attempted to hide the war. Some say that the downward slope, changing to a rise, serves as a powerful metaphor for the American experience during the war for visitors who walk its length. The simple, elegant listing of the names of the fallen starts slowly and grows in magnitude on descent. They believe that it is not possible to visit without gaining an understanding of the cultural trauma that gripped the nation during these years. Others claimed the dark stone made it look like a gravestone rather than glorifying the dead. On exiting, the view opens with a view toward the Washington Monument, giving those who lived through the era an uneasy sense of relief that the war is in the past and the nation was able to rise above it.Maya LinAs depicted in a documentary about Maya Lin (Maya Lin: A Strong Clear Vision), reactions to the chosen memorial design were intensely mixed. At the time of the contest, Lin was a young student at Yale University. The wall was designed as a class project for a funerary design class.DedicationAnother controversy related to the political leaders who did not appear at the 1982 dedication of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Neither Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, nor Ronald Reagan attended the ceremony. Senators Warner and Mathias did appear, however.The Three SoldiersThe creation of this element of the memorial is directly related to the design controversy mentioned above. There is also another controversy related to this part of the memorial; see the article on the sculpture for details.Women's memorialThe original winning entry of the Women's Memorial design contest was deemed unsuitable. Glenda Goodacre's entry received an honorable mention in the contest and she was asked to submit a modified maquette (design model). Goodacre's original design for the Women's Memorial statue included a standing figure of a nurse holding a Vietnamese baby, which although not intended as such, was deemed a political statement, and it was asked that this be removed. She replaced them with a figure of a kneeling woman holding an empty helmet.The Moving WallVietnam veteran John Devitt of Stockton, California, attended the 1982 dedication ceremonies of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. Recognizing what he saw as the healing nature of the Wall, he vowed to make a transportable version of the Wall, a "Traveling Wall" so those who were not able to travel to Washington, D.C. would be able to see and touch the names of friends or loved ones in their own home town.Using personal finances, John founded Vietnam Combat Veterans, Ltd. With the help of friends, the half-size replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, named The Moving Wall, was built and first put on display to the public in Tyler, Texas, in 1984.The Moving Wall visits hundreds of small towns and cities throughout the USA, staying five or six days at each site. Local arrangements for each visit are made months in advance by veterans organizations and other civic groups. Thousands of people all over the US volunteered their time and money to help honor the fallen.Desire for a hometown visit of The Moving Wall was so high the waiting list became long. In 1987, Vietnam Combat Veterans built a second structure of The Moving Wall. A third structure was added in 1989. In 2001, one of the structures was retired due to wear.By 2006, there had been more than 1000 hometown visits of The Moving Wall. The count of people who visited The Moving Wall at each display ranges from 5,000 to more than 50,000; the total estimate of visitors is in the tens of millions.As the Wall moves from town to town on interstates, it is often escorted by state troopers and up to thousands of local citizens on motorcycles. Many of these are Patriot Guard Riders, who consider escorting The Moving Wall to be a "special mission," which is coordinated on their website. As it passes towns, even when it is not planning a stop in those towns, local veterans organizations sometimes plan for local citizens to gather by the highway and across overpasses to wave flags and salute the Wall.TraditionsAll nonperishable items left at the memorial&mdash;with the exception of miniature American flags&mdash;are collected daily and stored at the Museum and Archaeological Regional Storage Facility of the National Park Service.A selection of items left at the memorial are on display at the nearby American History section of the Smithsonian Institution.See alsoThe Moving WallVietnam Forces National Memorial, CanberraVietnam Veterans Memorial (The Wall-USA), an on-line memorialVietnam Veterans of America, chartered by Congress and campaigns on issues important to Vietnam veteransThe Virtual Wall, an on-line memorialNotesReferencesVietnam Veterans Memorial, National Park Service leaflet, GPO:2004&mdash;304-377/00203The National Parks: Index 2001–2003. Washington: U.S. Department of the Interior.Further readingAshabranner, Brent K., Always to Remember: The Story of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Putnam, New York 1989.Ashabranner, Brent K., Their Names to Live: What the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Means to America, Twenty-first Century Press, Brookfield CT, 1998.Berdahl, Daphne, "Voices at the Wall: Discourses of Self, History and National Identity at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial," History & Memory: Studies in Representation of the Past 6 (Fall/Winter 1994), 88-124.Blair, Carole, Jeppeson, Marsha S., and Pucci, Enrico Jr., "Public Memorializing in Postmodernity: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial as Prototype," Quarterly Journal of Speech 77 (August 1991), 263-288.Capasso, Nicholas, The National Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Context: Commemorative Public Art in America, 1960–1997, Ph.D. Thesis, Rutgers University, 1998.Carlson, A. Cheree, and Hocking, John E., "Strategies of Redemption at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Western Journal of Speech Communication 52 (September 1988), 203-215.Carney, Lora S., "Not Telling Us What to Think: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Metaphor and Symbolic Activity 8 (1993), 211-219.Danto, Arthur, "The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," The Nation, 31 August 1985, 152-155.Ellis, Caron S., "So Old Soldiers Don't Fade Away: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Journal of American Culture 15 (Summer 1992), 25-28.Ehrenhaus, Peter, "Silence and Symbolic Expression," Communication Monographs 55 (March 1988), 41-57.Foss, Sonja K, "Ambiguity as Persuasion: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Communication Quarterly 34 (Summer 1986), 326-340.Friedman, Daniel S., "Public Things in the Modern City: Belated Notes on Tilted Arc and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial," JAE: Journal of Architectural Education 49 (November 1995), 62-78.Griswold, Charles L., "The Vietnam Veterans Memorial and the Washington Mall: Philosophical Thoughts on Political Iconography," Critical Inquiry 12 (Summer 1986), 688-719.Haines, Harry, "'What Kind of War?': An Analysis of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Critical Studies in Mass Communucation 3 (1986), 1-20.Hess, Elizabeth, "Vietnam: Memorials of Misfortune," in Unwinding the Vietnam War: From War into Peace (Reese Williams, ed.), Real Comet Press, Seattle 1987, 261-270.Hubbard, William, "A Meaning for Monuments," The Public Interest 74 (Winter 1984), 17-30.Katakis, Michael, The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Crown, New York 1988.Lopes, Sal, The Wall: Images and Offerings from the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Collins, New York 1987.McLeod, Mary, "The Battle for the Monument: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," in The Experimental Tradition (Helene Lipstadt, ed.), Rizzoli, New York 1989, 115-137.Morrissey, Thomas F., Between the Lines: Photographs from the National Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Syracuse University Press, Syracuse 2000.Ochsner, Jeffrey Karl, “A Space of Loss: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial.” JAE: Journal of Architectural Education 50 (February 1997), 156-171.Palmer, Laura, Shrapnel in the Heart: Letters and Remembrances from the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Random House, New York 1987.Scott, Grant F., "Meditations in Black: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Journal of American Culture 13 (Fall 1990), 37-40.Scruggs, Jan C., and Swerdlow, Joel L., To Heal a Nation: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, Harper & Row, New York 1985.Sturken, Marita, "The Wall, the Screen, and the Image: The Vietnam Veterans Memorial," Representations 35 (Summer 1991), 118-142.Wagner-Pacific, Robin, & Schwartz, Barry, "The Vietnam Veterans Memorial: Commemorating a Difficult Past." The American Journal of Sociology, 97 (1991), 376-420.External linksOfficial NPS website: Vietnam Veterans MemorialThe Virtual Wall (TM)View The WallMaya Ying Lin's Vietnam Veterans Memorial proposal at the Library of CongressThe Moving Wall (TM)Vietnam Veterans Wall South in Pensacola, FL (aka 'The Wall South')Photo essay: Valentine's Day at the U.S. Viet Nam War Memorial (Wikinews article)Maya Lin article in Seattle WeeklyBringing Home the WallThe Vietnam Veterans Memorial (The Wall-USA) websitePhotos of the Wall at &quot;Sites of Memory&quot;Army Medical StatisticsVietnam Veterans of AmericaThe Merry Prankster, chapter 12 of Prisoners of Hope by Susan Katz Keating, describing actions by Ted SampleyHistory of the Wall at aiipowmia.com, a group involved with the POW-MIA controversy.NW Veterans – Vietnam's WomenOnline version of the Washington D.C. MemorialPhoto Collection of Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington DCA Wall As Witness Documentary about how the Wall is both a Wall of Healing and a Wall that holds many heartaches. Features interviews by Special Assistant to the Director of the POW/MIA Office at the Department of Defense, Adrian Cronauer; Gold Star Mother, Ann Sherman Wolcott; Rolling Thunder Founder, Artie Muller; and the most decorated Vietnam Veteran, David Christian.Interactive Vietnam Veterans Memorial Leave a tribute, a story or photograph about any of the 58,256 veterans killed.Vietnam Unit Memorial Monument, Coronado CaliforniaCategory:1982 architecture Category:Monuments and memorials in Washington, D.C. Category:National Mall Category:National Memorials of the United States Category:Outdoor sculptures in Washington, D.C. Category:Registered Historic Places in Washington, D.C. Category:United States military memorials and cemeteries Category:Vietnam War memorials and cemeteriesca:Vietnam Veterans Memorial de:Vietnam Veterans Memorial es:Monumento a los Veteranos del Vietnam fr:Vietnam Veterans Memorial he:אנדרטת מלחמת וייטנאם nl:Vietnam Veterans Memorial ja:ベトナム戦争戦没者慰霊碑 pl:Vietnam Veterans Memorial pt:Monumento aos Veteranos do Vietname ru:Мемориал ветеранов Вьетнама simple:Vietnam Veterans Memorial vi:Đài tưởng niệm Chiến tranh Việt Nam zh:越战纪念碑