 | birth_place =Dublin, Ireland | death_date = | death_place = | party =PDs;ELDR | spouse = | profession =journalist, politician | religion = | signature = |Pat Cox (born 28 November 1952) is a former Irish politician and television current affairs presenter. He was President of the European Parliament from 2002 to 2004 and served as a member of the parliament from 1989–2004. He is now a consultant for European Integration Solutions.http://www.www.eu-is.comBorn in Dublin but raised in Limerick, Cox was educated at Trinity College, Dublin. He first came to prominence as a journalist, then a presenter, with RTÉ's Today Tonight, a four nights a week current affairs programme which dominated the Irish television schedules in the 1980s. Cox left the programme to become a political candidate. He was elected an MEP in 1989 for the constituency of [[Munster (European Parliament constituency)| Munster]], representing the Progressive Democrats (PDs). In the 1992 general election he was also elected to Dáil Éireann as a Teachta Dála (TD) for Cork South Central.Following Desmond O'Malley's retirement from the party leadership in 1993, Cox stood for election to the post, but was beaten by Mary Harney. Cox became deputy leader.Cox left the PDs in 1994 in a dispute over his seat as an MEP. It was expected that Cox would not contest his seat in the 1994 European Elections, with O'Malley, who had a large Munster base, becoming the party candidate. However Cox almost literally at the last minute chose to contest the seat as an independent, beating O'Malley, the PD candidate. On being elected, he resigned his Dáil seat and a by-election was held on 10 November 1994, which was won by Fine Gael.He was elected president of the ELDR group in the European Parliament in 1998 and was unanimously re-elected Group President in June 1999 following the elections to the European Parliament. He resigned this post when he became President of the European Parliament on 15 January 2002 in accordance with an agreement between the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the ELDR groups at the start of the term (in the customary two-way split of the five-year Presidency of the European Parliament).On 20 May 2004 he was awarded the Karlspreis for his achievements with regard to the enlargement of the European Union and for his work in promoting greater EU democratisation.He did not contest the 2004 elections to the European parliament. The Christian Democrats (European People's Party - EPP) and Socialist Groups agreed at the customary two-way split of the Presidency of the European Parliament. Josep Borrell Fontelles, a Spanish Socialist, assumed the Presidency on 20 July 2004, holding it until 15 January 2007.He is a member of the Comite d'Honneur of the Institute of European Affairs. In 2006 he was elected President of European Movement, an international lobby association.External linksEuropean Parliament Old President Pages - CoxInternational Crisis Group - Board Member Cox Profile       Category:Presidents of the European Parliament Category:Progressive Democrats politicians Category:Members of the European Parliament from Ireland Category:Irish television personalities Category:Limerick Category:People from County Dublin Category:1952 births Category:Living people Category:Teachtaí Dála Category:Karlspreis Recipients Category:Members of the 27th Dáil Category:Recipients of the Star of Romania Orderca:Pat Cox de:Pat Cox eo:Pat Cox es:Pat Cox fr:Pat Cox ga:Pádraig Mac an Choiligh it:Pat Cox nl:Pat Cox pl:Pat Cox ro:Pat Cox ru:Кокс, Пэт fi:Pat Cox