Horde is the single-album Christian black metal project of Australian musician Jayson Sherlock, formerly of Mortification and Paramaecium. The project was active in 1994, when the only album Hellig Usvart was released on Nuclear Blast, and in 2007, when the 'band' performed its only liveshow in Oslo, Norway. Hellig Usvart proved to be a seminal release for the Christian black metal movement, and the album was highly controversial in the secular black metal scene at the time it was released.HistorySherlock recorded one album, Hellig Usvart ("Holy Unblack") under the pseudonym "Anonymous" (a possible play on "Euronymous", Mayhem guitarist) and it was released on Nuclear Blast Records in 1994, followed by a later re-release on Rowe Productions. The title "Hellig Usvart" is Norwegian, a fact which led many to believe, while Sherlock was still anonymous, that Horde originated from Norway, a fact backed up by the poor production quality on the album, considered to be a trademark of Norwegian black metal.Upon the initial release of Hellig Usvart, a publicity campaign was launched throughout the black metal community, revolving around Sherlock being credited as "Anonymous". Unsuccessful death-threats were given to Markus Staiger at Nuclear Blast to reveal the identity of the anonymous musician who had created the album, although the identity of the musician was later revealed as Jayson Sherlock. Horde as an entity also received death threats for being a Christian band playing black metal. Upon original release in 1994, 4,000 copies of the album were printed. In 1999 Rowe Productions purchased all remaining copies and distributed them world-wide. The album has since been re-released on this label with an additional track entitled, "My Heart Doth Beseech Thee (O Master)". The album is difficult to come by and sought after by many.   Hellig Usvart pioneered the previously unheard of genre of "Christian black metal" (sometimes referred to as "Holy UnBlack Metal"); since its release bands such as Dark Endless (also a black metal band with one anonymous member), Crimson Moonlight and Antestor have emerged as proponents of Christian black metal. The album is satirical of the satanic black metal scene in that it twists common black metal phrases into a Christian ideal. The message of the album is generally the destruction and rejection of Satan, in favour of God. There is also direct and indirect praise of God throughout the record. Horde's music is mostly simple, dark and very fast driving unblack metal-style with high pitch shrieking or growling vocals. Some songs such as "Invert the Inverted Cross" utilise double-bass drum work to drive the song. Keyboards are sprinkled in throughout the album as well and appear on such tracks as "Release and Clothe the Virgin Sacrifice".Horde gave their first and only live performance at Nordic Fest in Oslo, Norway on November 3, 2006, with Jayson Sherlock as drummer and vocalist and with help from three members of the Christian black metal band Drottnar.DiscographyAlbumsHellig Usvart - (1994)Alive in Oslo - (2007)The Day of Total Armageddon Holocaust - (2007)ReferencesNotesExternal linksHorde at Metal-ArchivesRowe ProductionsPictures from the only Horde concert ever at Nordic FestCategory:Christian metal musical groups Category:Christian musical groups Category:Australian heavy metal musical groups Category:Australian black metal musical groups Category:Unblack metal musical groups Category:Musical groups established in 1994de:Horde (Band) es:Horde (banda) fr:Horde (groupe) lb:Horde nl:Horde (band) pl:Horde pt:Horde fi:Horde