   Menlo Park is an affluent city in San Mateo County, in the San Francisco Bay Area of California. It is located at latitude 37°29' North, longitude 122°9' East. Menlo Park had 30,785 inhabitants as of the 2000 U.S. Census. It should be noted that the origin of the name of Menlo Park, California pre-dates (ca 1850)Stanger, 1963. pg. 109 any work done by Thomas Edison (ca 1876) in Menlo Park, New Jersey.HistoryIn the nineteenth century two Irish immigrants, Dennis J. Oliver and his brother-in-law D. C. McGlynn, purchased a  tract of land on the former Rancho de las Pulgas.   In the 1850s they erected a gate with a wooden arch bearing the inscription "Menlo Park", at the entrance to their property (now the intersection of Middle Ave and El Camino Real). Stanger, 1963. pg. 109 The word "Menlo" derived from the owners' former home of Menlough in County Galway, Ireland. In 1863, the San Francisco and San Jose Rail Road named a nearby station "Menlo Park" after the sign. The 1867 station building still stands on the platform of the current Caltrain station, used by the local Chamber of Commerce. The town of Menlo Park grew up around this station, becoming a popular home for San Francisco businessmen. A post office arrived in 1870, and the city was incorporated in 1874. The original arch which gave its name to the stations and ultimately the city survived until 1922, when it was destroyed in an automobile accident.Geographyhttp://money.cnn.com/magazines/moneymag/bplive/2008/snapshots/PL0646870.html&lt;/ref&gt;.PoliticsThe city is mostly Democratic, with 47% being registered Democrats and 32% being Republicans. In the state legislature Menlo Park is located in the 11th Senate District, represented by Democrat Joe Simitian, and in the 21st Assembly District, represented by Democrat Ira Ruskin. Federally, Menlo Park is located in California's 14th congressional district, which has a Cook PVI of D +18 and is represented by Democrat Anna Eshoo.FeaturesHome to the Western Region Geography office of the United States Geological Survey.Sand Hill Road, location of many Silicon Valley venture capital firms.Home to SRI International, formerly Stanford Research Institute.Home to the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.Corporate offices and show gardens of Sunset Magazine.Google Inc. was founded here on September 7, 1998Adjacent to Stanford University and Stanford Shopping Center.Home to Saint Patrick Archdiocesan Seminary and University.Home to Fuller Northern CaliforniaHome to Geron Corporation, a biotechnology company focusing on telomere and stem cell research.Home to the original store of the Round Table Pizza chain.Historic LandmarksCalifornia Historical LandmarksCampsite and terminus point of the de Portolá Expedition from November 6, 1796 through November 10, 1796.Home to the oldest continually operating train station in California, making it State Historical Landmark #955.Twentieth Century Folk Art Environments, State Historical Landmark #939.National Historical Landmarks National Register of Historic Places lists:Barron--Latham--Hopkins Gate Lodge #8600195Church of the Nativity (Menlo Park, California) #80000855Menlo Park Railroad Station #74000556Rock Magnetics Laboratory(USGS) #94001647.Famous residentsSergey Brin (Google, 1973&ndash;)Lindsey Buckingham (musician, 1949&ndash;)Henry Cowell (composer, 1897&ndash;1965)Jeanne DuPrau an author whose books are typically geared towards preteens and teenagers.Michael &quot;Mike&quot; William Eggleston (bassist,The Loading Zone, 1948&ndash;)Nancy Farmer (author)Merle &quot;Hap&quot; Johnson (decorated World War II colonel shot down in France; led men to safety in Spain across the Pyrenees, 1918&ndash;2007)Phar Lap (New Zealand racehorse)Milton Latham (railroad baron/politician/California Governor (shortest term - 5 days)Josie Maran (model, 1978&ndash;)Stevie Nicks (musician, 1948&ndash;)Kathleen Rand Reed (corporate anthropologist and ethnomarketer)Courtney Thorne-Smith (actress, 1967&ndash;)Joan Baez, folk singerJohn Vesely, singer-songwriter of Secondhand Serenade (musician)Vince GuaraldiStan Getz (American jazz saxophone player)Isaac Baron (Professional poker player - Team Full Tilt Poker)Traffic and parkingMenlo Park suffers from traffic congestion at peak use hours owing to its proximity to Stanford University, and its lack of high capacity arterials that connect Interstate 280 to U.S. Route 101. Much of the city's arterial network consists of two-lane roads. The city analyzed traffic impacts through the year 2010 in a study for its General Plan.RKH, Civil and Transportation Engineering, Traffic Analysis for the City of Menlo Park Comprehensive Plan Amendment, Working Paper No. 6, (1989) Traffic volumes were forecast to include all foreseeable traffic growth based upon Menlo Park and areawide land use forecasts. These data were utilized by the city to design roadway mitigation to minimize congestion. Sound levels were also assessed to understand the impacts to citywide ambient noise. Sound levels within  of U.S. Route 101 were forecast to be 76 dBA Ldn, while levels of 73 dBA were forecast within comparable distances of El Camino Real; other noisiest arterials were Sand Hill Road and Willow Road, with levels expected up to 71 dBA.Earth Metrics Inc., Noise Impacts and Mitigation Measures for the Environmental Impact Report on the Revised Land Use and Circulation Elements, Menlo Park, California, submitted by the city of Menlo Park to the California State Clearinghouse, Document Number 7942.002, May 23, 1989Menlo Park has a policy against parking on residential streets between 2 AM and 5 AM. This policy is enforced by the Menlo Park Police Department every night of the year. Each vehicle is allotted only one warning before being ticketed with a $35 fine. Residents may purchase annual parking permits if they live in certain apartment buildings within the city limits that lack adequate resident parking spaces and are zoned R3. All residents may purchase up to 50 one-night parking permits each six months for guests (guest permits cost $10 for a pack of 5 as of April 2005). Vehicles for the handicapped are exempt.See alsoMenlo Park City School DistrictMenlo Park, New JerseyMenlo Park (Pretoria, South Africa)NotesReferencesStanger, Frank M. South from San Francisco: The Life Story of San Mateo County 1963, publisher: San Mateo County Historical AssociationExternal linksCity of Menlo ParkCity of Menlo Park - ParksMenlo Park LibraryMenlo Park Library FoundationMenlo Park Historical AssociationWalking Tour of Menlo Park Category:Cities in California Category:Cities in the San Francisco Bay Area Category:Communities in San Mateo County, Californiaar:مينلو بارك، سان ماتيو، كاليفورنيا bg:Менло Парк de:Menlo Park es:Menlo Park fr:Menlo Park id:Menlo Park, California ht:Menlo Park, Kalifòni nl:Menlo Park pl:Menlo Park (Kalifornia) pt:Menlo Park sv:Menlo Park th:เมนโลพาร์ก vi:Menlo Park, California vo:Menlo Park zh:门洛帕克 (加利福尼亚州)