The Masked Lovebird (Agapornis personata), also called Yellow-collared Lovebird, is a monotypic species of bird of the lovebird genus in the parrot family. They are native to northeast Tanzania, and they have been introduced to Burundi and Kenya. Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concern.DescriptionThe Masked Lovebird is a mainly green small parrot about 14.5cm (5.5 in) long. It upper parts are a darker green than its lower surfaces. Its head is black, and it has a bright red beak and white eyerings. Yellow on the breast is continuous with a yellow collar and an expansion of yellow over the nape of the neck. Male and female have identical external appearance.BreedingThe Masked Lovebird brings nesting material in its beak to a tree cavity for their nest. The eggs are white and there are usually four to five in a clutch. The female incubates the eggs for about 23 days and the chicks leave the nest about 42 days after hatching.AvicultureThe blue mutation was originally found in wild birds in the 1920s and is the oldest colour mutation known in the lovebird genus. The other mutations are a result of selective breeding in aviculture. Various color mutations exist, including blue, cobalt, slate, dilute slate and violet.They are also reportedly more shy and reserved in comparison to the peach-faced lovebird. Their diet is mainly seed with fresh fruit and vegetables. The best fruit and vegetables to feed them are green and yellow. Do not feed them anything salted, or iceberg lettuce, or anything containing caffeine or chocolate. Avocado and other certain fruits can also harm them.You should place at least three toys in their cage so your bird won't get bored when you're not with them. If they live in a cage alone they will be more dependent on their owner, if they live with other lovebirds they will tend to ignore you more and pay attention to the other birds. Their cage should be at least 18" x 18"- if it is too small they will feel crowded. Lovebirds can make great pets if their owner is willing to spend time with them, especially if they are acquired and hand fed from a very young age.Gallery Image:Masked Lovebird (Agapornis personata) -Auckland Zoo.jpg|Masked Lovebird (wild type) Image:Masked Lovebird (blue mutant).jpg|Masked Lovebirds (blue colour mutation) ReferencesExternal linksCategory:Agapornis Category:Birds of Africa Category:Birds kept as petscs:Papoušík škraboškový de:Schwarzköpfchen es:Agapornis personatus fr:Inséparable masqué hr:Crnoglava papiga it:Agapornis personata hu:Álarcos törpepapagáj nl:Zwartmaskeragapornis no:Svarthodet dvergpapegøye pl:Nierozłączka czarnogłowa ru:Масковый неразлучник sv:Svarthuvad dvärgpapegoja zh:黄领牡丹鹦鹉