Feodor Ivanovich Chaliapin (Russian: Фёдор Ива́нович Шаля́пин, Fyodor Ivanovich Shalyapin; &ndash;April 12, 1938) (not to be confused with his son, Feodor Chaliapin, Jr., 6 Oct 1905-17 September 1992) was the most famous Russian opera singer of the 20th century. He is often credited with establishing the tradition of naturalistic acting in his chosen art form.During the first phase of his career, Chaliapin endured strong competition from three other great Russian basses, namely, the rich-voiced Lev Sibiriakov (1869-1942), the more lyrical Vladimir Kastorsky (1871-1948), and Dmitri Buchtoyarov (1866-1918), whose voice lay between the extremes exemplified by Sibiriakov and Kastorsky. The fact that Chaliapin is far and away the best remembered of this magnificent quartet of rival basses testifies to the magnetic power of his personality, the acuteness of his musical interpretations and the vividness of his performances.Early lifeFeodor Chaliapin was born into a peasant family on February 1 (OS) 1873 in Kazan, in the wing of merchant Lisitzin's house on Rybnoryadskaya Street (now Pushkin Street) 10. This wing no longer exists, but the house with the yard where the wing was situated is still there. The next day, Candlemas Day (The Meeting of Our Lord), he was baptized in Bogoyavlenskaya church on former Bolshaya Prolomnaya street (nowadays Bauman Street). His godparents were the neighbors: the shoemaker Nikolay Tonkov and 12-year-old girl Ludmilochka Kharitonova. The dwelling was expensive for his father, Ivan Yakovlevich, who served as a clerk in the Zemskaya Uprava (Land Council), and in 1878 the Chaliapin family moved to the village Ametyevo (also Ometyevo, or the Ometyev settlements, now a settlement within Kazan) behind the area of Sukonnaya Sloboda, and settled in a small house.CareerLargely self-taught, he began his career at Tbilisi and the Imperial Opera, St. Petersburg in 1894. He was then invited to sing at the Mamontov Private Opera (1896-1899); his first role there was as Mephistopholes in Faust, in which he was a considerable success. At Mamontov he also met Sergei Rachmaninoff, who was serving as an assistant conductor there and with whom he remained friends for life. Rachmaninoff taught him much about musicianship, including how to analyze a music score, and insisted that Chaliapin learn not only his own roles but also all the other roles in the operas in which he was slated to appear. With Rachmaninoff he learned the role of Boris Godunov, which became his signature character.Schonberg, Virtuosi, 339. Chaliapin returned the favor by showing Rachmaninoff how he built each of his interpretations around a culminating moment or "point." Regardless of where that point was or at which dynamic within that piece, the performer had to know how to approach it with absolute calculation and precision; otherwise, the whole construction of the piece could crumble and the piece could become disjointed. Rachmaninoff put this approach to considerable use when he became a full-time concert pianist after World War I.Norris, New Grove, 714.After Mamontov, the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow engaged Chaliapin, where he appeared regularly from 1899 until 1914. During the First World War, Chaliapin also appeared regularly at the Zimin Private Opera in the Russian capital. In addition, from 1901, Chaliapin began appearing the West, making a sensational debut at La Scala that year as the devil in a production of Boito's Mefistofele, under the baton of the 20th Century's most dynamic opera conductor, Arturo Toscanini. At the end of his career, Toscanini observed that the Russian bass was the greatest operatic talent with whom he had ever worked. The singer's Metropolitan Opera debut in the 1907 season was disappointing due to the unprecedented frankness of his stage acting; but he returned to the Met in 1921 and sang there with immense success for eight seasons, the New York audiences having grown more broad-minded in the meantime. In 1913, Chaliapin was introduced to London and Paris by the brilliant entrepreneur Sergei Diaghilev, at which point he began giving well-received solo recitals in which he sang traditional Russian folk songs as well as more serious fare. Among these songs are Along Peterskaya, which he recorded with a British-based Russian folk-instruments' orchestra, and the song which he made famous throughout the world: The Song of the Volga Boatmen..]] In 1926, Chaliapin toured Australia to much acclaim.Later lifeIn his private life, Chaliapin's personal arrangements were disrupted in consequence of the Russian Revolution of 1917. At first he was treated as a revered artist of the newly-emerged Soviet Russia. However, the harsh realities of everyday life under the new regime, and the unstable climate which became manifest during the ensuing Civil War, combined with, reportedly, the encroachment on some of his property by the Communist authorities, http://www.grazhdanin.com/grazhdanin.phtml?var=Arkhiv/2002/16-17/statya10&amp;number=?16-17%C2%A02002%D0%B3&lt;/ref&gt; caused him to remain perpetually outside Russia after 1921. He still maintained, however, that he was not anti-Soviet. Chaliapin initially moved to Finland and later lived in France. Cosmopolitan Paris, with its significant Russian emigre population, became his base, and ultimately, the city of his death. He was renowned for his larger-than-life carousing during this period - but he never sacrificed his dedication to his art.Chaliapin's attachment to Paris did not prevent him from pursuing an international operatic and concert career in England, America and further afield. His most famous part was the title role of Boris Godunov (excerpts of which he recorded 1929-31 and earlier). His is remembered also for his impersonations of Ivan the Terrible in Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's Maid of Pskov, Mephistopheles in Gounod's Faust, Jules Massenet's Don Quichotte, King Philip in Giuseppe Verdi's Don Carlos and Bertram in Meyerbeer's Robert le Diable.Largely owing to his advocacy, Russian operas such as Modest Mussorgsky's Boris Gudonuv and Khovanshchina, Mikhail Glinka's Ivan Susanin, Alexander Borodin's Prince Igor and Rimsky-Korsakov's The Tsar's Bride became well known in the West. He made one sound film for the director G.W. Pabst, the 1933 film version of Adventures of Don Quixote. Rather than going out in one version with subtitles, the film was made in three different versions - French, English, and German, as was sometimes the prevailing custom. Chaliapin starred in all three versions, each of which used the same script, sets and costumes, but different supporting casts. The English and the French versions are the most often seen, and both were released in May 2006 on a DVD. Pabst's film was not a version of the Massenet opera but a dramatic adaptation of Cervantes' novel, with music and songs by Jacques Ibert.]] In 1932, Chaliapin published a memoir, Man and Mask: Forty Years in the Life of a Singer. Chaliapin's last stage performance took place at the Monte Carlo Opera in 1937, as Boris. He died the following year of leukaemia, aged 65, in Paris, where he was interred. In 1984, his remains were transferred from Paris to Moscow with elaborate ceremony. They were re-buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery.One of his sons, Feodor Chaliapin, Jr. (1905-1992), had a notable career in Western motion pictures as a character actor. Another son, Boris Chaliapin, was a well-known artist, having painted the portraits used on 414 covers of the mass-circulation news magazine TIME between 1942 and 1970.TIME Magazine covers by Boris Chaliapin at time.comAutobiographical worksChaliapin's autobiographical collaboration with Maxim Gorky occurred in 1917. He had already begun writing his autobiography long before, in the Crimea. In 1917, while he was in the south of France, he was urged to write such a work by a French journalist who hoped to ghost-write it. Gorky, who was his intimate friend and was then living in Capri, persuaded Chaliapin to stay with him there and with the help of a secretary a great deal of information was taken down which Gorky fashioned into a long manuscript, published in Russia in 1917 as a series of articles in the journal Letopis. Meanwhile Chaliapin attempted to sell it to an American publisher, who refused it on learning that it had been published in Russian. There was a rift with Gorky, and Chaliapin worked with another editor to produce a 'new' version of his original text. This was published in America as Pages of My Life (Harper and Brothers, New York 1927), took the story only up to 1905, and lacked the depth, style and life of Gorky's version. Then in 1932 Chaliapin published Man and Mask (Alfred A. Knopf, New York) to celebrate the fortieth anniversary of his first stage appearance. The original manuscript of the Gorky version was first translated and published in English in 1967, by Nina Froud and James Hanley, as Chaliapin: An autobiography as told to Maxim Gorky (Stein and Day, New York), and included an appendix of original correspondence including a section relating to Gorky.See the translator's note (by Nina Froud) in the 1967 work.RecordingsChaliapin possessed a high-lying bass voice with an umistakable timbre which recorded well. He cut a prolific number of discs for His Master's Voice, beginning in Russia with acoustical recordings made at the dawn of the 20th Century, and continuing through the early electrical (microphone) era. Some of his performances at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in London were recorded live in the 1920s, including a haunting version of the "Death of Boris" from Boris Godunov. His last disc, made in Tokyo in 1936, was of the famous The Song of the Volga Boatmen. Many of his recordings were issued in the United States by RCA Victor. His legacy of recordings is available on CDs issued by EMI, Preiser, Naxos and other commercial labels.Quotations"...in Russian Art Shalyapin is an epoch like Pushkin." (Maxim Gorky)Michael Scott remarked, "Chaliapin ranks with Caruso and Maria Callas as one of the three greatest singers and most potent and influential artists of the twentieth century."Michael Scott, The Record of Singing Vol. 1 (Duckworth, London 1977), 223." ... unrivalled as a singing actor in his age or any subsequent one." (Rosa Ponselle)At the Met he sang the role of Basilio in Rossini's The Barber of Seville as a vulgar, unctious, greasy priest, constantly picking his nose and wiping his fingers onto his cassock. Audiences were appalled. Defending himself, Chaliapin said in an interview that Basilio "is a Spanish priest. It is a type I know well. He is not the modern American priest, clean and well-groomed; he is dirty and unkempt, he is a beast, and this is what I make him, a comic beast."Schonberg, Virtuosi, 340.Some accused Chaliapin of brawling backstage. Rachmaninoff agreed. "Feodor is a brawler. They are all scared of his very spirit. He shouts suddenly or even hits someone! And Feodor's fist is powerful ... He can take care of himself. And how else should one behave? Backstage at our own theater it's just like a saloon. They shout, they drink, they swear in the foulest language."Schonberg, Virtuosi, 339.Geraldine Farrar said Chaliapin had a voice like "melodious thunder" but warned of his unanounced antics to hog the limelight onstage. "Chaliapin was a wonderful opera partner, but one had to be watchful for sudden departures from the rehearsal plan, and the touches of originality favorable only for the aggrandizement of Chaliapin."Schonberg, Virtuosi, 336.Rosa Ponselle was equally vocal about his scene-stealing: "If a colleague gave him an inch, he would steal an entire scene. He was so artful about it that one wouldn't realize what was going on until it was too late."ReferencesExternal linksProfileTatar Museums (in English)Chalyapin and Kazan (in Russian)Kazan: Kultura (in Russian)Theodore Chaliapine includes two recordingsChaliapine - six photographs in characterAnother Biography of Fyodor ShalyapinMemorial house of F. I. Shalyapin, Moscow, many pictures, five recordings Category:1873 births Category:1938 deaths Category:Russian opera singers Category:Operatic basses Category:People from Kazanbg:Фьодор Шаляпин cv:Шаляпин Фёдор Иванович de:Fjodor Iwanowitsch Schaljapin es:Fiódor Chaliapin fr:Fédor Chaliapine it:Fëdor Ivanovič Šaljapin he:פיודור שאליאפין ka:თედორე შალიაპინი nl:Fjodor Sjaljapin ja:フョードル・シャリアピン pl:Fiodor Szalapin ro:Feodor Şaliapin ru:Шаляпин, Фёдор Иванович sk:Fiodor Ivanovič Šaľapin fi:Fjodor Šaljapin tt:Fódor Şalápin tr:Feodor İvanoviç Şalyapin uk:Шаляпін Федір Іванович