 |frazioni = Donnalucata, Sampieri, Cava d'Aliga and Playa Grande |telephone = 0932 |postalcode = 97018 |gentilic = Sciclitani |saint = Madonna of the Milices |day = Last Saturday of May |mayor = Giovanni Venticinque |website = www.comune.scicli.rg.it  Scicli is a city in the Province of Ragusa in the south east of Sicily. It is 25 kilometres from Ragusa, and 308 kilometres from Palermo. Alongside seven other cities in the Val di Noto, it has been listed as one of UNESCO's World Heritage Sites.HistorySettlements of the area of Scicli dates back to the Copper and Early Bronze Ages (third millennium&amp;nbsp;BCE to the fifteenth century&amp;nbsp;BCE).Scicli was founded by the Sicels (whence probably the name) around 300&nbsp;BCE. In the Middle Ages, like all of Sicily, Scicli was ruled by the Arabs and then by the Normans. Following the various dynasties ruling the Kingdom of Sicily, it was a Spanish possession before being united in the Kingdom of Italy in the mid nineteenth century.Following a catastrophic earthquake in 1693, much of the town was rebuilt in the Sicilian baroque style, which today gives the town the elegant appearance which draws many tourists to visit the city.Main sightsThe church of Santa Marìa la Nova, with a huge Neoclassicist façade. The interior houses a cypresse-wood statue of Madonna della Pietà, probably of Byzantine origin.The Mother Church of St. Ignatz, housing the highly venerated image of Madonna dei Milìci (see Culture section).The scenographic St. Bartholomew in Baroque style.The Town Hall, the Palazzo Spadaro and the Palazzo Beneventano, all boasting Baroque decorations.CultureThe city is also frequently used as a film set, most recently for Marco Bellocchio's Il regista dei matrimoni and is popular in Italy as the home of Commissioner Montalbano from the popular television series broadcast by RAI.The city is also notable for its religious parades which includes "Presepe" (nativity scenes) enacted in the caves surrounding the city at Christmas time. These caves known as the Chiarafura caves were dug out in the tufa cliffs, and some were inhabited by the local poor as recently as 1958.At Easter, the city celebrates with the "Uomo Vivo" parade which involves a long religious procession through the city. A decorated horse parade takes place in March, from Scicli to the neighbouring town of Donnalucata. The most spectacular religious festival, the A Maronna i Milici occurs in May, commemorating the appearance of the the Madonna on a white horse holding aloft a sword. This encouraged the Christian Normans to defeat the Saracens in 1091.The economy of the city is mostly agricultural, and the area is renowned for its many greenhouses producing the  ("early fruits") that are exported all over Italy.External links Scili InformationCartoon map of Scicli   Category:Municipalities of the Province of Ragusa Category:Sicilian Baroque Category:4th century BC establishments ca:Scicli co:Scicli de:Scicli es:Scicli eo:Scicli fr:Scicli it:Scicli he:ז'איקלאי nl:Scicli ja:シクリ nap:Scicli pms:Scicli pl:Scicli pt:Scicli ro:Scicli scn:Scicli (RG) vo:Scicli