  The Mossad (HaMossad leModi'in v'leTafkidim Meyuhadim) ( - Institute for Intelligence and Special Operations) is the national intelligence agency of Israel. "Mossad" is the Hebrew word for institute or institution.The Mossad is responsible for intelligence collection, counter-terrorism, covert operations such as paramilitary activities and assassinations, and the facilitation of aliyah where it is banned. It is one of the main Intelligence Community entities in Israel (along with Aman (military intelligence), OADNA and Shin Bet (internal security)), but its director reports directly to the Prime Minister. Its role and function is similar to that of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6), and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW). the Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS) and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), in their respective countries.Prior to Israel's formationThe "Mossad Le'aliyah Bet" was a small, unorthodox Zionist organization whose mission in 1938 was to bring Jews to Palestine. This was done to subvert the British quotas on Jewish immigration. The Mossad's modes of operation, its ideology, and politics resulted in the creation of the intelligence agency for the Israeli government once it was established in 1948. The agency consisted of several of the existing members who had worked to establish Israel as a nation and to bring the Jewish people to it.OrganizationExecutive officesFrom its headquarters in the Israeli city of Tel Aviv, the Mossad oversees a staff estimated at 1200 personnel, although it may have numbered up to 2000 in the late 1980s.Mossad profile, Globalsecurity.org. Retrieved October 28, 2006. The Mossad does not use military ranks, although most of its staff have served in the Israel Defense Forces as part of Israel's compulsory draft system, and many of them are officers. It is assumed to consist of eight different departments.The largest is Collections, tasked with many aspects of conducting espionage overseas. Employees in the Collections Department operate under a variety of covers, including diplomatic and unofficial. Their field intelligence officers, called katsas, are similar to case officers of the CIA. Thirty to forty operate at a time, mainly in Europe and the Middle East.Ostrovsky, Victor. By Way of Deception-The making and unmaking of a Mossad Officer. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1990. ISBN 0-9717595-0-2The Political Action and Liaison Department is responsible for working both with allied foreign intelligence services, and with nations that have no normal diplomatic relations with Israel.Among the departments of the Mossad is the Special Operations Division or '"Metsada" (see Kidon), which is involved in assassination, paramilitary operations, sabotage, and psychological warfare.Psychological warfare is also a concern of the Lochamah Psichologit Department, which conducts propaganda and deception activities as well.Additionally, the Mossad has a Research Department, tasked with intelligence production, and a Technology Department concerned with the development of tools for Mossad activities.the Mossad profile, Federation of American Scientists. Retrieved October 28, 2006. Directors of MossadReuven Shiloah, 1949-1952Isser Harel, 1952-1963Meir Amit, 1963-1968Zvi Zamir, 1968-1974Yitzhak Hofi, 1974-1982Nahum Admoni, 1982-1989Shabtai Shavit, 1989-1996Danny Yatom, 1996-1998Ephraim Halevy, 1998-2002Meir Dagan, 2002-PresentOrganizational historyThe Mossad was formed on December 13, 1949 as the "Central Institute for Coordination", at the recommendation of Reuven Shiloah to Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion. Shiloah wanted a central body to coordinate and improve cooperation between the existing security services — the army's intelligence department (AMAN), the General Security Service (GSS or "Shin Bet") and the foreign office's "political department". In March 1951, it was reorganized and made a part of the prime minister's office, reporting directly to the prime minister. Its current staff is estimated at 1,200.Mossad's former motto: be-tachbūlōt ta`aseh lekhā milchāmāh (, can be translated in various ways. Babylon, the online translator translates the first word - the method of waging war - as by "trick, plot, scheme, guile, ploy, ruse, sleight, subterfuge, wile, chicanery, contrivance," etc. Some translate it with softer words as "For by wise counsel thou shalt wage thy war," and claim it is a quote from the bible (Proverbs XXIV,6).The motto was changed recently as part of the Mossad's public 'coming out' to another Proverbs passage: be-'éyn tachbūlōt yippol `ām; ū-teshū`āh be-rov yō'éts (). The word תחבולות is the same as in the original motto and according to Babylon still means trick, etc. However, some translate it as, "Where no counsel is, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors there is safety." (Proverbs XI, 14).  About Us, Official Mossad Website. Retrieved October 28, 2006.ActivitiesNorth AmericaUnited States of AmericaThe Mossad informed the FBI and CIA in August 2001 that as many as 200 terrorists were slipping into the United States and planning "a major assault on the United States." The Israeli intelligence agency cautioned that it had picked up indications of a "large-scale target" in the United States and that Americans would be "very vulnerable." Mossad Warned U.S. Of Impending Attack.South AmericaArgentinaIn 1960, the Mossad discovered that Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann was in Argentina and through surveillance, they confirmed that he had been living there under the name of Ricardo Klement. He was captured by a team of Mossad agents on May 11, 1960, and subsequently smuggled to Israel where he was tried and executed. Argentina protested what it considered as the violation of its sovereignty, and the United Nations Security Council noted that "repetition of acts such as this would involve a breach of the principles upon which international order is founded, creating an atmosphere of insecurity and distrust incompatible with the preservation of peace." while also stating that "Eichmann should be brought to appropriate justice for the crimes of which he is accused" and that "this resolution should in no way be interpreted as condoning the odious crimes of which Eichmann is accused." ""Argentina claimed, quite plausibly, that the "illicit and clandestine transfer of Eichmann from Argentine territory constitutes a flagrant violation of the Argentine State's right of sovereignty." Bass, Gary J. (2004.) The Adolf Eichmann Case: Universal and National Jurisdiction. In Stephen Macedo (ed,) Universal Jurisdiction: National Courts and the Prosecution of Serious Crimes. (ch.4) Philadelphia: U.Penn. Press. In Eichmann's case, the most salient feature from the perspective of international law was the fact of Israeli law enforcement action in another state's territory without consent; the human element includes the dramatic circumstances of the capture by Mossad agents and the ensuing custody and transfer to Israel. Damrosch, Lori F. (2004.) Connecting the Threads in the Fabric of International Law. In Stephen Macedo (ed,) Universal Jurisdiction: National Courts and the Prosecution of Serious Crimes. (ch.5) Philadelphia: U.Penn. Press. The principle of territorial integrity (in Art. 2(4) UN Charter) At its most obvious level this means that the exercise of enforcement jurisdiction within the territory of another state will be a violation of territorial integrity 32 Note 32: E.g. after Adolf Eichmann ... was abducted from Argentina by a group of Israelis, now known to be from the Israeli Secret Service (Mossad), the Argentine Government lodged a complaint with the UN Security Council ... It is however unclear whether as a matter of international law the obligation to make reparation for a violation of territorial sovereignty such as that involved in the Eichmann case includes an obligation to return the offender. Higgins, Rosalyn and Maurice Floy. (1997). Terrorism and International Law. UK: Routledge. (p. 48)Security Council Resolution 138, &quot;Question Relating to the Case of Adolf Eichmann&quot; A second plan to capture Josef Mengele was aborted.Western EuropeGermanyOperation Plumbat (1968) was an operation by Lekem- Mossad that was undertaken in support of the Israeli nuclear weapons effort. The German freighter "Scheersberg A", disappeared on its way from Antwerp to Genoa along with its cargo of some 200 tons of uranium oxide (Yellowcake). When the freighter reappeared in the Turkish port of İskenderun, the cargo was missing; it had been transferred at sea to an Israeli ship.The sending of letter bombs during the Operation Wrath of God campaign. Some of these attacks were not fatal, although their purpose might not have been to kill the receiver. Some of the more famous examples of the Mossad letter bombs were those sent to Nazi war-criminal Alois Brunner.Henley, Jon. "French court strikes blow against fugitive Nazi", The Guardian, March 3, 2001. Retrieved October 27, 2006.ItalyThe abduction of nuclear technician Mordechai Vanunu in 1986 after American-Israeli agent Cheryl Bentov lured him from the United Kingdom.Martin, Susan Taylor. "The spy - and the man she busted", St. Petersburg Times, March 21, 2004. Retrieved October 27, 2006.MaltaThe assassination of Fathi Shiqaqi, a leader of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, in 1995.Military.com Resources&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;NorwayLillehammer affair. On July 21, 1973, Mossad agents in Lillehammer murdered Moroccan busboy, Ahmed Bouchikhi, whom they mistakenly believed to have been involved in the Munich Olympics massacre.Israelis to Compensate Family of Slain Waiter - New York TimesBalkansBosnia and HerzegovinaAssisted in air and overland evacuations of the Jews from war-torn Sarajevo to Israel in 1992.Middle EastEgyptDirected missions for Israeli spy Wolfgang Lotz in Egypt 1957-1965.Directed missions for Israeli spy Eli Cohen(was born and worked in his youth in Egypt but spied on Syria) in 1964, who provided vast amounts of valuable intelligence. Eli Cohen was, however, caught in 1965 in Syria while he was monitoring radio frequencies.Provision of key intelligence on the Egyptian Air Force for Operation Focus, the opening airstrike of the Six-Day War.Operation Bulmus 6 - Intelligence assistance in the Commando Assault on Green Island, Egypt during the War of Attrition.IranIran 1960sPrior to the Iranian Revolution of 1978–79 in Iran, SAVAK (Organization of National Security and Information), the Iranian secret police and intelligence service was created under the guidance of United States and Israeli intelligence officers in 1957 to protect the regime of the shah by arresting, torturing, and executing the dissidents (especially Leftists). After security relations between the United States and Iran grew more distant in the early 1960s which led the CIA training team to leave persia, Mossad became increasingly active in Iran, training SAVAK personnel and carry­ing out a broad variety of joint operations with SAVAK.CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) IN PERSIA. In Encyclopaedia Iranica. Retrieved July 03, 2008SAVAK, Library of Congress Country Studies. Retrieved July 03, 2008Iran 2007It was alleged by private intelligence agency Stratfor, based on "sources close to Israeli intelligence", that Dr. Ardeshir Hosseinpour, a scientist involved in the Iranian nuclear program, was killed by the Mossad on January 15, 2007. (requires premium subscription)A US intelligence official told The Washington Post that Israel orchestrated the defection of Iranian general Ali Reza Askari on February 7, 2007.Linzer, Dafna. "Former Iranian Defense Official Talks to Western Intelligence", The Washington Post, March 8, 2007. Retrieved March 8, 2007. This has been denied by Israeli spokesman Mark Regev. The Sunday Times reported that Askari had been a Mossad asset since 2003, and left only when his cover was about to be blown.Mahnaimi, Uzi. "Defector spied on Iran for years", The Sunday Times, March 11, 2007. Retrieved March 11, 2007.IraqAssistance in the defection and rescuing of the family of Munir Redfa, an Iraqi pilot who defected and flew his MiG 21 to Israel in 1966.Operation Sphinx  - Between 1978 and 1981, obtained highly sensitive information about Iraq's Osirak nuclear reactor by recruiting an Iraqi nuclear scientist in France. On April 5, 1979, the Mossad destroyed 60 percent of the Iraqi reactor components being built in France; "An environmental organization named Groupe des écologistes français, unheard of before this incident, claimed credit for the blast." The reactor was subsequently destroyed by an Israeli air strike in 1981."FRANCE PROTESTS TO ISRAEL ON RAID", The New York Times, June 10, 1981. Retrieved November 16, 2006..The alleged assassination of Canadian scientist Gerald Bull, developer of the Iraqi supergun, in 1990. The most common theory is that the Mossad was responsible, and its representatives have all but claimed responsibility for his assassination. Others, including Bull's son, believe that the Mossad is taking credit for an act they did not commit to scare off others who may try to help enemy regimes. The alternative theory is that Bull was killed by the CIA. Iraq and Iran are also candidates for suspicion.Dr. Gerald Bull: Scientist, Weapons Maker, Dreamer at CBC.caPalestinian territoriesThe assassination of members of Black September, which was responsible for the Munich massacre at the 1972 Olympic Games, called "Operation Wrath of God".The Jewish Chronicle&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In July 1973, Ahmed Bouchiki, an innocent Moroccan waiter in Lillehammer, Norway, was killed while walking with his pregnant wife. He had been mistaken for Ali Hassan Salameh, one of the leaders of Black September, the Palestinian group responsible for the Munich massacre, who had been given shelter in Norway. The Mossad agents had used fake Canadian passports, which angered the Canadian government. Six Mossad agents were arrested, and the incident became known as the Lillehammer affair.Fatal ErrorCanadian Press Calls for Inquiry into Allegations Regarding Mossad Use of PassportsThe assassination of PFLP and PFLP-EO leader Wadie Haddad in 1978.The assassination of As-Sa'iqa leader Zuhayr Muhsin in 1979.Tunis Raid - The assassination of Abu Jihad from the Fatah in 1988.The assassination of Fathi Shqaqi, the head of Palestinian Islamic Jihad, in 1995.In 1997, two Mossad agents were caught in Jordan, which had signed a peace treaty with Israel, on a mission to assassinate Sheikh Khaled Mashal, a leader of Hamas, by spraying him with poison at a pro-Hamas rally in Amman. Again, they were using fake Canadian passports. This led to a diplomatic row with Canada and Jordan. Israel was forced to provide the antidote to the poison and to release around 70 Palestinian prisoners, in particular the Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, in exchange for the Mossad agents, who would otherwise have faced the death penalty for attempted murder.In March 2004, 7 years after he was released, Ahmed Yassin was killed in an Israeli helicopter airstrike.The assassination of Hamas leader Izz El-Deen Sheikh Khalil in Damascus in 2004.The sending of letter bombs to PFLP member Bassam Abu Sharif.Guerin, Orla. "Arafat: On borrowed time", BBC News, June 29, 2002. Retrieved October 27, 2006.LebanonThe provision of intelligence and operational assistance in 1973's Operation Spring of Youth.AfricaEthiopiaAssistance in Operation Moses, the immigration of Ethiopian Jews to Israel in 1984.MoroccoAccording to Time Magazine, the Mossad was involved in what is known as the Ben Barka Affair (see Mehdi Ben Barka).UgandaThe provision of intelligence regarding Entebbe International Airport and grant of refueling rights in Kenya for Operation Entebbe in 1976.OceaniaNew Zealand In July 2004, New Zealand imposed diplomatic sanctions on Israel over an incident in which two Australian based Israelis, Uriel Kelman and Eli Cara, who were allegedly working for the Mossad (Israel denied it), attempted to obtain New Zealand passports fraudulently by claiming the identity of a severely disabled man. Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom later apologized to New Zealand for their actions. New Zealand cancelled several other passports believed to have been obtained by Israeli agents.Israeli government apologises to New Zealand - 26 Jun 2005 - NZ Herald: New Zealand National news&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Both Kelman and Cara served half of their 6 month sentences and, upon release, were deported to Israel. Two others, an Israeli, Ze'ev Barkan, and a New Zealander, David Reznick, are believed to have been the third and 4th men involved in the passport affair but managed to leave New Zealand before being traced.== Soviet Union == In February 1956, a friendly member of the Politburo provided the Mossad with a copy of Nikita Khrushchev's speech denouncing Josef Stalin. The Mossad passed it on to the United States, which published the speech, embarrassing the USSR. This was a major intelligence coup that raised the prestige of the organization. Timeline:Israeli intelligence and covert operations From the War of Independence to 1956.See alsoIsraeli Intelligence CommunityList of Israeli assassinationsShin Bet, Israel's internal security serviceBooksYuval Aviv - Vengeance: The True Story of an Israeli Counter-Terrorist TeamAri Ben-MenasheBlack, Ian and Morris, Benny. Israel's Secret Wars: A History of Israel's Intelligence Services. New York: Grove Weidenfeld, 1991. 603 pages.Victor Ostrovsky - By Way of Deception and The Other Side of DeceptionParsi, Rita. Treacherous Alliance: The Secret Dealings of Israel, Iran, and the United States, Yale University Press, 2007, ISBN-10: 0300120575.Central Intelligence Agency. "Israel. Foreign Intelligence and Security Services, 1979". Included in the volume "Documents from the US Espionage Den", Tehran, 1982.ReferencesFurther readingShimron, Gad 2007, "Mossad Exodus; The Daring Undercover Rescue of the Lost Jewish Tribe", Gefen Publishing House. ISBN 978-9652294036Thomas, Gordon 2007, "Gideon's Spies; The Secret History of the Mossad", Thomas Dunne Books. ISBN 978-0-312-36152-5External linksOfficial websiteOnline employment application. &quot;Your particulars are protected. This site is stored in the highly secured databases of the State of Israel.&quot;GlobalSecurity.org entry for MossadThe Israeli Intelligence Services; Deception and Covert Action Operations[http://www.krav.ca Israeli IMI System (IIS) - Israeli Close Combat & Fighting Tactics used by Mossad's agents ]Operational Krav MagaRelations Between the Mossad and the MediaFormer chief of Mossad not Beware of Gaydamak Category:Government agencies established in 1949 Category:Hebrew words and phrases Category:Israeli intelligence agencies Category:Mossadar:موساد az:Mossad bg:Мосад ca:Mossad cs:Mosad da:Mossad de:Mossad et:Mossad el:Mossad es:Mossad eo:Mossad eu:Mossad fa:موساد fr:Mossad ko:모사드 hr:Mossad id:Mossad is:Mossad it:Mossad he:המוסד למודיעין ולתפקידים מיוחדים jv:Mossad ka:მოსადი lt:Mosad hu:Moszad ms:Mossad nl:Mossad ja:モサド no:Mossad nn:Mossad ps:موساد pl:Mossad pt:Mossad ro:Mossad ru:Моссад sq:Mossad sk:Mosad sl:Mosad sr:Мосад fi:Mossad sv:Mossad vi:Mossad tr:Mossad zh:摩薩德