 ) |foundation=1982 |location= Redwood City, California, USA |key_people=John Riccitiello, CEOFrank Gibeau, President, EA Games LabelPeter Moore, President, EA SPORTSKathy Vrabeck, President, EA Casual EntertainmentRod Humble, Executive Vice President, The Sims LabelLarry Probst, chairman of the board and former CEO (1991-2007)Trip Hawkins, founder and former CEO (1982-1991) |industry=Interactive entertainment |products= |revenue=$4.02 billion USD (2008)EA Reports Fourth Quarter And Fiscal Year 2008 Results (PDF) from Thomson Reuters |net_income=$339 million USD (2008) |EPS=$1.99 USD (2008) | market cap= $11 billion USD (2008) |num_employees=7,900 (2007)Electronic Arts 2007 Proxy Statement and Annual Report (PDF) from Thomson Reuters |homepage=www.ea.com  Electronic Arts (EA) () is a Worldwide American developer, marketer, publisher, and distributor of video games. Established in 1982 by Trip Hawkins, the company was a pioneer of the early home computer games industry and was notable for promoting the designers and programmers responsible for its games. Originally, EA was a home computing game publisher. In the late 1980s, the company began developing games in-house and supported consoles by the early 1990s. EA later grew via acquisition of several successful developers. By the early 2000s, EA had become one of the world's largest third-party publishers. In 2007 EA ranked 8th on the list of largest software companies in the world. Software Top 100: &quot;The World's Largest Software Companies&quot;  In May 2008, the company reported net annual revenue of US$4.02 billion in fiscal year 2008. Currently, EA's most successful products are sports games published under its EA Sports label, games based on popular movie licenses and games from long-running franchises like Road Rash, Need for Speed, Medal of Honor, The Sims, Battlefield and the later games in the Burnout and Command &amp; Conquer series.History 1982-1991In February 1982, Trip Hawkins arranged a meeting with Don Valentine of Sequoia CapitalElectronic Arts entry from Sequoia Capital to discuss financing his new venture, Amazin' Software. Valentine encouraged Hawkins to leave Apple Inc., in which Hawkins served as Director of Product Marketing, and allowed Hawkins use of Sequoia Capital's spare office space to start the company. On 28 May 1982, Trip Hawkins incorporated and established the company with a personal investment of an estimated US$200,000. Seven months later in December 1982, Hawkins secured US$2 million of venture capital from Sequoia Capital, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, and Sevin Rosen Funds.For more than seven months, Hawkins had refined his Electronic Arts business plan. With aid from his first employee (whom he worked in marketing with at Apple), Rich Melmon, the original plan was written, mostly by Hawkins, on an Apple II in Sequoia Capital's office in August 1982. During that time, Hawkins also employed two of his former staff from Apple, Dave Evans and Pat Marriott, as producers. The business plan was again refined in September and reissued on 8 October 1982.Between September and November, employee headcount rose to 11, including Tim Mott, Bing Gordon, David Maynard, and Steve Hayes. Having outgrown the office space provided by Sequoia Capital, the company relocated to a San Mateo office that overlooked the San Francisco Airport landing path. Headcount rose rapidly in 1983, including Don Daglow, Richard Hilleman, Stewart Bonn, David Gardner, and Nancy Fong.Early sales strategyHawkins was determined to sell directly to buyers. Combined with the fact that Hawkins was pioneering new game brands, this made sales growth more challenging. Retailers wanted to buy known brands from existing distribution partners. Despite this, revenue was $5 million in the first year and $11 million the next.  Former CEO Larry Probst arrived as VP of Sales in late 1984 and helped the company sustain growth into $18 million in its third full year. Teaming with the existing sales staff that included Nancy Smith, David Klein, and David Gardner, Probst built the largest sales force of any American game publisher.  This policy of dealing directly with retailers gave EA higher margins and better market awareness, key advantages the company would leverage to leapfrog its early competitors.In December 1986 David Gardner and Mark Lewis moved to the UK to open a European headquarters. Up until that point publishing of Electronic Arts Games, and the conversion of many of their games to compact cassette versions in Europe was handled by Ariolasoft. A small company in Wales was already called Electronic Arts, and until 1997 Electronic Arts in the UK was known legally as EOA, a name derived from its square/circle/triangle logo. The Welsh company ceased trading in 1997 and Electronic Arts acquired the rights to the name. Name changeMost of the early employees of the company disliked the Amazin' Software name that Hawkins had originally chosen when he incorporated the company.  While at Apple, Hawkins had enjoyed company offsite meetings at Pajaro Dunes and organized such a planning offsite for EA in October 1982. Following a long business day at the offsite, the dozen employees and advisers who were present agreed that they would stay up that night and see if they could agree unanimously on a new name for the company.Hawkins had developed the ideas of treating software as an art form and calling the developers, "software artists." Hence, the latest version of the business plan had suggested the name "SoftArt". However, Hawkins and Melmon knew the founders of Software Arts, the creators of VisiCalc, and thought their permission should be obtained. But Dan Bricklin did not want the name used because it sounded too similar (perhaps "confusingly similar") to Software Arts. However, the name concept was liked by all the attendees. Hawkins had also recently read a best-selling book about the film studio, United Artists, and liked the reputation that company had created. Early advisers Andy Berlin, Jeff Goodby, and Rich Silverstein (who would soon form their own ad agency Goodby, Silverstein & Partners) were also fans of that approach, and the discussion was led by Hawkins and Berlin. Hawkins said everyone had a vote but they would lose it if they went to sleep.Hawkins liked the word "electronic", and various employees had considered the phrases "Electronic Artists" and "Electronic Arts". Other candidates included Gordon's suggestion of "Blue Light", a reference from the movie "Tron".When Gordon and others pushed for "Electronic Artists", in tribute to the film company United Artists, Steve Hayes opposed, saying, "We're not the artists, they are..." meaning that the developers whose games EA would publish were the artists. This statement from Hayes immediately tilted sentiment towards Electronic Arts and the name was unanimously endorsed.Sharing credit'' was an enormous hit for EA. The original version for the Apple II by Bill Budge was quickly ported to other popular home systems of the era.]] A novel approach to giving credit to its developers was one of EA's trademarks in its early days. This characterization was even further reinforced with EA's packaging of most of their games in the "album co pioneered by EA because Hawkins thought that a record album style would both save costs and convey an artistic feeling. EA routinely referred to their developers as "artists" and gave them photo credits in their games and numerous full-page magazine ads. EA also shared lavish profits with their developers, which added to their industry appeal. Because of this novel treatment, EA was able to easily attract the best developers.The square "album cover" boxes (such as the covers for 1983's M.U.L.E. and Pinball Construction Set) were a popular packaging concept by Electronic Arts, which wanted to represent their developers as "rock stars".Hawkins exitsAfter a very successful run on home computers, Electronic Arts later branched out and produced console games as well. Eventually Trip Hawkins left EA to found the now defunct 3DO company.1991-2007EA is currently headquartered in the Redwood Shores neighborhood of Redwood City, California. Following the departure of Trip Hawkins, Larry Probst took over the reins and led the company to its current size and stature.  Probst considered himself a man of principle and has refused to follow the M-rated example set by Take-Two Interactive, whose violent Grand Theft Auto franchise became the dominant brand in many key demographics from 2000 through 2003. As a result, Probst was heavily criticized by Wall Street analysts, who believe that because of this policy, EA's stock price is lower than it should be. In late March 2005, Electronic Arts issued its first ever mid-quarter profit warning blaming hardware shortages and lower than expected fourth quarter sales.Not that M-rated games are new to EA: in 1999 EA approved its first M-rated game, System Shock II for the PC. Probst later changed his overall stance on M-rated games, and now EA has several titles that compete in the M-rated, adult game arena.In 2004, EA made a multimillion dollar donation to fund the development of game production curriculum at the University of Southern California's Interactive Media Division. In addition to the funds, EA staff members have been actively teaching and lecturing at the school.On 1 February 2006, Electronic Arts announced that it would cut worldwide staff by 5 percent.Electronic Arts cuts staff by 5 percent from GameSpotOn 20 June 2006 EA purchased Mythic Entertainment, currently working on Warhammer Online. Electronic Arts To Acquire Mythic Entertainment from GamasutraExclusive licensesAfter Sega's ESPN NFL 2K5 successfully grabbed market share away from EA's dominant Madden NFL series during the 2004 holiday season, EA responded by making several large sports licensing deals which include an exclusive agreement with the NFL, and in January 2005, a 15-year deal with ESPN, much as with Take-Two Interactive's exclusive licensing deal with baseball's Major League.Big Deal: EA and NFL ink exclusive licensing agreement from GameSpot The ESPN deal gave EA exclusive first rights to all ESPN content for sports simulation games. On 11 April 2005, EA announced a similar, 6-year licensing deal with the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC) for exclusive rights to college football content.All Madden, all the time from ESPNDevelopment strategyMuch of EA's success, both in terms of sales and with regards to its stock market valuation, is due to its strategy of platform-agnostic development and the creation of strong multi-year franchises. EA was the first publisher to release yearly updates of its sports franchises—''Madden'', FIFA, NHL, NBA Live, Tiger Woods, etc.—with updated player rosters and small graphical and gameplay tweaks.EA Puts it &quot;In the Game&quot; from GameSpy Recognizing the risk of franchise fatigue among consumers, EA announced in 2006 that it would concentrate more of its effort on creating new original intellectual property.EA moves towards new IPs from Gamesindustry.biz2007-presentIn February 2007, Probst stepped down from the CEO job while remaining on the Board of Directors. His handpicked successor is John Riccitiello, who had worked at EA for several years previously, departed for a while, and then returned. Riccitiello previously worked for Elevation Partners, Sara Lee and Pepsico.City-state label modelIn June 2007, new CEO John Riccitiello announced that EA would reorganize itself into four labels, each with responsibility for its own product development and publishing (the city-state model). The goal of the reorganization was to empower the labels to operate more autonomously, streamline decision-making, increase creativity and quality, and get games into the market faster.EA Announces New Company Structure from Gamasutra (June 18, 2007) This reorganization came after years of consolidation and acquisition by EA of smaller studios, which some in the industry blamed for a decrease in quality of EA titles. In 2008, at the DICE Summit, Riccitiello called the earlier approach of "buy and assimilate" a mistake, often stripping smaller studios of its creative talent. Riccitiello said that the city-state model allows independent developers to remain autonomous to a large extent, and cited Maxis and Bioware as examples of studios thriving under the new structure.EA's CEO: How I Learned To Acquire Developers And Not *** Them Up from Wired BlogsA Company Looks to Its Creative Side to Regain What It Had Lost from The New York TimesMac gamesAlso, in 2007, EA announced that it would be bringing some of its major titles to the Macintosh. EA has released Battlefield 2142, Command &amp; Conquer: Tiberium Wars, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, Madden NFL 08, Need for Speed: Carbon and "Spore" for the Mac. All of the new games have been developed for the Macintosh using Cider, a technology developed by TransGaming that enables Intel-based Macs to run Windows games inside a translation layer running on Mac OS X. They are not playable on PowerPC-based Macs.EA ships four Mac games from MacWorldAcquisitionsIn October 2007, EA purchased Super Computer International, a long standing industry provider of game server hosting for development studios, who were currently developing the new PlayLinc software. A week later they then purchased VG Holding Corp, the parent company of BioWare and Pandemic Studios.EA - Action, Fantasy, Sports, and Strategy Videogames&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;It was revealed in February 2008 that Electronic Arts had made a takeover bid for rival game company Take-Two Interactive. After its initial offer of $25 per share, all cash stock transaction offer was rejected by the Take-Two board, EA revised it to $26 per share, a 64% premium over the previous day's closing price and made the offer known to the public. Rumours had been floating around the internet prior to the offer about Take-Two possibly being bought over by a bigger company, albeit with Viacom as the potential bidder.In May 2008, EA announced that it will purchase the assets of Hands-On Mobile Korea, a South Korean mobile game developer and publisher. The company will become EA Mobile Korea.Electronic Arts to acquire Korean mobile developer, Associated Press, 22 May 2008In September 2008, EA dropped its buyout offer of Take-Two. No reason was given.Label architecture and studiosThe following are the four Electronic Arts labels, with the studios that fall under each label EDGAR Online via Yahoo! Finance, Electronic Arts FY 2008 10K FilingEA Games -- Home to the largest number of studio and development teams, this label is responsible for action-adventure, role playing, racing and combat games, marketed under the EA brand. In addition to traditional packaged-goods games, EA Games also develops massively-multiplayer online role-playing games. Led by Frank Gibeau.EA Redwood ShoresEA Los AngelesEA MontrealBioWareDICEPandemicBlack BoxMaxisPhenomicCriterionMythicEA SPORTS -- Publishes all the realistic, casual, and freestyle sports-based titles from EA, including FIFA Football (Soccer), Madden NFL, Fight Night, NBA Live, NCAA Football, NCAA March Madness, Tiger Woods PGA Tour, NHL Hockey, NASCAR and Rugby. Led by Peter Moore.EA Tiburon (Florida)EA Canada (Vancouver)EA Sports Big (San Francisco)EA Casual Entertainment -- Creates and publishes casual games for gamers and non-traditional gamers. Includes EA's Pogo online service Pogo.com (online games site, with numerous EA brand tie-ins), EA Hasbro, and EA Mobile (mobile phone and iPod games, previously JAMDAT). Led by Kathy Vrabeck.EA Redwood Shores (California)EA Los Angeles"The Sims" Label -- develops and markets life-simulation games and online communities, including those with "Sims" titles. Led by Rod Humble.EA Redwood Shores (California)CriticismStudio acquisition and management practices During its period of fastest growth, EA was often criticized for buying smaller development studios primarily for their intellectual property assets, and then producing drastically changed games of their franchises. For example, Origin-produced Ultima VIII: Pagan and Ultima IX: Ascension were developed quickly under EA's ownership, over the protests of Ultima creator Richard Garriott,&quot;The Conquest of Origin&quot;, page 2 from The Escapist and these two are considered by manyMany believe Ultima IX was unfairly maligned because of rushed development schedule as not up to the standard of the rest of the series.Ultima VIII received poorly by fans from GameFAQsUltima IX received poorly by fans from GameFAQsIn 2008, John D. Carmack of id Software said that EA is no longer The Evil Empire. I'd decided to go with EA Partners, despite having a poor opinion of the publisher's past record. "I'll admit that, if you asked me years ago, I still had thoughts that EA was the Evil Empire, the company that crushes the small studios...I'd have been surprised, if you told me a year ago that we'd end up with EA as a publisher.", he said. "When we went out and talked to people, especially EA Partners people like Valve, we got almost uniformly positive responses from them." Like other EA Partners, such as Harmonix/MTV Games, Carmack stressed that EA Partners deal "isn't really a publishing arrangement. Instead, they really offer a menu of services--Valve takes one set of things, Crytek takes a different set, and we're probably taking a third set.  http://ve3d.ign.com/articles/news/39962/John-Carmack-EA-No-Longer-The-Evil-Empire In early 2008, current CEO John Riccitiello stated that this practice by EA was wrong and that the company now gives acquired studios greater autonomy without "meddling" in their corporate culture.EA was criticized for shutting down some of its acquired studios after a poorly performing game (For instance, Origin). Though, in some of the cases, the shutdown was merely a reformation of teams working at different small studios into a single studio. The historical pattern of poor sales and ratings of the first game shipped after acquisition suggests EA's control and direction as being primarily responsible for the game's failure rather than the studio. In the past, Magic Carpet 2 was rushed to completion over the objections of designer Peter Molyneux and it shipped during the holiday season with several major bugs. Studios such as Origin and Bullfrog had previously produced games attracting a significant fanbase. Many fans also became annoyed that their favourite developers were closed down, but some developers, for example the EALA studio, have stated that they try to carry on the legacy of the old studio (Westwood Studios). Once EA received criticism from labor groups for its dismissals of large groups of employees during the closure of a studio. However, later, it was confirmed that layoffs were not heavily confined to one team or another, countering early rumors that the teams were specifically targerted -- countering the implication that the underperformance of certain games might have been the catalyst.EA was once criticized for the acquisition of 19.9 percent of shares of its competitor Ubisoft, a move that many felt would lead to a hostile takeover but has never materialized as such. However, Ubisoft CEO Guillemot later indicated that a merger with EA was a possibility. "The first option for us is to manage our own company and grow it. The second option is to work with the movie industry, and the third is to merge," he said.Employment policyIn 2004, Electronic Arts was criticized for employees working extraordinarily long hours&mdash;up to 100 hours per week&mdash; and not just at "crunch" times leading up to the scheduled releases of products. The publication of the EA Spouse blog, with criticisms such as "The current mandatory hours are 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.—seven days a week—with the occasional Saturday evening off for good behaviour (at 6:30 p.m.)".The original ea_spouse blog entry at LiveJournal The company has since settled a class action lawsuit brought by game artists to compensate for "unpaid overtime".&quot;Employees readying class-action lawsuit against EA&quot; from GameSpot The class was awarded $15.6 million. As a result, many of the lower-level developers (artists, programmers, producers, and designers) are now working at an hourly rate. A similar suit brought by programmers was settled for $14.9 million.&quot;Programmers Win EA Overtime Settlement, EA_Spouse Revealed&quot; from GamasutraSince these criticisms first aired, it's been reported that EA has taken steps to positively address "work-life balance" concerns by focusing on long-term project planning, compensation, and communication with employees. These efforts accelerated with the arrival of John Riccitiello as CEO in February 2007. In December 2007, an internal EA employee survey showed a 13% increase in employee morale and a 21% jump in management recognition over a three year period.&quot;'Big corporation' does a turnaround&quot; from The Vancouver SunIn May 2008, 'EA_Spouse' blog author Erin Hoffman, speaking to videogame industry news site Gamasutra, stated that EA has made significant progress. Hoffman said that "I think EA is tremendously reformed, having made some real strong efforts to get the right people into their human resources department," and "I've been hearing from people who have gotten overtime pay there and I think that makes a great deal of difference. In fact, I've actually recommended to a few people I know to apply for jobs there."&quot;'EA_Spouse' Hoffman: Quality Of Life Still Issue, Despite EA Improvement&quot; from GamasutraGame qualityFor 2006, the games review aggregation site Metacritic gives the average of EA games as 72.0 (out of 100); 2.5 points behind Nintendo (74.5) but ahead of the other first-party publishers Microsoft (71.6) and Sony (71.2). The closest third-party publisher is Take 2 (publishing as 2K Games and Rockstar) at 70.3. The remaining top 10Top 10 publishers according to Game Develop magazine publishers (Sega, Konami, THQ, Ubisoft, Activision) all rate in the mid 60s. Since 2005 EA has published three games, Battlefield 2, Crysis, and Rock Band, that received Universal Acclaim (Metacritic score 90 or greater).EA's aggregate review performance had shown a downward trend in quality over recent years and was expected to affect market shares during competitive seasons. Pacific Crest Securities analyst Evan Wilson had said, "Poor reviews and quality are beginning to tarnish the EA brand. According to our ongoing survey of GameRankings.com aggregated review data, Electronic Arts' overall game quality continues to fall...Although market share has not declined dramatically to date, in years such as 2007, which promises to have tremendous competition, it seems likely if quality does not improve."Analyst: EA brand tarnishedEA brand &quot;tarnished&quot; according to analystEA had also received criticism for developing games that lack innovation vis-à-vis the number of gaming titles produced under the EA brand that show a history of yearly updates, particularly in their sporting franchises. These typically retail as new games at full market price and feature only updated team rosters in addition to incremental changes to game mechanics, the user interface, and graphics. One critique compared EA to companies like Ubisoft and concluded that EA's innovation in new and old IPs, "Crawls along at a snail's pace.",EA innovation crawls along at &quot;snail's pace&quot;. while even the company's own CEO, John Riccitiello, acknowledged the lack of innovation seen in the industry generally, saying, "We're boring people to death and making games that are harder and harder to play. For the most part, the industry has been rinse-and-repeat. There's been lots of product that looked like last year's product, that looked a lot like the year before." EA has announced that it is turning its attention to creating new game IPs in order to stem this trend, with recently accquired and critically acclaimed studios Bioware and Pandemic would be contributing to this process..EA CEO John Riccitiello: More innovation is needed in videogameshttp://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/ea-completes-bioware-pandemic-deal Bioware/Pandemic deal goes through.Editing of WikipediaOn 15 August, 2007 it was revealed that somebody with an IP address linked to EA had made changes to its Wikipedia entry.&quot;EA staffer plays history revisionist on Wikipedia&quot; from Joystiq.com&quot;EA Staffer Attempts to Alter Wiki History&quot; from ShackNews.com The changes made included erasing Trip Hawkins as founder of the company and adding a paragraph emphasizing the work of former CEO, Larry Probst, attempts to remove information regarding the infamous EA Spouse scandal, which involved the poor treatment of workers and several paragraphs under criticism were removed. An EA spokesperson told GamesIndustry.biz that "EA sometimes updates websites with info about the company, games and employees. For example, EA has sent a correction to Yahoo Finance when they had misspelled the name of an EA executive." While not specifically addressing the controversial changes, EA's spokesperson explained that "Many companies routinely post updates on websites like Wikipedia to ensure accuracy of their own corporate information." &quot;EA responds to Wikipedia revision controversy&quot; article from GamesIndustry.biz It did not, however, address the specifics of the changes.Anti-trust lawsuitOn June 5, 2008, a lawsuit was filed in Oakland, California alleging Electronic Arts is breaking United States anti-trust laws by signing exclusive contracts with the NFL Players Association, the NCAA and Arena Football League, to use players' names, likenesses and team logos. This keeps other companies from being able to sign the same agreements. The suit further accuses EA of raising the price of games associated with these licenses as a result of this action.Anti-trust lawsuit over exclusive license contracts However, in an interview with GameTap, Peter Moore claims it was the NFL that sought the deal. "To be clear, the NFL was the entity that wanted the exclusive relationship. EA bid, as did a number of other companies, for the exclusive relationship," Moore explained. "It wasn't on our behest that this went exclusive... We bid and we were very fortunate and lucky and delighted to be the winning licensee." EULA Agreements and DRMIn the September 2008 release of EA's game Spore it was revealed that the DRM scheme included a program called SecuROM and a lifetime machine-activation limit of three (3) instances. A huge public outcry over this DRM scheme broke out over the internet and swarmed Amazon.com with one-star ratings and critical reviews of the game in order to get EA to "pay attention to their consumers". This DRM scheme, which was intended to hinder the efforts of pirates to illegally use and distribute EA software, instead only affects paying customers, as the game itself was pirated well before release. On September 13, 2008, it was announced that Spore was the most pirated game ever with over half a million illegal downloads within the first week of release. In response to customer reaction, EA officially announced its release of upcoming Command & Conquer title Red Alert 3 would increase the installation limit to 5 rather than 3. So what's the deal with copy protection in Red Alert 3? Many customers were still unsatisfied, claiming they were still "renting" the game at full price.On 22 September 2008, a global class action law suit was filed against EA regarding the DRM in Spore, complaining about EA disclosing the existence of SecuROM from the game manual, and addresses how SecuROM runs with the nature of a rootkit, including how it remains on the hard drive even after Spore is uninstalled.[http://www.courthousenews.com/2008/09/23/Spore.pdf A copy of the Spore complaint filed] (PDF) from CourtHouseNews.comNotable games published  studio Maxis, EA obtained the rights to publish the lucrative SimCity series and the spin-off game The Sims. It went on to develop its sequel The Sims 2.&quot;The Sims overtakes Myst&quot; article from GameSpot]] Some of the most notable and popular games of video game history have been published by EA, and many of these are listed below. Though EA published these titles, they did not always develop them; some were developed by independent game development studios. EA developed their first game in 1987.Pinball Construction Set (1983) by Bill BudgeIn 2008, Pinball Construction Set was awarded at the 59th Annual Technology &amp; Engineering Emmy Awards for "User Generated Content/Game Modification": 2008 Tech Emmy Winners from Kotaku.comArchon (1983) and Archon II: Adept (1984) by Free Fall AssociatesM.U.L.E. (1983) by Dani Bunten and Ozark SoftscapeOne on One: Dr. J vs. Larry Bird (1983) by Eric HammondMusic Construction Set (1984) by Will HarveyThe Seven Cities of Gold (1984) by Dani Bunten and Ozark SoftscapeThe Bard's Tale (1985) by Interplay ProductionsMail Order Monsters (1985) by Paul Reiche III, Evan Robinson and Nicky RobinsonRacing Destruction Set (1985) by Rick KoenigStarflight (1986) by Binary SystemsSkate or Die! (1987), EA's first internally-developed titlePopulous (1989) by Bullfrog which EA acquired in 1995Desert Strike: Return to the Gulf (1992) by EA's High Score Production groupFIFA series (1993&ndash;current)Need for Speed series (1994&ndash;present) (first installment was made by EA in collaboration with Road &amp; Track)Ultima Online (1997) by Origin SystemsCommand &amp; Conquer series (titles from 1999&ndash;present) by Westwood Studios (earlier titles released by Virgin Interactive)Dungeon Keeper 2 by Bullfrog ProductionsSimCity series (titles from 1999&ndash;current) by Maxis (earlier titles released by other publishers)Medal of Honor series (1999&ndash;present)[[SSX (series)|''SSX series]] (2000&ndash;present)James Bond series (1999&ndash;2005)The Sims series (2000&ndash;2003) by EA's Maxis studioBurnout series (2001&ndash;present)The Sims 2 series (2004&ndash;present) by EA's Maxis studioBattlefield series (2002&ndash;present) by Digital Illusions CE''Madden NFL series (1989&ndash;present)''NCAA Football series (1993&ndash;present)''Crysis (2007)Rock Band (2007)Spore (2008)Electronic Arts also published a number of non-game titles. The most popular of these was closely related to the video game industry and was actually used by several of their developers. Deluxe Paint premiered on the Amiga in 1985 and was later ported to other systems. The last version in the line, Deluxe Paint V, was released in 1994. Other non-game titles include Music Construction Set (and Deluxe Music Construction Set), Deluxe Paint Animation and Instant Music. EA also published a black and white animation tool called Studio/1, and a series of Paint titles on the Macintosh: Studio/8 and Studio/32 (1990).Corporate affairsLogosThe Electronic Arts logo has undergone few changes in the company's history. Image:Electronic Arts historical logo.svg|The classic Electronic Arts logo, 1982–1999. Image:Ealogo.svg|Current Electronic Arts logo used since 1999. Image:EASports-old.png|The original EASN and EA Sports logos.  1982 to 1999EA's classic Square/Circle/Triangle corporate logo, adopted shortly after its founding and phased out in 1999, was devised by Barry Deutsch of Steinhilber Deutsch and Gard design firm. The three shapes were meant to stand for the "basic alphabet of graphic design." The shapes were rasterized to connote technology.Many customers mistook the square/circle/triangle logo for a stylized "EOA." Though they thought the "E" stood for "Electronic" and "A" for "Arts," they had no idea what the "O" could stand for, except perhaps the o'' in "Electronic." An early newsletter of EA, ''Farther, even jokingly discussed the topic in one issue, claiming that the square and triangle indeed stood for "E" and "A", but that the circle was merely "a Nerf ball that got stuck in a floppy drive and has been popping up on our splash screens ever since." This was, in part, true. In the early days at Electronic Arts, nerf balls imprinted with the square/circle/triangle shapes could be found floating around the office, in cubicles and elsewhere. Other customers saw the logo as a stylized "ECA".Nancy Fong and Bing Gordon came up with the idea to hide the three shapes on the cover of every game, borrowing the idea from the urban legends concerning the placement of the bunny symbols on the covers of Playboy magazine. Finding the logo's hidden placement on early EA titles was a ritual for employees whenever a new cover was displayed outside Fong's cubicle.1999 to presentThe current EA logo was derived from the logo used by sub-brand EA Sports. It was first used, in a different form, in 1992, when Electronic Arts introduced the "EASN" brand (later changed to "EA Sports" due to legal difficulties with ESPN). The logo was modified and adopted company-wide around 1999.In-game logo introductionslate-1990s to 2001: Originally an explosion sound effect accompanying the letters for "Electronic Arts" flying into formation, followed by an electronic voice. The sound effects have changed in certain games (sounds of the letters whipping past, for example)1999 to 2003: An outlined circle flips and forms the modern EA Games logo. Accompanied by a synthesized ping sound.2002 to 2004: EA Games logo appearing on screen, accompanied by the voice "EA Games, *whisper* challenge everything".2005: Silver EA logo appearing then fading away2006 to present: The logo is different with every game, taking on certain visual aspects of the game it is presented with. However the EA letters always remain the same and the logo always remains a circle.Slogans"We see farther." – Founding tag line"EA Sports, to the game.""EA Games, challenge everything.""EA Sports, it's in the game." – a shortened version of their original slogan "''If it's in the game, it's in the game.". "EA Sports, it's in the game" is spoken by gruff voice actor David Hayter who plays the voice of Solid Snake in the Konami series Metal Gear Solid.Studios and subsidiariesCurrent studiosCriterion Software in Guildford, United KingdomDigital Illusions CE in Stockholm, SwedenEA Black Box in Vancouver, British ColumbiaEA Canada in Burnaby, British ColumbiaEA China in Shanghai, ChinaEA Los Angeles in Los Angeles, CaliforniaEA Montreal in Montreal, QuebecEA Casual EntertainmentMythic Entertainment (Formerly EA Mythic) in Fairfax, VirginiaEA Korea in Seoul, South KoreaEA Byrnest in Mount Sinai, New YorkEA Redwood Shores in Redwood City, CaliforniaEA Sports Big in San Francisco, CaliforniaEA Singapore http://www.ea.com.sgEA UK in Guildford, SurreyEA India, NoidaMaxis in Emeryville, CaliforniaEA Phenomic in Ingelheim, GermanyEA Tiburon in Maitland, FloridaEA Salt Lake in Bountiful, Utah (Formerly Headgate Studios)EIS (European Integration Studio) in Madrid, SpainEA Mobile in Bucharest, RomaniaEA Mobile in Hyderabad, IndiaEA Studio in Bucharest, Romania, from 2008EA Atlanta in Atlanta, Georgia, as of October 2007BioWare in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada and Austin, Texas, as of January 2008Pandemic Studios in Los Angeles, California and Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, as of January 2008Former studiosOriginal HQ in San Mateo, California &ndash; moved to Redwood City in 1998Origin Systems in Austin, Texas &ndash; acquired in 1992, closed in 2004Bullfrog Productions in Surrey, England &ndash; acquired in 1995, effectively closed in 2001EA Baltimore in Baltimore, Maryland &ndash; established in 1996 as part of Origin, closed in 2000EA Seattle in Seattle, Washington &ndash; formerly Manley & Associates, acquired in 1996, closed in 2002Maxis in Walnut Creek, California &ndash; acquired in 1997, moved in 2004 to Redwood CityWestwood Studios in Las Vegas, Nevada &ndash; acquired in 1998, shut down in 2003EA Pacific (known for a time as Westwood Pacific) in Irvine, California &ndash; formerly part of Virgin Interactive, acquired with Westwood in 1998, closed in 2003Kesmai (known also as GameStorm); acquired in 1999, closed in 2001.DICE Canada in London, Ontario (created Battlefield 2: Special Forces expansion, Battlefield Vietnam, and all BF2 patches). Acquired DICE fully 2 October 2006; closed DICE Canada studio hours later.EA Japan in Tokyo, Japan &ndash; closed due to consolidation; moved under EA Partners modelEA UK in Chertsey, United KingdomEA Chicago in Chicago, Illinois. Closed November 06 2007 due to failure to meet profit targets.http://kotaku.com/gaming/breaking/ea-confirms-ea-chicago-is-closing-319516.phpSee alsoList of Electronic Arts gamesHistory of computer and video game companies== References == Further reading&quot;Player 4 Stage 4: But is it Arts?&quot;, a history of the early Electronic ArtsInnovation: Does Size Matter? from Gamespot.comOriginal &quot;EA_spouse&quot; blog on workers of EAAftermath of &quot;EA_spouse&quot; blog&quot;Game makers see workplace changes&quot; from News.comWhat's The 'Coolest Job Ever'? Electronic Arts' Summer Interns Tell Their StoryArticle on interning at EA on ITworld.comThe Escapist Article on EA's relationship towards Origin : EA Sports Sponsors IranExternal linksElectronic Arts' official websiteElectronic Arts profile on MobyGames  Category:Electronic Arts Category:Companies established in 1982 Category:Companies based in San Mateo County, California Category:Academy of Interactive Arts &amp; Sciences members Category:International Game Developers Association members Category:United States video game companies Category:Video game developers Category:Video game publishers Category:Entertainment Software Associationar:إلكترونيك آرتس ca:Electronic Arts cs:Electronic Arts da:Electronic Arts de:Electronic Arts es:Electronic Arts eu:Electronic Arts fa:الکترونیک آرتز fr:Electronic Arts gl:Electronic Arts ko:일렉트로닉 아츠 id:Electronic Arts is:Electronic Arts it:Electronic Arts ka:ელექტრონიკ არტსი lt:Electronic Arts hu:Electronic Arts ms:Electronic Arts nl:Electronic Arts ja:エレクトロニック・アーツ no:Electronic Arts pl:Electronic Arts pt:Electronic Arts ro:Electronic Arts ru:Electronic Arts simple:Electronic Arts sk:Electronic Arts sr:Electronic Arts fi:Electronic Arts sv:Electronic Arts tr:Electronic Arts zh:电子艺界