 | location = Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England | height = 5' 11" (1.80 m) | birthname = Guy Stuart Ritchie | spouse = Madonna (2000&mdash;present) | goldenraspberryawards = Worst Director2002 Swept Away  Guy Stuart Ritchie (born 10 September 1968 in Hatfield, Hertfordshire) is an English screenwriter and film director.Early lifeRitchie was born on 10 September 1968, the second of two children born to John Vivian Ritchie and his first wife, the former Amber Parkinson. Ritchie, who is dyslexic, was expelled from Stanbridge Earls School, one of the most prominent institutions specialising in dyslexia in the UK, at the age of 15.. He has stated that drug use was the reason for the expulsion; his father, however, has said that it was because his son was caught "cutting lessons and entertaining a girl in his room."Morton, Andrew, "Madonna", London: Macmillan, 2002; page 304.In addition to his elder sister, Tabitha, a dance instructor, Ritchie has a half-brother, Kevin Bayton, who was born to Amber Parkinson when she was a teenager and given up for adoption.http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_qn4161/is_20001231/ai_n14514261http://www.adoption-net.co.uk/news/2001/jan/010105guy.htmFrom 1973 until 1980, when they divorced,Morton, Andrew, "Madonna", London: Macmillan, 2002; page 304.http://www.thepeerage.com/p9471.htm Ritchie's mother was married to Sir Michael Leighton, 11th baronet, a descendant of the Pre-Raphaelite painter Lord Leighton. As a divorcée, she is correctly styled as Amber, Lady Leighton.Directing careerRitchie directed a 20-minute short film in 1995 entitled The Hard Case. His first full-length feature was the successful Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels in 1998. Recalling Quentin Tarantino, The Sting and The Italian Job, the film was widely praised for its wit. It also introduced actor Jason Statham (The Transporter) to worldwide audiences, and introduced former football player Vinnie Jones to a new career as a film actor. In 2000 Ritchie won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Motion Picture Screenplay.His second feature film was ''Snatch'', released in the year 2000. Originally known as Diamonds, it was another caper comedy, this time backed by a major studio following the previous success of Lock, Stock. The cast featured such Hollywood big names as Brad Pitt, Benicio del Toro and Dennis Farina, along with the returning Vinnie Jones and Statham. Similar to "Lock, Stock" in featuring a complex and inventive storyline in which the characters weave in and out of each others' lives, the film also plays with time, depicting events from various perspectives and recalling such classic crime films as Stanley Kubrick's The Killing.Ritchie created and produced a spin-off television series called Lock, Stock....&quot;Lock, Stock...&quot; (2000)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Following his marriage to Madonna, Ritchie began focusing his filmmaking on his famous wife, directing her in both a music video (for the song "What It Feels Like for a Girl," a controversial video that showed Madonna engaging in running people down with a car) and a short film, "Star", for the BMW films series. Ritchie's next film, also featuring Madonna, was a remake of the 1974 Lina Wertmüller hit Swept Away (also entitled Swept Away). Ritchie cast Madonna as a rich, rude, socialite who, after a shipwreck, is trapped on a deserted island with a slovenly Communist sailor who humiliates her. Ritchie renamed the woman Amber Leighton after his mother. This film was both a critical and commercial disappointment.Ritchie's next project was a Vegas-themed heist film entitled Revolver, which was critically panned.Another project Guy Ritchie was involved with was a hidden camera show called Swag, for channel Five in the UK, which turned the table on criminals and opportunists by using stunts to trap them in the act.David R. Hawkins notes on his website that Ritchie is in development to film a documentary about Hawkins. Ritchie has also written and directed RocknRolla starring Chris &quot;Ludacris&quot; Bridges, Gerard Butler, Jeremy Piven, Thandie Newton, & Tom Wilkinson. Ritchie will also direct a film based on a comic book series he created with Virgin Comics entitled Guy Ritchie's Gamekeeper. The film rights were acquired by Warner Brothers in July 2007. The film's being produced by Silver Pictures.News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 2008, Ritchie directed a commercial for Nike called "Take It To The Next Level", about a young Dutch footballer who signs for Arsenal, showing the progression of his career from his viewpoint, until he makes his debut for the Netherlands. The commercial features cameo appearances from Arsene Wenger, William Gallas, Wayne Rooney, Cristiano Ronaldo, Cesc Fabregas, Marco Materazzi, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Theo Walcott, Ronaldinho, Rafael Márquez, Bojan Krkic, Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, Nani, Ruud van Nistelrooy, Eduardo da Silva and Wesley Sneijder. Additional cast include Nicklas Bendtner, Abou Diaby, Armand Traoré, Andrés Iniesta, and Maniche. Guy Ritchie's new Nike advert to hit screens Metro, 28 April 2008Personal lifeOn 22 December 2000, he married the American pop singer and actress Madonna at Skibo Castle in Scotland. They have a son, Rocco, born 11 August 2000 in Los Angeles, California, and have adopted a Malawian baby boy, David.He and Madonna are both devotees of the quasi-mystical Kabbalah Centre and donated money and time to practicing and spreading its teachings.On 18 May 2000 Ritchie was arrested by the police after he assaulted a 20-year-old man outside the Kensington home he shared with the singer, causing actual bodily harm.Ritchie was the inspiration for, and is the subject of, singer Robbie Williams' single "She's Madonna" from his 2006 album Rudebox.SportRitchie started training in Shotokan karate at the age of seven at the Budokwai in London, where he later achieved a black belt in judo.&quot;I am used to getting a good rumping from the critics. So what?&quot; by Charlotte Edwardes, Daily Telegraph, UK. 26 September 2005. He also has a brown belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.Brown belt - Madonna's Guy Madden has a good belt - in Brazilian martial arts Ritchie is a fan of Chelsea Football Club.FilmographyYearTitle1995The Hard Case1998Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels2000Snatch]]''2001The Hire: Star]]''2002Swept Away]]''2005Revolver]]''2008Suspect2008RocknRolla2009Sherlock Holmes]]''TBAThe Real RocknRollaReferencesExternal links Category:English adoptive parents Category:English film directors Category:English screenwriters Category:Edgar Award winners Category:Madonna (entertainer) Category:Kabbalah Centre followers Category:1968 births Category:Living peopleaz:Qay Ritçi be-x-old:Гай Рытчы cs:Guy Ritchie de:Guy Ritchie es:Guy Ritchie fr:Guy Ritchie id:Guy Ritchie it:Guy Ritchie he:גאי ריצ'י nl:Guy Ritchie ja:ガイ・リッチー no:Guy Ritchie pl:Guy Ritchie pt:Guy Ritchie ro:Guy Ritchie ru:Ритчи, Гай fi:Guy Ritchie sv:Guy Ritchie tr:Guy Ritchie zh:佳·烈治