Antelope Canyon is the most-visited and most-photographed slot canyon in the American Southwest. It is located on Navajo land near Page, Arizona. Antelope Canyon includes two separate, photogenic slot canyon sections, referred to individually as Upper Antelope Canyon or The Crack; and Lower Antelope Canyon or The Corkscrew.&lt;/ref&gt;The Navajo name for Upper Antelope Canyon is Tse' bighanilini, which means "the place where water runs through rocks." Lower Antelope Canyon is Hasdestwazi, or "spiral rock arches." Both are located within the LeChee Chapter of the Navajo Nation.Navajo Parks &amp; Recreation - Antelope Canyon&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;GeologyAntelope Canyon was formed by erosion of Navajo Sandstone,&lt;/ref&gt; primarily due to [[flash flood]]ing and secondarily due to other [[sub-aerial processes]]. Rainwater, especially during [[Monsoon|monsoon season]], runs into the extensive basin above the slot canyon sections, picking up speed and sand as it rushes into the narrow passageways. Over time the passageways are eroded away, making the corridors deeper and smoothing hard edges in such a way as to form characteristic 'flowing' shapes in the rock.Flooding in the canyon still occurs. A flood occurred on October 30 2006 that lasted 36 hours, and caused the Tribal Park Authorities to close Lower Antelope Canyon for five months.Tourism and photographyAntelope Canyon is a popular location for photographers and sightseers, and a source of tourism business for the Navajo Nation. It has been accessible by permit only since 1997, when the Navajo Tribe made it a Navajo Tribal Park. Photography within the canyons is difficult due to the wide exposure range (often 10 EV or more) made by light reflecting off the canyon walls.&lt;/ref&gt;  This is a draw for photographers who want to hone their skills in a challenging environment, but a bane to casual snapshooters lacking the knowledge (and to a lesser extent, the equipment) necessary to obtain pleasing results. Upper Antelope CanyonUpper Antelope Canyon, called Tse bighanilini, "the place where water runs through rocks" by the Navajo, is located at . It is the most frequently visited by tourists, due to two considerations. First, its entrance and entire length are at ground level, requiring no climbing. Second, beams (shafts of direct sunlight radiating down from openings in the top of the canyon) are much more common in Upper than in Lower. Beams occur most often in the summer months, as they require the sun to be high in the sky. Winter colors are a little more muted like the photo displayed here. Summer months provide two types of lighting. Light beams start to peek into the canyon March 15 and disappear October 7 each year. Beams are at their grandest from May to September.Upper Antelope Canyon is popular and often crowded during times of good lighting. It can be difficult to obtain good photographs due to the crowding.Lower Antelope CanyonLower Antelope Canyon, called Hasdeztwazi, or "spiral rock arches" by the Navajo, is located a few kilometers away. Prior to the installation of metal stairways, visiting the canyon required climbing with ropes and ladders in certain areas. Even following the installation of stairways, it is a more difficult hike than Upper Antelope -- it is longer, narrower in spots, and even footing is not available in all areas. At the end, the climb out requires several long flights of stairs.Despite these limitations, Lower Antelope Canyon draws a considerable number of photographers, though casual sightseers are much less common there than in Upper.The lower canyon is in the shape of a "V" and shallower than the Upper Antelope. Lighting is better in the early hours and late afternoon.Flash flood dangerAntelope Canyon is visited exclusively through guided tours, in part because rains during monsoon season can quickly flood the canyon. Rain does not have to fall on or near the Antelope Canyon slots for flash floods to whip through, as rain falling dozens of miles away 'upstream' of the canyons can funnel into them with little prior notice. On August 12 1997, eleven tourists, including seven from France, one from the United Kingdom, one from Sweden and two from the United States, were killed in Lower Antelope Canyon by a flash flood. Very little rain fell at the site that day, but an earlier thunderstorm had dumped a large amount of water into the canyon basin, several miles upstream.Entry FeesEntry to Antelope Canyon is restricted to guided tours led by authorized guides. The Park website has a list of guides. As of 10 July 2008, guided tours of Upper Antelope Canyon are reported to cost $31, and Lower Antelope Canyon $26 per person.ReferencesExternal linksAntelope Canyon Navajo Tribal Park at Navajo Parks and Recreation Dept.Slot Canyons of the American Southwest - Antelope CanyonImprints of Light - Antelope Canyon and Horseshoe Bend Trip ReportCategory:Canyons and gorges of Arizona Category:Slot canyonsbn:অ্যান্টিলোপ গিরিখাদ de:Antelope Canyon et:Antiloobikanjon es:Antelope Canyon eo:Antilopa Kanjono fa:آنتلوپ کنیون fr:Antelope Canyon it:Antelope Canyon lb:Antilope-Canyon lt:Antilopės kanjonas hu:Antilop-kanyon nl:Antelope Canyon ja:アンテロープ・キャニオン pl:Kanion Antylopy pt:Antelope Canyon ru:Каньон Антилопы th:แอนเทอโลปแคนยอน tr:Antilop Kanyonu zh:羚羊峽谷