For the violinist, see Michael Rabin (violinist).Michael Oser Rabin (, born 1931 in Breslau, Germany, today in Poland) is an Israeli computer scientist and a recipient of the Turing Award.BiographyRabin was born as the son of a rabbi in what was then known as Breslau (it became Wrocław, and part of Poland, after the Second World War). He received an M.Sc. from Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1953 and a Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1956.The citation for the Turing Award, awarded in 1976 jointly to Rabin and Dana Scott for a paper written in 1959, states that the award was granted: For their joint paper "Finite Automata and Their Decision Problem," which introduced the idea of nondeterministic machines, which has proved to be an enormously valuable concept. Their (Scott & Rabin) classic paper has been a continuous source of inspiration for subsequent work in this field.ACM Turing Award Citation Nondeterministic machines have become a key concept in computational complexity theory, particularly with the description of complexity classes P and NP.In 1969, Rabin proved that the second-order theory of n successors is decidable. A key component of the proof implicitly showed determinacy of parity games, which lie in the third level of the Borel hierarchy.In 1975, Rabin also invented the Miller-Rabin primality test, a randomized algorithm that can determine very quickly (but with a tiny probability of error) whether a number is prime. Fast primality testing is key in the successful implementation of most public-key cryptography.In 1979, Rabin invented the Rabin cryptosystem, the first asymmetric cryptosystem whose security was proved equivalent to the intractability of integer factorization.In 1981, Rabin invented the technique of oblivious transfer,&lt;/ref&gt; allowing a sender to transmit a message to a receiver where the receiver has some probability between 0 and 1 of learning the message, with the sender being unaware whether the receiver was able to do so.In 1987, Rabin, together with Richard Karp, created one of the most well-known efficient string search algorithms, the Rabin-Karp string search algorithm, known for its rolling hash.Rabin's more recent research has concentrated on computer security. He is currently the Thomas J. Watson Sr. Professor of Computer Science at Harvard University and Professor of Computer Science at Hebrew University. During the spring semester of 2007, he was a visiting professor at Columbia University teaching Introduction to Cryptography.He was also the PhD advisor of Saharon Shelah, one of the preeminent active researchers in mathematical logic.See alsoOblivious transferRabin automatonRabin fingerprintReferencesExternal linksShort Description in an Information Science Hall of Fame at University of PittsburghOblivious transferQuotes from some of Professor Rabin's classesWebsite for one of Rabin's courses  Category:1931 births Category:Members of the National Academy of Sciences Category:Israeli mathematicians Category:Israeli computer scientists Category:Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni Category:Hebrew University of Jerusalem faculty Category:Columbia University faculty Category:Turing Award laureates Category:Israel Prize recipients Category:Modern cryptographers Category:Logicians Category:Jewish inventors Category:German Jews Category:Living peoplede:Michael O. Rabin es:Michael Oser Rabin fr:Michael Rabin ko:마이클 라빈 id:Michael O. Rabin he:מיכאל רבין nl:Michael Rabin ja:マイケル・ラビン pl:Michael O. Rabin ro:Michael Rabin ru:Рабин, Майкл Озер