 The endowment figure consists of investments for McGill endowments, accounts managed on behalf of McGill units and affiliated entities and an allocation from the restricted fund. |chancellor = Richard Pound |principal = Heather Munroe-Blum |city =  Montreal |state = QC |country = Canada |faculty = 6,061 |staff = 9,345 |undergrad = 23,758 |postgrad = 8,756 |campus = UrbanDowntown: 32 ha (80 acres)Macdonald Campus: 6.5 km² (1,600 acres) |publictransit= (Downtown Campus)Metro: McGill(Macdonald Campus)Bus: Macdonald Terminus Train: Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue |colours = Red and White   |affiliations = AAU, G13, Universitas 21, ATS, CUSID, UArctic, UACC |athletics = 49 Varsity Teams CISQSSFMcGill Redmen (Men's) McGill Martlets (Women's)  |mascot = Marty the Martlet |website= www.mcgill.ca |logo = |   McGill University is a public university located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. McGill was founded in 1821, making it one of the oldest universities in Canada. The university bears the name of James McGill, a prominent Montreal merchant, whose bequest formed the beginning of the university. McGill was chartered during the British colonial era, 46 years before Canadian Confederation, making McGill the first non-denominational university in the British Empire. Classes were first held in 1829. McGill University organized public lecture series and began classes for women in 1855.  The university has evolved during its history, especially in the area of anglophone–francophone relations.Total enrollment at McGill is over 30,000 students, 80% of whom are Canadian. McGill has 21 faculties and professional schools, offering degrees and diplomas in over 300 fields of study, including medicine. Its language of instruction is English. McGill's commitment to research is highly regarded; the university has received awards for research activities and is a member of multiple research organizations. McGill and its faculties are highly ranked in many national, continental, and world-wide rankings. Admission criteria are high and admittance spots are competitive; fewer than 50% of applicants are admitted.McGill's main campus is set upon 32&nbsp;hectares (80&nbsp;acres) at the foot of Mount Royal in downtown Montreal. A second campus—Macdonald Campus—is situated on 6.5&nbsp;square kilometres (1,600&nbsp;acres) of fields and forested land in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue, 30&nbsp;kilometres west of the downtown campus. Residence halls make up only a small portion of McGill's buildings, resulting in all non-freshmen being expected to find private, off-campus housing.Alumni from McGill have been recognized in fields ranging from the arts and sciences, to business, politics, and sports. Notably, alumni include eight Nobel laureates, three astronauts, two Canadian prime ministers, seven Academy Award winners, and twenty-five Olympic medalists.HistoryFoundation of McGill University, the original benefactor of McGill University.]] James McGill was a successful English and French-speaking merchant in Quebec. Between 1811 and 1813&lt;/ref&gt;  he drew up a will leaving his Burnside estate, a 19 hectare (46 acre) tract of rural land and 10,000 pounds to the The Royal Institution for the Advancement of Learning (RIAL). &lt;/ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref name= &quot;Kip&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;Upon McGill's death in December 1813 the RIAL, established in 1801 by an Act of the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada,''The Royal Charter of McGill University, accessed January 21, 2006. shifted focus from administering elementary education in Lower Canada, to establishing a University persuant to the conditions of McGill's will. As a condition of the bequest, the land and funds would have to be used for the establishment of a "University or College, for the purposes of Education and the Advancement of Learning in the said Province." The will specified that the college must be established within 10 years of his death or else the estate and the money would revert to the heirs of his wife. Also, the new institution would be required to bear his name.Foundation History, McGill University.On March 31, 1821, after protracted legal battles with the Desrivieres family (the heirs of his wife), McGill College received a Royal Charter from King George IV. The Charter provided that the College should be deemed and taken as a University, with the power of conferring degrees.The Gallery: 1821 Charter, McGill University Archives. In 1829 McGill College was officially inaugurated and classes began. The Montreal Medical Institution became the college's Faculty of Medicine, McGill's first academic unit. The Faculty of Medicine granted its first degree, a Doctor of Medicine and Surgery, in 1833. The Faculty of Medicine remained the school's only functioning faculty until 1843 when the Faculty of Arts commenced teaching in the newly constructed Arts Building and East Wing (Dawson Hall).&quot;Department History&quot;, "McGill University Health Centre, Montreal", August 13, 2005. Accessed May 15, 2008.Legacy of the RIALThe creation of the RIAL in 1801, and its formation of two new Royal Grammar Schools in 1816, education.stateuniversity.com/pages/239/Canada-PREPRIMARY-PRIMARY-EDUCATION.html &quot;Canada - Preprimary &amp; Primary Education&quot;, 2008. Accessed June 8, 2008. acted as turning points for Canada in two particular ways. First, the schools "...were created by legislation, the District Public Schools Act of 1807, and they showed the government's willingness to support the costs of education and even the salary of a schoolmaster. Second, the law involved the state in education, an important first step in the creation of nondenominational schools." The original two schools closed in 1846; by the mid-1800s the RIAL lost control of the other 82 grammar schools it had administered.&quot;Education&quot;, "McGill University Archives". Accessed June 8, 2008 Its sole remaining purpose was to administer the McGill bequests on behalf of the college. McGill College continued to grow, now having the sole aim of providing post-secondary education. The RIAL continues to exist today; it is the corporate identity that runs the university and its various constituent bodies, including the former Macdonald College (now Macdonald Campus), Royal Victoria College (the former women's college turned residence) and the Montreal Neurological Institute. Since the revised Royal Charter of 1852, The Trustees of the RIAL comprise the Board of Governors of McGill University.Frost, Stanley Brice. McGill University, Vol. I. For the Advancement of Learning, 1801-1895. McGill-Queen's University Press, 1980. ISBN 978-0-7735-0353-3 Early years, is the oldest existing building on campus.]]The university's first classes were held in 1829 at Burnside Place, James McGill's country home.&quot;Brief history of Physics at McGill&quot;, "McGill Physics", 2008. Accessed June 8, 2008. Burnside Place remained the sole educational facility until the 1840s, when the school began construction on its first buildings: the central and east wings of the Arts Building.The Early Campus, Virtual McGill. The rest of the campus was essentially a cow pasture, a situation similar to the few other Canadian universities and early American colleges of the age.&quot;Canadian Architecture Collection&quot;, "Virtual McGill", 2001. Accessed May 24, 2008. Sir John William Dawson, McGill's principal from 1855 to 1893, is often credited with transforming the school into a modern university.McGill University Faculty of Medicine: History, "McGill University Faculty of Medicine", 2008. Accessed June 13, 2008. He recruited the aid of Montreal's wealthiest citizens, many of whom donated property and funding needed to construct the campus buildings. Their names adorn many of the campus's prominent buildings, including the Redpath Museum (1880), Macdonald Physics Building (1893), the Redpath Library (1893), the Macdonald Chemistry Building (1896), the Macdonald Engineering Building (1907), and the Strathcona Medical Building (1907)—since renamed the Strathcona Anatomy and Dentistry Building. This expansion of the campus continued until 1920. In 1885, the university's Board of Governors formally adopted the use of the name McGill University. The school of architecture at McGill University was founded in 1896.Architectural Education&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Women's education at McGill began in 1884, when Donald Smith, also known as Lord Strathcona, began funding separate lectures for women, given by university staff members. The first degrees granted to women at McGill were conferred in 1888.William Dawson, CCHeritage. In 1899, the Royal Victoria College (RVC) opened as a residential college for women at McGill. Until the 1970s, all female undergraduate students, known as "Donaldas," were considered to be members of RVC.Royal Victoria College, McGill University Archives. Today, the College is an all-women's dormitory forming part of the university's residence system. In 1900, the university established the MacLennan Travelling Library. In 1905, the university acquired a second campus when Sir William C. Macdonald, one of the university's major benefactors, endowed a college in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue, 32 kilometres west of Montreal. Macdonald College, now known as the Macdonald Campus, opened to students in 1907, originally offering programs in agriculture, household science, and teaching.McGill established the first post-secondary institutions in British Columbia to provide degree programs to the growing cities of Vancouver and Victoria. It created Victoria College in 1903, a two-year college offering first and second-year McGill courses in arts and science, which was the predecessor institution to the modern University of Victoria. The province's first university was incorporated in Vancouver in 1908 as the McGill University College of British Columbia. The private institution granted McGill degrees until it became the independent University of British Columbia in 1915.Higher Education in British Columbia Before the Establishment of UBC, UBC Archives.McGill français movementThe 1960s represented an era of large nationalist and labour mobilizations in Quebec. At the time, English was seen as the privileged language of commerce. McGill, where francophones comprised only three percent of the student population, was seen by some as a bastion of anglophone privilege in a predominantly French-speaking city.Reporter: McGill françaisReporter: Kaleidoscope There was only one French-language university in Montreal at the time: the Université de Montréal. McGill was largely out of reach to the 10,000 francophone graduates of the newly-created CEGEP system. There was nowhere else local to continue their studies, and almost no other French-speaking universities in Canada.The McGill français movement began in 1969, clamouring for a new McGill that would be francophone, pro-nationalist, and pro-worker.&quot;McGill français and Quebec society&quot;, "McGill Reporter", April 8, 1999. Accessed May 16, 2008. The movement was led by Stanley Gray, a political science professor from Ontario. It was argued that, since McGill received the lion's share of government funding, paid by a taxpayer base that was largely francophone, the university should equally be accessible to that segment of the population.&quot;A reunion of radicals&quot;, "Reporter Volume 29 Number 2", September 26, 1996. Accessed May 16, 2008.&quot;Far from français&quot;, "The McGill Tribune", February 3, 2004. Accessed May 16, 2008. Gray led a demonstration of 10,000 trade unionists, leftist activists, CEGEP students, and even some McGill students, at the university's Roddick Gates on March 28, 1969. Protesters shouted "McGill français", "McGill aux Québécois", and "McGill aux travailleurs" (McGill for workers). However, the majority of students and faculty opposed such a position, and many of the protesters were arrested.Chester, Bronwyn. &quot;McGill français and Quebec society&quot;. McGill Reporter, April 8, 1999. Accessed on January 20, 2006.Provart, John. McGill français 30 years later. McGill News, Summer 1999. The McGill français movement is the second-largest protest in the history of Montreal.Reporter Volume 29 Number 2Though McGill allowed students to write graduation theses in French as early as 1835, McGill never became a francophone or officially bilingual university. However, francophones now make up approximately 18 percent of the student body, a goal set by the administration in the wake of the movement.McGill Quick facts Today, McGill is one of only three English-language universities in Quebec; fluency in French is not a requirement to attend. The Faculty of Law does, however, require all students to be "passively bilingual", meaning that all students must be able to read and understand spoken French—or English if the student is Francophone—since English or French may be used at any time in a course. Since 1964, students in all faculties have been able to write exams and papers in either English or French, provided that the objective of the class is not to learn a particular language.« McGill français! » - Souvenirs - Les Archives de Radio-CanadaAcademicsStudent profileMcGill's full- and part-time student population includes 23,758 undergraduate and 8,756 graduate students. Of all graduate students, 490 are postdoctoral students and 943 are medical residents or fellows. Of the entire student population, 57.3% are from Quebec, while 23.7% come from the rest of Canada. International students make up 19.0% of the student population, the largest percentage of any Canadian university.McGill International Students, McGill UniversityMcGill's students represent a diverse geographic and linguistic background. International students hail from about 160 different countries.&quot;Introduction to McGill&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 16, 2008. The plurality of McGill's international students are from the United States, making up 37% of all international students and 49% of all undergraduate international students. A growing number of American students are attending McGill; they represent 9.7% of all undergraduates and 6.9% of all students at the university. Many are attracted to the culture and dynamism of Montreal, the university's reputation, and the relatively low tuition in comparison to many top public and private universities in the United States.Bauer, Andrew. &quot;NEWS ANALYSIS: Americans love McGill&quot;. McGill Tribune, October 26, 2004. As their mother tongue, 52.8% of all McGill students speak English, while 18.1% speak French, and 29.1% speak a language other than English or French.&quot;MOTHER TONGUE, HOME LANGUAGE AND OFFICAL / NON-OFFICAL LANGUAGES&quot;, "EDRS - McGill University". Accessed May 17, 2008.University profile-Stewart Library Building houses the Schulich Library of Science and Engineering.]] In the 2007-2008 school year, McGill offered over 340 academic programs in eleven faculties.&quot;McGill University Calendars&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 11, 2008. The university also offers over 250 doctoral and master's graduate degree programs. Despite strong increases in university enrolment across North America,&quot;University enrolment&quot;, "The Daily", October 11, 2005. Accessed May 26, 2008. McGill has upheld a relatively low&quot;Enrolment Growth&quot;, "Towards 2030", 2008. Accessed May 11, 2008. and appealing&quot;Online College Ranking by Student-Faculty Ratio&quot;, "Online Education Database", 2008. Accessed May 26, 2008. student-faculty ratio of 16:1.&quot;McGill University&quot;, "The Princeton Review", 2008. Accessed May 26, 2008. There are nearly 1,600 tenured or tenure-track professors and 4,300 adjunct and visiting professors teaching at the university.Nearly 30% of all students are enrolled in the Faculty of Arts, McGill's largest academic unit. Of the other larger faculties, the Faculty of Science enrolls 14%, the Centre for Continuing Education enrolls 13%, the Faculty of Medicine enrolls 12%, the Faculty of Engineering and the Desautels Faculty of Management enroll 10% each. The remainder of all students are enrolled in McGill's smaller schools, including the Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Law, Schulich School of Music, and the Faculty of Religious Studies.McGill Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Office   (GPSO) oversees the admission and registration of graduate students (both master's and PhD). GPSO administers graduate fellowships, postdoctoral affairs, and the graduation process, including the examination of theses. In conjuction with other units it conducts regular program reviews in all disciplines.Research  stamp.&quot;One-hundred-years young Macdonald College gets birthday stamp&quot;, "Canada Post Press Releases", September 21, 2006. Accessed May 15, 2008.]] Research plays a critical role at McGill. According to the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada, "Researchers at McGill are affiliated with about 75 major research centres and networks, and are engaged in an extensive array of research partnerships with other universities, government and industry in Quebec and Canada, throughout North America and in dozens of other countries."&quot;McGill University&quot;, "Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada", April 4, 2008. Accessed May 26, 2008. Annually, around 100 inventions take place at McGill.&lt;/ref&gt; In recognition of its research quality, McGill is affiliated with seven Nobel Laureates and professors have won major teaching prizes.Since 1926, McGill has been a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU), an organization of research-intensive universities in North America. McGill is also a founding member of Universitas 21, an international association of research-driven universities. McGill is a member of the G13, a group of prominent research universities within Canada. McGill-Queen's University Press began as McGill in 1963 and amalgamated with Queen's in 1969. McGill-Queen's University Press focuses on Canadian studies and publishes the Canadian Public Administration Series. University Presses&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;McGill is perhaps best recognized for its research and discoveries in the health sciences. William Osler, Wilder Penfield, Donald Hebb, Brenda Milner, and others made significant discoveries in medicine, neuroscience and psychology while at McGill. The invention of the world's first artificial cell was made by an undergraduate student at the university. While chair of physics at McGill, nuclear physicist Ernest Rutherford performed the experiment that led to the discovery of the alpha particle and its function in radioactive decay, which won him the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1908.William Chalmers invented Plexiglas while a graduate student at McGill.Alumni&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In computing, MUSIC/SP, software for mainframes once popular among universities and colleges around the world, was developed at McGill. A team also contributed to the development of Archie, a pre-WWW search engine. A 3270 terminal emulator developed at McGill was commercialized and later sold to Hummingbird Software.RankingsResearch Infosource named McGill "Research University of the Year" in its 2003 and 2005 rankings of Canada's Top 50 Research Universities.Zeindler, Christine. &quot;McGill is research university of the year, tops in Times&quot;. McGill Reporter, October 27, 2005. In 2007, Research Infosource ranked McGill the second-best research university in the country, after the University of Toronto. They also ranked McGill university third in Canada in research-intensity and fourth in total-research funding, finding that McGill ranks in the top five universities in terms of research dollars per full-time faculty member and number of refereed publications per full-time faculty member. The study showed that research funding represents approximately $259,100 per faculty member, the fourth highest in the country.In the Times Higher Education Supplement (THES) - QS World University Rankings 2007, McGill University was ranked the best university in Canada, the best public university and 8th overall in North America, and 12th in the world. Within specific fields, McGill ranked 10th in the life sciences and biomedicine, 12th in the humanities, 12th in the social sciences, 26th in the natural sciences, and 27th in technology. This achievement has been regarded as the "highest rank to be reached by a Canadian institution." Accessed June 6, 2008. In Shanghai Jiao Tong University's Academic Ranking of World Universities 2008, McGill ranked third in Canada, 42nd in the Americas, and 60th in the world.&lt;/ref&gt; In its 2006 ranking of global universities, Newsweek ranked McGill third in Canada, 30th in North America, and 42nd worldwide. In the 2008 College Prowler Online rankings for Academics at North American universities, McGill earned an A- for Academics; making it the only Canadian school to achieve a grade above a B-.&quot;Academics&quot;, "College Prowler Online", 2008. Accessed May 26, 2008.McGill is Canada's top-ranked Medical Doctoral university, ranking first in Canada for the third consecutive year in the Maclean's 17th annual University Rankings issue.&quot;McGill again tops Maclean's University Rankings&quot;, "McGill Public and Media Newsroom" November 8, 2007. Accessed May 4, 2008Whyte, Kenneth et al. "Maclean's University Rankings '07", November 19, 2007. Page 101, "Our 17th Annual Rankings - Medical Doctoral ranking". Accessed May 17, 2008. The university has held first place in student awards for nine consecutive years, and consistently ranks first for reputation, average size, and number of social sciences and humanities grants per full-time faculty.In its first ever law school ranking, Maclean's ranked McGill's law school second overall.They ranked McGill's law school first in Canada by supreme court clerkships, third by elite firm hiring, third by faculty journal citations, and seventh by national reach.AdmissionsAdmissions to McGill's undergraduate and graduate schools are competitive. For the entering class of Fall 2007, McGill admitted 12,208 of 26,390 undergraduate applicants (46%) and 3,188 of 8,377 graduate applicants (38%). The median high school average for the entering undergraduate class was 90% for Canadian students (89% for students in Ontario and 91% for students from other provinces) or a 3.7 GPA for American students. The median SAT scores for verbal, math, and writing were 690, 680, and 690, respectively. The median ACT score was 30. The median Quebec CEGEP R score was 30.13. McGill's entering undergraduate class has the highest average entering grades in Canada. About 90% of students ranked in the top 10% of their high school graduating class. McGill students have won 128 Rhodes Scholarships, more than any other Canadian university.Admissions to McGill's professional schools are also competitive. For McGill law school students in 2007, the median undergraduate GPA was 83% (3.77) and the median LSAT score was 160 (83rd percentile).CampusDowntown campusMcGill's main campus is situated in downtown Montreal at the foot of Mount Royal. &quot;Campus Maps&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 17, 2008. Most of its buildings are situated in a park-like campus located north of Sherbrooke Street and south of Pine Ave between Peel and Aylmer streets. The campus also extends west of Peel for several blocks, starting North of Docteur-Penfield. The campus is near the Peel and McGill metro stations. All of the major university buildings were constructed using local grey limestone, which serves as a unifying element."The use of local grey limestone as the main construction material is the unifying factor in all the campus structures." &quot;McGill University&quot;, "Studyplaces.com", 2008. Accessed June 22, 2008.Since the 1880s,&quot;McGill buys Anglican Diocesan Theological College&quot;, "The Gazette", May 15, 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008. McGill has been affiliated with three Theological Colleges; the Montreal Diocesan Theological College (Anglican Church of Canada), The Presbyterian College, Montreal (Presbyterian Church in Canada), and United Theological College (United Church of Canada).&quot;Bachelor of Theology Program&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 16, 2008. The university's Faculty of Religious Studies maintains additional affiliations with other theological institutions and organizations, such as the Montreal School of Theology.&quot;Montreal School of Theology&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 16, 2008.In addition to McGill's own Health Centre, McGill has been directly partnered with five separate teaching hospitals for decades, and also has a history of collaborating with many hospitals in Montreal. These cooperations allow the university to graduate over 1,000 students in health care each year.&quot;Mcgill University&quot;, "Learnist.org Study Abroad", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008. McGill's contract-affiliated teaching hospitals include: Montreal Children's Hospital, Montreal General Hospital, Montreal Neurological Hospital, Montreal Chest Institute and Royal Victoria Hospital. Other hospitals that health care students may use include: Sir Mortimer B. Davis - Jewish General Hospital, Douglas Hospital and St. Mary's Hospital Center.&quot;McGill University Teaching Hospital Network&quot;, "McGill University Faculty of Medicine", June 14, 2005. Accessed May 16, 2008.Designed in the late 1980s, the McGill University Phytotron occupies the two top floors of the south block of the Stewart Biological Sciences Building. Research Centres and Field Stations, McGill University. It brings together a combination of growth chambers and greenhouse compartments to provide a diverse array of environments for the growth of experimental plants and organisms.McGill University Phytotron, McGill UniversityThe university's athletic facilities, including Molson Stadium, are located on Mount Royal, near the residence halls and the Montreal Neurological Institute. The Gymnasium is named in honour of General Sir Arthur William Currie.Accommodations. The circular building in the foreground is the McIntyre Medical Sciences Building.]] McGill's residence system is relatively small for a school of its size, housing approximately 2,400 undergraduate students and a handful of graduate students.McGill Residences Most McGill students do not live in residence (known colloquially as "rez") after their first year of study, even if they are not from the Montreal area. With the exception of students returning as "floor fellows" or "dons", the majority of McGill residences are for first-year undergraduate students only. Senior students are expected to find off-campus housing.Many first-year students live in the Bishop Mountain Residences ("Upper Rez")," Upper Rez: Douglas, McConnell, Molson and Gardner Halls". &quot;Moving into Residences&quot;, "McGill University", 2008. Accessed June 5, 2008. a series of concrete dormitories on the slope of Mount Royal, consisting of McConnell Hall, Molson Hall, Gardner Hall, and Douglas Hall. Douglas Hall, which opened in 1937, is distinguished by its impressive stone facade and wood interiors. McConnell, Molson, and Gardner Halls, all built in the 1960s, share a cafeteria, located at the centre of the three dormitories, known as Bishop Mountain Hall.Royal Victoria College, the second-largest residence at McGill, is a women's only dormitory. McGill's newest residence, aptly named New Residence Hall ("New Rez") is a converted four-star hotel located a few blocks east of campus. New Rez is the largest of the university's dormitories. Solin Hall is an apartment-style residence four metro stops from campus. The McGill Off-Campus Residence Experience (MORE) residences consist of a series of converted apartment buildings and houses, the largest of which is The Greenbriar, an apartment-style residence located across from the Milton Gates.Most second-year students transition to off-campus apartment housing, and apartment hunting is sometimes seen as a rite of passage for McGill students. Many students end up living in the "McGill Ghetto," the neighbourhood directly to the east of the downtown campus. In recent years, finding affordable housing has been challenging because of the city's tight housing market, particularly in neighbourhoods close to the McGill campus.&quot;In the Ghetto&quot;, "McGill Reporter", September 9, 1999. Accessed June 5, 2008. Students have begun moving out to other areas because of rising rent prices in the locale.2006 Redevelopment PlanIn 2006, the Quebec government initiated a $1.6 billion LEED redevelopment project for the McGill University Health Centre (MUHC). The project will expand facilities to two separate campuses&quot;THE MUHC REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT&quot;, "McGill University Health Centre", 2008. Accessed May 17, 2008. and consolidate the various hospitals of the MUHC on the site of an old CP rail yard adjacent to the Vendôme metro station. This site, known as Glen Yards, comprises 170,000 square metres (43 acres) and spans portions of Montreal's Notre-Dame-de-Grâce neighbourhood and the city of Westmount.This Land Was Made for You and Me... McGill University Health Centre Journal, July/August 2001. The Glen Yards project is controversial due to local opposition to the project, environmental issues, and the cost of the project itself.McCabe, Daniel. MUHC site chosen, McGill Reporter, November 5, 1998. The project, which has received approval from the provincial government, is expected to be complete by 2010.Reynolds, Mark. Green light on Glen Yards, McGill Reporter, September 11, 2003.Macdonald CampusA second campus, the Macdonald Campus, in Sainte-Anne-de-Bellevue houses the Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Science, the School of Dietetics and Human Nutrition, the Institute of Parasitology, and the McGill School of Environment. The Morgan Arboretum and the J. S. Marshall Radar Observatory are nearby.The Morgan Arboretum was created in 1945. It is a 2.5 square kilometre (610 acres) forested reserve with the aim of 'teaching, research, and public education'. Its mandated research goals are: Other facilitiesMcGill's Bellairs Research Institute, located in Barbados , is Canada's only teaching and research facility in the tropics.Bellairs Research Institute, McGill University. The institute has been in use for over 50 years. Its facilities are regularly utilized by the Canadian Space Agency for research.The laboratories of the Huntsman Marine Science Centre are located in St. Andrews, N.B., on 300,000 square metres (74 acres) of land at the estuary of the St. Croix River.HUNTSMAN MARINE SCIENCE CENTRE, McGill University. Accessed May 3, 2008. It hosts the Atlantic Reference Centre, which is known throughout the Maritimes for its extensive marine biology collections&quot;Global Change Master Directory&quot;, Ocean Biogeographic Information System, February 19, 2008. Accessed May 3, 2008.. The HMS is a research facility "committed to the advancement of the marine sciences through basic and applied research"Huntsman Marine Science Centre, Huntsman Oceansciences. Accessed May 3, 2008. and acts as a field facility for research and teaching by McGill and other member universities.McGill's Gault Nature Reserve  spans over 10 square kilometres (2,471 acres) of forest land, the largest remaining remnant of the primeval forests of the St. Lawrence River Valley.THE GAULT NATURE RESERVE, McGill University. Accessed May 3, 2008. The first scientific studies at the site occurred in 1859. The site has been the site of extensive research activities: "Today there are over 400 scientific articles, 100 graduate theses, more than 50 government reports and about 30 book chapters that are based on research at Mont St. Hilaire."Research and education, McGill University. Accessed May 3, 2008.In 2006, the McGill English Education Center was established in Chang’an, Dongguan, China under the VICTOR International Language Institute. Providing linguistic analysis and English-language instruction, the facility's aim is to become the "best English training center" in the entire region.&quot;Introduction&quot;, "VICTOR International Language Institute", 2008. Accessed June 5, 2008.Student lifeMcGill's urban location in downtown Montreal provides students the opportunity to experience both a rich campus culture and an urban lifestyle.Tony Keller et all: “18th Annual Maclean's Guide to Canadian Universities”, page 101 McGill University. Maclean's, 2008 Students also have the benefit of an expansive agricultural campus, the Macdonald Campus.In its May 2006 issue, Playboy Magazine ranked McGill as the tenth best party school in North America. McGill was the only Canadian university in the list.Student organizationssystem for campus elections.]]The campus has an active students' union represented by the undergraduate Students' Society of McGill University (SSMU) and the Post-Graduate Students' Society of McGill University (PGSS). In addition, each faculty has its own student governing body. There are hundreds of clubs and student organizations at the university. Many of them are centred around McGill's student union building, the University Centre. In 1992, students held a referendum which called for the University Center to be named for actor and McGill alumnus William Shatner.Where we are, SSMU The William Shatner University Centre is located at 3480 McTavish Street, on the west side of the McGill campus The university administration refused to accept the name and did not attend the opening. Traditionally, the administration names buildings in honour of deceased members of the university community or for major benefactors&mdash;Shatner is neither.Stojsic, Leslie. &quot;The trek back home&quot;. McGill Reporter, March 11, 1999. McGill has had a student club supporting lesbian, bisexual, gay, and transgender students since 1972. The group, originally named "Gay McGill", was renamed "Queer McGill" in 1998 to better identify with the diversity of its members.Chester, Bronwyn. &quot;Queerly cause for celebration&quot;, "McGill Reporter" March 21, 2002. Accessed May 5, 2008. Queer McGill supports both students and non-student members of the McGill community.&quot;Our Mandate&quot;, Queer McGill. Accessed May 5, 2008. Membership in 2002 was over 400.McGill has two English-language student-run newspapers: the McGill Daily, which is a financially independent publication, and the McGill Tribune, which is published through SSMU. The McGill Daily was first published in 1911. The Daily was the oldest daily student paper in Canada; it currently is published twice weekly.&quot;About The McGill Daily&quot;, "The McGill Daily", 2008. Accessed June 13, 2008. The Délit français is the Daily's French-language counterpart. The combined circulation of both papers is over 28,000. The McGill Foreign Affairs Review is a student-run journal about international affairs. CKUT (90.3 FM) is the campus radio station. TV McGill is the University TV station, broadcasting on closed-circuit television and over the internet.TVMcGillWhile fraternities and sororities are not a large part of student life at McGill, some, including fraternities Alpha Epsilon Pi, Delta Upsilon, Sigma Alpha Mu, and Zeta Psi, and sororities Gamma Phi Beta and Alpha Omicron Pi, have been established for many years at the university. Events including Greek week, held annually during the first week of February, have been established to promote Greek life on campus. With just over 2% of the student body population participating, involvement is well below that of most American universities,&quot;Greek Row: Fraternity participation up, sororities down&quot; "The Daily Utah Chronicle", November 7], 2007. Accessed May 3, 2008. but on par with most Canadian schools.Student organizations at McGill are internationally recognized in a variety of ways. Many larger organizations and NGOs have a local presence on campus. The International Relations Students Association of McGill (IRSAM) currently has consultative status with the UN's Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).&quot;Centre de recherches sur les pâtes et papiers de l'Université de McGill&quot;, "Mémoire du monde", UNESCO.ORG. Accessed May 3, 2008. Since 1990 McGill has hosted an annual Model UN Assembly. Occurring between January and February of each year, it involves hundreds of McGill students and thousands of external delegates.&quot;Welcome!&quot;, "McGill Model United Nations Assembly", 2009. Accessed June 13, 2008. McGill's Model UN Assebmly has hosted delegates from around the world, including representation from every continent.&quot;WHAT IS MCMUN?&quot;, "McGill Model United Nations Assembly", 2008. Accessed June 13, 2008.AthleticsMcGill is represented in Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS) by the McGill Redmen (men's) and the McGill Martlets (women's). The school fields between 45 and 53 varsity teams on an annual basis.&quot;Varsity Sports&quot;, "McGill Athletics", 2008. Accessed May 17, 2008. McGill's unique mascot, Marty the Martlet, was introduced during the 2005 Homecoming game, Sharma, Mira.&quot;CAMPUS: Marty the Martlet turns one&quot;, "The McGill Tribune" September 26, 2006. Accessed May 5, 2008.The downtown McGill campus sport and exercise facilities include: the McGill Sports Centre (which includes the Tomilson Fieldhouse and the Windsor Varsity Clinic),Thompson, Tom et al.&quot;McGill Track and Field History&quot;, "McGill Athletics History", December 19, 2003. Accessed May 16, 2008. Molson Stadium, Memorial Pool, Tomlinson Hall, McConnell Arena, Forbes Field, many outdoor tennis courts and other extra-curricular arenas and faculties. &quot;Facilities&quot;, "McGill Athletics", 2003. Accessed May 16, 2008. The Macdonald Campus facilities, include an arena, a gymnasium, a pool, tennis courts, fitness centres and hundreds of acres of green space for regular use.&quot;Welcome to Macdonald Campus Athletics&quot;, "Macdonald Campus Athletics", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008. The university's largest sporting venue, Molson Stadium, was constructed in 1914. It seats over 20,000 people.&quot;Molson Stadium&quot;, "McGill Athletics", 2008. Accessed May 17, 2008.HistoryThe inventions of North American football, hockey, rugby and basketball are all related to McGill in some way.The first game of North American football was played between McGill and Harvard on May 14, 1874,Watkins, Robert E.&quot;A History of Canadian University Football&quot;, "CISfootball.org", May 2006. Accessed May 18, 2008. leading to the spread of American football throughout the Ivy League.&quot;History of American Football&quot;, "NEWSdial.com", 2008. Accessed May 18, 2008. The world's first organized hockey club, made up of McGill sutdents, played their first game on January 31, 1877.&quot;McGill Redmen GAME NOTES for Ottawa &amp; Clarkson - UPCOMING MILESTONE&quot;, "McGill Athletics" January 5, 2007. Accessed May 4, 2008. In 1865, the first recorded game of rugby in North America occurred in Montreal, between British army officers and McGill students.Historical Rugby Milestones, RugbyFootballHistory.comA History of Canadian University Football, Robert E. Watkins McGill alumnus James Naismith invented basketball in early December 1891.Athletics, Viewbook 2005-2006.There has been a McGill alumnus or alumna competing at every Olympic Games since 1908.&quot;McGill's Olympians&quot;, "McGill Reporter", September 7, 2000. Accessed May 16, 2008.http://216.46.30.11/varsity_sports_article.ch2?article_id=108 "McGill send 27 to 2004 Athens Summer Olympics"], "McGill Athletics", August 13, 2004. Accessed May 16, 2008.&quot;2004 inductees to McGill Sports Hall of Fame&quot;, "McGill Athletics", June 24, 2004. Accessed May 16, 2008. Swimmer George Hodgson won two gold medals at the 1912 Summer Olympics, ice hockey goaltender Kim St-Pierrewon gold medals at the 2002 Winter Olympics and at the 2006 Winter Olympics. Other 2006 gold medalists are Jennifer Heil (women's freestyle mogul) and goaltender Charline Labonté (women's ice hockey).In 1996, the McGill Sports Hall of Fame was established to honour its best student athletes. Notable members of the Hall of Fame include James Naismith and Sydney Pierce.RivalriesMcGill maintained an academic and athletic rivalry with Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario. Animosity between rowing athletes at the two schools has inspired an annual boat race between the two universities in the spring of each year since 1997. The rivalry, which was once very intense, waned after Queen's pulled their football team out of the Ontario-Quebec Intercollegiate Football Conference in 2000. It returned in 2002 when it transferred to the annual home-and-home varsity hockey games between the two institutions, however the McGill's/Queen's challenge also survives in the form of the annual boat race between the two schools.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Queen%27s-McGill_Rivalry&lt;/ref&gt; McGill and Harvard have been unofficial rivals for decades, and the Harvard-McGill biennial games reinforces this relationship. neededThe school also competes in the annual "Old Four (IV)" soccer tournament, with Queen's University, the University of Toronto and the University of Western Ontario.===Hazing scandal=== A 2005 hazing scandal forced the cancellation of the final two games in the McGill Redmen football season. An investigation into the incident showed that "the event did involve nudity, degrading positions and behaviours, gagging, touching in inappropriate manners with a broomstick, as well as verbal and physical intimidation of rookies by a large portion of the team.""McGill University cancels football season", McGill University Press Release, October 19, 2005. Available online at http://www.football.mcgill.ca/mediaroom/2005/10_19_2005.php&lt;/ref&gt; Dubbed 'Hazegate' by the local Montreal Gazette, the scandal made national news. In 2006, McGill's Senate approved a proposed anti-hazing policy to define forbidden initiation practices.McGill get tough with hazing. The Globe and Mail, 11 Jan. 07. Caroline Alphonso. Since then, the accusation of the football team was shown to be exaggerated.FinancesMcGill has the third largest endowment of all Canadian educational institutions, approaching $1 billion.Report on Endowment Performance, McGill University 6 April 2007 This endowment rests within the top 10 percent of all North American post-secondary institutions' endowments, of which there are over 850 such schools .Tibbets, Janice. &quot;U of T, UBC join billion-dollar club&quot;, "Canwest News Service", February 3, 2008. Accessed May 4, 2008. The school also maintains the fourth largest endowment on a per-student basis of any Canadian university.TuitionTuition fees vary significantly between in-province, out-of-province, and international students, with full-time Quebec students paying around $1,868 per year, Canadian students from other provinces paying around $7,500 per year, and international students paying over $15,000 per year.Tony Keller et all: “18th Annual Maclean's Guide to Canadian Universities”, page 101 McGill University. Maclean's, 2008.&quot;Tuition&quot;, "McGill University". Accessed May 5, 2008. Students must also pay significant housing costs.Since 1996, McGill, in accordance with the Ministère de l'Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport (MELS), has had eight categories that qualifies certain international students to be excused from paying international fees. These categories include: students from France, a quota of students from select countries which have agreements with MELS, which include Algeria, China, and Morocco,Countries and International Organizations Granted Exemptions from the Additional Financial Contribution by the Government of Quebec, Ministère de l'Éducation, du Loisir et du Sport. students holding diplomatic status, including their dependents, and students enrolled in certain language programs leading to a degree in French.International Fee ExemptionScholarships and financial aidScholarships at McGill are relatively difficult to attain, compared to other Canadian universities.&quot;Admission Scholarships Program&quot;, "University of Ottawa". Accessed May 4, 2008.&quot;Scholarships for Canadian high school applicants&quot;, "York University", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008.&quot;Entrance Scholarships&quot;, "Simon Fraser University", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008.&quot;Entrance Awards&quot;, "University of Alberta", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008.&quot;Money Matters&quot;, "Mount Saint Allison University", 2008. Accessed May 16, 2008. This is predominantly due to the number of high academic achievers at the school. For out-of-province first year undergraduate students, a high school average of 95% is required to receive a guaranteed one-year entrance scholarship.&quot;Entrance awards&quot;, McGill University. Accessed June 13, 2008. For in-course scholarships and renewal of previously earned scholarships, students generally need to be within the top 10% of their faculty.&quot;Renewals&quot;, McGill University. Accessed May 4, 2008. For in-course scholarships in particular, students must be within the top 5% of their faculty. McGill itself outlines scholarship considerations as follows: "Competition for basic and major scholarships is intense at McGill. An extraordinary number of exceptional applications are received each year and therefore we cannot award scholarships to all good candidates." However, it should be noted that for the 2008-2009 school year, over 85% more entrance scholarships may be given to applicants, a number greater than ever before.&quot;Entrance awards&quot;, "McGill University", 2008-2009. Accessed May 16, 2008.Campaign McGillCampaign McGill: History in the Making is a five-year comprehensive campaign that began in October of 2007,&quot;McGill launches $750-million fundraiser&quot;, "The Montreal Gazette" October 18, 2007. Accessed May 4, 2008. with the goal of raising over $750 million for the purpose of further "attracting and retaining top talent in Quebec, to increase access to quality education and to further enhance McGill's ability to address critical global problems."&quot;History in the Making&quot;, "McGill Public and Media Newsroom", October 18, 2007. Accessed May 4, 2008. The largest goal of any Canadian university fundraising campaign in history,&quot;McGill launches largest Canadian university fundraising campaign&quot;, "Academia Group Back Issues Database" October 19, 2007. Accessed May 4, 2008. within the first 6 months, McGill had accumulated over $400 million towards its efforts.&quot;Campaign McGill&quot;, McGill University. Accessed May 4, 2008.SymbolsThe University's patent of arms was granted by England's Garter-King-at-Arms in 1922 and registered in 1956 with Lord Lyon King of Arms in Edinburgh and in 1992 with the Public Register of Arms, Flags and Badges of Canada. In heraldic terms, the arms are described as follows:  A modern analysis is as follows: McGill's Macdonald Campus has a differing coat of arms, honouring Sir William Macdonald, a major benefactor of the university's fledgling agricultural college.The university's symbol is the martlet, stemming from the presence of the mythical bird on the official Arms of the university. The school's official colours are red and white. McGill's motto is Grandescunt Aucta Labore, Latin for: "By hard work, all things increase and grow."The formal school song is entitled "Hail, Alma Mater".McGill Songs &gt; McGill Facts and Institutional History &gt; McGill History &gt; Outreach The lyrics to the song are:Notable alumni and facultyMcGill alumni have been recognized as academics (one Pulitzer Prize winnerThe Washington Post Writers Group and one Templeton Prize winnerCharles Taylor awarded Templeton), scientists (three astronauts), doctors, artists (seven Academy Award winners), corporate leaders, media personalities, politicians (two Canadian prime ministers, four Supreme Court of Canada justices,McGill University Alumni - Political and several foreign leaders), beauty queens (one Miss Earth titleholder), and athletes (various members of Canadian national teams and seven Olympic medalists).McGill University Alumni McGill is also affiliated with eight Nobel laureates.Students have won 128 Rhodes Scholarships, more than any other Canadian university. Faculty have won 26 Prix du Québec, 14 Prix de l'Association francophone pour le savoir and 15 Killam Prizes.McGill faculty and affiliates awarded the Nobel Prize:NameAffiliation at McGillNobel Prize1. Mohan MunasingheAlumnusPeace, 20072. Robert MundellFormer faculty memberEconomics, 19993. Rudolph MarcusAlumnusChemistry, 19924. David Hunter HubelAlumnusPhysiology, 19815. Val Logsdon FitchAlumnusPhysics, 1980Andrew Schally]]AlumnusPhysiology, 19777. Frederick SoddyFormer demonstratorChemistry, 19218. Ernest RutherfordFormer faculty memberChemistry, 1908Fictional AlumniDr. James Wilson, oncologist at Princeton-Plainsboro Teaching Hospital in FOX Network TV drama House, is a McGill alumnus.Dr. Walter Langkowski, a fictional researcher from the Marvel Comics Canadian superhero series Alpha Flight. Langkowski was portrayed as McGill-based biophysicist researching the gamma radiation accident which created the Hulk. His discoveries transformed him into the superhero known as Sasquatch.Major Donald Craig, a Canadian commando serving with British special forces during World War II, portrayed by Rock Hudson in the 1967 war movie Tobruk is a McGill alumnus. Though the film was loosely based on real events, it is not clear whether or not Hudson's character was based on a real person. Most likely he was a pastiche character, given a Canadian background as cover for Hudson's inability to emulate a British accent.Lieutenant Alan McGregor, played by Gary Cooper in the movie Lives Of the Bengal Lancers (1935) is a McGill alumnus.See alsoCanadian Ivy LeagueMcGill College AvenueMcGill Journal of MedicineMcGill's Redpath MuseumMcGill's Middle East ProgramMcGill Science Undergraduate Research JournalMcGill University Faculty of MedicineMontreal Laboratory (for nuclear research, World War II)List of oldest universities in continuous operationList of colleges and universities named after peopleReferencesFurther readingFrost, Stanley B.'The History of McGill in Relation to the Social, Economic and Cultural Aspects of Montreal and Quebec' (Montreal: McGill University. 1979).Frost, Stanley B. 'McGill University: For the Advancement of Learning.' Vols I.(Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press © 1980)ISBN 9780773503533Frost, Stanley B. 'McGill University: For the Advancement of Learning.' Vol II.(Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press © 1984)ISBN 9780773504226Markell, H. Keith 'The Faculty of Religious Studies, McGill University, 1948-1978' (Montreal: Faculty of Religious Studies, 1979)McNally, Peter F. ''McGill University: For the Advancement of Learning (1970-2002)' Vol III(Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press Not yet published.)Young, Brian J. 'The Making and Unmaking of a University Museum: The McCord, 1921-1996' (Montreal: McGill-Queen's University Press, June 1, 2000)ISBN 9780773520493 and ISBN 9780773520509External linksOfficial websitePictures and Info on McGill buildingsAUCC profile       Category:McGill University Category:Educational institutions established in 1821 Category:Organizations based in Canada with royal patronage Category:Association of American Universities Category:Universitas 21 Category:Ivy League Category:Universities in Quebec Category:Quebec Anglophone higher education Category:Medical education in Canada Category:Nursing schools in Canadaar:جامعة مكجيل cs:McGill University de:McGill University es:Universidad McGill eo:Universitato McGill fa:دانشگاه مک‌گیل fr:Université McGill it:Università McGill nl:McGill-universiteit ja:マギル大学 ko:맥길 대학교 pl:Uniwersytet McGill pt:Universidade McGill ru:Университет Макгилла simple:McGill University sv:McGill University zh:麦吉尔大学