Yoshkar-Ola (Mari and ) is a city in Russia and is the capital of the Mari El Republic. It has a population of 281,165 (2002 Census), which is slowly increasing as people from neighboring areas move to the city.Yoshkar-Ola means red city in Mari. The current name is the third to have been given to the city. The city was known as Tsaryovokokshaysk () before 1919 and as Krasnokokshaisk () between the years of 1919 and 1927. These names were derived from the river Small Kokshaga, which runs through the city.During the Soviet era, especially post-WWII, the city was a regional industrial and transport center and grew to its current size. The collapse of the Soviet Union removed support for state enterprises, and led to the shutdown of most manufacturing activity in the area. Much of the city's economic activity was supported by shuttle traders who would transport (often counterfeit) goods from the bustling markets of Moscow to Yoshkar-Ola's bazaars. The sharp decline in living standards led to the emigration of specialized professionals to larger cities in Russia.A Strategic Rocket Forces base is located nearby.TransportationYoshkar-Ola is linked to other cities and regions in Russia by a series of train and bus routes. The local train station is currently served by a daily train to and from the capital Moscow with other short-service trains running to and from Kazan. Moscow and various other nearby towns and regions can also be reached by buses departing from the local bus station. The Yoshkar-Ola Airport is also located 9 km north of the city and handles small aircraft Moscow-bound flights (Domodedovo International Airport) since June 2008. It is planned to expand the range of destinations in the near future.Destinations within the city limits can be reached through a network of buses, trolleys, and route taxis, or marshrutkas. There are currently seven different bus routes, eleven different trolley routes, and seventeen marshrutka routes.ClimateThe city is situated in a temperate continental climate. The winters are long and cold with high yearly snowfall totals in these regions, in the majority of winter seasons a temperature of -18°C or lower can be expected with January as the coldest month. The area enjoys pleasantly warm summers, marred by only occasional, brief intervals of sultry or rainy conditions with July as the hottest month (+32...+34°C).EducationYoshkar-Ola is home to several institutions of higher education:Mari State University (Марийский государственный университет)Mari State Technical University (Марийский государственный технический университет)Mari State Pedagogical Institute (Марийский государственный педагогический институт) (lately integrated into the Mary State University)Yoshkar-Ola's Twin TownYoshkar-Ola is twinned with: Szombathely (Hungary) Bourges (France) Princeton (USA, West Virginia)See alsoCrime in Mari ElExternal linksDetailed map of the city of Yoshkar-OlaRed-White Yoshkar-Ola ENGRed-White Yoshkar-Ola RUSar:يوشكار-أولا ca:Ioixkar-Olà cv:Йошкар-Ола cs:Joškar-Ola de:Joschkar-Ola et:Joškar-Ola es:Yoshkar-Olá eo:Joŝkar-Ola fr:Iochkar-Ola ko:요시카르올라 hr:Joškar-Ola os:Йошкар-Ола it:Joškar-Ola he:יושקר-אולה kv:Йошкар-Ола lt:Joškar Ola hu:Joskar-Ola nl:Josjkar-Ola ja:ヨシュカル・オラ no:Josjkar-Ola nn:Josjkar-Ola nds:Joschkar-Ola pl:Joszkar-Oła ro:Ioşkar-Ola ru:Йошкар-Ола fi:Joškar-Ola sv:Josjkar-Ola tr:Yoşkar-Ola zh:约什卡尔奥拉