The femur is the thigh bone. In humans, it is the longest, most voluminous, and strongest bone. The average human femur is 48 centimeters (19 in) in length and 2.34 cm (0.92 in) in diameter and can support up to 30 times the weight of an adult. It forms part of the hip (at the acetabulum) and part of the knee.The word femur is Latin for thigh. Theoretically in strict usage, femur bone is more proper than femur, as in classical Latin femur means "thigh", and os femoris means "the bone within it".In medical Latin its genitive is always femoris, but in classical Latin its genitive is often feminis, and should not be confused with case forms of femina, which means "woman".-Intercondylar FossaThe intercondylar fossa is present between the condyles at the distal end of the femur. In addition to the intercondylar eminence on the tibial plateau, there is both an anterior and posterior intercondylar fossa (area), the sites of anterior cruciate and posterior cruciate ligament attachment, respectively.In other animalsParallel structures by the same name exist in other complex animals, such as the bone inside a ham or a leg of lamb. The name femur is also given to the most proximal full-length jointed segment of an arthropod's leg.ReferencesExternal linksImage with major components labeled at vFemoral fractures at aofoundation.orgAdditional imagesImage:Knee diagram.png|Knee diagram
Image:Gray243.png|Upper extremity of right femur viewed from behind and above.
Image:Gray244.png|Right femur. Anterior surface.
Image:Gray245.png|Right femur. Posterior surface.
Image:Gray341.png|Left hip-joint, opened by removing the floor of the acetabulum from within the pelvis.
Image:Gray346.png|Right knee-joint. Posterior view.
Image:Gray348.png|Left knee-joint from behind, showing interior ligaments.
Image:Gray350.png|Sagittal section of right knee-joint.
Image:Gray351.png|Capsule of right knee-joint (distended). Lateral aspect.
Image:Gray352.png|Capsule of right knee-joint (distended). Posterior aspect.
Image:Gray432 color.png|Cross-section through the middle of the thigh.
Image:Gray433.png|Deep muscles of the medial femoral region.Category:Bones of pelvic limb Category:Long bonesay:Chara ch'aka cs:Stehenní kost da:Lårbensknogle de:Oberschenkelknochen dv:ފަލަމަސް ކަށިގަނޑު es:Fémur (anatomía humana) eo:Femurosto fr:Fémur zh-classical:股骨 hr:Bedrena kost id:Tulang paha it:Femore he:עצם הירך la:Femur lt:Šlaunikaulis hu:Combcsont nl:Dijbeen ja:大腿骨 no:Femur pl:Kość udowa pt:Fêmur ru:Бедренная кость sl:Stegnenica fi:Reisiluu sv:Lårben ta:தொடையெலும்பு te:తుంటి ఎముక th:กระดูกต้นขา tr:Femur uk:Стегнова кістка wa:Oxhea del coxhe zh:股骨