 | status = NT | trend = down | status_system = iucn3.1 | status_ref =  | image = Lemur_walking-2.jpg | regnum = Animalia | phylum = Chordata | classis = Mammalia | ordo = Primates | familia = Lemuridae | genus = Lemur | genus_authority = Linnaeus, 1758 | species = L. catta | binomial = Lemur catta | binomial_authority = Linnaeus, 1758 | range_map = Madagascar_Lemur_catta_range.png | range_map_caption=Distribution of Lemur cattaMittermeier, p. 238 | synonyms = Genus:Catta Link, 1806Maki Muirhead, 1819Mococo Lesson, 1878Odorlemur Bolwig, 1961Procebus Storr, 1780Prosimia Boddaert, 1785Species:mococo Muirhead, 1819The Ring-tailed Lemur (Lemur catta) is a relatively large Strepsirhine primate, a lemur belonging to the family Lemuridae. The only species in the monotypic genus Lemur, it is found only on the island of Madagascar &mdash; like all other lemurs. Known locally as HiraMittermeier, p. 246 (Malagasy) or Maki (French, Malagasy), it inhabits gallery forests to spiny scrub in the southern regions of the island. In addition to being diurnal, it is also the most terrestrial of all lemurs.The Ring-tailed Lemur is widely recognized and easily distinguished from other lemur species by its long, black and white ringed tail. It is highly social, as well as matriarchal, a trait uncommon in primates. Like other lemurs, this species relies strongly on its sense of smell, and marks its territory with scent glands. Furthermore, it is one of the most vocal primates, with numerous vocalizations, including group cohesion and alarm calls.Although threatened by habitat destruction and therefore listed as "Near Threatened" by the IUCN Red List, Listed as Near Threatened (NT v3.1) the Ring-tailed Lemur is the most populous lemur in zoos worldwide, with more than 1000 in captivity. It reproduces readily in captivity and typically lives up to 27 years (16 to 19 years in the wild). Facilities actively involved in its conservation include the Duke Lemur Center in Durham, NC, the Myakka City Lemur Reserve (part of the Lemur Conservation Foundation) in Myakka City, FL, the Madagascar Fauna Group headquartered at the Saint Louis Zoo, and the Berenty Reserve in southern Madagascar.EtymologyThe term lemur was selected by early biologists because the calls of some elusive lemur species brought to mind the cries of the spirits of the dead, or lemures, from Roman mythology.Garbutt, p. 85-86 The species name, catta, comes from the similarity between the Ring-tailed Lemur's purring vocalization and that of the domestic cat.Evolutionary historyNo mammalian fossil record has existed in Madagascar until recent times.Mittermeier, p. 23-26 Consequently, little is known about the evolution of the Ring-tailed Lemur, let alone the order Lemuriformes, which comprises the entire endemic primate population of the island. However, chromosomal and molecular evidence strongly suggest that all lemurs are more closely related to each other than to other Strepsirrhine primates, which further suggests that a very small ancestral population came to Madagascar via a single rafting event between 47-57 million years ago. Subsequent evolutionary radiation and speciation has created the diverse array of Malagasy lemurs seen today. As for the Ring-tailed Lemur, it is currently thought that it may share closer affinities than the rest of its subfamily, Lemurinae, to the bamboo lemurs of the genus Hapalemur,Garbutt, p. 146-148Mittermeier, p. 237 which may be a sister group of the family Lemuridae.Taxonomic classificationThe genus Lemur contains only one species, the Ring-tailed Lemur.Family LemuridaeSubfamily LemurinaeGenus ''Lemur'': the Ring-tailed LemurGenus Eulemur: brown lemursGenus Varecia: ruffed lemursSubfamily Hapalemurinae: bamboo lemursGenus Hapalemur: lesser gentle or bamboo lemursGenus Prolemur: greater bamboo lemurChanges in taxonomyThe Ring-tailed Lemur, along with brown lemurs and ruffed lemurs, were once grouped together in the genus Lemur. In fact, the Ring-tailed Lemur's skeleton is nearly indistinguishable from that of the brown lemurs. However, the ruffed lemurs were reassigned to the genus Varecia in 1962; and due to similarities between the Ring-tailed Lemur and the bamboo lemurs, particularly in regards to molecular evidence and similarities in the scent glands, the brown lemurs were moved to the genus Eulemur in 1988. Consequently, the genus Lemur is now monotypic, containing only the Ring-tailed Lemur. Although not all authorities agree, the majority of the primatological community currently favors this classification.Anatomy and physiologyAn adult Ring-tailed Lemur may reach a body length between  and a weight between .Mittermeier, p. 246-249 The Ring-tailed Lemur has a slender frame and narrow face, reminiscent of a vulpine muzzle. Like all lemurs, the Ring-tailed Lemur has hind limbs longer than its forelimbs. Females have two pairs of mammary glands, but only one pair is functional.TailThe Ring-tailed Lemur's trademark, a long, bushy tail, is ringed in alternating black and white transverse stripes, numbering thirteen to fifteen each for both colors, and always ending in a black tip. Its tail is longer than its body, measuring up to  in length. The tail is not prehensile and is only used for balance, communication, and group cohesion.Pelage and skinThe pelage is dense, with the ventral (chest) coat and throat being white or cream, and the dorsal (back) coat and neck being gray to rosy-brown. The crown is dark gray, while the ears and cheeks are white. The muzzle is dark grayish and the nose is black, and the eyes are encompassed by black lozenge-shaped patches.The skin is black in color, and visible on the nose, genitalia, and the palms and soles of the limbs. Like all lemurs, the Ring-tailed Lemur's fingers are slender, padded, and semi-dexterous with flat, human-like nails. Also in common with all lemurs, the Ring-tailed Lemur has a toilet-claw (sometimes referred to as a grooming claw) on the second toe of each hind limb specialized for grooming purposes.&lt;/ref&gt; Additionally, this primate grooms orally by licking and tooth-scraping with narrow, procumbent lower incisors and canines, called a toothcomb.VisionThe species' eyes can be a bright yellow or orange, which stay the same color from the time they are born. Unlike most diurnal primates, but like all strepsirhine primates, the Ring-tailed Lemur has a tapetum lucidum, or reflective layer on its eye, which enhances night vision.Scent glandsFurless scent glands are present on both males and females. Both genders have apocrine and sebaceous glands in their genital regions, as well as antebrachial glands located on the inner surface of the forearm in proximity of the wrist. However, only the male has a horny spur that overlays this scent gland. The males also have brachial glands on the axillary surface of their shoulders.EcologyThe Ring-tailed Lemur is diurnal and semi-terrestrial. It is the most terrestrial of all lemur species, spending as much as 33% of its time on the ground. However, like other lemurs, it is also considerably arboreal, spending 23% of its time in the mid-level canopy, 25% in the upper-level canopy, 6% in the emergent layer, and 13% in small bushes. Troop travel is 70% terrestrial.Troop sizes range from 6 to 25, with 13 to 15 being the average and groups over 30 individuals being recorded. Troop size, home range, and population density vary by region and food availability. Home range sizes range between . Troops of the Ring-tailed Lemur will maintain a territory, but overlap is often high. When encounters occur, they are agonistic. A troop will usually occupy the same part of its range for 3 or 4 days before moving. When it does move, the average traveling distance is . Population density ranges from 100 individuals per  in dry forests to 250-600 individuals per km² in gallery and secondary forests.Geographic range and habitatFound in southern and southwestern Madagascar and ranging further into highland areas than any other lemur, the Ring-tailed Lemur inhabits deciduous forests, dry scrub, montane humid forests, and gallery forests (forests along riverbanks). The Ring-tailed Lemur strongly favors gallery forests; such forests have now been cleared from much of Madagascar in order to create pasture for livestock. Depending on location, temperatures within its geographic range can range between  to .This species is found as far east as Tôlanaro, north to Belo sur Tsiribihina, along the west coast, and inland towards the mountains of Andringitra on the southeastern plateau. It can be seen in the Berenty Reserve, Andohahela National Park, Isalo National Park, and Zombitse-Vohibasia National Park.Sympatric relationsThe following lemur species can be found within the Ring-tailed Lemur geographic range:[[Verreaux's Sifaka|Verreaux's Sifaka (Propithecus verreauxi)]][[Red-tailed Sportive Lemur|Red-tailed Sportive Lemur (Lepilemur ruficaudatus)]][[White-footed Sportive Lemur|White-footed Sportive Lemur (Lepilemur leucopus)]][[Red-fronted Brown Lemur|Red-fronted Brown Lemur (Eulemur rufus)]][[Greater Dwarf Lemur|Greater Dwarf Lemur (Cheirogaleus major)]][[Fat-tailed Dwarf Lemur|Fat-tailed Dwarf Lemur (Cheirogaleus medius)]][[Aye-aye|Aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis)]][[Eastern Lesser Bamboo Lemur|Eastern Lesser Bamboo Lemur (Hapalemur griseus)]]In Western Madagascar, sympatric Ring-tailed Lemurs and Red-fronted Brown Lemurs have been studied together. Little interaction takes place between the two species. The Ring-tailed Lemur spends more time on the ground than the Red-fronted Brown Lemur. Also, while the diets of the two species overlap, they eat the foods in different proportions, with the Ring-tailed Lemur having a more varied diet.BehaviourDietThe Ring-tailed Lemur is an opportunistic omnivore, although it primarily eats fruits and leaves, particularly those of the [[tamarind|tamarind tree (Tamarindus indica)]], known natively as the kily tree. When available, tamarind can make up as much as 50% of the Ring-tailed Lemur's diet annually, especially during the dry, winter season. However, the Ring-tailed Lemur is known to eat from as many as 3 dozen different plant species and also includes flowers, herbs, bark, and sap in its diet. Additionally, it has been observed eating decayed wood, earth, spider webs, insect cocoons, arthropods (spiders, caterpillars, cicadas, and grasshoppers), and small vertebrates (birds and chameleons). It becomes increasingly opportunistic during the dry season.Social organization &amp; interactionsThe Ring-tailed Lemur lives in multi-male/multi-female troops, with a matriline as the core group. As with most lemurs, females socially dominate males in all circumstances, including feeding priority. Dominance is enforced by lunging, chasing, cuffing, grabbing, and biting. Young females do not inherit their mother's rank, while young males leave the troop between 3 and 5 years of age. Both sexes have separate dominance hierarchies, with females having a distinct hierarchy and male rank being correlated with age. Generally, each troop has one to three central, high-ranking adult males, who interact with females more than other group males and lead the troop procession with high-ranking females. Lower ranking males are typically recently transferred males, old males, or young adult males that have not yet left their natal group. They tend to be marginalized from group activity, staying at the periphery of the group.For males, social structure changes can be seasonal, with males immigrating between groups during the 6-month period between December through May. Established males transfer every 3.5 years, although young males may transfer every 1.4 years. Group fission occurs when groups get too large and resources become scarce.In the mornings, the Ring-tailed Lemur sunbathes to warm itself. It faces the sun, sitting in what is frequently described as a "sun-worshipping" posture or Lotus position. However, it sits with its legs extended outward, not cross-legged, and will often support itself on nearby branches. Sunning is often a group activity, particularly during the cold mornings. At night, troops will split into sleeping parties, huddling closely together to keep warm. Groups of huddled Ring-tailed Lemurs are popularly referred to as lemur balls.Despite being primarily quadrupedal, the Ring-tailed Lemur can rear up and balance on its hind legs, usually for aggressive displays. When threatened, the Ring-tailed Lemur has been known to strike out with its short nails in a behaviour termed jump fighting. This action is extremely rare outside of the breeding season when tensions are high and competition for access to mates is intense. Other aggressive behaviours include a threat-stare, used to intimidate or start a fight, and a submissive gesture known as pulled-back lips.Border disputes with rival troops occur occasionally, and it is the dominant female's responsibility to defend the troop's home range. Agonistic encounters include staring, lunging approaches, and occasional physical aggression, and conclude with troop members retreating toward the center of the home range. Olfactory communicationLike most other prosimians, olfactory communication is critically important for the Ring-tailed Lemur. Males and females scent mark both vertical and hortizontal surfaces at the overlaps in their home ranges using their anogenital scent glands. In order to mark vertical surfaces, the Ring-tailed Lemur will perform a handstand, grasping the highest point possible with its feet while it applies its scent. Use of scent marking varies by age, sex and social status. Male lemurs use their antebrachial and brachial glands to demarcate territories and maintain intragroup dominance hierarchies. The thorny spur that overlays the antebrachial gland on each wrist is scraped against tree trunks to create grooves anointed with their scent. This is known as spur-marking.In displays of aggression, males will engage in a social display behaviour called stink fighting, which involves impregnating their tails with secretions from the antebrachial and brachial glands, and then waving the scented tail at male rivals. Males will also occasionally wave their scented tails at females as a form of sexual overture; this usually results in the female cuffing or biting the male, and elicits subordinate vocalizations from the would-be paramour.Auditory communicationThe Ring-tailed Lemur has a complex array of distinct vocalizations used to maintain group cohesion during foraging and alert group members to the presence of a predator. Calls range from simple, such as the purr , which expresses contentment, to complex, such as the sequence of clicks, close-mouth click series (CMCS), open-mouth click series (OMCS), and yaps , which is used during predator mobbing. Some calls have variants and undergo transitions between variants and/or other calls, such as an infant "whit" (distress call) transitioning from variant 1 to variant 2 .The most commonly heard vocalizations of the Ring-tailed Lemur are the moan  (low-to-moderate arousal, group cohesion), early-high wail  (moderate-to-high arousal, group cohesion), and clicks  ("location marker" to draw attention).Breeding and reproductionThe Ring-tailed Lemur is polygynous, although one central male typically breeds with more females than the others do. Fighting is most common during the breeding season. When receptive, females will present their backside, lift their tail, and look at her desired male over her shoulder. Males will typically inspect the female's genitals to determine receptiveness. Although females typically mate within their troop, they will occasionally seek out males from outside their troop.The breeding season runs from mid-April to mid-May, with estrus lasting approximately 4-6 hours. Females mate with multiple males during their estrus period. Gestation lasts for about 135 days, with birth of the young generally occurring in September, but occasionally in October. In the wild, one offspring is the norm, although twins may occur. Ring-tailed Lemur infants have a birth weight of  and are carried ventrally (on the chest) for the first 1–2 weeks, then dorsally (on the back). The young lemurs begin to eat solid food after two months and are fully weaned after five months. Sexual maturity is reached between 2.5–3 years. Male involvement in infant rearing is limited, although the entire troop, regardless of age or sex, can be seen caring for the young. Alloparenting between troop females can be seen, with instances of kidnapping having been reported. Infanticide by males also occurs occasionally. Due to harsh environmental conditions, accidents (such as falls), and predation, infant mortality can be as high as 50% within the first year, with as few as 30% reaching adulthood.Cognitive abilities and tool useHistorically, the studies of learning and cognition in non-human primates have focused primarily on simians (monkeys and apes), while strepsirrhine primates, such as the Ring-tailed Lemur and its allies, have often been overlooked and popularly dismissed as unintelligent. A couple factors, stemming from early experiments, have played a role in the development of this assumption. First, the experimental design of older tests may have favored the natural behavior and ecology of simians over that of strepsirrhines, making the experimental tasks inappropriate for lemurs. For example, simians are known for their manipulative play of non-food objects, whereas lemurs are only known to manipulate non-food objects in captivity, which is usually due to food association. Furthermore, lemurs are known to displace objects with their nose or mouth more so than with their hands. Therefore, an experiment requiring a lemur to manipulate an object without prior training would favor simians over strepsirrhines. Secondly, individual Ring-tailed Lemurs accustomed to living in a troop may not respond well to being isolated for testing in a laboratory environment, with past studies reporting them as becoming hysterical in such scenarios. As a result of these early studies, lemurs were often omitted from further research.This idea has been perpetuated by the commonly held view that the neocortex ratio (as a measure of brain size) indicates intelligence. In fact, primatologist Alison Jolly noted early in her academic career that some lemur species, such as the Ring-tailed Lemur, have evolved a social complexity similar to that of cercopithecine monkeys, but not the corresponding intelligence. More recently, and after years of observations of wild Ring-tailed Lemur populations at the Berenty Reserve in Madagascar and as well as baboons in Africa, she concluded that this highly social lemur species does not demonstrate the equivalent social complexity of cercopithecine monkeys, despite general appearances.Regardless of this, research has continued to illuminate the complexity of the lemur mind, particularly that of the Ring-tailed Lemur. Even as early as the mid-1970's, studies had demonstrated that they could be trained through operant conditioning using standard schedules of reinforcement. Just like other vertebrates, the species has been shown to be capable of learning pattern, brightness, and object discrimination. Furthermore, it has been shown to learn a variety of complex tasks, often equaling, if not exceeding, the performance of simians.More recently, research at the Duke Lemur Center has shown that the Ring-tailed Lemur can organize sequences in memory and retrieve ordered sequences without language. Additionally, the experimental design demonstrated that the lemurs were using internal representation of the sequence to guide their responses, and not simply following a trained sequence, where one item in the sequence cues the selection of the next item. But this is not the limit of the Ring-tailed Lemur's reasoning skills. Another study, performed at the Myakka City Lemur Reserve, suggests that this species, along with several other closely related lemur species, understand simple arithmetic operations.Since tool use is considered to be a key feature of primate intelligence, the apparent lack of this behavior in wild lemurs, as well as the lack of non-food object play, has helped reinforce the perception that lemurs have less intelligence than their simian cousins. However, another study at the Myakka City Lemur Reserve examined the representation of tool functionality in both the Ring-tailed Lemur and the Common Brown Lemur and discovered that, like monkeys, they utilized tools with functional properties (e.g., tool orientation, ease of use) instead of tools with nonfunctional features (e.g., color, texture). Although the Ring-tailed Lemur may not use tools in the wild, it can not only be trained to use a tool, but will preferentially select tools based on their functional qualities. Therefore, the conceptual competence to utilize a tool may have been present in the common primate ancestor, even though the use of tools may not have appeared until much later.Conservation statusHuman activity is the greatest threat to the Ring-tailed Lemur. Habitat destruction is the greatest concern, with much of its range being cleared through annual burning to create pasture for livestock. Furthermore, overgrazing and the felling of trees for charcoal production are having a severe impact. This species is also hunted for food (bush meat) and kept as pets.The Ring-tailed Lemur has both natural and introduced predators. Native predators include the [[Fossa (animal)|Fossa (Cryptoprocta ferox)]], the [[Madagascar Harrier-hawk|Madagascar Harrier-hawk (Polyboroides radiatus)]], the [[Madagascar Buzzard|Madagascar Buzzard (Buteo brachypterus)]], and the [[Boa madagascariensis|Madagascar Ground Boa (Boa madagascariensis)]]. Introduced predators include the [[Small Indian Civet|Small Indian Civet (Viverricula indica)]], the Domestic Cat, and the Domestic Dog.Cultural referencesThe Ring-tailed Lemur has been popularized in the Animal Planet television series Lemur Kingdom (United States) and Lemur Street (United Kingdom), as well as the character Julien in the animated films Madagascar (2005) and Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa (2008). The television series depicts real events in the lives of wild Ring-tailed Lemurs, whereas the animated films depict anthropomorphic representations, with lemurs talking, singing, and dancing. The Ring-tailed Lemur was also the focus of the 1996 Nature documentary A Lemur's Tale, which was filmed at the Berenty Reserve and followed a troop of lemurs. The troop included a unique infant named Sapphire, who was nearly albino, with white fur, sparkling blue eyes, and the characteristic ringed tail.This species also played a role in the 1997 comedy film Fierce Creatures, starring John Cleese, who has a passion for lemurs. In fact, John Cleese also hosted the 1998 documentary In the Wild: Operation Lemur with John Cleese.See alsoLemur Kingdom/Lemur StreetNotesReferencesExternal links  ARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Lemur_catta/ images and movies of the ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta)][http://pin.primate.wisc.edu/factsheets/entry/ring-tailed_lemur Primate Info Net Lemur catta Factsheet]Duke Lemur Center: Ring-tailed LemursLemur Conservation FoundationMadagascar Fauna Group (MFG)[http://animal.discovery.com/tv/lemur-kingdom/lemur-kingdom.html Animal Planet: Lemur Kingdom][http://www.pbs.org/wnet/nature/lemur/ Nature: A Lemur's Tale][http://www.pbs.org/wnet/nature/inthewild/cleese.html PBS: In the Wild: Operation Lemur with John Cleese]New York Academy of Sciences PodcastCategory:Prosimians Category:Endemic fauna of Madagascarbg:Лемури cs:Lemur kata da:Kattalemur de:Katta es:Lemur catta fr:Lémur catta ko:호랑이꼬리여우원숭이 hr:Prstenastorepi lemur io:Makio it:Lemur catta he:למור זנב טבעת ka:კატისებრი ლემური lt:Katinis lemūras lij:Lemur hu:Gyűrűsfarkú maki nl:Ringstaartmaki ja:ワオキツネザル nn:Lemur pl:Lemur katta pt:Lémur-de-cauda-anelada ru:Кошачий лемур scn:Lemur sr:Прстенорепи лемур fi:Kissamaki sv:Ringsvanslemur zh-yue:環尾狐猴 zh:环尾狐猴