 The Curzon Line was a demarcation line proposed in 1920 by the British Foreign Secretary, George Nathaniel Curzon, 1st Marquess Curzon of Kedleston, as a possible armistice line between the Second Polish Republic to the west and the Bolshevik Russian sphere of influence to the east, during the Polish-Soviet War of 1919–20. Curzon's plan was initially not accepted by the Soviets, as the military situation was at that time in their favour, and later was not accepted by the Poles when the military situation had shifted to their favour. As such, the line did not play any role in establishing the Polish-Soviet border in 1921. Instead, the final Peace of Riga or Treaty of Riga provided Poland with almost 135,000 km² (52,000 sq mi) of land east of the line, which on average was about 200 km east from the Curzon line. A close approximation of the Curzon line is the current border between the countries of Belarus, Ukraine and Poland.With minor variations, the Curzon line lay approximately along the border which was established between the Prussian Kingdom and the Russian Empire in 1797, after the third partition of Poland, which was the last border recognised by the United Kingdom. The line separating the German and Soviet zones of occupation following the defeat of Poland in 1939 followed the Curzon Line in places, while diverging from it around Białystok in the north and in the southern region of Galicia. There is a widespread, but false, belief, that the Curzon line was developed based on careful ethnographic study of the villages and people involved at the time. In fact, no such studies were undertaken and, except for the extreme southern areas of the line (described in more detail below) the line is a virtual copy of the late-18th century Prussian Empire / Russian Empire border that was determined on a strictly religious basis - Catholic parishes and towns to the west and Orthodox parishes and towns to the east. Curzon's Line was acceptable to the British Government largely because, rather than being something particularly novel, it was more a re-confirmation of a basic line that the British Government had previously recognized. Hence, political expediency played a considerable more significant factor in its adoption than ethnodemography per se, even though there had been substantial ethnodemographic changes since the original 18th century line was adopted, a factor which would ultimately contribute to significant 20th century strife in the region.However, the Curzon line was used by Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin as a significant argument in the talks with the Allied Powers during 1942-1945. Stalin argued that the Soviet Union could not demand less territory for itself than the British Government had reconfirmed via Curzon some two decades prior. This was a clever move on Stalin's part, as arguably it ultimately added more land to the Soviet Empire than a pure ethnodemographic study of the time would justify.There were two versions of the line "A" and "B". Version "B" allocated Lwów (now Lviv, Ukraine) to Poland. The line "A" was used in 1945 as the basis for the permanent border between Poland and the Soviet Union, although with some differences.It is sometimes said that the Curzon Line represented an ethnic border between Poles to the west and Ruthenians (Ukranians and Belarusians) to the east. This was not the intention when Lord Curzon of Kedleston proposed the line: its origins were diplomatic and historical (the third partition of Poland between Prussia and Russia) .HistoryAt the end of World War I, the Allies agreed that an independent Polish state should be formed from territories previously part of the Russian Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire and Germany. The Treaty of Versailles in 1919 said that the eastern border of Poland would be "subsequently determined." The lands lying between Poland and its eastern neighbours were inhabited by a mixed population of Poles, Lithuanians, Ukrainians and Belarusians, with no group being a majority. Lord Curzon of Kedleston, on behalf of the Triple Entente, in 1920 suggested a line running from Hrodna through Brest-Litovsk to Lwów, awarding this city to Poland (Line "B" - see map). However, a year later it was altered by an unknown employee (some evidence put the guilt on Lewis Bernstein Namier) of the British Foreign Office, so that it did not include the city on the Polish side. This fact had great influence on the negotiations about the Polish eastern border on the peace conferences in Teheran and Yalta.  in 1920, showing still-undefined borders in the situation after the treaties of Brest and Versailles and before the Peace of Riga]] Because the Russian Empire had collapsed into a state of civil war following the Russian Revolution of 1917, there was no recognised Russian government with whom the eastern border of Poland could be negotiated. However one of the first acts of the new Russian government was to publicly denounce the treaties which had partitioned Poland. That left Poland in legal possession of the territories that Poland had held before the Partitions of Poland in 1772. The Bolshevik regime in Russia, on the other hand, wanted to invade Poland in order to carry the socialist revolution into the heart of Europe and particularly into Germany. In these circumstances, war was inevitable, and hostilities broke out in late 1919.In December 1919, the Allied powers made the following declaration: "The Principal Allied and Associated Powers, recognising that it is important as soon as possible to put a stop to the existing conditions of political uncertainty in which the Polish nation is placed and without prejudging the provisions, which must in the future define the eastern frontiers of Poland, hereby declare that they recognize the right of the Polish Government to proceed, according to the conditions previously provided by the Treaty with Poland of June 28, 1919, to organise a regular administration of the territories of the former Russian Empire situated to the West of the line described below. The rights that Poland may be able to establish over the territories situated to the East of the said line are expressly reserved."During the Polish-Soviet war of 1919-1921, in May 1920, the Bolsheviks gained the advantage and advanced into Poland; in July, the Poles appealed to the Allies to intervene. On 11 July, Lord Curzon of Kedleston proposed to the Soviet government a ceasefire along the line which had been suggested the previous year. The Soviets, believing they had the upper hand, rejected the proposal and fighting continued. In August the Soviets were defeated just outside Warsaw and forced to retreat. At the Treaty of Riga in March 1921 the Soviets had to concede a frontier well to the east of the Curzon Line, giving Poland both Lwów and Wilno (today Vilnius). The area around Wilno, called Central Lithuania, was the subject of a referendum in 1922, followed by incorporation to Poland according to the wish of 65% of the voters. The Polish-Soviet border was recognised by the League of Nations in 1923 and confirmed by various Polish-Soviet agreements.  The terms of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact of August 1939 provided for the partition of Poland along the line of the San, Vistula and Narew rivers which did not go along Curzon Line but reached far beyond it and awarded Soviet Union with territories of Lublin and near Warsaw. In September, after the military defeat of Poland, the Soviet Union annexed all territories east of the Curzon Line plus Białystok and Eastern Galicia. The territories east of this line were incorporated into the Byelorussian SSR and Ukrainian SSR after staged "referendums" and hundreds of thousands of Poles and a lesser number of Jews were deported eastwards into the Soviet Union. In July 1941 these territories were seized by Germany in the course of the invasion of the Soviet Union. During the German occupation most of the Jewish population was killed.In 1944 the Soviet armed forces recaptured eastern Poland from the Germans. The Soviets unilaterally declared the former Soviet-German border (approximately the Curzon Line) to be the new frontier between the Soviet Union and Poland. This time, however, Białystok was retained by Poland. The Polish government-in-exile in London bitterly opposed this and at the Teheran and Yalta conferences between Stalin and the western Allies, the allied leaders Roosevelt and Churchill asked Stalin to reconsider, particularly over Lwów, but he refused. The altered Curzon Line thus became the permanent eastern border of Poland and was recognised by the western Allies in July 1945.When the Soviet Union ceased to exist in 1991, the Curzon line became Poland's eastern border with Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine.Ethnography to the east of the Curzon LineThe territory which lay between the Curzon Line and the 1921 eastern border of Poland had a population of about 12 million people in an area of 188,000 square kilometres. According to statistics from the Polish census of 1931 (which was unlikely to underestimate the number of Poles), the population of these territories by mother-tongue was: 