Ranked 8th | Location = Nepal | Range = Mansiri Himal, Himalaya | Prominence =  | Coordinates =  | First ascent = May 9, 1956 by a Japanese team | Easiest route = snow/ice climb | Translation = Mountain of the Spirit | Language = Sanskrit | Listing = Eight-thousander Ultra   Manaslu (मनास्लु, also known as Kutang) is the eighth highest mountain in the world, located in the Mansiri Himal, part of the Nepalese Himalayas. Manaslu is derived from the Sanskrit word Manasa and is translated as "Mountain of the Spirit".Manaslu is the highest peak in the Gorkha district and is located about forty miles east of Annapurna, the tenth highest mountain. The mountain's long ridges and valley glaciers offer feasible approaches from all directions, and culminate in a peak that towers steeply above its surrounding landscape, and is a dominant feature when viewed from afar.Manaslu was first climbed on May 9, 1956 by Toshio Imanishi and Gyalzen Norbu, members of a Japanese expedition.Trekking in Manaslu Region Manaslu region offers varieties of trekking options. The region comprises from sub-tropical foothills of the Himalaya to arid Trans-Himalayan high pastures bordering Tibet. The famous trekking route goes around Manaslu massif over the pass down to Annapurna. The trekking trail follows the classic salt-trading route along the Budhi Gandaki river. At its higher riches, the region is divided into two ethnic habitats, Nubri and Tsum. The branching off of the river at Chhikur divide two domains. While Nubri has been frequently visited after Nepal opened itself for the tourists in 1950, Tsum, still retains its time honored culture, art and tradition. The region is dotted with austere monasteries, maniwalls, chortens and other Buddhist religious landmarks. The faith of non-violence and compassion has augmented wild-life diversity of the region. Unlike many other regions, this valley is a sanctuary to highly endangered animals including Snow Leopard and Pandas. 110 species of birds, 33 mammals, 11 butterflies and 3 reptiles are recorded so far. The valley basin is rich with nineteen different types of forests, most prominently Rhododendron, and also Himalayan blue pine, which is flanked by Ganesh Himal and Sringi ranges. 10 other peaks over 6500 m. are visible during the trek including the famed ones over 7000 m. The Tsum, which was restricted for tourists for long time, is now the center of attraction for intrepid trekkers in the region with the government of Nepal recently opening it for group tourists. People add Tsum Valley and Ganesh Himal Base Camp as an acclamatization trip before going for an expedition or High passes. However to retain its pristine culture, fragile ecosystem and to harness local participation for sustainable tourism seems yet a challenging task ahead. The Tsum Welfare Committee has been involved in promotion of responsible tourism in Tsum.Tsum Welfare CommitteeTimeline1950 H.W. Tilman made a reconnaissance of Manaslu and believed there was a potential route to the top via the northeast.1952 Japanese reconnaissance party reached 5275 m/17,300' on the east side.1953 First attempt made by a Japanese team of 15 climbers to summit via the Northeast face. Three climbers made a summit attempt reaching 7750 m/25,425' before turning back.1956 First ascent, by T. Imanishi (Japan) and Gyalzen Norbu (Sherpa).1971 On May 17, Kazuharu Kohara and Motoki, part of an 11 man Japanese team, reached the summit via the NW spur.1971 Kim Ho-Sup led a Korean expedition attempt via the Northeast. Kim Ki-Sup fell to his death on May 4.1972 An Austrian expedition led by Wolfgang Nairz made the first ascent via the SW face.1972 Koreans attempt the Northeast Face route. On April 10, an avalanche buried their camp at , killing 15 climbers including 10 Sherpas, the Korean expedition leader Kim Ho-sup,American Alpine Journal 1973 and Kazunari Yasuhisa from Japan.1973 On April 22, Gerhard Schmatz, Gerhard, Sigi Hupfauer and a Sherpa climber reached the summit via the Northeast face.1974 On May 4, an all female Japanese expedition makes the summit, becoming the first women to climb an 8,000 metre peak. One climber died on May 5 when she fell between camps 4 and 5.1975 On April 26, Gerald Garcia, Jeronimo Lopez and Sonam Sherpa of a Spanish expedition summit via the Northeast face.1984 On January 14, Maciej Berbeka and Ryszard Gajewski of a Polish expedition made a first winter ascent via the normal route1993 On May 2, Sepp Brunner, Gerhard Floßmann, Sepp Hinding and Dr. Michael Leuprecht reached the summit via the normal route and descended with ski from 7,000m to the basecamp. The Austrian expedition was guided by Arthur Haid.1997 Charlie Mace makes the first American ascent.2002 On May 13, five Americans and two Sherpas reach the summit. See the 2002 American Manaslu Expedition.2006 On May 29, Australian mountaineer Sue Fear died after falling into a crevasse on her descent after summitting. She was a friend of mountaineer Lincoln Hall, who survived a night exposed near Everest's summit.See also: List of mountains in NepalReferencesExternal linksManaslu on PeakwareComputer generated summit panoramas North South index. There are a few discontinuities due to incomplete data, but seven other 8000ers - Everest, Lhotse, Cho Oyu, Makalu, Annapurna, Dhaulagiri, Shisha Pangma - are all clearly shown. This may be the only ground level point from which eight 8000ers can be seen.Category:Eight-thousanders Category:Mountains of Nepalbn:মানাসলু bg:Манаслу ca:Manaslu cs:Manaslu de:Manaslu et:Manaslu es:Manaslu eo:Manaslu eu:Manaslu fr:Manaslu gl:Manaslu ko:마나슬루 산 io:Manaslu id:Manaslu it:Manaslu lt:Manaslu hu:Manaslu mr:मनास्लु nl:Manaslu ja:マナスル no:Manaslu nn:Manaslu pl:Manaslu pt:Manaslu ro:Manaslu ru:Манаслу sk:Manaslu sl:Manaslu fi:Manaslu sv:Manaslu ta:மனஸ்லு tr:Manaslu ur:مناسلو zh:马纳斯卢峰