  |Base= (larger) (smaller) The Pyramid of Djoser(Zoser), or step pyramid (kbhw-ntrw in Egyptian) is an archeological remain in the Saqqara necropolis, Egypt, northwest of the city of Memphis. It was built for the burial of Pharaoh Djoser by his vizier Imhotep, during the 27th century BC. It is the central feature of a vast mortuary complex in an enormous courtyard surrounded by ceremonial structures and decoration.This first Egyptian pyramid consisted of six mastabas (of decreasing size) built atop one another in what were clearly revisions and developments of the original plan. The pyramid originally stood 62 meters tall, and having a base of 109 x 125&nbsp;m and was clad in polished white limestone.Harry Adès A Traveller's History of Eygpt (Chastleton Travel/Interlink, 2007) ISBN 1-905214-01-4 p48 The step pyramid (or proto-pyramid) is considered to be the earliest large-scale stone construction, although the nearby enclosure known as Gisr el-mudir would seem to predate the complex.Pyramid complexMuch of the decoration and construction of the structures within the pyramid complex, although built of stone, echo the appearance of earlier structures, which would have been built of wood, reeds or mud-brick. Whether this is due to artistic, symbolic or technological convention is unknown, although it is likely a combination of all three.The complex surrounding the step pyramid consists of an outer wall, 10.5-metres (34-feet) tall, built of finely-cut limestone (some of which has been restored by Jean-Philippe Lauer), wrapping this, was a 'great trench; which was not continuous, but spiraled around overlapping at the south end. The wall was built to resemble woven mats, and decorated with niches. There are 15 doorways, only one of which is actually a real entrance. This massive enclosure seems to echo the massive mud-brick 'forts' of the First and Second dynasties at Abydos and Hierokonpolis.The 'real' entrance consists of a colonnaded corridor which had a roof carved to imitate wooden logs. The actual entrance way is marked by two massive stone 'doors', carved in an open position.Southern TombThe Southern Tomb is a near-duplicate of the underground structures under the pyramid, but without the above ground structures. It consists of one unknown room that scientists and archaeologists can detect, but have not searched yet because it has been sealed.Great CourtBetween the Southern Tomb and the Step Pyramid there is a large open area. Its true significance is unknown but it would seem to be have been associated with the ceremonies of kingship and may echo a similar area (still undiscovered) in the Royal residence in Memphis, in which the king would perform the same ceremonies.The court is about 180 by 100 m, and contained very few buildings or monuments.PyramidThe pyramid was developed in stages, beginning as a mastaba similar to the mud brick tombs of earlier pharaohs. This was extended twice before being covered by a four-stepped pyramid, which was later enlarged to the final six-stepped shape.Festival complexThis courtyard area was built for celebrating the sed festival, when after thirty years of rule the pharaoh was expected to prove his continuing vigour by chasing the sacred bull around the courtyard and catching it by the tail. It is believed that Djoser chose to do this every three years rather than thirty. The corners of the buildings were made rounded for safety.Mortuary templefrom within the pyramid complex.]]  hall of the mortuary temple.]]The only entrance to the complex was through the mortuary temple in the south eastern corner. From an antechamber one passes between stone block walls built in the shape of large open doors into the hypostyle hall with two rows of tapered stone columns carved to resemble papyrus bundles. A modern roof has been placed at the same height as the original roof. This hall leads into the great court.ReferencesVerner, Miroslav, The Pyramids - Their Archaeology and History, Atlantic Books, 2001, ISBN 1-84354-171-8Kliener, Fred S., Art Through The Ages, Wadsworth, 2005, ISBN 0-15-505090-7External linksProfessor Treat offers an on-line tour of this ancient site.  Category:Former world's tallest buildings Category:27th century BC architecture Category:Memphis Necropolis Category:Ancient Egyptian pyramidsar:هرم سقارة br:Piramidenn Djoser ca:Piràmide esglaonada de Djoser de:Djoser-Pyramide es:Pirámide escalonada de Zoser eu:Saqqarako Piramide Mailakatua fr:Complexe funéraire de Djéser gl:Pirámide de Zoser hr:Stepenasta piramida id:Piramida Djoser he:הפירמידה של ג'וזר mk:Џосерова пирамида nl:Piramide van Djoser ja:階段ピラミッド pl:Piramida Dżesera pt:Pirâmide de Djoser ru:Пирамида Джосера sh:Djoserova piramida fi:Sakkaran porraspyramidi sv:Djosers trappstegspyramid zh:階梯金字塔