  Ceuta is an autonomous city of Spain located on the Mediterranean, on the North African side of the Strait of Gibraltar, which separates it from the Spanish mainland. The area of Ceuta is approximately 28 km².Ceuta is dominated by a hill called Monte Hacho, on which there is a fort occupied by the Spanish Army. Monte Hacho is one of the possible locations for the southern Pillars of Hercules of Greek Legend, the other possibility being Jebel Musa.HistoryCeuta's strategic location has made it the crucial waypoint of many cultures' trade and military ventures &mdash; beginning with the Carthaginians in the 5th century BC, who called the city Abyla. It was not until the Romans took control in about A.D. 42 that the port city (then named Septem) assumed an almost exclusive military purpose. Approximately 400 years later, the Vandals ousted the Romans from control, and later it fell to the Visigoths of Hispania and the Byzantines.In 710, as Muslim armies approached the city, its Byzantine governor Julian (also described as "king of the Ghomara") changed sides and urged them to invade the Iberian Peninsula. Under the leadership of Berber general Tariq ibn Ziyad, Ceuta was used as a prime staging ground for an assault on Visigothic Hispania soon after.After Julian's death the Arabs took direct control of the city; this was resented by the surrounding indigenous Berber tribes, who destroyed it in a Kharijite rebellion led by Maysara al-Haqir in 740. It lay in waste until refounded in the 9th century by Majakas, chief of the Majkasa Berber tribe, who started the short-lived dynasty of the Banu Isam. Under his great-grandson they briefly paid allegiance to the Idrisids; the dynasty finally ended when he abdicated in favour of the Umayyad Caliph of Cordoba Abd ar-Rahman III in 931, so the city returned to the Hispanic Andalusian rule like Melilla in 927 and Tanger in 951. Chaos ensued with the fall of the Umayyad caliphate in 1031, but eventually Ceuta, together with the rest of Muslim Spain were taken over by the Almoravids in 1084. The Almoravids were succeeded by the Almohads who conquered Ceuta in 1147 ruling it, apart from Ibn Hud's rebellion of 1232, until the Hafsids of Tunisia took it in 1242. The Hafsids' influence in the west rapidly waned, and the city expelled them in 1249; after this, it went through a period of political instability during which the city was disputed between the Kingdom of Fez and the Kingdom of Granada.In 1387, Ceuta was conquered for the last time by the Kingdom of Fez, with Aragonese help.In 1415, Ceuta was occupied by the Portuguese during the reign of John I of Portugal.After Portugal lost its independence to Spain in 1580, the majority of the population of Ceuta became of Spanish origin. This went to the extent of Ceuta being the only city of the Portuguese Empire that sided with Spain when Portugal regained its independence in 1640 and war broke out between the two countries.The formal allegiance of Ceuta to Spain was recognized by the Treaty of Lisbon by which, on January 1 1668, King Afonso VI of Portugal formally ceded Ceuta to Carlos II of Spain. However, the originally Portuguese flag and coat of arms of Ceuta remained unchanged and modern day Ceuta flag features the configuration of the Portuguese shield. The flag's background is also the same as that of the flag of Lisbon.When Spain recognized the independence of Spanish Morocco in 1956, Ceuta and the other plazas de soberanía remained under Spanish rule as they were considered integral parts of the Spanish state.Culturally, modern Ceuta is considered part of the Spanish region of Andalusia. Indeed, it was until recently attached to the province of Cádiz - the Spanish coast being only 20 km away. It is a very cosmopolitan city, with a large ethnic Berber Muslim minority as well as a Sephardic Jewish minority.On November 5, 2007, King Juan Carlos I visited the city, sparking great enthusiasm from the local population and protests from the Moroccan government Ceuta y Melilla son España, dice Juan Carlos I; Sebta y Melilia son nuestras, responde Mohamed VI. It was the first time a Spanish head of state had visited Ceuta in 80 years.AdministrationCeuta is known officially in Spanish as Ciudad Autónoma de Ceuta (lit., Autonomous City of Ceuta), with a rank between a standard Spanish city and an autonomous community. Before the Statute of Autonomy, Ceuta was part of the Cádiz province .Ceuta is part of the territory of the European Union. The city was a free port before Spain joined the European Union in 1986. Now it has a low-tax system within the European Monetary System. As of 2006, its population was 75,861.Ceuta does not have an airport. There is, however, a regular helicopter service linking it to Málaga Airport. Access to and from Ceuta is by ferry or land.Political statusand the European Union.]] Since 1995 Ceuta is, along with Melilla, one of the two autonomous cities in SpainLey Orgánica 1/1995, de 13 de marzo, Estatuto de Autonomía de Ceuta&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.The government of Morocco has repeatedly called for Spain to transfer the sovereignty of Ceuta and Melilla, along with uninhabited islets such as Isla Perejil, drawing comparisons with Spain's territorial claim to Gibraltar. In both cases, the national governments and local populations of the disputed territories reject these claims by a large majority. The Spanish position states that both Ceuta and Melilla are integral parts of the Spanish state since the 15th century, whereas Gibraltar, being a British Overseas Territory, is not nor ever has been part of the United Kingdom.A rocky relationship | World news | guardian.co.uk&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ecclesiastical historyBy the Concordat of 1851 the diocese of Ceuta, a suffragan of the Andalusian archbishopric of Seville, was suppressed and incorporated in the diocese of Cádiz, whose bishop usually was the Apostolic Administrator of Ceuta. The agreement, however, was not implemented until 1879.EconomyThe official currency of Ceuta is the euro. It is part of a special low tax zone in Spain.General Economic Data of Ceuta, de ceutna digitalCeuta is one of two Spanish port cities on the northern shore of Africa, along with Melilla. They are historically military strongholds, free ports, oil ports, and also fishing and smuggling centers.pp. 6-7, IBRU, Boundary and Territory Briefing. Ceuta and the Spanish Sovereign Territories: Spanish and Moroccan Today the economy of the city depends heavily on its port (now in expansion) and its industrial and retail centres.General Economic Data of Ceunta, de ceutna digitalAlong with Melilla, Ceuta is the main link to and from the plazas de soberanía, especially the Islas Chafarinas. Over 2.5 million passengers used this port annually during the 1980s en route to Morocco or to mainland Spain. As of the mid-1990s, Spain adopted a policy of downplaying use of the port, to deemphasize the economic significance of the city. Ceuta is a major Mediterranean port. As recently as the 1960s it was the primary port for all of Spain.Sister cities Aci Catena, Italy Algeciras, Spain Cádiz, Spain Guadalajara, Mexico Melilla, SpainSee alsoCeuta border fenceIsla PerejilSpanish MoroccoRock of GibraltarReferencesExternal links Information on the history of Ceuta Official Ceuta government websiteTime Magazine: Al-Qaeda Eyes Spain's 'Lost City'Spain's North African enclavesDocumentary about illegal immigrants trying to reach Ceuta from MoroccoSatellite image of CeutaImages of Ceuta    Category:Ceuta Category:Autonomous communities of Spain Category:Former Portuguese colonies Category:Exclaves Category:Municipalities in Spain Category:NUTS 2 statistical regions of the European Union Category:Special territories of the European Union Category:Port cities and towns in Spain Category:Morocco-Spain border crossings Category:Plazas de soberaníaaf:Ceuta ar:سبتة an:Zeuta frp:Ceuta ast:Ceuta zh-min-nan:Ceuta be-x-old:Сэўта bs:Ceuta br:Ceuta bg:Сеута ca:Ceuta cs:Ceuta cy:Ceuta da:Ceuta de:Ceuta et:Ceuta el:Θέουτα es:Ceuta eo:Ceŭto eu:Zeuta fa:سبته fr:Ceuta ga:Ceuta gd:Ceuta gl:Ceuta ko:세우타 hr:Ceuta io:Ceuta id:Ceuta ia:Ceuta is:Ceuta it:Ceuta he:סאוטה jv:Ceuta ka:სეუტა kw:Ceuta sw:Ceuta ku:Ceuta lad:Seuta la:Septa lb:Ceuta lt:Seuta lij:Ceuta hu:Ceuta nah:Ceuta nl:Ceuta ja:セウタ no:Ceuta nn:Ceuta oc:Ceuta pms:Ceuta pl:Ceuta pt:Ceuta ro:Ceuta ru:Сеута se:Ceuta scn:Ceuta simple:Ceuta sk:Ceuta sr:Сеута sh:Ceuta fi:Ceuta sv:Ceuta tl:Ceuta tt:Ceuta th:เซวตา vi:Ceuta tr:Ceuta uk:Сеута vec:Ceuta zh:休达