in red.]]  The equator (sometimes referred to colloquially as "the Line") is the intersection of the Earth's surface with the plane perpendicular to the Earth's axis of rotation and containing the Earth's center of mass. In more simple language, it is an imaginary line on the Earth's surface approximately equidistant from the North Pole and South Pole that divides the Earth into a Northern Hemisphere and a Southern Hemisphere. The equators of other planets and astronomical bodies are defined analogously.Geodesy of the equator , in São Tomé and Príncipe]] ]]  The latitude of the equator is, by definition, 0°. The length of Earth's equator is about .The equator is one of the five main circles of latitude that are based on the relationship between the Earth's axis of rotation and the plane of the Earth's orbit around the sun. It is the only line of latitude which is also a great circle. The imaginary circle obtained when the Earth's equator is projected onto the sky is called the celestial equator.The Sun, in its seasonal movement through the sky, passes directly over the equator twice each year, on the March and September equinoxes. At the equator, the rays of the sun are perpendicular to the surface of the earth on these dates.Places on the equator experience the quickest rates of sunrise and sunset in the world. Such places also have a theoretical constant 12 hours of day and night throughout the year (in practice there are variations of a few minutes due to the effects of atmospheric refraction and because sunrise and sunset are measured from the time the edge of the Sun's disc is on the horizon, rather than its centre). North or south of the equator day length increasingly varies with the seasons.The Earth bulges slightly at the equator. It has an average diameter of , but at the equator the diameter is approximately  greater.Locations near the equator are good sites for spaceports, such as the Guiana Space Centre in Kourou, French Guiana, as they are already moving faster than any other point on the Earth due to the Earth's rotation, and the added velocity reduces the amount of fuel needed to launch spacecraft. Spacecraft launched in this manner must launch to the east to use this effect.For high precision work, the equator is not quite as fixed as the above discussion implies. The true equatorial plane must always be perpendicular to the Earth's spin axis. Although this axis is relatively stable, its position wanders in approximately a  radius circular motion each year. Thus, the true equator moves slightly. This, however, is only important for detailed scientific studies. The effect is quite small, and the width of a line marking the equator on almost any map will be much wider than the error.Equatorial climateTemperatures near the equator are high year round with the exception for periods during the wet season and at higher altitudes. In many tropical regions people identify two seasons: wet and dry. However, most places close to the equator are wet throughout the year, and seasons can vary depending on a variety of factors including elevation and proximity to an ocean. The rainy and humid conditions mean that the equatorial climate is not the hottest in the world.The surface of the Earth at the equator is mostly ocean. The highest point on the equator is , at 00°00′00″S, 77°59′31″W, on the south slopes of Volcán Cayambe (summit ) in Ecuador. This is a short distance above the snow line, and this point and its immediate vicinity form the only section of the equator where snow lies on the ground.Equatorial countries and territoriesThe equator traverses the land and/or territorial waters of 14 countries. Starting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the equator passes through:longCountry, territory or seaNotes0°]]Atlantic OceanGulf of Guinea7° EIlhéu das Rolas8°Atlantic OceanGulf of Guinea10°]]15°]]20°]]30°]]33°Lake Victoria40°]]41°50°]] 60° 70°Indian Ocean73°Passing between Gaafu Dhaalu Atoll and Gnaviyani Atoll80°]] 90°Indian Ocean100°]]The Batu Islands, Sumatra and the Lingga Islands105°Indian OceanKarimata Strait110°]]Borneo118°Indian OceanMakassar Strait120°]]Sulawesi121°Indian OceanGulf of Tomini125°Indian OceanMolucca Sea127°Kayoa and Halmahera islands128°Pacific OceanHalmahera Sea130°]]Gebe Island140°]] 150° 160°Pacific Ocean173°Misses every island, passing between Aranuka and Nonouti Atolls180°]]Pacific Ocean176° WBaker Island — passes through territorial watersExact length of the equatorThe equator is modeled exactly in two widely used standards as a circle of radius an integer number of meters. In 1976 the IAU standardized this radius as , subsequently refined by the IUGG to  and adopted in WGS-84, though the yet more recent IAU-2000 has retained the old IAU-1976 value. In either case, the length of the equator is by definition exactly 2π times the given standard, which to the nearest millimeter is  in WGS-84 and  in IAU-1976 and IAU-2000.Although millimeter precision can be important up to the scale of a mile, it has negligible physical significance at the scale of a geographic feature such as the equator. From a computational standpoint, however, millimeter precision or better can be valuable for maintaining consistent results when used in programs for surveying and other applications that require precise measurements. As an overly simple example, if a program were to convert back and forth between the radius and the circumference of the earth sufficiently often while maintaining precision only to a meter each time, errors might accumulate until they became noticeable.The geographical mile is defined as one arc minute of the equator, and therefore has different values depending on which standard equator is used, namely  or  for respectively WGS-84 and IAU-2000, a difference of nearly a millimeter.The earth is standardly modeled as a sphere flattened about 0.336% along its axis. This results in the equator being about 0.16% longer than a meridian (as a great circle passing through the two poles). The IUGG standard meridian is to the nearest millimeter , one arc minute of which is , explaining the SI standardization of the nautical mile as , more than  short of the geographical mile.Notes and references (IUGG/WGS-84 data) (IAU data) See alsoAntarctic CircleArctic CircleIntertropical Convergence ZonePrime MeridianThermal equatorTropic of CancerTropic of CapricornCategory:Lines of latitude Category:Celestial coordinate system Category:Tropics Category:Geodesy Category:Navigation Category:GPS af:Ewenaar als:Äquator ar:خط الاستواء ast:Llinia ecuatorial az:Ekvator bn:নিরক্ষরেখা zh-min-nan:Chhiah-tō be-x-old:Экватар bs:Ekvator br:Keheder bg:Екватор ca:Línia equatorial cv:Экватор cs:Rovník cy:Cyhydedd da:Ækvator de:Äquator et:Ekvaator el:Ισημερινός es:Ecuador terrestre eo:Ekvatoro eu:Ekuatore fa:استوا fr:Équateur (ligne équinoxiale) fy:Evener gl:Ecuador terrestre ko:적도 hi:भूमध्य रेखा hr:Ekvator io:Equatoro id:Khatulistiwa is:Miðbaugur it:Equatore he:קו המשווה jv:Katulistiwa kn:ವಿಷುವದ್ರೇಖೆ ka:ეკვატორი sw:Ikweta ku:Ekwator la:Linea aequatorialis lv:Ekvators lt:Pusiaujas ln:Mambénga (monkɔlɔ́tɔ) lmo:Equatuur hu:Egyenlítő mk:Екватор ml:ഭൂമദ്ധ്യരേഖ mr:विषुववृत्त ms:Khatulistiwa nl:Evenaar ja:赤道 no:Ekvator nn:Ekvator km:ខ្សែអេក្វាទ័រ pl:Równik pt:Linha do Equador ro:Ecuator qu:Chawpipacha ru:Экватор sq:Ekuatori scn:Equaturi (tirrestri) simple:Equator sk:Rovník sl:Ekvator szl:Růwńik sr:Екватор sh:Ekvator su:Hatulistiwa fi:Päiväntasaaja sv:Ekvator tl:Ekwador ta:நிலநடுக் கோடு te:భూమధ్య రేఖ th:เส้นศูนย์สูตร vi:Xích đạo tr:Ekvator uk:Екватор ur:خط استوا vec:Equatore wo:Yamoo bat-smg:Posiaus zh:赤道