  Boomerang is a 24-hour American cable television channel owned by Turner Broadcasting System (a division of Time Warner). The network debuted April 1, 2000, as well as a now-defunct programming block on its parent network, Cartoon Network.HistoryBoomerang was originally a programming block on Cartoon Network aimed towards the generation of baby boomers. It originally aired for four hours every weekend. The block's start time jumped frequently, with the Saturday block moving to Saturday afternoons, then back to the early morning, and the Sunday block moving to Sunday evenings. Eventually, Boomerang was shortened by an hour, making the total airing time 3 hours each weekend instead of the original four hours. Boomerang (both the programming block and the original spinoff channel that launched on April 1, 2000) followed a unique programming format—every week, cartoons produced during a certain year (and cartoons produced during years prior to that year) would be showcased. For example, if Boomerang was showcasing the year 1969, the viewer would more than likely see an episode of Scooby-Doo, Where Are You! or Dastardly and Muttley in their Flying Machines.Once the Boomerang channel was launched in 2000, promos for the channel aired at the end of every broadcasted show during the block in attempt to gain popularity for Boomerang. Also, all of the older programming on Cartoon Network, including Looney Tunes and shows from Hanna-Barbera migrated to Boomerang.On October 2 and October 3, 2004 nearly four months after the re-launch of the Cartoon Network, the Boomerang block was replaced by Adult Swim everyday with older reruns of classic anthologies like The Popeye Show, Tom and Jerry The Bob Clampett Show, ToonHeads, former Boomerang fare like The Gary Coleman Show, Super Globetrotters. October 2 and 3rd were the last times Looney Tunes officially aired on Cartoon Network. Duck Dodgers, Cow &amp; Chicken, The Jetsons, The Flinstones, What a Cartoon, Snorks, The Smurfs and Baby Looney Tunes are now featured on the channel, although much of the Looney Tunes programming has gradually vanished. They are still seen from time to time. The channel initially carried a weekly looping programming format. Notably, Boomerang does not carry product commercials. The only advertising on the channel is for Boomerang or Cartoon Network programming.During its looping format, which lasted through December 26, 2004, program days began at 8 a.m. Eastern time (5 a.m. Pacific time). The looping format had 8 hours of programming repeated three times a day. Monday through Thursdays had been just normal programming days, with a variety of half-hour and hour-long cartoon programs shown. On Fridays, "monthly feature" cartoons were shown for the entire day; one cartoon was featured for each Friday of a given month for 24 hours straight. As of January 1, 2005, this banner became known as "monthly character of the month", and is now shown on weekends from 2 to 4 p.m. eastern and as of March 2007 it's known as Boomeroyalty. On Saturdays, a calendar year was featured with the cartoons of that year (ranging from approximately 1960 to 1996, one year per week in sequence). Sundays carried the "Boomeraction" theme, with animation featuring action and adventure such as Valley of the Dinosaurs, SuperFriends, Space Ghost, Jonny Quest, and Battle of the Planets. In recent years, Boomerang began airing shows from more recent times, such as Batman: The Animated Series, What's New, Scooby-Doo?, The Addams Family and Pokémon.Boomerang's promotional slogan, Boomerang: It's All Coming Back To You, used until late 2005 on Boomerang itself, was one of nostalgia that accurately reflected its programming of the time. However, this slogan is still used on promos airing on sister channel Cartoon Network. Boomerang got a new slogan in 2006 that airs during its programming breaks. The slogan is Boomerang: Right Back At'cha.The announcer for most promos for the channel is actor and current Family Feud host John O'Hurley. In September 2008 a Boomerang commercial was shown on Cartoon Network which had not been seen in many years.Programming Boomerang has featured many exclusive programming blocks such as Boomeraction, Boomeroyality, Boomerang Theater, The Zoo, Late Night Black & White,No Undies Mondays, and Boomerang's newest block (The Boomerandom pick of the week). In 2005, Boomerang began to carry more modern series, including 2 Stupid Dogs, Batman: The Animated Series, Superman: The Animated Series, Justice League, He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, Baby Looney Tunes, Duck Dodgers, What's New, Scooby Doo?, Dexter's Laboratory, Swat Kats, and Mike, Lu &amp; Og.Cable &amp; satellite availabilityCable companies Comcast and Bright House only offer Boomerang as an On Demand service, with limited selection in select areas. Several Comcast systems carry Boomerang, including systems in Atlanta, Georgia and Houston, Texas. Other companies, such as Suddenlink Communications, offer Boomerang as a regular station in select areas. Time Warner Cable and Cox offers both services in select areas. Verizon FiOS offers the channel in most markets. Several smaller cable providers do not provide the channel at all.DirecTV and Dish Network offers Boomerang in all but its most basic of programming packages. (DirecTV and Dish Network also offers Boomerang in their Family packages, convenient affordable 40-channel packages that includes only family and kids' channels.)RegionsBoomerang, originally established as a cable channel in the United States, has expanded worldwide.AustraliaAn Australasian version of Boomerang was launched in March 2004 as part of the Foxtel Digital launch, with a lineup very similar to that of the UK version. It started previously as a 4-hour block of those TV shows when CN introduced 24 hour programming. It previously used the American logo and Commercial style breaks. However from November 2007, the network updated itself changing both their logo (Like CN India's Boomerang logo) and promos to fit in with the new theme.Spain Since 2004, Boomerang has also a Spanish version. It's available on the Digital+ digital platform and on the Auna cable platform. It was introduced as a part of Cartoon Network's schedule on weekend afternoons. The station's programming resembles strongly the UK version. It relies heavily in older Warner Brothers, MGM, and Hanna-Barbera cartoons, but it also includes fairly recent programmes featuring older characters, like Baby Looney Tunes and Duck Dodgers. It also features other classic cartoons, like the Japanese Heidi and the Spanish La vuelta al mundo de Willy Fog (Around the World with Willy Fog).Southeast Asia The Southeast Asia version of Boomerang was launched on September 1 2005. It's available on Now TV in Hong Kong and also shown on Cable TV Hong Kong in spring 2006.In January 2006, Boomerang on air in Thailand and in March 2006, SkyCABLE started to show Boomerang in the Philippines, but only available in the Platinum Package.In Singapore the channel is now available on StarHub CableTV, in Indonesia the channel is now available on First Media and Aora TV.In India, This channel is exclusively available on Dish TV as a 24 hour channel. Boomerang also appears as a 2 hr block on Cartoon Network Sun - Fri from 10:00pm to 12:00am. It features great hits like The Popeye Show, Tom and Jerry, The Jetsons and Johnny Bravo.United Kingdom and Ireland There is also a version of Boomerang broadcast in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland, launched on May 27, 2000. It is broadcast 24 hours on the Sky Digital, Virgin Media, the Orbit Network, Tiscali TV and Chorus Digital platforms. It also features other cartoons, like Roobarb, Gadget Boy and The Land Before Time. In late July 2007, Boomerang UK started to show Live-action shows, including exclusive shows like My Spy Family. It also features Boomerang Cinema.Other countries There is also Boomerang Latin America and Boomerang Brazil, which began their broadcastings in July 2001. In April 3 2006, Boomerang Latin America / Brazil was relaunched as a general children's network, like Disney Channel and Viacom's Nickelodeon, also featuring live-action programming and movies, while retaining its classic cartoons in late night. In practice, the channel changed from a local version of Boomerang USA to a version of Pogo, Cartoon Network's sister channel in India.Since 2005, Boomerang is also available via digital cable and satellite in the Netherlands and Belgium.Also since 2005, Boomerang is begin broadcasting in Poland via some Cable TV providers and two of three polish digital platform (Cyfrowy Polsat, N), as channel fully translated http://europe.turnerinfo.com/BOOM/PAN/pressreleases/index.jsp&lt;/ref&gt;. That version of the channel is also available in other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, but as a channel partially translate. From 1 February 2008 in Poland start separated version of Boomerang.In late 2005, Turner Broadcasting made clear that they were considering launching several new channels in the Nordic region (to join their then-current channel Turner Classic Movies, Cartoon Network, and CNN International). One of the planned new channels was Boomerang, for which they applied for a broadcasting license in the Swedish DTT in the autumn 2005.In June 2006, Kabel Deutschland, Kabel BW and Unity Media started to show Boomerang on Pay-TV in Germany.In the Middle East, North Africa, and the Levant territories broadcasting via satellite, from Showtime Arabia and Orbit Satellite television and Radio pay-TV networks.ReferencesSee alsoList of programs broadcast by BoomerangTELETOON RetroTV LandExternal linksOfficial SiteBoomerang Latin AmericaBoomerang FranceBoomerang UKSchedule for Boomerang and other Turner Europe channelsBoomerang FranceBoomerang GermanyBoomerang ItalyBoomerang PolandBoomerang Microsite Category:American television networks Category:Cartoon Network Category:Time Warner Category:Time Warner subsidiaries Category:Television channels and stations established in 2000bg:Бумеранг (ТВ канал) da:Boomerang (TV-kanal) de:Boomerang (Fernsehsender) es:Boomerang (canal de televisión) fr:Boomerang (chaîne de télévision) it:Boomerang (TV) nl:Boomerang (zender) ja:BOOMERANG pl:Boomerang pt:Boomerang ru:Boomerang simple:Boomerang (TV channel) sv:Boomerang (TV-kanal) th:บูมเมอแรง (สถานีโทรทัศน์) zh:Boomerang