 Lutheranism is a major branch of Western Christianity that identifies with the teachings of the sixteenth-century German reformer Martin Luther. Luther's efforts to reform the theology and practice of the Roman Catholic Church launched the Protestant Reformation and, though it was not his original intention, left Western Christianity divided.MSN Encarta, s.v. "Lutheranism" by George Wolfgang Forell; Christian Cyclopedia, s.v. "Reformation, Lutheran" by Theore Hoyer.The split between Lutherans and the Roman Catholic Church arose mainly over the doctrine of justification before God. Specifically, Lutheranism advocates a doctrine of justification "by grace alone through faith alone because of Christ alone," distinct from the Roman Catholic view of works in addition to faith. Lutheranism is also distinct from the Reformed Churches, another major church which arose during the Reformation. Unlike the Reformed Churches, Lutherans have retained many of the sacramental understandings and liturgical practices of the pre-Reformation Church. Lutheran theology differs considerably from Reformed theology in its understanding of divine grace and predestination to eternity after death.Today, millions belong to Lutheran churches worldwide;Lutheran World Federation, &quot;Slight Increase Pushes LWF Global Membership to 66.2 Million&quot;, The Lutheran World Federation, http://www.lutheranworld.org/ (accessed May 18, 2006). However, some Lutherans disagree with the way the Lutheran World Federation arrives at this number, as millions of them actually come from bodies that are largely Reformed, but include some Lutherans. For more information on this, see William Schumacher, &quot;Theological Observer: How Many Lutherans?&quot;, Concordia Journal April 2005, http://www.csl.edu/CJApril05.pdf/&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; furthermore, the world's 400 million Protestant Christians"Major Branches of Religions Ranked by Number of Adherents,&quot; adherents.com http://www.adherents.com/adh_branches.html#Christianity (accessed May 22, 2006). can trace their tradition, at least in part, back to Luther's reforming work.DoctrineThe Bible and the Lutheran ConfessionsLutherans believe that the Bible, as a divinely inspired book, is the source of all revealed divine knowledge. Scripture alone (Sola scriptura) is the formal principle of the faith, the final authority for all matters of faith and doctrine.The Book of Concord, published in 1580, contains ten documents which some Lutherans believe are faithful and authoritative explanations of Holy Scripture. Besides the three Ecumenical Creeds, which date to Roman times, the Book of Concord contains seven credal documents articulating Lutheran theology in the Reformation era.The doctrinal positions of Lutheran churches are not uniform, and the Book of Concord does not hold the the same position in all Lutheran churches. Church of Denmark and Church of Norway have only adopted the three ancient Creeds, the Confession of Augsburg and the Small Catechism of Martin Luther.Lutheran pastors, congregations, and church bodies in Germany and the U.S. traditionally agree to teach in harmony with the entire Lutheran Confessions. Some Lutheran church bodies require this pledge to be unconditional, while others allow their congregations to do so "insofar as" the Confessions are in agreement with the Bible.Church of Sweden regard the ancient Creeds and the Confession of Augsburg as "summaries of the faith", while the other parts of Book of Concord are regarded as "commentaries" in the same way as modern documents are "commentaries" to the faith. Among these younger commentaries one will find the first paragraph of the Constitution of the World Council of Churches, the Agreement between Church of Sweden and the Philippine Independent Church, and the Common Statement of the Porvoo Communion.Lutherans have understood the Bible as containing two distinct types of content, termed Law and Gospel (or Law and Promises).Apology of the Augsburg Confession IV, 5 In the Lutheran view, properly distinguishing the Law from the Gospels allows a Christian to clearly understand the Gospels' message of justification by grace through faith alone.Over the history of the Lutheran tradition, views on the nature of biblical authority have varied. Martin Luther and the Book of Concord taught that the Scriptures were the Word of God, and that it is the only reliable guide for faith and practice. The 17th century is termed the Orthodox period of Lutheran scholasticism, in which theologians emphasized biblical inerrancy. During the eighteenth century, Rationalism, which advocated reason rather than authority as the final source of knowledge, began to influence Lutheranism. Rationalism brought the authority of the Bible into question. Lutherans such as Gottfried Leibnitz sought to reconcile Christianity with the new philosophy, but in general, most of the Lutheran Laity continued to hold Supernaturalist beliefs.. Beginning in the nineteenth century, Lutheran confessionalism emphasized a stricter adherence to the authority of the Bible and the Lutheran Confessions as expressed in the Book of Concord. Today, Lutheran groups vary on the nature and limits of biblical inerrancy, with each group claiming to represent the true Reformation position. Conservative groups tend to stress biblical inerrancy, confessionalism, and the orthodoxy of 17th century Lutheranism, while liberal groups seek to make use of the higher criticism method of biblical interpretation.Central doctrines   The key doctrine, or material principle, of Lutheranism is the doctrine of justification. Lutherans believe that humans are saved from their sins by God's grace alone (Sola Gratia), through faith alone (Sola Fide). Lutherans believe that this grace is granted for the sake of Christ's merit alone (Solus Christus). Traditional Lutheran theology holds that God made the world, including humanity, perfect, holy and sinless. However, Adam and Eve chose to disobey God, trusting in their own strength, knowledge, and wisdom.Paul R. Sponheim, "The Origin of Sin," in Christian Dogmatics, Carl E. Braaten and Robert W. Jenson, eds. (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1984), 385–407.Francis Pieper, "Definition of Original Sin," in Christian Dogmatics (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1953), 1:538. Consequently, people are saddled with Original sin, born sinful and unable to avoid committing sinful acts. For Lutherans, original sin is the "chief sin, a root and fountainhead of all actual sins."Formula of Concord, Original Sin.Lutherans teach that sinners are not capable of doing any good works that can satisfy God's justice.Rom. 7:18, 8:7 1 Cor. 2:14 Every human thought and deed is colored by sin and sinful motives.Gen. 6:5, 8:21, Mat. 7:17 Because of this, all humanity deserves eternal damnation in hell.Dt. 27:26,Rom. 5:12,2 Th. 1:9 Rom. 6:23, Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 38-41, Part VIII. "Sin" God has intervened in this world because he loves all people and does not want anyone to be eternally damned.1 Tim. 2:4 By God's grace, made known and effective in the person and work of Jesus Christ, a person is forgiven, adopted as a child and heir of God, and given eternal salvation.Rom. 10:4 Gal. 4:4–5 For this reason, Lutherans teach that salvation is possible only because of the grace of God made manifest in the birth, life, suffering, death, and resurrection, and continuing presence by the power of the Holy Spirit, of Jesus Christ Gal. 3:13.Lutherans believe Jesus Christ is both by nature God and by nature man in one person, as they confess in Luther's Small Catechism that he is "true God begotten of the Father from eternity and also true man born of the Virgin Mary".Luther's Small Catechism, The Apostle's Creed, Second ArticleLutherans are Trinitarian because they confess in the Athanasian Creed, "we worship one God in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity; Neither confounding the Persons, nor dividing the Substance. For there is one Person of the Father, another of the Son, and another of the Holy Ghost. But the Godhead of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost is all one: the glory equal, the majesty coeternal".Athanasian Creed , Book of Common Prayer translation, used in the Triglot ed. of the Book of Concord Lutherans reject as error the idea that the Father and the Son are merely faces of the same person, because, they believe, both the Old Testament and the New Testament show them to be two distinct persons.Is. 63:8-9, Mueller, J.T., Christian Dogmatics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 158-160, section "The Doctrine of God", part 5. "The Holy Trinity Revealed in the Old Testament",Heb. 1:5, see Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 33-36, Part VI. "The Trinity". Lutherans believe the Holy Spirit proceeds from both the Father and the Son.The Nicene Creed and the Filioque: A Lutheran Approach by Rev. David Webber for more informationLutherans believe that individuals receive this gift of salvation through faith alone.Augsburg Confession, Article 4, &quot;Of Justification&quot; — a full and complete trust in God's promises to forgive and to save Heb 11:1 Even faith itself is seen as a gift of God, created in the hearts of Christians Ps. 51:10 by the work of the Holy Spirit through his means of grace, which are the Word John 17:20, Rom. 10:17) and the Sacraments Mat. 26:28, Tit. 3:5). It is important to note the words — through faith, Rom. 3:22 not by faith. Faith is seen as an instrument that receives the gift of salvation, not something that causes salvation. Eph. 2:8 Thus, Lutherans reject the so-called "decision theology" which is common among modern evangelicals.Traditionally, Lutherans have accepted monergism, which states that salvation is by God's act alone, and reject the doctrine that humans in their fallen state have a free will concerning spiritual matters. 1 Cor. 2:14, 12:3, Rom. 8:7. Lutherans believe that although humans have free will concerning civil righteousness, they cannot work spiritual righteousness without the Holy Spirit, since righteousness in the heart cannot be wrought in the absence of the Holy Spirit. Augsburg Confession, Article 18, Of Free Will. Lutherans believe that the elect are predestined to salvation. Acts 13:48, Eph. 1:4–11, Epitome of the Formula of Concord, Article 11, Election, Mueller, J.T., Christian Dogmatics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 585-9, section "The Doctrine of Eternal Election: 1. The Definition of the Term", and Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 124-8, Part XXXI. "The Election of Grace", paragraph 176. Lutherans believe Christians should be assured that they are among the predestined. 2 Thess. 2:13, Mueller, J.T., Christian Dogmatics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 589-593, section "The Doctrine of Eternal Election: 2. How Believers are to Consider Their Election, and Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 127-8, Part XXXI. "The Election of Grace", paragraph 180. However, they disagree with those that make predestination the source of salvation rather than Christ's suffering, death, and resurrection. Unlike Traditional Calvinism, Lutherans do not believe in a predestination to damnation.1 Tim. 2:4, 2 Pet. 3:9, Epitome of the Formula of Concord, Article 11, Election, and Engelder's Popular Symbolics, Part XXXI. The Election of Grace, pp. 124-8. Instead, Lutherans teach eternal damnation is a result of the unbeliever's sins, rejection of the forgiveness of sins, and unbelief.Hos. 13:9, Mueller, J.T., Christian Dogmatics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. p. 637, section "The Doctrine of the Last Things (Eschatology), part 7. "Eternal Damnation", and Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 135-6, Part XXXIX. "Eternal Death", paragraph 196.Lutherans are not dogmatic about the number of the sacraments.The Apology of the Augsburg Confession XIII, 2: "We believe we have the duty not to neglect any of the rites and ceremonies instituted in Scripture, whatever their number. We do not think it makes much difference if, for purposes of teaching, the enumeration varies, provided what is handed down in Scripture is preserved" (cf. Theodore G. Tappert, trans. and ed., The Book of Concord: The Confessions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1959), 211). In line with Luther's initial statement in his Large Catechism some speak of only two sacraments,Luther's Large Catechism IV, 1: "We have now finished the three chief parts of the common Christian doctrine. Besides these we have yet to speak of our two Sacraments instituted by Christ, of which also every Christian ought to have at least an ordinary, brief instruction, because without them there can be no Christian; although, alas! hitherto no instruction concerning them has been given" (emphasis added; cf. Theodore G. Tappert, trans. and ed., The Book of Concord: The Confessions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1959), 733). Baptism and Holy Communion, although later in the same work he calls Confession and AbsolutionJohn 20:23 or "Repentance" "the third sacrament."Luther's Large Catechism IV, 74-75: "And here you see that Baptism, both in its power and signification, comprehends also the third Sacrament, which has been called repentance, as it is really nothing else than Baptism" (emphasis added; cf. Theodore G. Tappert, trans. and ed., The Book of Concord: The Confessions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, (Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1959), 751). When it defines "sacrament" the Apology of the Augsburg Confession lists Absolution as one of them.The Apology of the Augsburg Confession XIII, 3, 4: "If we define the sacraments as rites, which have the command of God and to which the promise of grace has been added, it is easy to determine what the sacraments are, properly speaking. For humanly instituted rites are not sacraments, properly speaking, because human beings do not have the authority to promise grace. Therefore signs instituted without the command of God are not sure signs of grace, even though they perhaps serve to teach or admonish the common folk. Therefore, the sacraments are actually baptism, the Lord’s Supper, and absolution (the sacrament of repentance)" (cf. Tappert, 211). Apology of the Augsburg Confession, Article 13, Of the Number and Use of the SacramentsThey teach that Baptism is a saving work of God, 1 Pet. 3:21, Mueller, J.T., Christian Dogmatics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. pp. 491-496, section "The Doctrine of Baptism", part 4. "Baptism a True Means of Grace", and Engelder, T.E.W., Popular Symbolics. St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, 1934. p. 87, Part XXIII. "Baptism", paragraph 118. mandated and instituted by Christ.Martin Luther, Small Catechism 4 Thus it is administered to both infants Mat. 19:14, Acts 2:38–39 and adults. 1 Cor. 1:14. Children born to practicing Lutheran families are baptized shortly after birth.Lutherans hold that within Holy Communion, also referred to as the Sacrament of the Altar or the Lord's Supper, 1 Cor. 11:20 the consecrated elements of bread and wine are the true body and blood of Christ "in, with, and under the form" of bread and wine for all those who eat and drink it, 1 Cor. 10:16, 11:27, a doctrine that the Formula of Concord calls the Sacramental union.The Solid Declaration of the Formula of Concord, Article 8, The Holy Supper Some Lutherans use the term Eucharist to refer to Communion, noting its use in the Book of Concord; however, others reject the term on the basis that the word Eucharist ("thankgiving") puts the emphasis on the human response to the sacrament, which is contrary to the Lutheran emphasis on God's omnipotence and human powerlessness. They note that in almost every case, the use of the term in the Book of Concord refers to doctrinal statements that are part of the Roman Catholic tradition.Lutherans believe that all who trust in Jesus alone can be certain of their salvation, for it is in Christ's work and his promises in which their certainty lies. Rom. 8:33. The central final hope of the Christian is "the resurrection of the body and the life everlasting" as confessed in the Apostles' Creed, but Lutherans also teach that, at death, Christians are immediately taken into the presence of Jesus, Luke 23:42-43, 2 Cor. 5:8, where they await this resurrection and the second coming of Jesus on the Last Day. 1 Cor. 15:22–24.Francis Pieper, Christian Dogmatics, 505-515; Heinrich Schmid, The Doctrinal Theology of the Evangelical Lutheran Church, 624-632; John Mueller, Christian Dogmatics, 616-619 Lutherans do not believe in any sort of earthly millennial kingdom of Christ either before or after his second coming on the last day.John 18:36.Augsburg Confession, Article 17, Of Christ's Return to Judgment.Although Lutherans believe that good works do not satisfy God's wrath, this is not to say that they hold good works to play no role in the Christian life. Tit. 2:14. Good works are the fruit of saving faith, John 15:5, and always and in every instance spring spontaneously from true faith. 2 Cor. 9:8. Any true good works have their true origin in God, Phil 2:13, not in the fallen human heart or in human striving; Rom. 7:18, Heb 11:6 their absence would demonstrate that faith, too, is absent. Mat. 7:15–16, Tit. 1:16. Augsburg Confession, Article 20, Of Good WorksGrace vs. justificationA discussion of grace vs. justification is available on the talk page.Ecumenism with other ChristiansAlthough they decried the division of the Church, early Lutherans tended to avoid ecumenical fellowship with other Churches, believing that churches should not share Communion and exchange pastors if they do not agree upon doctrine.In the 18th century, there was some ecumenical interest between the Church of Sweden and the Church of England. John Robinson, Bishop of London, even fostered a plan for the union of the English and Swedish churches in 1718, supported by Count Gyllenberg, Swedish Ambassador to London. The plan fell through because of the opposition of most Swedish bishops, although Svedberg of Skara and Gezelius, Bishop of Turku (Finland) were in favour. The reason for the opposition was that the Church of England was too Calvinist for them http://www.svenskakyrkan.se/ArticlePages/200508/16/20050816074719_svkhjs928/20050816074719_svkhjs928.dbp.asp.In 1817, King Frederick William III of Prussia ordered the Lutheran and Reformed churches in his territory to unite, forming the Evangelical Church of the Prussian Union. The unification of the two branches of German Protestantism sparked a great deal of controversy. Many Lutherans, termed Old Lutherans, chose to leave the established churches and form independent church bodies. Many left for America and Australia. The dispute over ecumenism overshadowed other controversies within German Lutheranism..In the 18th and early 19th centuries, German Lutherans cooperated with German Reformed churches on the frontiers of the newly formed United States. Other American Lutherans, from the Old Lutheran dissenters, formed churches with stricter attitudes toward ecumenism. In the twentieth century, many of those stricter churches have combined into denominations, the major being the Lutheran Church - Missouri Synod, Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod and the Church of the Lutheran Confession (CLC).Presently, Lutherans are divided over how to interact with other Christian denominations. Typically, more conservative Lutherans assert that everyone must share the "whole counsel of God" (Acts 20:27) in complete unity (1 Cor. 1:10) before pastors can share each other pulpits or communicants commune at each other's altars. On the other hand, more liberal Lutherans are willing to share communion and to allow preachers from other Christian traditions in their pulpits.Although the Lutheran World Federation has been in ecumenical dialogue with the Roman Catholic Church since shortly after the Second Vatican Council, it was not until 1999 that far-reaching ecumenical relations were established between the Lutheran World Federation and the Roman Catholic Church when they jointly issued a statement, the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, that declared commonality of the Roman Catholic and Lutheran doctrines on Justification.http://www.elca.org/ecumenical/ecumenicaldialogue/romancatholic/jddj/declaration.html. While a number of Lutheran theologians saw this as a sign that the Roman Catholic Church was essentially adopting the Lutheran position, most Lutheran theologians disagreed, claiming that, considering the public documentation of the Catholic Church's position, this assertion does not hold up.The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America has been actively involved in ecumenical dialogues with several denominations (the ELCA is one of the members of the LWF that signed the JDDJ). Recently, the ELCA has established "full communion" with several American Churches: the Moravian Church, the Episcopal Church, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the Reformed Church in America, and the United Church of Christ.Although not an "ecumenical" movement in the formal sense, in the 1990s influences from the megachurches of American evangelicalism (eg Hybels' "Becoming a Contagious Christian" from Willow Creek and Warren's "Purpose Driven Life" from Saddleback Church) have become common, particularly among more socially, politically, and theologically conservative Lutherans. Many of the largest Lutheran congregations in the United States have been heavily influenced by these "progressive Evangelicals." These influences are sharply criticised by confessional Lutherans as being foreign to the Lutheran tradition.See scholarly articles on the church growth movement from the Wisconsin Lutheran Seminary Library and Implications of the Church Growth Movement for Lutherans: Possibilities and Concerns by Harold L. Senkbeil as examples of criticism from confessional LutheransThe Porvoo Communion is a communion of episcopally led Lutheran and Anglican churches in Europe. Beside its membership in the Porvoo Communion, Church of Sweden also stand in full communion with the Philippine Independent Church and the United Methodist Church.Ecumenism among LutheransThe largest organizations of Lutheran churches around the world are the Lutheran World Federation, the International Lutheran Council, and the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference. These organizations together include the great majority of Lutheran denominations around the globe.The Lutheran World Federation (LWF)-aligned churches do not believe that one church is singularly true in its teachings. According to this belief, Lutheranism is a reform movement rather than a movement into doctrinal correctness. For that reason, a number of doctrinally diverse LWF denominations, now largely separated from state control, are declaring fellowship and joint statements of agreement with other Lutheran and non-Lutheran Christian denominations.By contrast, the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference and International Lutheran Council as well as many unaffiliated denominations such as the Church of the Lutheran Confession (CLC) maintain that the orthodox confessional Lutheran churches are the only churches with completely correct doctrine. They teach that while other Christian churches teach partially orthodox doctrine and have true Christians as members, the doctrines of those churches contain significant errors. More conservative Lutherans strive to maintain historical distinctiveness while emphasizing doctrinal purity alongside Gospel-motivated outreach. They state that LWF Lutherans are practicing fake ecumenism by desiring church fellowship outside of actual unity of teaching.see Ecumenism: Facts and Illusions by Kurt E. Marquart for a short explanation of the modern ecumenism movement from a Confessional Lutheran perspectivePracticesMany Lutherans place great emphasis on a liturgical approach to worship services; although there have always been substantial non-liturgical minorities (Hauge Lutherans from Norway, contemporary-worship oriented Lutherans today—see paragraph below). Music forms a large part of a traditional Lutheran service. Lutheran hymns are sometimes known as chorales, and Luther himself composed hymns and hymn tunes, perhaps the most famous of which is "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" ("Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott"). Lutheran hymnody is reputed for its doctrinal, didactic, and musical riches. Many Lutheran churches are active musically with choirs, handbell choirs, children's choirs, and sometimes carillon societies (to ring bells in a bell tower). Johann Sebastian Bach, a devout Lutheran, composed music for the Lutheran church.Many Lutherans also preserve a liturgical approach to the celebration of Communion (or the Lord's Supper), emphasizing the sacrament as the central act of Christian worship. Lutherans believe that Jesus' actual body and blood are present in, with and under the bread and the wine. This belief is called Real Presence or Sacramental Union and is different from consubstantiation and transubstantiation. Additionally Lutherans reject the idea that communion is a mere symbol or memorial. They confess in the Apology of the Augsburg Confession:"...we do not abolish the Mass but religiously keep and defend it. Among us the Mass is celebrated every Lord's Day and on other festivals, when the Sacrament is made available to those who wish to partake of it, after they have been examined and absolved. We also keep traditional liturgical forms, such as the order of readings, prayers, vestments, and other similar things." (Apology of the Augsburg Confession, Article XXIV.1)In the 1970s, many Lutheran churches began holding "contemporary" worship services for the purpose of evangelical outreach. These services were in a variety of styles, depending on the preferences of the congregation. Often they were held alongside a traditional service, to cater to those who were not comfortable with the more liturgical forms. As the Lutheran church enters the 21st century, some Lutheran congregations are holding "Contemporary Worship" services as their sole form of worship. Outreach is no longer given as the primary motivation, rather this form of worship is seen as more in keeping with the desires of individual congregations. Because Luther contemporized the worship service for his community, these congregations see their position as in keeping with "Confessional Lutheranism" (see Augsburg Confession article VII). Principle examples of this in the ELCA include Family of God, Cape Coral FL., The Well, Charlotte NC, Hosanna! of Lakeville, Minnesota, and Church of the Apostles, Seattle WA.. The Lutheran World Federation, the largest federation of international Lutheran Churches has in fact strongly recommended in the Nairobi Statement on Worship and Culture that Lutherans of the world make every effort to bring their services into a more contextually sensitive position.  "A given culture's values and patterns, insofar as they are consonant with the values of the Gospel, can be used to express the meaning and purpose of Christian worship. Contextualization is a necessary task for the Church's mission in the world, so that the Gospel can be ever more deeply rooted in diverse local cultures." The Nairobe StatementCatechism, especially children's, is considered fundamental in most Lutheran churches. Almost all maintain Sunday Schools, and some host or maintain private nursery schools, primary schools, regional high schools and universities.Life-long catechesis, since Martin Luther's day, was intended for all ages so that the abuses of the Church of that day would not recur. preface to Luther's Large and preface to Luther's Small Catechism. With the emphasis on proper life-long catechesis, the Lutheran Church has a heritage rich in theology and doctrine.Pastors usually teach in the common language of the parish. In the U.S., some congregations and synods traditionally taught in German, Finnish, or Norwegian, but this custom, which attracted unfavorable attention during World War I, has been in significant decline since the early/middle 20th century.Pastors almost always have substantial theological educations, including Greek and Hebrew so that they can refer directly to the canonical Christian scriptures in the original language. All Lutheran pastors may marry and have families. Most Lutheran denominations, with the exception of the confessional-conservative synods, encourage female pastors.While not an issue in the majority of Lutheran church bodies, some of them forbid membership in Freemasonry. Partly, this is because the lodge is viewed as spreading Unitarianism, as the Brief Statement of the Missouri Synod reads, "Hence we warn against Unitarianism, which in our country has to a great extent impenetrated the sects and is being spread particularly also through the influence of the lodges."See http://www.lcms.org/pages/internal.asp?NavID=564 Brief Statement was adopted as Missouri Synod doctrine in 1932, and from time to time has been adopted by other Lutherans A 1958 report from the publishing house of the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod states that, "Masonry is guilty of idolatry. Its worship and prayers are idol worship. The Masons may not with their hands have made an idol out of gold, silver, wood or stone, but they created one with their own mind and reason out of purely human thoughts and ideas. The latter is an idol no less than the former."Report of the Lutheran Church, The Northwestern Lutheran, page 281, August 31, 1988.Lutheran Churches in the United States use a number of hymnals as well as electronic projection media. The most widely used are: The Lutheran Book of Worship (1978) and The Evangelical Lutheran Worship (2006, ELCA and ELCIC), Lutheran Worship (1982, LCMS), Christian Worship (WELS), and The Lutheran Hymnal (1941, LCMS, WELS & CLC). In 2006, both the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and the LCMS, the two largest Lutheran denominations, released new hymnals: Evangelical Lutheran Worship (ELCA) and Lutheran Service Book (LCMS).In Australia, the official hymnal is the 'Lutheran Hymnal with Supplement' of 1986, which includes a supplement to the 'Lutheran Hymnal' of 1973, itself a replacement for the 'Australian Lutheran Hymn Book' of 1921. Prior to this time, the two Lutheran Churches in Australia (which amalgamated in 1966) used a bewildering variety of hymnals, usually in the German language.International bodiesThe three largest international Lutheran bodies are the Lutheran World Federation (LWF), which contains 140 member church bodies in 78 countries representing 66.2 million of the world's 69.7 million Lutherans. These numbers are disputed however, because they include millions of non-Lutherans that belong to merged Protestant church bodies containing Lutheran components.For more information on this, see William Schumacher, &quot;Theological Observer: How Many Lutherans?&quot;, Concordia Journal April 2005, http://www.csl.edu/CJApril05.pdf/&lt;/span&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; The Lutheran World Federation supports the activities of Lutheran World Relief, a relief and development agency active in more than 50 countries. The other international bodies are the International Lutheran Council (ILC), of which the LCMS and the LCC are members and the Confessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference (CELC), of which the WELS and ELS are members.Many Lutheran churches exist throughout the world which are not affiliated with the LWF, the ILC or the CELC, such as those affiliated with Augsburg Lutheran Churches or Church of the Lutheran Confession which are especially active in Africa and India; and those affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church (UAC)or Church of the Lutheran Brethren, which are especially active elsewhere in Asia.Throughout the world  Lutheranism is present on all populated continents. Countries in which Lutheranism is the largest religious group are Denmark, Estonia, Norway, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Latvia, Namibia and Sweden.While Namibia is the only country outside Europe to have a Lutheran majority, there are sizeable Lutheran communities in many other countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ethiopia, Indonesia (notably among the Orang Batak), Madagascar, Papua New Guinea, Tanzania, and the United States. Lutheran missions have also been established in many African countries like Sierra Leone.Martin Luther is also credited with creating the very first Christmas Tree; he was said to have decorated a small tree in his house to symbolize the way the stars shone at night. Many Lutheran churches continue this tradition of an "Advent Tree" by decorating a tree in the sanctuary, narthex or gathering area in a similar fashion to the mainstream tradition, but only with white and gold colors, and only religious symbols (such as the cross, the orb, the Lamb, and the Shepherd's staff) instead of other more secular Christmas symbols as might be seen in American homes.See alsoConfessional LutheranHigh Church LutheranismInternational Lutheran CouncilList of Lutheran denominationsLutheran Catholic EvangelicalLutheran OrthodoxyLutheran World FederationLutheran views of homosexualityNeo-LutheranismOld LutheransPietismPorvoo CommunionPrint sourcesELCA Perspective: General Council Historical Perspective: LCMS Historical Perspective: LCMS Historical Perspective: LCR Perspective: Slovak Synod Historical Perspective: WELS Perspective: FootnotesExternal linksInternational BodiesConfessional Evangelical Lutheran Conference (CELC)International Lutheran Council (ILC)Lutheran World Federation (LWF)Church BodiesAugustana Evangelical Catholic Communion (AECC)The American Association of Lutheran Churches (TAALC)Augsburg Lutheran Churches (ALC)The Church of SwedenThe Church of the Lutheran Confession (CLC)Lutheran Evangelical Protestant Church (LEPC, GCEPC)CLC Lutheran Missions in Africa and IndiaConcordia Lutheran ConferenceEvangelical Community Church-Lutheran (ECCL)The Old Lutheran Church (OLC)Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD)The Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA)The Evangelical Lutheran Church in Brazil (IECLB)Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada (ELCIC)The Evangelical Lutheran Church of FinlandEvangelical Lutheran Synod (ELS)Lutheran Church of Australia (LCA)Lutheran Church - Canada (LCC)Lutheran Churches in Mission for Christ (LCMC)Lutheran Church -- Missouri Synod (LC-MS)Lutheran Churches of the Reformation (LCR)Lutheran Church in SingaporeIndependent Evangelical Lutheran Church (Germany)The Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod (WELS)Other LinksLutheran ResourcesThe Lutheran Blog DirectoryFamous Living LutheransFamous Lutherans at Famous WhyFamous Lutherans at NNDBHistory of Lutherans in CanadaAsia Lutheran News (ALN) and Lutheran Community in AsiaScholarly articles on the Lutheran Church from the Wisconsin Lutheran Seminary LibraryHistoric Worship of the Lutheran ChurchThe Book of Concord OnlineHistory of the breakup of the Synodical ConferenceCategory:Lutheranism Category:Martin Luther Category:Protestant Reformationar:لوثرية frp:Lutèranismo az:Lüteranlıq bg:Лутеранство ca:Luteranisme cs:Luteránství da:Lutheranisme de:Evangelisch-Lutherische Kirchen et:Luterlus es:Luteranismo eo:Luteranismo eu:Luteranismo fr:Luthéranisme fur:Luteranisim ko:루터교 id:Gereja Lutheran ia:Lutheranismo is:Evangelísk-lúthersk kirkja it:Luteranesimo he:לותרניזם lv:Luterisms lt:Liuteronybė hu:Evangélikus kereszténység nl:Lutheranisme ja:ルーテル教会 no:Den evangelisk-lutherske kirke nn:Den evangelisk-lutherske kyrkja nds:Luthersche Kark pl:Luteranizm pt:Luteranismo ro:Luteranism ru:Лютеранство sk:Luterán sl:Luteranstvo fi:Luterilaisuus sv:Lutheraner tl:Lutheranismo vi:Giáo hội Luther uk:Лютеранство bat-smg:Liuteruonībė zh:信義宗