The Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus), also called the Asian Tapir, is the largest of the four species of tapir and the only one native to Asia. The scientific name refers to the East Indies, the species' natural habitat. In the Malay language, the tapir is commonly referred to as "cipan" or "tenuk."bin Momin Khan, Mohd Khan. [http://www.tapirback.com/tapirgal/iucn-ssc/tsg/action97/ap97-01.htm "Status and Action Plan of the Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus)"] Tapirs: Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan published by IUCN Tapir Specialist Group, 1997, page 1General appearance and characteristicsThe animal is easily identified by its markings, most notably the light-colored “saddle” which extends from its shoulders to its rump. The rest of its hair is black, except for the tips of its ears which, as with other tapirs, are rimmed with white. This pattern is for camouflage: the disrupted coloration makes it more difficult to recognize it as a tapir, and other animals may mistake it for a large rock rather than a form of prey when it is lying down to sleep.[http://www.zoo.org/factsheets/malayan_tapir/malayanTapir.html Woodland Park Zoo Animal Fact Sheet: Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus)] Malayan Tapirs grow to between 6 and 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 m) in length, stand 3 to 3.5 feet (90 to 107 cm) tall, and typically weigh between 550 and 700 pounds (250 to 320 kg), although they can weigh up to 1,100 pounds (500 kg).Wilson & Burnie, Animal: The Definitive Visual Guide to the World's Wildlife. DK ADULT (2001), ISBN 978-0789477644 The females are usually larger than the males. Like the other types of tapir, they have small stubby tails and long, flexible proboscises. They have four toes on each front foot and three toes on each back foot. The Malayan Tapir has rather poor eyesight but excellent hearing and sense of smell.LifecycleThe gestation period of the Malayan Tapir is approximately 400 days, after which a single offspring, weighing around 15 pounds (6.8 kg), is born. Malayan Tapirs are the largest of the four tapir species at birth and grow more quickly than their congeners.Fahey, B. 1999. &quot;Tapirus indicus&quot; (On-line), Animal Diversity Web. Accessed June 16, 2006. Young tapirs of all species have brown hair with white stripes and spots, a pattern which enables them to hide effectively in the dappled light of the forest. This baby coat fades into adult coloration between four and seven months after birth. Weaning occurs between six and eight months of age, at which time the babies are nearly full-grown, and the animals reach sexual maturity around age three. Breeding typically occurs in April, May or June, and females generally produce one calf every two years. Malayan Tapirs can live up to 30 years, both in the wild and in captivity.Recent interest has encouraged biological engineers to make an attempt at creating a dwarf version of the malayan tapir. They believe there to be a huge miniature tapir market as pets in the United States.BehaviorMalayan Tapirs are primarily solitary creatures, marking out large tracts of land as their territory, though these areas usually overlap with those of other individuals. Tapirs mark out their territories by spraying urine on plants, and they often follow distinct paths which they have bulldozed through the undergrowth.Exclusively vegetarian, the animal forages for the tender shoots and leaves of more than 115 species of plants (around 30 are particularly preferred), moving slowly through the forest and pausing often to eat and note the scents left behind by other tapirs in the area.bin Momin Khan, Mohd Khan. [http://www.tapirback.com/tapirgal/iucn-ssc/tsg/action97/ap97-01.htm "Status and Action Plan of the Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus)"] Tapirs: Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan published by IUCN Tapir Specialist Group, 1997, page 1 However, when threatened or frightened, the tapir can run quickly, despite its considerable bulk, and they can also defend themselves with their strong jaws and sharp teeth. Malayan Tapirs communicate with high-pitched squeaks and whistles. They usually prefer to live near water and often bathe and swim, and they are also able to climb steep slopes. Tapirs are mainly active at night, though they are not exclusively nocturnal. They tend to eat soon after sunset or before sunrise, and they will often nap in the middle of the night. This type of behavior characterizes them as crepuscular animals.Habitat, predation, and vulnerabilityThe Malayan Tapir was once found throughout the tropical lowland rainforests of Southeast Asia, including Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar (Burma), Thailand, and Vietnam. However, its numbers have decreased in recent years, and today, like all tapirs, it is in danger of extinction. Database entry includes justification for why this species is vulnerable Because of their size, tapirs have few natural predators, and even reports of killings by tigers are scarce.bin Momin Khan, Mohd Khan. [http://www.tapirback.com/tapirgal/iucn-ssc/tsg/action97/ap97-02.htm "Status and Action Plan of the Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus)"] Tapirs: Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan published by IUCN Tapir Specialist Group, 1997, page 2 The main threat to the Malayan tapirs is human activity, including deforestation for agricultural purposes, flooding caused by the damming of rivers for hydroelectric projects, and illegal trade.[http://www.unep-wcmc.org/index.html?http://www.unep-wcmc.org/species/data/species_sheets/malayan.htm~main Fact sheet on Malayan Tapir - Tapirus indicus], UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre, in association with the World Wildlife Foundation In Thailand, for instance, capture and sale of a young tapir may be worth US$5500.00.bin Momin Khan, Mohd Khan. [http://www.tapirback.com/tapirgal/iucn-ssc/tsg/action97/ap97-02.htm "Status and Action Plan of the Malayan Tapir (Tapirus indicus)"] Tapirs: Status Survey and Conservation Action Plan published by IUCN Tapir Specialist Group, 1997, page 2 In areas such as Sumatra, where the population is predominantly Muslim, tapirs are seldom hunted for food, as their physical similarity to pigs has made tapir meat a taboo, but in some regions they are hunted for sport or shot accidentally when mistaken for other animals.Simon, Tamar. “The Tapir: A Big Unknown” article from Discovery Channel Canadian website, July 22, 1999. Protected status in Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand, which seeks to curb deliberate killing of tapirs but does not address the issue of habitat loss, has had limited effect in reviving or maintaining the population.''Brevetianus'' variationA small number of melanistic (all-black) Malayan tapirs have been observed. In 1924, an all-black tapir was sent to Rotterdam Zoo and was classified as a subspecies called Tapirus indicus var. brevetianus after its discoverer Captain K. Brevet.Shuker, Dr. Karl P. N. Mysteries of Planet Earth, pages 11-12 In 2000, two melanistic tapirs were observed during a study of tigers in the Jerangau Forest Reserve in Malaysia.Mohd, Azlan J. &quot;Recent Observations of Melanistic Tapirs in Peninsular Malaysia&quot;.In September of 2003, Canadian researcher William Sommers witnessed the live birth of a black tapir in the wild. Tapir Conservation: The Newsletter of the IUCN/SSC Tapir Specialist Group, June 2002, Volume 11, Number 1, pages 27-28 The cause of this variation may be a genetic abnormality similar to that of black panthers that appear in populations of spotted jaguars. However, unless and until more brevetianus individuals can be studied, the precise explanation for the trait will remain unknown.NotesExternal linksARKive - [http://www.arkive.org/species/GES/mammals/Tapirus_indicus/ images and movies of the Asian tapir (Tapirus indicus)]Tapir Specialist Group - Malayan TapirCategory:Tapirs Tapir, Malayan Tapir, Malayan bg:Малайски тапир ca:Tapir asiàtic cs:Tapír indický da:Skaberaktapir de:Schabrackentapir et:Aasia taapir es:Tapirus indicus fr:Tapir de Malaisie is:Káputapír it:Tapirus indicus he:טפיר אסייתי lt:Baltaliemenis tapyras hu:Ázsiai tapír ms:Tenuk Malaysia my:ကြံ့သူတော် nl:Indische tapir ja:マレーバク no:Skaberakktapir pl:Tapir malajski pt:Tapirus indicus ru:Чепрачный тапир fi:Intiantapiiri sv:Schabraktapir th:สมเสร็จ vi:Lợn vòi tr:Hint tapiri uk:Чепрачний тапір zh:馬來貘