The national flag of Singapore was first adopted in 1959, the year Singapore became self-governing within the British Empire. It became the national flag upon the Republic's full independence on 9 August 1965. The design is a horizontal bicolour of red above white, charged in the canton by a white crescent moon facing, toward the fly, a pentagon of five small white five-pointed stars. The elements of the flag denote a young nation on the ascendant, universal brotherhood and equality, and various national ideals.The national flag is not used as an ensign by vessels at sea. In its place, one of three derivatives of the national flag is used, depending on a vessel's status: merchant vessels and pleasure craft fly a civil ensign of red charged in white with a variant of the crescent and stars emblem in the center; non-military government vessels such as coast guard ships fly a state ensign of blue with the national flag in the canton, charged with an eight-pointed red and white compass rose in the lower fly; and warships fly a naval ensign similar to the state ensign, but in white with a red compass rose emblem.The use and display of the national flag is governed by rules defined by the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Act. There are also laws prohibiting non-Singaporean national emblems to be displayed in public or in schools.HistoryThe flag used from when Singapore was amalgamated into the Straits Settlements (along with Malacca, and Penang) was a British Blue Ensign containing three gold crowns, one crown for each settlement, separated with an red ⅄. Singapore city was granted a "city coat of arms" in 1911 featuring a lion. Soon after World War II Singapore became an independent settlement, at this point only 1 crown appears.Singapore became self-governing within the British Empire on 3 June 1959. Six months later, upon the installation of the new Yang di-Pertuan Negara (head of state) on 3 December 1959, the national flag was officially adopted, along with the state crest and the national anthem "Majulah Singapura".The flag was conceived and created by a committee headed by the then Deputy Prime Minister, Toh Chin Chye. In a 1989 oral history interview, Toh recalled:: The design of the flag was completed in two months. Toh had initially envisaged a completely-red background for the flag, but the Cabinet decided against this as red was then regarded as a rallying point for communism.On 30 November 1959 the Singapore State Arms and Flag and National Anthem Ordinance 1959Singapore State Arms and Flag and National Anthem Ordinance 1959 (No. 70 of 1959), now the .  was passed to regulate the use and display of the State Arms and State Flag and the performance of the National Anthem. When presenting the motion to the Legislative Assembly of Singapore on 11 November 1959, S. Rajaratnam, the Minister for Culture, said, "National flags, crest and anthem express symbolically the hopes and ideals of a people... The possession of a national flag and crest is, for a people, symbolic of self-respect." The flag was adopted as the national flag upon Singapore's full independence on 9 August 1965.DesignElements and symbolismThe Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules define the flag's composition and the symbolism of its elements: red symbolises "universal brotherhood and equality of man" and white "pervading and everlasting purity and virtue". The waxing crescent moon "represents a young nation on the ascendant". Finally, the five stars "stand for the nation's ideals of democracy, peace, progress, justice and equality".Second Schedule of the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules (Cap. 296, R 1, 2004 Rev. Ed.), as amended by the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem (Amendment) Rules 2007 (S 377/2007). See also Dimensions and colourThe ratio of the flag is two units high by three units wide. For the manufacture of flags, the Government of Singapore recommends a few sizes and suggests the shade of red used on the flag is Pantone 032.Usage guidelines, 9 August 2007.]]Previously, the flag was used exclusively by government departments and educational institutions, and could only be flown by individuals and non-governmental organisations during the month of August to mark National Day (which falls on 9 August). In 2004, these restrictions were relaxed to enable the flag to be flown – under certain conditions – all year round. A statement from the Ministry of Information and the Arts (now MICA, the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts) said that "the national flag, national anthem and Singapore lion head... are our most visible symbols of our sovereignty, pride and honour" and urged Singaporeans to use those "rallying" symbols to "identify with the nation". No reason was given for the changes, but it was noted by BBC News correspondents that the government had recently been trying to rally patriotic sentiments dampened by economic woes. (In 2003, unemployment in Singapore reached a 17-year-high of 5.9%, and the SARS epidemic in East Asia seriously affected the island's tourist trade, causing Singapore Airlines to suffer a financial loss for the first time in its history. See also  )In 2006, following requests by Singaporeans, guidelines for the use of the flag were further relaxed to give people more ways of expressing their loyalty to Singapore during National Day celebrations. MICA permitted Singaporean residents to display the flag with minimal restrictions from the middle of July to the end of August for a trial period, thus for the first time enabling Singaporeans to carry out acts such as applying decals and stickers bearing the flag to themselves or their belongings. The period when the flag may be displayed with minimal restrictions was extended in 2007 to a three-month period from July to September. See also Proper use and displaySingaporeans, and government and non-governmental organisations may display or fly the national flag throughout the year to identify with the nation. Singaporeans are especially encouraged to do this during occasions of national celebration or national significance. The use and display of the flag is governed by Part III of the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem RulesSingapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules (Cap. 296, R 1, 2004 Rev. Ed.), as amended by the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem (Amendment) Rules 2007 (S 377/2007). made under the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Act.. It is an offence to knowingly contravene specified provisions of the Rules; the penalty is a fine not exceeding S$1,000.Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules, r. 14(2). The rule states: "Any person who knowingly &mdash; (a) does any act in relation to the Flag in contravention of the provisions of rule 5, 6, 7, 9(1), (2), (3) or (4) or 10(1); or (b) contravenes rule 8 or 9(6) in relation to the Flag, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000." Treating the Flag with disrespect is a separate offence under r. 14(4), which states: "Any person, who without reasonable excuse, contravenes rule 4... shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000." An authorised officer may compound these offences by collecting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding S$500: Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem (Composition of Offences) Rules 2007 (S 378/2007).In generalhelicopter and accompanied by two Eurocopter Super Pumas during a National Day Parade rehearsal – photographed on 29 July 2006.]]No person must treat the national flag with disrespect,Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules, see above, r. 4(1). nor must any person in possession of the flag allow or cause the flag to touch the floor or ground, even when lowering the flag from a staff or flagpole.See above, r. 4(2). The flag must not be displayed below any other flag, emblem or object;See above, r. 7(4). dipped in salute to any person or thing;See above, r. 7(8). or displayed or carried flat or horizontally, but always aloft and free.See above, r. 7(6).Within Singapore, the national flag should take precedence over all other flags, subject to international practice.See above, r. 7(1). This means that when it is displayed or flown with other flags, it must be in a position of honour; that is, it should be positioned, where practicable, either above all other flags or, if displayed side by side with other flags on the same level, to the left of the other flags, as seen by a person facing the flags.See above, r. 7(2) and r. 7(9)(a) (definition of "position of honour"). In addition, when the flag is raised or carried in a procession with other flags, it must be raised or carried in front of the other flags in a single file, or if the flags are carried side by side, on the right as seen by the standard bearersSee above, r. 7(3)(a) and r. 7(9)(b) (definition of "position of honour"). (that is, on the left from the viewer's point of view). The standard bearer must carry the flag high on his or her right shoulder.See above, r. 7(3)(b). When the flag is displayed on a platform or stage, it must be above all decorations and be behind and above any person speaking from the platform or stage. If it is displayed from a staff standing on the platform or stage, it must be on the right side of the person speaking from the platform or stage.See above, r. 7(5). Finally, when the flag is hung, it must be hung against a vertical wall or other vertical flat surface, with the crescent and stars on the top left position as seen by any spectator facing the flag and the wall or surface, as the case may be.See above, r. 7(7).When the flag is displayed outside a building, it shall be displayed on or in front of the building only from a flagpoleSee above, r. 5(1).. If the flag is flown at night, it should be properly illuminated.See above, r. 5(2). The flag must not be displayed on any motor vehicle except on one in which the President of Singapore or any Government minister is travelling on official business.See above, r. 6(1). The flag also may not be displayed on any vessel or aircraft except on a Government vessel or aircraft, on such other vessel or aircraft that is authorised by law to display the flagSee above, r. 6(2). In either case, exceptions can be made if the use of the national flag is not disrespecting.According to advice provided by MICA, the flag may be reproduced in reduced size representations and displayed at all times, but it must be in its true form and colours, regardless of size. Nonetheless, no person may use or apply the flag or any image of it for any commercial purpose; as a means, or for the purpose, of any advertisement; or as or as part of any furnishing, decoration, covering or receptacle,"Receptacle" includes a paper, plastic and refuse bag: r. 9(8). except in such circumstances as may be approved in which there is no disrespect for the flag.See above, r. 9(1). Further, it is not permitted to use or apply the flag or any image of it as or as part of any trademark,See above, r. 9(2). or to produce or display any flag which bears any graphics or word superimposed on the design of the national flag.See above, r. 9(6). This rule does not apply to the production by or on behalf of, or the display by, any Government department of its flag: r. 9(7). The flag or any image of it may also not be used or applied as or as part of any costume or attire except in such circumstances as may be approved in which there is no disrespect for the flag.See above, r. 9(4).The national flag must normally be flown at full mast. However, the Government may ask for the flag to be lowered to half-mast in the event of the death of an important personage or mourning affecting the nation.See above, r. 10. No person is permitted to use or display the flag or any image of it at any private funeral ceremony or rite.See above, r. 9(3). No person may display, or cause to be displayed, any flag that is damaged or dirty.See above, r. 8. Any worn out or damaged flag should be packed into a sealed black trash bag before being disposed and not left visible in dustbins.During the National Day celebrations periodDuring the National Day celebrations period (1 July – 30 September), the rules governing the flying of the national flag outside buildings need not be observed.See above, r. 5(3). Moreover, the flag may be displayed on any vehicle (other than a hearse), vessel or aircraft,See above, r. 6(3). and may be incorporated as part of any costume or attire, so long as this is done in a manner that does not give rise to any disrespect to the flag.See above, r. 9(5).Use of the flag) in 2006.]]During National Day celebrationsSingaporeans are encouraged to display the national flag outside their homes during National Day celebrations, and residents' committees, particularly those of public housing estates, often arrange co-ordinated displays. However, some Singaporeans decline to display the flag as they associate it with the People's Action Party, the ruling party in Parliament, rather than with the nation..  On National Day (9 August) 2007 at the Padang, 8,667 volunteers holding up red and white umbrellas formed Singapore's largest flag at an event organised by Young NTUC, a youth movement associated with the National Trades Union Congress. At other timesOutside the National Day celebrations period, the national flag of Singapore is flown from all buildings housing government and government-related departments, such as armed forces installations, court houses, offices, and educational institutions. A picture of the flag is commonly found in each classroom, and schools conduct ceremonies at the beginning and the end of the school day at which the national flag is raised and lowered, the national anthem is sung and the national pledge is taken.See, for instance, the following: para. 22 of  Paragraph 18 of  Paragraph 3 of  It is also not unusual to see the flag displayed outside major hotels in Singapore.The national flag is sometimes flown by Singapore-registered vessels, although this is incorrect as such vessels are required to hoist proper national colours either when entering or leaving port.Section 37(1) of the . A master of a Singapore ship who fails without reasonable cause to comply with this section is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding S$1,000: s. 37(2). In addition, if any distinctive national colours other than the government ensign are hoisted on board any Singapore ship without official consent, the master of the ship or the owner if on board the ship, and every other person hoisting the colours, are guilty of an offence and are liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding S$1,000: s. 36(2). The ensign is red and charged with a circle enclosing a crescent surmounted by five stars in a circle, all in white. The national flag is also not used by non-military government vessels such as coast guard ships, which fly a state ensign of blue with the national flag in the canton, charged with an eight-pointed red and white compass rose in the lower fly; or by warships, which fly a naval ensign similar to the state ensign, but in white with a red compass rose emblem.The Singapore Government makes announcements regarding the lowering of the flag to half-mast in the event of a death of an important personage or mourning affecting the nation. The flag was flown at half-mast during the funerals of former presidents and senior politicians,For instance, after the death of former Second Deputy Prime Minister (1980&ndash;1985) and later Senior Minister (1985&ndash;1988) S. Rajaratnam on 22 February 2006, the national flag was flown at half-mast on all government buildings from 23 February to 25 February 2006. and on 9 January 2005 as a mark of respect for those who perished in the 2004 Asian Tsunami disaster.A national minute of silence was also observed on that date after a memorial service at about 6:00 pm, marked by the sounding of Public Warning System alerts by the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF): In cultureIn 1969, Singaporean composer Lim Su Chong composed a song entitled Five Stars Arising which took as its theme the elements of the national flag. The lyrics of the song speak of a new moon, five stars and a new flag "arising out of the stormy sea". The moon is "youthful and bright and bearing hope, and tranquil as can be", each of the stars is "a lamp to guide our way; a lamp for all to see" and the flag is "crimson as the blood of all mankind, yet white and pure and free". See also List of Singaporean patriotic songs. The song is often sung during National Day celebrations.In January 2003, Singaporean artist Justin Lee Chee Kong was prevented by the Media Development Authority (MDA) from exhibiting a painting entitled Double Happiness – A Fantasy in Red, which consisted of an image of the Singapore flag with various red images of the Chinese characters for double happiness. The move was made on the grounds that "the National Flag is a national symbol and no words or graphics should be superimposed on it". Lee said that the work was simply a display of one's love for one's country and an expression of joy at Singapore's success, and in a press statement asked that the piece be "treated as an artistic and complimentary interpretation of a national icon". The Chinese words in his painting, often used at weddings, signified the marriage between Singapore's Asian roots and Western lifestyle, and the boundary between red and white echoed the Singapore skyline. He saw the painting as a contribution to his country from a proud citizen. When interviewed by The New Paper, he said "I know as a citizen that we are not allowed to do it, but this is art and I am an artist." He described the local art scene as "narrow-minded" and asked "how are we going to prove ourselves?". He also complained about double standards as a Chinese artist, Gu Wen Da, had recently exhibited a national flag made of hair at the Esplanade - Theatres on the Bay. Lee felt the use of hair to create the nation's flag meant that the flag was in the wrong colours, and was distasteful. The MDA's reaction to these comments was not available at press time.In August 2007, a Singaporean pub, Loof, sent an electronic direct mailer to at least 1,500 members on its mailing list featuring a close-up shot of the crotch of a female model wearing a red swimsuit or pair of underpants bearing the crescent and five stars of the national flag. This was done as part of the pub's publicity campaign for its National Day events. According to Loof's marketing manager, "The ad was definitely not meant as an insult to the country or anyone. I hope that the ad will be taken in the spirit of humour and fun." A majority of people polled by The New Paper felt the advertisement was disrespectful and in bad taste. MICA said that the advertisement did not breach the law as it only reproduced some components of the flag – it did not, for example, incorporate the flag's red and white background together. However, Dr. K.U. Menon, director of MICA's National Resilience Division, said: "MICA does not encourage such ads which treat the national flag with disrespect. The image of the stars and crescent against a red background is derived from the design of our flag. Symbols should be treated with some measure of dignity and we hope Loof will withdraw the ad on its own initiative."Other flags of SingaporeIn addition to the national flag and ensigns, there are other flags used for official purposes: Image:President of Singapore Flag.svg|President's Flag. Image:Republic of Singapore Air Force Service Flag.svg|Air Force Service Flag. Image:Government Ensign of Singapore.svg| Government ensign, used by non-military government vessels such as coast guard vessels. Flag ratio: 1:2. Image:Naval Ensign of Singapore.svg| Naval ensign. Flag ratio: 1:2. Image:Civil Ensign of Singapore.svg| Civil ensign, used by merchant and pleasure vessels. Flag ratio: 1:2. NotesReferencesSingapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules (Cap. 296, R 1, 2004 Rev. Ed.), as amended by the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem (Amendment) Rules 2007 (S 377/2007).Further readingArticles.Books A kit on the key symbols of Singapore consisting of eight fact sheets, one booklet, one CD and one national flag.Other media A documentary on the national flag and anthem of Singapore. Gives an account on how the present design of the flag was arrived at, and includes an interview with the national anthem's composer, Zubir Said.External linksThe flag of Singapore at the World Flag Database   Singaporebn:সিঙ্গাপুরের জাতীয় পতাকা bs:Zastava Singapura cs:Singapurská vlajka da:Singapores flag de:Flagge Singapurs et:Singapuri lipp el:Σημαία της Σιγκαπούρης es:Bandera de Singapur fr:Drapeau de Singapour hr:Zastava Singapura bpy:সিঙ্গাপুরর ফিরালহান id:Bendera Singapura it:Bandiera di Singapore he:דגל סינגפור hu:Szingapúr zászlaja ms:Bendera Singapura nl:Vlag van Singapore ja:シンガポールの国旗 uz:Singapur bayrogʻi km:ទង់ជាតិសិង្ហបុរី pl:Flaga Singapuru pt:Bandeira de Singapura ru:Флаг Сингапура simple:Flag of Singapore sk:Vlajka Singapuru sr:Застава Сингапура sh:Zastava Singapura fi:Singaporen lippu sv:Singapores flagga th:ธงชาติสิงคโปร์ zh:新加坡国旗