   GORE-TEX is a waterproof/breathable fabric and a registered trademark of W.L. Gore &amp; Associates. It was co-invented by Wilbert L. Gore (1912-1986), Rowena Taylor, and Gore's son, Robert W. Gore for use in space. Robert Gore was granted  on April 27, 1976, for a porous form of polytetrafluoroethylene with a micro-structure characterized by nodes interconnected by fibrils. Robert Gore, Rowena Taylor, and Samuel Allen were granted  on 18 March 1980 for a "waterproof laminate." For its invention, Robert W. Gore was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame in 2006.CompanyWorldwide sales of all W.L. Gore Ltd's products totalled $2 billion in 2007.The company employs 8000 workers and is privately held.W.L. Gore and Associates has consistently been placed in the Fortune magazine top 100 companies to work for worldwide.As well as the fabrics for outdoor clothing it is best known for, the company also manufactures products for "electronic signal transmission; medical implants; as well as membrane, filtration, sealant, and fibers technologies for diverse industries."Gore at a Glance&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;DesignGore-Tex materials are typically based on thermo-mechanically expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and other fluoropolymer products. They are used in a wide variety of applications such as high performance fabrics, medical implants, filter media, insulation for wires and cables, gaskets, and sealants. But Gore-Tex is best known for its use in protective rain wear.The simplest sort of rain wear is a two layer sandwich. The outer layer is typically nylon or polyester and provides strength. The inner one is polyurethane, aka PU, and provides water resistance, at the cost of breathability.Early Gore-Tex fabric replaced the inner layer of PU with a thin, porous fluoropolymer membrane (Teflon) with a polyurethane coating that is bonded to a fabric, usually nylon or polyester. This membrane had about 9 billion pores per square inch (around 1.4 billion pores per square centimeter), each of which is approximately 1/20,000 the size than a water droplet, making it impenetrable to liquid water while still allowing the smaller sized water vapour to pass through.However it was found that when used in clothing the exposed Teflon membrane layer was easily damaged, as well as being compromised by exposure to the wearer's own sweat. As a result a third layer was added - a coating of PU on the inside of the fabric to protect the membrane.Rainwear&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; This final design has been criticized as offering greatly reduced performance and more marketing benefits than performance ones.Shopping for waterproof raincoats. - By Seth Stevenson - Slate Magazine&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; However, many if not most dedicated mountaineers, backcountry skiers and hikers, and winter adventurers use and trust it for repelling the elements.More recent fabrics such as eVent and Epic avoid the need for this inner PU coatingFabricLink | Search by Trademark&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; and have been shown to have have higher breathability as a result, while still being rainproof.http://www.prolitegear.com/site/xdpy/kb/00029/index.html&lt;/ref&gt;Use in outdoor clothingThe best known application for Gore-Tex fabrics is in outdoor activity clothing.High breathability in rain wear for users performing physically demanding activities can be a matter of life and death. Removing sweat can be critical to survival in harsh conditions: trapped sweat makes insulating layers less effective and rob the body of heat through evaporative cooling, thus leading to hypothermia.psychovertical The art of not suffering&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; This is especially the case if vigorous exercise is followed by a period of being stationary in the cold and the wet.Performance and comparison with other breathable fabricsThe suitability of Gore-Tex for high performance clothes for outdoor aerobic activities such as hiking, cross country skiing, and cycling, etc, has been particularly questioned:.I disagree with the above statement. Gore tex does its thing best when a winter adventurer (mountaineer, camper, skier, fisherperson, etc.) needs to have a barrier from the elements or risk losing life or limb. It's protection you can trust (and I hate advertising). One of the reasons you can trust in in extreme winter(very often aerobic) condidtions, is the very fact that it is breathable. Not as breathable as a softshell, obviously, but more waterproof.Product rangeThe current Goretex product range for clothing includes both the tougher premium Goretex XCR, and the lighter, cheaper and more breathable Goretex Paclite.hike-lite&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Care of Goretex fabricAs dirt - and even human sweat - will block the pores that allow Goretex to breathe, clothing that uses it should be kept clean for performance as well as hygiene and appearance reasons.Both wear and cleaning will reduce the waterproofness of Goretex clothes by wearing away the Durable Water Repellent (DWR) treatment on the surface of the fabric. However this can be restored by tumble drying your garment.A guide to maintaining Goretex fabrics is available.How To Take Care Of Gore-Tex&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Other usesGore-Tex is currently used as an example of a new material in the British GCSE science curriculum.Gore-Tex, aka PTFE (Poly-Tetra-Fluoro-Ethylene) is also used in surgery as an implant material, patch, or membrane, such as is used in plastic surgery, dental surgery and heart surgery. PTFE has also been used in suture material due to its excellent anti-inflammatory properties.Gore-Tex requires that all garments made from their material have taping over the seams, to eliminate leaks. Gore's sister product, Windstopper, is similar to Gore-Tex in being windproof and breathable, but (1) has ability to stretch and (2) is not waterproof. Gore-Tex is playing an increasing role in the conservation of illuminated manuscripts.Singer, Hannah. “The Conservation of Parchment Objects Using Gore-Tex Laminate.” The Paper Conservator 16, 1992: 40-45.A specially-coated form of Gore-Tex material is the key component of a new fuel cell design of hybrid cars which could make the vehicles more reliable and cheaper to build. http://www.monash.edu.au/news/newsline/story/1310 Monash fuels the next generation of Hybrid carsSee alsoExtended Cold Weather Clothing SystemReferencesExternal linksGore websiteGore-Tex and Windstopper fabricsCategory:Technical fabrics Category:Brand name materialscs:Gore-Tex de:Gore-Tex es:Gore-Tex fr:Gore-Tex it:Gore-tex nl:Gore Tex ja:ゴアテックス pl:Gore-Tex sk:Gore-Tex fi:Gore-Tex sv:Goretex zh:Gore-Tex