This is for the commune in France. For the city in Cuba, see Güines.  Guînes is a commune of northern France, chief town of the canton of Guînes, arrondissement of Calais, in the Pas-de-Calais département.GeographyGuînes is located on the border of the two territories of the Boulonnais and Calaisis, at the edge of the now-drained marshes, which extend from here to the coast. The Guînes canal connects with Calais.HistoryHistorically, Guînes was the capital of a small county of the same name. After the Romans left, in the 5th century, there’s little known about the town. Sometime during the Dark Ages, according to legend, the territory of Guînes became the property of one Aigneric, Mayor of the Palace of the Burgundian king Théodebert II.In 928, when the Danes invaded and seized the place, it was probably a defenceless village. A fenced mound and a double ditch would soon have been created by the Danes. This is the origin of the castle of Guînes. Arnulf I, Count of Flanders, realizing a counter-attack would be costly, arranged the marriage of his daughter Elstrude, to Sigfrid, the Danish leader, bestowing upon him the title of Count of Guînes but as vassal to him, the Count of Flanders. Under Sigfrid’s successors, the county of Guînes acquired considerable importance. At the beginning of the 11th century, Count Manassès founded a convent of the order of Saint-Benoit. This was placed under the jurisdiction of the nearby abbey of Saint Léonard. At that time, Guînes comprised three parishes within its walls, whose churches were dedicated to Saint Bertin, Saint Pierre and Saint Médard. Outside the town ramparts were the abbey of Saint Léonard, the church of Saint-Blaise, in the hamlet of Melleke, and the leper-house of Saint Quentin, in the hamlet of Spelleke (in Tournepuits).At the end of 11th century, Baudoin II built a huge stone castle on top of Sigfrid’s old keep and enclosed the town within a stone wall, with defensive towers at each of the entrances.On January 22, 1351, three years after the capture of Calais by Edward III, the castle of Guînes was also delivered up to the English.. In 1360, the Treaty of Brétigny surrendered the city and its county to England.PopulationPopulation Growth196219681975198219901999472449845034517451055221Census count starting from 1962 : Population without double countingPlaces and monumentsBlanchard's Column Image:guines-blanchard01.JPG||The column Image:guines-blanchard02.JPG|The plaque on the column  The column was erected to commemorate Jean-Pierre Blanchard's crossing of the English Channel by hot-air balloon on the 7th January 1785. See alsoCommunes of Pas-de-CalaisExternal links Guînes on the website of l'Institut géographique national Guînes on the website of l'Insee Guînes on the website of Quid Position of Guînes on a map of France Map of Guînes on MapquestCategory:Communes of Pas-de-Calaisceb:Guînes de:Guînes es:Guînes fr:Guînes it:Guînes nl:Guînes pl:Guînes pt:Guînes sr:Гин vi:Guînes vo:Guînes