 | birthplace = Kansas City, Missouri | spouse = Marianne Leone (1983 - present) 1 child | yearsactive = 1987-present | academyawards = Best Supporting Actor  2002 Adaptation. | goldenglobeawards = Best Supporting Actor - Motion Picture  2003 Adaptation. | sagawards = Outstanding Performance by a Cast - Motion Picture1999 ''American Beauty  Christopher W. "Chris" Cooper (born July 9, 1951) is an Academy Award-winning American film actor. He became well known in the late 1990s, having appeared in supporting performances in several major Hollywood films, including A Time to Kill, American Beauty, Capote, Adaptation., October Sky and Seabiscuit.Early lifeCooper was born in Kansas City, Missouri, the son of Mary Ann, a homemaker, and Charles Cooper, who served as a doctor in the United States Air Force and operated a cattle ranch.[http://www.filmreference.com/film/21/Chris-Cooper.html Chris Cooper biography]. Film Reference.com. He has an older brother, Chuck, and grew up as a "blue-collar cowpoke" in Houston, Texas and Kansas City. Cooper went on to serve in the United States Coast Guard Reserve. Cooper attended Stephens College and the University of Missouri, where he dual majored in the school of agriculture and the school of drama. After graduation, Cooper moved to New York City to pursue his career.CareerCooper's early performances include Matewan, the 1987 picture by John Sayles, and the 1989 miniseries Lonesome Dove.Some of his more notable performances include Money Train as a psychotic pyromaniac who terrifies toll booth operators, Lone Star in a rare leading role as a Texas sheriff charged with solving a decades old case, as Deputy Dwayne Looney in director Joel Schumacher's 1996 film A Time to Kill (based on the John Grisham novel), and in American Beauty as a homophobic Colonel of the United States Marine Corps (a role that garnered him a Best Supporting Actor Screen Actors Guild Award nomination). Cooper was nominated for another Screen Actors Guild Award, a BAFTA Award and won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor and a Golden Globe Award in 2003 for playing the role of John Laroche in Adaptation. Cooper also appeared in The Bourne Identity in 2002 as a ruthless CIA special ops director, a role he reprised (in flashbacks) in The Bourne Supremacy. He also had a supporting role as racehorse trainer Tom Smith in Seabiscuit, receiving another Screen Actors Guild Award nomination.Cooper is often typecast as a government/military character and has played his share of low-key heroic types as well as villians.Cooper was busy in 2005, having appeared in three well-received and acclaimed films: Jarhead (reuniting him with American Beauty director Sam Mendes and October Sky actor Jake Gyllenhaal), Capote and Syriana. He was in the thriller Breach, playing real-life FBI operative and spy Robert Hanssen. Cooper said that his belief was that Breach was the "first studio film where they've considered me the lead" actor.He appeared as a government agent in dangerous territory alongside Jamie Foxx, Ashraf Barhom, Jennifer Garner and Jason Bateman in the action thriller The Kingdom. He also played Homer's father in October Sky.Personal lifeCooper resides in Kingston, Massachusetts, with his wife, Marianne Leone Cooper, whom he married in 1983. In 1987, their son Jesse Lanier Cooper was born. Three months premature, Jesse developed a cerebral hemorrhage and cerebral palsy. After searching for the best schools for children with special needs, Cooper and Leone moved to Kingston, Massachusetts, where they became strong advocates for exceptional children.Fee, Gayle and Laura Raposa with Nichole Gleisner. [http://cooperfan1.pitas.com/ Son of Chris Cooper succumbs to cerebral palsy]. The Boston Herald. 5 January 2005. reprinted on Cooperfan1.pitas.com. Jesse was eventually mainstreamed into Silver Lake Regional High School, where he became an honor student. On January 3, 2005, Jesse Cooper died from complications of cerebral palsy. A memorial fund was set up in his name, the Jesse Cooper Foundation.Cooper has described his political views as "pretty left of left".ReferencesExternal links Category:1951 births Category:American film actors Category:Best Supporting Actor Academy Award winners Category:Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe (film) winners Category:Living people Category:Missouri actors Category:People from Kansas City Category:Stephens College people Category:University of Missouri–Columbia alumniar:كريس كوبر de:Chris Cooper es:Chris Cooper fr:Chris Cooper it:Chris Cooper nl:Chris Cooper ja:クリス・クーパー (俳優) no:Chris Cooper pl:Chris Cooper pt:Chris Cooper ro:Chris Cooper sr:Крис Купер fi:Chris Cooper sv:Chris Cooper zh:克里斯·庫柏