This article is about the chemical substance called melamine. The term "melamine" may also be used to refer to the plastic melamine resin.Not to be confused with the pigment melanin and the hormone melatonin. | Section2 =  | Section7 =   Melamine is an organic base and a trimer of cyanamide, with a 1,3,5-triazine skeleton. Like cyanamide, it contains 66% nitrogen by mass and, if mixed with resins, has fire retardant properties due to its release of nitrogen gas when burned or charred, and has several other industrial uses. Melamine is also a metabolite of cyromazine, a pesticide. It is formed in the body of mammals who have ingested cyromazine.Report on cyromazine of the European Medicines Agency It has been reported that cyromazine can also be converted to melamine in plants.Lori 0. Lim, Susan J. Scherer, Kenneth D. Shuler, and John P. Toth. Disposition of Cyromazine in Plants under Environmental Conditions J. Agric. Food Chem. 1990, 38, 860-864 http://pubs.acs.org/cgi-bin/abstract.cgi/jafcau/1990/38/i03/f-pdf/f_jf00093a057.pdf?sessid=6006l3[[FAO] report on cyromazine]Melamine combines with cyanuric acid to form melamine cyanurate, which has been implicated in the Chinese protein export contaminations.EtymologyThe German word Melamin was coined by combining the names of two other chemical products: Melam (a distillation derivative of ammonium thiocyanate) and Amin.  Bann B. and Miller S.A. (1958) "Melamines and derivatives of melamine". Chemical Reviews, vol.58, 131-172.UsesMelamine is combined with formaldehyde to produce melamine resin, a very durable thermosetting plastic, and melamine foam, a polymeric cleaning product. The end products include countertops, dry erase boards, fabrics, glues, housewares and flame retardants. Melamine is one of the major components in Pigment Yellow 150, a colorant in inks and plastics.Melamine also enters the fabrication of melamine poly-sulfonate used as superplasticizer for making high-resistance concrete. Sulfonated melamine formaldehyde (SMF) is a polymer used as cement admixture to reduce the water content in concrete while increasing the fluidity and the workability of the mix during its handling and pouring. It results in concrete with a lower porosity and a higher mechanical strength exhibiting an improved resistance to aggressive environments and a longer life-time.The use of melamine as fertilizer for crops had been envisaged during the '50s and '60s because of its high nitrogen content (2/3). However, the hydrolysis reactions of melamine leading to the nitrogen mineralisation in soils are very slow, precluding a broad use of melamine as fertilizing agent. Melamine derivatives of arsenical drugs are potentially important in the treatment of African trypanosomiasisMelamine use as non-protein nitrogen (NPN) for cattle was described in a 1958 patent."Ruminant feed compositions, Robert W. Colby and Robert J. Mesler Jr., U.S. Patent No. 2819968, 1958 In 1978, however, a study concluded that melamine "may not be an acceptable non-protein N source for ruminants" because its hydrolysis in cattle is slower and less complete than other nitrogen sources such as cottonseed meal and urea.“Melamine as a dietary nitrogen source for ruminants", G.L.Newton and P.R.Utley, Journal of Animal Science, vol.47, p1338-44, 1978, Abstract |accessdate=2008-09-17Melamine is sometimes illegally added to food products in order to increase the apparent protein content. Standard tests such as the Kjeldahl and Dumas tests estimate protein levels by measuring the nitrogen content, so they can be misled by adding nitrogen-rich compounds such as melamine. "Protein Pretense", Alison Snyder, Scientific American Magazine, August 2008 http://www.sciamdigital.com/index.cfm?fa=Products.ViewIssuePreview&amp;ISSUEID_CHAR=9CF7413B-2B35-221B-666A12FA3B8AAF86&amp;ARTICLEID_CHAR=9D1E5F83-2B35-221B-63B40A92E545BDD9 |accessdate=2008-09-19==Toxicity== Melamine by itself is nontoxic in low doses, but when combined with cyanuric acid it can cause fatal kidney stones due to the formation of an insoluble melamine cyanurate.How Two Innocuous Compounds Combined to Kill Pets, Washington Post, May 7, 2007. Melamine is described as being "Harmful if swallowed, inhaled or absorbed through the skin. Chronic exposure may cause cancer or reproductive damage. Eye, skin and respiratory irritant.” However, the toxic dose is on a par with common table salt with an LD&lt;sub&gt;50&lt;/sub&gt; of more than 3 grams per kilogram of bodyweight. FDA scientists explained that when melamine and cyanuric acid are absorbed into the bloodstream, they concentrate and interact in the urine-filled renal microtubules, then crystallize and form large numbers of round, yellow crystals, which in turn block and damage the renal cells that line the tubes, causing the kidneys to malfunction.Acute toxicityMelamine is reported to have an oral LD50 of 3248 mg/kg based on rat data. It is also an irritant when inhaled or in contact with the skin or eyes. The reported dermal LD50 is 1000 mg/kg for rabbits. In a 1945 study, large doses of melamine were given orally to rats, rabbits and dogs with "no significant toxic effects" observed.&lt;/ref&gt;A study by USSR researchers in the 1980s suggested that melamine cyanurate, commonly used as a fire retardantFlame Retardants Center: Melamine Compounds, could be more toxic than either melamine or cyanuric acid alone.A.A. Babayan, A.V.Aleksandryan, "Toxicological characteristics of melamine cyanurate, melamine and cyanuric acid", Zhurnal Eksperimental'noi i Klinicheskoi Meditsiny, Vol.25, 345-9 (1985). Original article in Russian, English abstract retrieved from SciFinder on either 2007-07-05 or 2007-05-07. For rats and mice, the reported LD50 for melamine cyanurate was 4.1 g/kg (given inside the stomach) and 3.5 g/kg (via inhalation), compared to 6.0 and 4.3 g/kg for melamine and 7.7 and 3.4 g/kg for cyanuric acid, respectively.A toxicology study conducted after recalls of contaminated pet food concluded that the combination of melamine and cyanuric acid in diet does lead to acute renal failure in cats.Chronic toxicityIngestion of melamine may lead to reproductive damage, or bladder or kidney stones, which can lead to bladder cancer.MSDS International Chemical Safety Card OSHA – Chemical sampling informationWHO – Some Chemicals that Cause Tumors of the Kidney or Urinary Bladder in Rodents and Some Other Substances A study in 1953 reported that dogs fed 3% melamine for a year had the following changes in their urine: (1) reduced specific gravity, (2) increased output, (3) melamine crystalluria, and (4) protein and occult blood.T.W. Tusing, "Chronic Feeding - Dogs", cited by "Summary of toxicity data - trichloromelamine" by California Environmental Protection Agency, last revised on 04-02-2002, URL accessed on 05-09-2007A survey commissioned by the American Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians suggested that crystals formed in the kidneys melamine combined with cyanuric acid, "don't dissolve easily. They go away slowly, if at all, so there is the potential for chronic toxicity."RegulationThe Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides a test method for analyzing cyromazine and melamine in animal tissues in its Chemistry Laboratory Guidebook which "contains test methods used by FSIS Laboratories to support the Agency's inspection program, ensuring that meat, poultry, dairy and egg products are safe, wholesome and accurately labeled." In 1999, in a proposed rule published in the Federal Register regarding cyromazine residue, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposed "removing melamine, a metabolite of cyromazine from the tolerance expression since it is no longer considered a residue of concern." Environmental Protection Agency. Cyromazine; Pesticide Tolerance Melamine, classified a controlled substance in China, has been illegally used in the high profile 2008 baby milk scandal case which led to the death of at least 4 infants.On October 3, 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said that up to 2.5 parts per million of melamine was safe for adults, but declined to set a standard for children. The FDA also implied it would not permit the sale of food deliberately adulterated (rather than accidentally contaminated) with melamine.Associated Press, FDA: Tiny amount of melamine not harmful to adultsSynthesisMelamine was first synthesized by the German chemist Justus von Liebig in 1834. In early production, first calcium cyanamide is converted into dicyandiamide, then heated above its melting temperature to produce melamine. However, today most industrial manufacturers use urea in the following reaction to produce melamine:6 (NH2)2CO → C3H6N6 + 6 NH3 + 3 CO2It can be understood as two steps.First, urea decomposes into cyanic acid and ammonia in an endothermic reaction:6 (NH2)2CO → 6 HCNO + 6 NH3Then, cyanic acid polymerizes to form melamine and carbon dioxide:6 HCNO → C3H6N6 + 3 CO2The second reaction is exothermic but the overall process is endothermic.The above reaction can be carried out by either of two methods: catalyzed gas-phase production or high pressure liquid-phase production. In one method, molten urea is introduced onto a fluidized bed with catalyst for reaction. Hot ammonia gas is also present to fluidize the bed and inhibit deammonization. The effluent then is cooled. Ammonia and carbon dioxide in the off-gas are separated from the melamine-containing slurry. The slurry is further concentrated and crystallized to yield melamine.Kirk-Othmer encyclopedia of chemical technology, 3rd edition, Vol.7, p303-304, 1978. Major manufacturers and licensors such as DSM, BASF and Eurotecnica have developed some proprietary methods.The off-gas contains large amounts of ammonia. Therefore melamine production is often integrated into urea production which uses ammonia as feedstock.Crystallization and washing of melamine generates a considerable amount of waste water, which is a pollutant if discharged directly into the environment. The waste water may be concentrated into a solid (1.5-5% of the weight) for easier disposal. The solid may contain approximately 70% melamine, 23% oxytriazines (ammeline, ammelide and cyanuric acid), 0.7% polycondensates (melem, melam and melon).SM Lahalih, M Absi-Halabi, "Recovery of solids from melamine waste effluents and their conversion to useful products", Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, vol.28, 500-504 (1989).Recent production of melamine in mainland ChinaBetween the late 1990s and early 2000s, both consumption and production of melamine grew considerably in mainland China. In the United States Geological Survey 2004 Minerals Survey Yearbook, in a report on worldwide nitrogen production, the author stated that "(mainland) China continued to plan and construct new ammonia and urea plants using coal gasification technology."By early 2006, melamine production in mainland China is reported to be in "serious surplus". In April 2007, DSM's melamine industry update painted a grave global picture.Melamine industry update, by Royal DSM N.V., accessed on 2007-05-04 Between 2002 and 2007, while the global melamine price remained stable, a steep increase in the price of urea (feedstock for melamine) has reduced the profitability of melamine manufacturing. Currently, China is the world's largest exporter of melamine, while its domestic consumption still grows by 10% per year. However, reduced profit has already caused other joint melamine ventures to be postponed there.Poisoning and kidney failure caused by melamine cyanurate2007 Animal feed recallsIn 2007 a pet food recall was initiated by Menu Foods and other pet food manufacturers who had found their products had been contaminated and caused serious illnesses or deaths in some of the animals that had eaten them.CNN: Dry food added to pet food recall listAVMA: Pet food recallPress release by Natural Balance Pet Foods In March 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration reported finding white granular melamine in the pet food, in samples of white granular wheat gluten imported from a single source in China, Xuzhou Anying Biologic TechnologyFDA FAQ: Where did the contaminated wheat gluten come from? as well as in crystalline form in the kidneys and in urine of affected animals.FDA:Pet food recall Further vegetable protein imported from China was later implicated.In April 2007, The New York Times reported that the addition of "melamine scrap" into fish and livestock feed to give the false appearance of a higher level of protein was an "open secret" in many parts of mainland China, reporting that this melamine scrap was being produced by at least one plant processing coal into melamine. Four days later, the New York Times reported that, despite the widely reported ban on melamine use in vegetable proteins in mainland China, at least some chemical manufacturers continued to report selling it for use in animal feed and in products for human consumption. Li Xiuping, a manager at Henan Xinxiang Huaxing Chemical in Henan Province, stated, "Our chemical products are mostly used for additives, not for animal feed. Melamine is mainly used in the chemical industry, but it can also be used in making cakes." Shandong Mingshui Great Chemical Group, the company reported by the New York Times as producing melamine from coal, produces and sells both urea and melamine but does not list melamine resin as a product.Another recall incident in 2007 involved melamine which had been purposely added as a binder to fish and livestock feed manufactured in the United States. This was traced to suppliers in Ohio and Colorado.2008 Chinese milk scandal In September 2008, several companies were implicated in a scandal involving milk and infant formula which had been adulterated with melamine, leading to kidney stones and other renal failure, especially among young children. By 22 September, nearly 53,000 people had become ill, with more than 12,800 hospitalizations and four infant deaths.Scott McDonald, &quot;Nearly 53,000 Chinese children sick from milk&quot;, Associated Press (22 September 2008)Jane Macartney, China baby milk scandal spreads as sick toll rises to 13,000, The Times (September 22, 2008)Melamine may have been added to fool government protein content tests after water was added to fraudulently dilute the milk. Because of melamine's high nitrogen content (66% by mass versus approx. 10-12% for typical protein), it can cause the protein content of food to appear higher than the true value. Officials estimate that about 20 percent of the dairy companies tested in China sell products tainted with melamine.Testing for melamine and cyanuric acid in foodUntil the 2007 pet food recalls, melamine had not routinely been monitored in food, except in the context of plastic safety or insecticide residue. This could be due to the previously assumed low toxicity of melamine, and the relatively expensive methods of detection.Because melamine resin is often used in food packaging and tableware, melamine at ppm level (1 part per million) in food and beverage has been reported due to migration from melamine-containing resins. Small amounts of melamine have also been reported in foodstuff as a metabolite product of cyromazine, an insecticide used on animals and crops.J.V. Sancho, M. Ibanez, S. Grimalt, O.J. Pozo, F. Hernandez, "Residue determination of cyromazine and its metabolite melamine in chard samples by ion-pair liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray tandem mass spectrometry", Analytica Chimica Acta Vol.530, p237-243 (2005) Abstract accessed 05-06-2007.The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides a test method for analyzing cyromazine and melamine in animal tissues.  In 2007, the FDA began using a high performance liquid chromatography test to determine the melamine, ammeline, ammelide, and cyanuric acid contamination in food. Another procedure is based on surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS).   See also1,3,5-TriazineTriazinesNon-protein nitrogen (others)Cyanamide (precursor of melamine)Cyanuric acid (degradation product of melamine)Melamine cyanurateMelam2008 Chinese milk scandalInternational Reaction to the 2008 Dairy ScandalReferencesExternal linksNLM Hazardous Substances Databank – MelamineMelamine Materials Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)OECD Screening Information Data　Set (SIDS): Melamine (High Production Volume Chemicals Screening Information，PDF, 89 pages).FDA Web Page with Information on Pet Food Recall (due to Melamine contamination )Category:Amines Category:Aromatic bases Category:Triazines Category:Food safety Category:Woodworking materialsbg:Меламин ca:Melamina cs:Melamin da:Melamin de:Melamin el:Μελαμίνη es:Melamina fa:ملامین fr:Mélamine ko:멜라민 id:Melamina it:Melammina jv:Melamina hu:Melamin ms:Melamina nl:Melamine ja:メラミン no:Melamin pl:Melamina pt:Melamina ru:Меламин sk:Melamín fi:Melamiini sv:Melamin th:เมลามีน vi:Melamin zh:三聚氰胺