]] Huelva is a province of southern Spain, in the western part of the autonomous community of Andalusia. It is bordered by Portugal, the provinces of Badajoz, Sevilla, and Cádiz, and the Atlantic Ocean. Its capital is Huelva.Its area is 10,148 km². Its population is 483,792 (2005), of whom about 30% live in the capital, and its population density is 47.67/km². It contains 79 municipalities.See a list of municipalities in Huelva.The economy is based on agriculture and mining. The famous Rio Tinto mines have been worked since before 1000 BC, and were the major source of copper for the Roman Empire. As an indication of the scope of ancient mining, sixteen million tons of Roman slag have been identified at the Roman mines. British companies resumed large-scale mining in 1873; the district is the namesake of the Rio Tinto Group. Famous mineral localities: The Rio Tinto mines, Huelva, Spain | Mineralogical Record | Find Articles at BNET&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The province contains Palos de la Frontera, and Moguer, where Christopher Columbus sailed out of on his first voyage in 1492, and shares the Parque Nacional de Doñana with Sevilla province.TourismThe delayed tourist development of the province has allowed better city planning than in other regions on the Spanish coast. The nuclei of Islantilla and Isla Canela are an example of this attempt to plan in a more coherent form. Although in a smaller scale in comparison to other regions, urban pressure continues. Older developments that had little planning until recent time are El Rompido, El Portil, Mazagón and Matalascañas (Torre de la Higuera).Although Punta Umbría had its beginnings like pedanía de Cartaya, after the democratization of summer tourism, it began its urban development for its proximity to the capital and its location on the beach. Present development would not endure without tourist activity and its vacation housing. Other tourist areas are Nuevo Umbría, Nuevo Portil, Punta del Moral, La Antilla and Urbasur.Of note is Huelva‘s recent classification of “rural tourism” for its the interior mountain range.ReferencesExternal linksOfficial website    Category:Provinces of Spain Category:Huelva provincear:مقاطعة ولبة an:Probinzia de Uelba ast:Provincia de Huelva ca:Província de Huelva de:Provinz Huelva et:Huelva provints es:Provincia de Huelva eo:Onubo (provinco) eu:Huelvako probintzia fa:هوئلبا (استان) fr:Province de Huelva gl:Provincia de Huelva hr:Huelva (pokrajina) it:Provincia di Huelva pam:Huelva (lalawigan) lad:Provinsia de Huelva lb:Provënz Huelva nl:Huelva (provincie) ja:ウエルバ県 oc:Huelva (província) pl:Prowincja Huelva pt:Huelva (província) ro:Provincia Huelva ru:Уэльва (провинция) fi:Huelva (maakunta) vi:Huelva (tỉnh) zh:韋爾瓦省