La Stampa (literally “The Press”) is one of the best-known and most widely sold Italian daily newspapers. Published in Turin, it is distributed in Italy and other European nations. The current owner is the Fiat Group.It was founded in 1867 with the name Gazzetta Piemontese. In 1895 the newspaper was bought (and by then directed) by Alfredo Frassati (father of Pier Giorgio Frassati), who gave it its current name and a national perspective. For criticising the 1924 murder of the socialist Giacomo Matteotti, he was forced to resign and sell the newspaper to Giovanni Agnelli.It launched a website in 1999.Since May 26, 2006, is published a montly magazine: "Specchio+". Until January 26, 1999, to April 7, 2006, was called "Specchio" and was published as weekly magazine.On February 1, 2006, it published the controversial Muhammad Drawings.In the last years, many rumors were defused about the buyout of La Stampa by some italian publishers like Caltagirone Editore, Gruppo Editoriale L'Espresso and De Agostini.PeopleEditorsGiulio Anselmi (Editor)Massimo Gramellini (Vice-Editor)Roberto Bellato (Vice-Editor)Umberto La Rocca (Vice-Editor)Federico Geremicca (Vice-Editor, Rome)Columnist & JournalistsMassimo Gramellini (Columnist)Barbara Spinelli (Columnist)Lucia Annunziata (Columnist)Guido Ceronetti (Columnist)Anna Mina Mazzini aka Mina (Columnist)Maurizio Molinari (Journalist)Stefania Miretti (Columnist)Roberto Beccantini (Columnist)Altiero Scicchitano (Columnist)Fiamma Nirenstein (Columnist)A. B. Yehoshua (Columnist)McDonald's lawsuitIn May 2002, McDonald's sued La Stampa food critic and slow food advocate Edoardo Raspelli over an unfavorable review La Stampa. "The ambience was mechanical, the potatoes were obscene and tasting of cardboard, and the bread poor. I found it alienating and vulgar." The chain seeks $25 million in damages.http://www.washingtontimes.com/national/20030530-124855-2362r.htmNotesExternal linksLa Stampa.itlastampashopRadio Nostalgia, the La Stampa-owned local radio station.Category:Publications established in 1867 Stampa, La Stampa, La Category:Fiatda:La Stampa de:La Stampa es:La Stampa eu:La Stampa fa:لا استامپا fr:La Stampa it:La Stampa ka:ლა სტამპა nl:La Stampa no:La Stampa pms:La Stampa pl:La Stampa sv:La Stampa