This article is about the Iraqi mosque. For the medieval Egyptian capital, please see Al-Askar.‘Al-Askarī or the ‘Askariyya Mosque/Shrine ( ) is a Shī‘a Muslim holy site located in the Iraqi city of Samarra  from Baghdad. It is one of the most important Shī‘a mosques in the world, built in 944. Its dome was destroyed in a bombing in February 2006 and its two remaining minarets were destroyed in another bombing in June 2007, causing widespread anger amongst Shī‘a Muslims. The remaining clock tower was also destroyed in July 2007.The remains of the 10th and 11th Shī‘a Imāms, ‘Alī l-Hādī and his son Hassan al-‘Askarī, known as al-‘Askariyyain "the two ‘Askarī''s" , rest at the shrine. It stands adjacent to a shrine to the Twelfth or "Hidden" Imām, Muħammad al-Mahdī. The ‘Askariyya Shrine is also known as the "Tomb or Mausoleum of the Two Imāms", "the Tomb of Imāms ‘Alī l-Hādī and Hassan al-‘Askarī" and ''al-Hadhratu l-‘Askariyya.Also buried within the Mosque are the remains of Hakimah Khatun, sister of ‘Alī l-Hādī, and of Narjis Khatun, mother of Muħammad al-Mahdi.Shrine of Imām al-Hādī and Imām al-‘Askarī (ArchNet Digital Library)''Time'' magazine reported at the time of the 2006 bombing thatHistoryThe Imāms ‘Alī l-Hādī ("an-Naqī") and Hassan al-‘Askarī lived under house arrest in the part of Samarra that had been Caliph al-Mu'tasim's military camp (‘Askaru l-Mu‘tasim). As a result, they are known as the ‘Askariyyain "Dwellers in the Camp". They died and were buried in their house on Abī Ahmad Street near the mosque built by Mu‘tasim.Shrine of Imām al-Hādī and Imām al-‘Askarī (ArchNet Digital Library) A later tradition attributes their deaths to poison.Nasir ad-Din Shah Qajar undertook the latest remodelling of the shrine in 1868, with the golden dome added in 1905. Covered in 72,000 gold pieces and surrounded by walls of light blue tiles, the dome was a dominant feature of the Samarra skyline. It was approximately  in diameter by  high.Bombings2006 attack  On February 22, 2006, at 6:55 a.m. local time (0355 UTC) explosions occurred at the mosque, effectively destroying its golden dome and severely damaging the mosque. Several men, one wearing a military uniform, had earlier entered the mosque, tied up the guards there and set explosives, resulting in the blast. Two bombs were set off by five to seven men dressed as personnel of the Iraqi Special forces who entered the shrine during the morning.2007 attack At around 8 a.m. on 13 June 2007, operatives suspected by American authorities to be members of or working with al-Qaeda destroyed the two remaining -high golden minarets flanking the dome's ruins. No fatalities were reported. Iraqi police have reported hearing "two nearly simultaneous explosions coming from inside the mosque compound at around 8 a.m." A report from state run Iraqiya Television stated that "local officials said that two mortar rounds were fired at the two minarets."See alsoHoliest sites in IslamJannatul Baqee'Jannatul MuallaBaab Sagheer==References== External linksImages of the destruction: before and afterBBC picture galleryBBC videoNYT picture galleryCategory:Family of Muhammad Category:Twelvers Category:Ziyarat Category:Shi'a Islam Category:Mosques in Iraq Category:Shrines Category:Islamic holy places Category:Visitor attractions in Iraq Category:Buildings and structures in Iraq Category:Islam in Iraq Category:Islamic architecture Category:10th century architecture Category:1868 architecturear:ضريح الإمامين علي الهادي والحسن العسكري da:Imam Ali al-Hadi moskéen de:Al-Askari-Schrein es:Mezquita Al Askari fr:Mosquée d'Or ko:알아스카리 모스크 id:Masjid Al Askari he:מסגד אל-עסכריה nl:Gouden Moskee no:Al-Askaria nn:Al-Askaria pl:Al-Askari ru:Мечеть Аскария simple:Al-Askari mosque fi:Al-Askarin kultainen moskeija sv:Al-Askari-moskén zh:阿里·哈迪清真寺