&lt;br&gt; | language = English | budget = | imdb_id = 0112818 Dead Man Walking is a 1995 film based on the book of the same name, which tells the story of Sister Helen Prejean (played by Susan Sarandon), who establishes a special relationship with Matthew Poncelet, a prisoner on death row (played by Sean Penn).PlotMatthew Poncelet has been in prison six years, awaiting his execution by lethal injection for killing a teenage couple. He committed the crime in company with a man named Vitello, who has received a lighter sentence as a result of being able to pay for a better lawyer. Now Poncelet appeals to Sister Helen as the day of his execution comes closer and closer. He wants her to help him with a final appeal. She decides to visit him, and he comes across as an arrogant, sexist racist who doesn’t even pretend feeling any kind of remorse. Instead he affirms his innocence. She tries to achieve lifelong confinement for Poncelet. Over time after many visits she establishes a special relationship with him. While doing that she gets to know Poncelet’s mother and the victims’ families. Especially the victims’ families don’t understand Sister Helen and her effort for Poncelet. Instead they desire absolute justice, as they call it. Sister Helen’s application is declined, so the day of the execution comes closer and closer. The only salvation for Poncelet is – so does Sister Prejan think – a confession. It’s not until the end that he admits having killed the boy and raping the girl. Just before his execution he appeals to the boy's parents for forgiveness and tells the girl's parents that he hopes his death brings them peace.Then the lethal injection is administered.Cast and awardsSusan Sarandon won the Academy Award for Best Actress for her role. Sean Penn was nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role, Tim Robbins for Best Director and its main track, " Dead Man Walkin' " by Bruce Springsteen for Best Song.The movie also stars Robert Prosky, Raymond J. Barry, R. Lee Ermey, and Scott Wilson. The actor Jack Black has a cameo in the movie as well. Robbins adapted the story himself from Sister Prejean's autobiographical account.AdaptationThe film consolidates two different people whom Prejean counseled on Death Row into one character, as well as merging their crimes and their victims' families into one event. Lesser details were also removed to shorten the length of the film.In reality, Elmo Patrick Sonnier (Poncelet in the adaptation) was executed in the electric chair. Director Tim Robbins opted to use lethal injection in the adaptation because, as stated by Sister Helen in an interview found linked below, "He took away the electric chair and said we need to use lethal injection because we don't want to give people the moral out whereby people could say 'oh well, we used to do electrocution but that's too barbaric so now we are humane and inject them'". Trivia for Dead Man WalkingOther versionsIn 2002, Tim Robbins, who adapted the book for the film, also wrote a stage version of Dead Man Walking.See alsoDead Man Walking (soundtrack)ReferencesExternal linksDead Man Walking at the Arts &amp; Faith Top100 Spiritually Significant Films listInterview with Sister Helen PrejeanDead Man Walking review from Entertainment Weekly&quot;Entertainment Watch: Dead Man Walking&quot; from AmericanCatholic.org, April 1996 James Arnold's Catholic view on the filmSister Helen Prejean: The Real Woman Behind &quot;Dead Man Walking&quot; by John Bookser Feister from AmericanCatholic.orgMovie stillsLyrics and detailed info for the theme song &quot;Dead Man Walkin'&quot;  Category:1995 films Category:Films based on non-fiction books Category:Films featuring a Best Actress Academy Award winning performance Category:English-language films Category:Christian films Category:Catholic films Category:Films with a capital punishment theme Category:Films shot in New Orleans Category:Legal films Category:Philosophical filmsde:Dead Man Walking – Sein letzter Gang es:Pena de muerte (película) fr:La Dernière Marche it:Dead Man Walking - Condannato a morte he:גבר מת מהלך nl:Dead Man Walking ja:デッドマン・ウォーキング pl:Przed egzekucją pt:Dead Man Walking ru:Мертвец идёт (фильм) sk:Mŕtvy muž prichádza fi:Kuolemaantuomittu sv:Dead Man Walking zh:死囚168小时