   Led Zeppelin were an English rock band formed in 1968 by Jimmy Page (guitar), Robert Plant (vocals), John Paul Jones (bass guitar, keyboards) and John Bonham (drums). With their heavy, guitar-driven sound, Led Zeppelin are regarded as one of the first heavy metal bands. Heavy metal timelineBBC.com However, the band's individualistic style draws from many sources and transcends any one genre.Brackett, John (2008). "Examining rhythmic and metric practices in Led Zeppelin’s musical style." Popular Music, Volume 27/1, pp. 53–76. Cambridge University Press. Their rock-infused interpretation of the blues and folk genres  also incorporated rockabilly,In live shows, Led Zeppelin would perform rockabilly songs originally made famous by Elvis Presley and Eddie Cochran reggae,Houses of the Holy includes a reggae-influenced song, "D'Yer Mak'er" soul, Live Led Zeppelin concerts would also include James Brown, Stax and Motown-influenced soul music and funk, as these were favourites of bassist John Paul Jones and drummer John Bonham. funk,See previous reference to soul and funk classical, Celtic, Indian, Arabic, pop, Latin and country. The band did not release the popular songs from their albums as singles in the UK, as they preferred to develop the concept of album-oriented rock.Led Zeppelin, followers, Musicmatch.com. Accessed 10 September 2006.Close to 30 years after disbanding following Bonham's death in 1980, the band continue to be held in high regard for their artistic achievements, commercial success and broad influence. The band have sold more than 300 million albums worldwide,The LocalThe TelegraphThe Mail &amp; Guardian including 111.5 million sales in the United States and they have had all of their original studio albums reach the U.S. Billboard Top 10,Australian Broadcasting Corporation - Triple J Music Specials - Led Zeppelin (first broadcast 2000-07-12) with six reaching the number one spot. Led Zeppelin are ranked No. 1 on VH1's 100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock.100 greatest artists of hard rock at vh1.com Rolling Stone magazine has described Led Zeppelin as "the heaviest band of all time" and "the biggest band of the 70s". "Led Zeppelin: The Legend, the Classic Reviews, a Selection of Hot Photos and More", Rolling Stone http://www.rollingstone.com/news/story/11016639/led_zeppelin_the_legend_the_classic_reviews_a_selection_of_hot_photos_and_moreOn 10 December 2007 the surviving members of Led Zeppelin reunited (along with deceased drummer John Bonham's son Jason) for the Ahmet Ertegün Tribute Concert at The O&lt;sub&gt;2&lt;/sub&gt; Arena in London.HistoryThe New Yardbirds (1966-1968)The beginnings of Led Zeppelin can be traced back to the English blues-influenced rock band The Yardbirds.MTV biography of Led Zeppelin Jimmy Page joined The Yardbirds in 1966 to play bass guitar after the original bassist, Paul Samwell-Smith, left the group. Shortly after, Page switched from bass to lead guitar, creating a dual-lead guitar line up with Jeff Beck. Following the departure of Beck from the group in October 1966, The Yardbirds, tired from constant touring and recording, were beginning to wind down. Page wanted to form a supergroup with himself and Beck on guitars, and The Who's rhythm section—drummer Keith Moon and bassist John Entwistle. Vocalists Donovan, Steve Winwood and Steve Marriott were also considered for the project. The group never formed, although Page, Beck and Moon did record a song together in 1966, "Beck's Bolero", which is featured on Beck's 1968 album, Truth. The recording session also included bassist-keyboardist John Paul Jones, who told Page that he would be interested in collaborating with him on future projects.  The Yardbirds played their final gig in July 1968. However, they were still committed to performing several concerts in Scandinavia, so drummer Jim McCarty and vocalist Keith Relf authorised Page and bassist Chris Dreja to use the Yardbirds name to fulfil the band's obligations. Page and Dreja began putting a new line-up together. Page's first choice for lead singer, Terry Reid, declined the offer, but suggested Robert Plant, a West Bromwich singer he knew.Dave Schulps, Interview with Jimmy Page, Trouser Press, October 1977. Plant eventually accepted the position, recommending a drummer, John Bonham from nearby Redditch. When Dreja opted out of the project to become a photographer&mdash;he would later take the photograph that appeared on the back of Led Zeppelin's debut album&mdash;John Paul Jones, at the suggestion of his wife, contacted Page about the vacant position.Dominick A. Miserandino, Led Zeppelin - John Paul Jones, TheCelebrityCafe.com. Being familiar with Jones' credentials, Page agreed to bring in Jones as the final piece.The group came together for the first time in a room below a record store on Gerrard Street in London.Liner notes by Cameron Crowe for The Complete Studio Recordings. The building has since been torn down, and the area has been converted into London's Chinatown. Page suggested that they try playing "Train Kept A-Rollin'", a rockabilly song popularised by Johnny Burnette that had been given new life by the Yardbirds. "As soon as I heard John Bonham play," stated Jones, "I knew this was going to be great... We locked together as a team immediately." Shortly afterwards, the group played together on the final day of sessions for the P. J. Proby album, Three Week Hero. Proby recalled, "Come the last day we found we had some studio time, so I just asked the band to play while I just came up with the words. ... They weren't Led Zeppelin at the time, they were the New Yardbirds and they were going to be my band." The band completed the Scandinavian tour as The New Yardbirds. Thus, Plant, Page, Jones and Bonham played together for the first time in front of a live audience at Gladsaxe Teen Clubs in Gladsaxe, Denmark on 7 September 1968.Gladsaxe Teen Clubs website: Led Zeppelin's first gigLed Zeppelin official website: 1968 timelineOne account of the band's naming, which has become almost legendary, has it that Keith Moon and John Entwistle, drummer and bassist for The Who, respectively, suggested that a possible supergroup containing themselves, Jimmy Page, and Jeff Beck would go over like a lead balloon, a term Entwistle used to describe a bad gig. The group deliberately dropped the 'a' in Lead at the suggestion of their manager, Peter Grant, to prevent "thick Americans"  from pronouncing it as "leed".Jimmy Page OnlineGrant also secured an advance deal of $200,000 from Atlantic Records in November 1968, then the biggest deal of its kind for a new band. Atlantic were a label known for its catalogue of blues, soul and jazz artists, but in the late-1960s it began to take an interest in progressive British rock acts, and signed Led Zeppelin without having ever seen them, largely on the recommendation of singer Dusty Springfield.Welch, Chris (1994) Led Zeppelin, London: Orion Books. ISBN 0-85797-930-3, p. 31. Under the terms of the contract secured by Grant, the band alone would decide when they would release albums and tour, and had final say over the contents and design of each album. They also would decide how to promote each release and which (if any) tracks to select as singles, and formed their own company, Superhype, to handle all publishing rights.Dave Lewis (1994), The Complete Guide to the Music of Led Zeppelin, Omnibus Press, p. 3Early days (1968–1972)With their first album not yet released, the band made their live debut under the name "Led Zeppelin" at the University of Surrey, Guildford on 25 October 1968. This was followed by a US concert debut on 26 December 1968 (when promoter Barry Fey added them to a bill in Denver, ColoradoLed Zeppelin official website: concert summary) before moving on to the west coast for dates in Los Angeles, San Francisco and other cities.Achilles Last Stand Led Zeppelin's eponymous debut album was released on 12 January 1969, during their first US tour. The album's blend of blues, folk and eastern influences with distorted amplification made it one of the pivotal records in the creation of heavy metal music. However, Plant has commented that it is unfair for people to typecast the band as heavy metal, since about a third of their music was acoustic.The History of Rock 'n' Roll: The 70s: Have a Nice DecadeIn an interview for the Led Zeppelin Profiled radio promo CD (1990) Page said that the album took about 35 hours of studio time to create (including mixing), and stated that he knows this because of the amount charged on the studio bill. Peter Grant claimed the album cost £1,750 to produce (including artwork).  By 1975, the album had grossed $7,000,000.Billboard discography Led Zeppelin's album cover met an interesting protest when, at a 28 February 1970 gig in Copenhagen, the band were billed as "The Nobs" as the result of a threat of legal action from aristocrat Eva von Zeppelin (a relative of the creator of the Zeppelin aircraft), who, upon seeing the logo of the Hindenburg crashing in flames, threatened to have the show pulled off the air.[http://www.billboard.com/bbcom/bookshelf/article_display.jsp?vnu_content_id=1001958757 Keith Shadwick Led Zeppelin 1968-1980: The Story Of A Band And Their Music (excerpt posted on Billboard.com)]In their first year, Led Zeppelin managed to complete four US and four UK concert tours, and release their second album, entitled Led Zeppelin II.  Recorded almost entirely on the road at various North American recording studios, the second album was an even greater success than the first and reached the number one chart position in the US and the UK.Led Zeppelin discography Here the band further developed ideas established on their debut album, creating a work which became even more widely acclaimed and arguably more influential.Review at Allmusic It has been suggested that Led Zeppelin II largely wrote the blueprint for 1970s hard rock. Following the album's release, Led Zeppelin completed several more tours of the United States. They played often, initially in clubs and ballrooms, then in larger auditoriums and eventually stadiums as their popularity grew. Led Zeppelin concerts could last more than three hours, with expanded, improvised live versions of their song repertoire.Led Zeppelin.com audio guide Many of these shows have been preserved as Led Zeppelin bootleg recordings. An early example of Led Zeppelin excess was the infamous shark episode, or red snapper incident, which took place at the Edgewater Inn in Seattle, Washington, on 28 July 1969. For the composition of their third album, Led Zeppelin III, Jimmy Page and Robert Plant retired to Bron-Yr-Aur, a remote cottage in Wales, in 1970. The result was a more acoustic sound (and a song, "Bron-Yr-Aur Stomp", misspelt as "Bron-Y-Aur Stomp" on the album cover), which was strongly influenced by folk and Celtic music, and revealed the band's versatility.The album's rich acoustic sound initially received mixed reactions, with many critics and fans surprised at the turn taken by the band away from the primarily electric compositions of the first two albums. Over time, however, its reputation has recovered and Led Zeppelin III is now generally praised. It has a unique album cover featuring a wheel which, when rotated, displayed various images through cut outs in the main jacket sleeve. The album's opening track, "Immigrant Song", was released in November 1970 by Atlantic Records as a single against the band's wishes (Atlantic had earlier released an edited version of "Whole Lotta Love" which cut the 5:34 song to 3:10, removing the abstract middle section). It included their only non-album b-side, "Hey Hey What Can I Do". Even though the band saw their albums as indivisible, whole listening experiences&mdash;and their manager, Peter Grant, maintained an aggressive pro-album stance&mdash;some singles were released without their consent. The group also increasingly resisted television appearances, enforcing their preference that their fans hear and see them in live concerts.'s cover, representing Jimmy Page, John Paul Jones, John Bonham, and Robert Plant (from left to right) respectively. The symbols have origins in mysticism.]]Led Zeppelin's fourth album was released on 8 November 1971 with several songs referencing elements of J.R.R. Tolkien's book The Lord of the Rings, which was popular at the time. There was no indication of a title or a band name on the original cover, but on the LP label four symbols were printed&mdash;. The band was motivated to undertake this initiative by their disdain for the media, which labelled them as hyped and overrated. In response, they released the album with no indication of who they were in order to prove that the music could sell itself. The album is variously referred to as Four Symbols and The Fourth Album (both titles were used in the Atlantic Records catalogue), and also IV, Untitled, Zoso, Runes, Sticks, Man With Sticks, and Four. It is still officially untitled and most commonly referred to as Led Zeppelin IV. In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine in 2005, Plant said that it is simply called The Fourth Album. Rolling Stone Magazine; Q&amp;A with Robert Plant, 05 May 2005.further refined the band's unique formula of combining earthy, acoustic elements with heavy metal and blues emphases. The album included examples of hard rock, such as "Black Dog" and an acoustic track, "Going to California" (a tribute to Joni Mitchell).Songmeanings.com "Rock and Roll" is a tribute to the early rock music of the 1950s. Recently (as of 2006) and until mid-2007, the song has been used prominently in Cadillac automobile commercials&mdash;one of the few instances of Led Zeppelin's surviving members licensing songs.Rock and Roll Dropped from Cadillac advertThe track "Stairway to Heaven" (), although never released as a single, is sometimes quoted as being the most requested album-oriented rock FM radio song. In 2005, the magazine Guitar World held a poll of readers in which "Stairway to Heaven" was voted as having the greatest guitar solo of all time.About Guitar, 100 Greatest Guitar Solos, accessed 10 September 2006. This song, although widely played amongst the radio stations, is also considered the "Greatest Rock Song". Many claim that this song was the definition of Led Zeppelin. As of 31 July 2006, the album has sold 23 million copies in the U.S. The album cemented Led Zeppelin's superstardom in the U.S. Following the album's release, Led Zeppelin completed several more tours of the United States.&quot;The Biggest Band in the World&quot; (1973–1975)The success of Led Zeppelin's early years was dwarfed by this three-year period in which the band released their best selling albums and ascended to the pinnacle of musical success in the 1970s. The band's image also changed as members began to wear elaborate, flamboyant clothing and they developed a reputation for off-stage excess. Led Zeppelin began travelling in a private jet airliner (nicknamed The StarshipLed Zeppelin.org), rented out entire sections of hotels (most notably the Continental Hyatt House in Los Angeles, known colloquially as the "Riot House"), and became the subject of many of rock's most famous stories of debauchery. One escapade involved John Bonham riding a motorcycle through a rented floor of the Riot House. The band were known for trashing their hotel suites, and throwing television sets out of the windows.Led Zeppelin's next album, Houses of the Holy, was released in 1973. It featured further experimentation, with longer tracks and expanded use of synthesisers and mellotron orchestration. The song "Houses of the Holy" does not appear on its namesake album, even though it was recorded at the same time as other songs on the album; it eventually made its way onto the 1975 album Physical Graffiti. The orange album cover of Houses of the Holy depicts images of nude childrenManning, Toby. "Broad Church", Q Led Zeppelin Special Edition, 2003. climbing up the Giant's Causeway (in County Antrim, Northern Ireland). Although the children are not depicted from the front, this was controversial at the time of the album's release, and in some areas, such as the "Bible Belt" and Spain, the record was banned.[http://www.dangerousage.com/householy.html Classic Rock Covers: Led Zeppelin; Houses of the Holy. Atlantic, 1973. Designer: Hipgnosis (Storm Thorgneson, Aubrey Powell)]Best albums with nude covers and the stories behindThe album topped the charts, and Led Zeppelin's subsequent concert tour of the United States in 1973 broke records for attendance, as they consistently filled large auditoriums and stadiums. At Tampa Stadium, Florida, they played to 56,800 fans (breaking the record set by The Beatles at Shea Stadium in 1965), and grossed $309,000. Three sold-out shows at Madison Square Garden in New York were filmed for a motion picture, but the theatrical release of this project (The Song Remains the Same) would be delayed until 1976. During the final night's performance, $203,000 of the band's money from gate receipts went missing from a safety deposit box at the Drake Hotel. It was the single highest theft from a deposit box in Manhattan's history and was never recovered., January 1975.]]In 1974, Led Zeppelin took a break from touring and launched their own record label, Swan Song, named after one of only five Led Zeppelin songs which the band never released commercially (Page later re-worked the song with his band, The Firm, and it appears as "Midnight Moonlight" on their first album). The record label's logo, based on a drawing called Evening: Fall of Day (1869) by William Rimmer, features a picture of Apollo. The logo can be found on much Led Zeppelin memorabilia, especially t-shirts. In addition to using Swan Song as a vehicle to promote their own albums, the band expanded the label's roster, signing artists such as Bad Company, Pretty Things, Maggie Bell, Detective, Dave Edmunds, Midnight Flyer, Sad Café and Wildlife.VH1 Biography The label would be successful while Led Zeppelin existed, but folded less than three years after they disbanded.24 February 1975 saw the release of Led Zeppelin's first double album, Physical Graffiti, which was their first release on the Swan Song Records label. It consisted of fifteen songs, eight of which were recorded at Headley Grange in 1974, and the remainder being tracks previously recorded but not released on earlier albums. A review in Rolling Stone magazine referred to Physical Graffiti as Led Zeppelin's "bid for artistic respectability," adding that the only competition the band had for the title of 'World's Best Rock Band' were The Rolling Stones and The Who. Rolling Stone Review, 27 March 1975 The album was a massive fiscal and critical success. Shortly after the release of Physical Graffiti, all previous Led Zeppelin albums simultaneously re-entered the top-200 album chart,  and the band embarked on another U.S. tour, again playing to record-breaking crowds. In May 1975, Led Zeppelin played five highly successful, sold-out nights at the Earls Court Arena in London, footage of which was released in 2003, on the Led Zeppelin DVD.Following these triumphant Earls Court appearances, Led Zeppelin took an unplanned break from touring. In August 1975, Robert Plant and his wife Maureen were involved in a serious car crash while on holiday in Rhodes, Greece. Robert suffered a broken ankle and Maureen was badly injured; a blood transfusion saved her life. Unable to tour, Plant headed to the channel island of Jersey to spend August and September recuperating, with Bonham and Page in tow. The band then reconvened in Malibu, California. It was during this forced hiatus that much of the material for their next album, Presence, was written.Nearing the end, Bonham's death and break-up (1975–1980)By 1975, Led Zeppelin were still popular worldwide, having outsold most bands of the time, including the Rolling Stones. Their live shows increased in theatricality, featuring larger stage areas and complex light shows. However, while there were still massive musical and commercial successes for the band during this period, problems would lead to the band's end.Presence, released in March 1976, marked a change in the Led Zeppelin sound towards more straightforward, guitar-based jams, departing from the acoustic ballads and intricate arrangements featured on their previous albums. Though it was a platinum seller, Presence received mixed responses from critics and fans and some speculated the band's legendary excesses may have caught up with them. Rolling Stone Magazine http://www.rollingstone.com/artists/ledzeppelin/albums/album/224305/review/5945483/presence Rolling Stone Magazine Review, Published 20 May 1976] The recording of Presence coincided with the beginning of Page's heroin use, which may have interfered with Led Zeppelin's later live shows and studio recordings, although Page has denied this.Rock's Backpages review, Published 10 April 1976 Despite the original criticisms, Jimmy Page has called Presence his favourite album, and its opening track "Achilles Last Stand" () his favourite Led Zeppelin song. In an interview with a Swedish TV program, Plant stated that Presence is the album that sounds the most "Led Zeppelin" of all their LPs.From interview in Swedish TV program "Musikbyrån" around the time of Led Zeppelin receiving the Polar Music Prize.In May there were upheavals at Swan Song when Danny Goldberg was fired as vice-president of the company after refusing to take what he considered unethical steps in booking a tour by Bad Company. He was reportedly fired because nobody could be permitted to quit Led Zeppelin.Robert Plant's injuries prevented Led Zeppelin from touring in 1976. Instead, the band finally completed the concert film The Song Remains The Same, and the soundtrack album of the film. It would be the only official live document of the group available until the release of the BBC Sessions in 1997. The recording had taken place during three nights of concerts at Madison Square Garden in July 1973, during the band's concert tour of the United States. The film premiered in New York on 20 October 1976, but was given a lukewarm reception by critics and fans. The film was particularly unsuccessful in the UK, where, after being unwilling to tour since 1975 due to a taxation exile, Led Zeppelin were facing an uphill battle to recapture the public spotlight at home.Led Zeppelin.com bioIn 1977, Led Zeppelin embarked on another major concert tour of North America. Though profitable financially, the tour was beset with off-stage problems. On 3 June, after a concert at Tampa Stadium was cut short because of a severe thunderstorm, a riot broke out amongst the audience, resulting in several arrests and injuries.Led Zeppelin official website: concert summary Led Zeppelin set another attendance record with 76,229 people attending their Pontiac Silverdome concert on 30 April.Led Zeppelin official website: concert summary It was, according to the Guinness Book of Records, the largest attendance to date for a single act show.After a 23 July showLed Zeppelin official website: concert summary at the "Days on the Green" festival at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California, John Bonham and members of the band's support staff (including manager Peter Grant and security coordinator John Bindon) were arrested after a member of promoter Bill Graham's staff was badly beaten during the performance. A member of the staff had allegedly slapped Grant's son when he was taking down a dressing room sign. This was seen by John Bonham, who came over and kicked the man. Then, when Grant heard about this, he went into the trailer, along with Bindon and assaulted the man while tour manager Richard Cole stood outside and guarded the trailer. The following day's second Oakland concertLed Zeppelin official website: concert summary would prove to be the band's final live appearance in the United States. Two days later, as the band checked in at a French Quarter hotel for their 30 July performance at the Louisiana Superdome, news came that Plant's five year old son, Karac, had died from a stomach virus. The rest of the tour was immediately cancelled.December 1978 saw the group recording again, this time at Polar Studios in Stockholm, Sweden. The resultant album was In Through the Out Door, which exhibited a degree of sonic experimentation that again drew mixed reactions from critics. Nevertheless, the band still commanded legions of loyal fans, and the album easily reached #1 in the UK and the U.S. in just its second week on the Billboard album chart. As a result of this album's release, Led Zeppelin's entire catalogue made the Billboard Top 200 between the weeks of 27 October and 3 November 1979.In August 1979, after two warm-up shows in Copenhagen, Denmark, Led Zeppelin headlined two concerts at the Knebworth Music Festival, where crowds of close to 120,000 witnessed the return of the band. However, Robert Plant was not eager to tour full-time again, and even considered leaving Led Zeppelin. He was persuaded to stay by Peter Grant. A brief, low-key European tour was undertaken in June and July 1980, featuring a stripped-down set without the usual lengthy jams and solos. At one show on 27 June, in Nuremberg, Germany, the concert came to an abrupt end in the middle of the third song when John Bonham collapsed on stage and was rushed to a hospital.Led Zeppelin official website: concert summary Press speculation arose that Bonham's problem was caused by an excess of alcohol and drugs, but the band claimed that he had simply overeaten, and they completed the European tour on 7 July, at Berlin.Led Zeppelin official website: concert summaryOn 24 September 1980, John Bonham was picked up by Led Zeppelin assistant Rex King to attend rehearsals at Bray Studios for the upcoming tour of the United States, the band's first since 1977. During the journey Bonham had asked to stop for breakfast, where he downed four quadruple vodkas (sixteen shots - or roughly 400ml - of vodka), with a ham roll. After taking a bite of the ham roll he said to his assistant, "Breakfast". He continued to drink heavily when he arrived at the studio. A halt was called to the rehearsals late in the evening and the band retired to Page's house — The Old Mill House in Clewer, Windsor. After midnight, Bonham had fallen asleep and was taken to bed and placed on his side. Benji LeFevre (who had replaced Richard Cole as Led Zeppelin's tour manager) and John Paul Jones found him dead the next morning. Bonham was 32 years old.John Bonham The cause of death was asphyxiation from vomit. A subsequent and thorough autopsy found no other drugs in Bonham's body.John Bonham Biography The alcoholism that had plagued the drummer since his earliest days with the band ultimately led to his death. Bonham was cremated on 10 October 1980, at Rushock parish church in Droitwich, Worcestershire, England.Despite rumours that Cozy Powell, Carmine Appice, Barriemore Barlow, Simon Kirke or Bev Bevan would join the group as his replacement, the remaining members decided to disband after Bonham's death. They issued a press statement on 4 December 1980 confirming that the band would not continue without Bonham. "We wish it to be known that the loss of our dear friend, and the deep sense of undivided harmony felt by ourselves and our manager, have led us to decide that we could not continue as we were."Post-Led Zeppelin (1981–2007)In 1982, the surviving members of the group released a collection of out-takes from various sessions during Led Zeppelin's career, entitled Coda. It included two tracks taken from the band's performance at the Royal Albert Hall in 1970, one each from the Led Zeppelin III and Houses of the Holy sessions, and three from the In Through the Out Door sessions. It also featured a 1976 John Bonham drum instrumental with electronic effects added by Jimmy Page, called "Bonzo's Montreux".On 13 July 1985, Page, Plant and Jones reunited for the Live Aid concert at JFK Stadium, Philadelphia, for a short set featuring drummers Tony Thompson and Phil Collins and bassist Paul Martinez. Collins had played on Plant's first two solo albums. However, the performance was marred by the lack of rehearsal with the two drummers and Page's out-of-tune Les Paul (and heavy intoxication). Page himself had described the performance as "pretty shambolic.""Jimmy Page says last Led Zeppelin reunion was a disaster", List.co.uk. http://www.list.co.uk/article/5700-jimmy-page-says-last-led-zeppelin-reunion-was-a-disaster/ When Live Aid footage was released on a four-DVD set in late 2004, the group unanimously agreed not to allow footage from their performance to be used, agreeing that it was not up to their standard.BBC News Report However, to show their ongoing support Page and Plant pledged proceeds from their forthcoming Page and Plant DVD release to the campaign and John Paul Jones pledged the proceeds of his then-current U.S. tour with Mutual Admiration Society to the project. The three members reunited again in May of 1988, for Atlantic Records' 40th Anniversary concert, with Bonham's son, Jason Bonham, on drums. However, the performance was widely criticized for being "flat" and for Page's poor guitar playing. Also, an article in Rolling Stone magazine talked about how the keyboard sound never made it to tape during the performance of "Kashmir," which Page reportedly found unforgivable.23 October 1990 saw the release of the first Led Zeppelin box set, featuring tracks remastered under the personal supervision of Jimmy Page. This set also included four previously unreleased tracks, including the Robert Johnson song "&quot;Travelling Riverside Blues&quot;", which was released as a single in the US. The song was a huge hit, with the video in heavy rotation on MTV. 1992 saw the release of the "Immigrant Song" b/w "Hey Hey What Can I Do" (the original b-side) as a CD single in the United States second box set was released in 1993; the two box sets together contain all known studio recordings, as well as some rare live tracks.In 1994, Page and Plant reunited in the form of a 90 minute "UnLedded" MTV project. They released an album called "No Quarter: Jimmy Page and Robert Plant Unledded", which featured some reworked Led Zeppelin songs, and embarked on a world tour the following year. This is said to be the beginning of the inner rift between the band members, as Jones was not even told of the reunion.Dominick A. Miserandino, Led Zeppelin - John Paul Jones, TheCelebrityCafe.com. When asked where Jones was, Plant had replied that he was out "parking the car." On 12 January 1995, Led Zeppelin were inducted into the United States Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. They were inducted by Aerosmith's vocalist, Steven Tyler and guitarist Joe Perry. Jason and Zoe Bonham also attended, representing their late father. At the induction ceremony, the band's inner rift became apparent when Jones joked upon accepting his award, "Thank you, my friends, for finally remembering my phone number", causing consternation and awkward looks from Page and Plant.Lewis, Dave Lewis and Simon Pallett (1997) Led Zeppelin: The Concert File, London: Omnibus Press. ISBN 0-7119-5307-4, p. 144. Afterwards, they played a brief set with Tyler and Perry (featuring Jason Bonham on drums), and with Neil Young and Michael Lee replacing Bonham.On 29 August 1997, Atlantic released a single edit of "Whole Lotta Love" in the U.S. and the UK, making it the only Led Zeppelin UK CD single. Additional tracks on this CD-single are "Baby Come On Home" and "Travelling Riverside Blues". It is the only single the band ever released in the UK. It peaked at #21.everyHit.com - UK Top 40 Chart Archive, British Singles &amp; Album Charts 11 November 1997 saw the release of Led Zeppelin BBC Sessions, the first Led Zeppelin album in fifteen years. The two-disc set included almost all of the band's recordings for the BBC. Page and Plant released another album called Walking into Clarksdale in 1998, featuring all new material. However, the album wasn't as successful as No Quarter was, and the band slowly dissolved afterwards.On 29 November 1999 the RIAA announced that the band were only the third act in music history to achieve four or more Diamond albums.RIAA, "Recording Industry Announces November Awards". In 2002, Robert Plant and John Paul Jones reconciled after years of strife that kept the band apart. This was followed by rumours of reunion, quickly quashed by individual members' representatives. 2003 saw the release of a triple live album, How the West Was Won, and a video collection, Led Zeppelin DVD, both featuring material from the band's heyday. By the end of the year, the DVD had sold more than 520,000 copies.In 2005, Led Zeppelin received a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. Led Zeppelin ranked #14 on Rolling Stone's 2004 list of the "100 Greatest Artists of All Time".&lt;/ref&gt; In November 2005, it was announced that Led Zeppelin and Russian conductor Valery Gergiev were the winners of the 2006 Polar Music Prize. The King of Sweden presented the prize to Plant, Page and Jones, along with John Bonham's daughter, in Stockholm in May 2006. BBC News article, 23 May 2006 In November 2006, Led Zeppelin were inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame. The television broadcasting of the event consisted of an introduction to the band by various famous admirers, a presentation of an award to Jimmy Page and then a short speech by the guitarist. After this, rock group Wolfmother played a tribute to Led Zeppelin, playing the song "Communication Breakdown".Wolfmother live at Led Zep's inductionBBC News article, 23 May 2006On 27 July 2007, Atlantic/Rhino, & Warner Home Video announced three new Led Zeppelin titles to be released in November, 2007. Released first was Mothership on 13 November, a 24-track best-of spanning the band's career, followed by a reissue of the soundtrack to The Song Remains the Same on 20 November which includes previously unreleased material, and a new DVD.Led Zeppelin Readies Fall Reissue Bonanza On 15 October 2007, www.news.com published an article that Led Zeppelin were expected to announce a new series of agreements that make the band's songs available as legal digital downloads, first as ringtones through Verizon Wireless then as digital downloads of the band's eight studio albums and other recordings on 13 November. The offerings will be available through both Verizon Wireless and iTunes. On 3 November 2007, a UK newspaper the Daily Mirror announced that it had world exclusive rights to stream six previously unreleased tracks via its website. On 8 November 2007, XM Satellite Radio launched XM LED, the network's first artist-exclusive channel dedicated to Led Zeppelin. On 13 November 2007, Led Zeppelin's complete works were published on iTunes.2007 reunion and present day developmentsat The O2 in London in 2007]] On 10 December 2007 the surviving members of Led Zeppelin reunited for a one-off benefit concert held in memory of music executive Ahmet Ertegün, with Jason Bonham taking up his late father's place on drums. It was announced on 12 September 2007 by promoter Harvey Goldsmith in a press conference. The concert was to help raise money for the Ahmet Ertegün Education Fund, which pays for university scholarships in the UK, US and Turkey. Music critics praised the band's performance. NME proclaimed, "What they have done here tonight is proof they can still perform to the level that originally earned them their legendary reputation...We can only hope this isn't the last we see of them."Led Zeppelin reunion: the review | News |NME.COM. Page suggested the band may start work on new material,&quot;Zeppelin may make new material&quot; and stated that a world tour may be in the works.&quot;Jimmy Page hints at more shows&quot; Meanwhile, Plant made his position regarding a reunion tour known to the Sunday Times, stating: "The whole idea of being on a cavalcade of merciless repetition is not what it's all about". However, he also made it known that he could be in favour of more one-off shows in the near future: "It wouldn't be such a bad idea to play together from time to time."On 25 January 2008, in an interview during the half time of a basketball game at Madison Square Garden, Robert Plant was asked if Led Zeppelin would be seen back together again in the venue. He said "I don't know what is around the corner ... Right now all my energy is based on other projects".MSG Network broadcast, New York Knicks vs Philadelphia 76ers, 25 January 2008 Three days later, at a press conference in Tokyo, Jimmy Page revealed that he is prepared to embark upon a world tour with Led Zeppelin, but due to Robert Plant's tour commitments with Alison Krauss, such plans will not be announced until at least September.Led Zeppelin Guitarist Wants World Tour On 17 May 2008, Canadian music station Much Music announced that Led Zeppelin plans to announce four August dates in Toronto, Ontario at the Rogers Centre. However the band's management has since denied the rumours.Led Zeppelin to Tour Toronto This Summer On 07 June 2008, Page and Jones joined Foo Fighters frontman Dave Grohl and drummer Taylor Hawkins onstage at Wembley Stadium to perform Led Zeppelin tracks "Rock and Roll" (Hawkins on vocals and Grohl on drums), followed by "Ramble On" (Grohl on vocals and Hawkins on drums). Dave Grohl has been a longtime Led Zeppelin fan, telling the audience "welcome to the greatest day of my entire fucking life".Damian Jones, "Led Zep stars join Foo Fighters", BBC, 8 June 2008.Reunion tour reportsIn late summer 2008, reports surfaced that three of the four performers at the December 2007 benefit concert, Jimmy Page, John Paul Jones, and Jason Bonham, were recording and rehearsing for a possible tour in 2009. Robert Plant was not included in the initial speculation, but in late September tabloid newspaper reports that Plant would join the other three surfaced. However, Plant emphatically and categorically denied the rumours in a statement posted on his website on 29 September 2008.The BBC reported on 26 August 2008 that Jimmy Page, John Paul Jones, and Jason Bonham had been recording material which may become a new Led Zeppelin project; Robert Plant had not been performing in the sessions."Led Zeppelin trio back in studio", BBC, 26 August 2008.On 20 September 2008 it was reported in the British tabloid newspaper The Sun that Page, Jones and Jason Bonham had been rehearsing with an American singer. The Sun claimed that the three would tour with or without Plant. Robert Plant and Alison Krauss received awards including Album of the Year for their duet album Raising Sand from the Americana Music Association two days before The Sun story first broke, and other reports suggested that bureaucracy had kept a reunion of the three surviving members of Led Zeppelin from becoming reality.On 26 September 2008 the Australian tabloid newspaper The Daily Telegraph reported that Robert Plant would join the remaining members of Led Zeppelin and the band were planning to embark on a reunion tour in summer 2009. Later the same day The Sun confirmed that Robert Plant would in fact be lead singer with Led Zeppelin during the next summer. On the 27th, the London tabloid the Daily Mirror reported that Jason Bonham was selling his country house in Worcestershire in anticipation of embarking on the rumoured tour.On 29 September frontman Robert Plant released a statement in which he called reports of a Led Zeppelin reunion "frustrating and ridiculous". He said he would not be recording or touring with the band, before adding, "I wish Jimmy Page, John Paul Jones and Jason Bonham nothing but success with any future projects."Songs in other mediaWhile members of Led Zeppelin have seldom allowed their works to be licensed for films or commercials, in recent years, their position has softened. The songs of Led Zeppelin can be heard in movies such as Shrek the Third, One Day in September, School of Rock ("Immigrant Song" in all three), Dogtown and Z-Boys ("Achilles Last Stand", "Nobody's Fault but Mine", and "Hots On for Nowhere"), Almost Famous ("That's the Way", "The Rain Song", "Misty Mountain Hop", "Bron-Yr-Aur", and "Tangerine"), Fast Times at Ridgemont High ("Kashmir"), and Small Soldiers ("Communication Breakdown"). The television series'' One Tree Hill'' featured the song "Babe I'm Gonna Leave You". The band has denied frequent requests by developers of popular music video games to use their songs. Like with other forms of media, the band seeks to protect the integrity of their work. Specifically, "the band isn't comfortable with the prospect of granting outsiders access to its master tapes, a necessary step in creating the games".Also noteworthy is Cadillac's use of "Rock and Roll" in their US TV advertising campaign. Recently, Led Zeppelin have agreed to allow Apple to sell their music in Apple's iTunes Store, with the recently released greatest hits collection Mothership as the marquee offering.Led Zeppelin join the net generation | UK News |The Observer In April 2007 Hard Rock Park announced it had secured an agreement with the band to create "Led Zeppelin - The Ride" - a roller coaster built by B&M synchronised to the music of Led Zeppelin's Whole Lotta Love. The coaster will stand  tall, feature six inversions, and spiral over a lagoon. It will be found in the "Rock and Roll Heaven" section of Hard Rock Park. As of 13 September 2007, the ride track is complete, and the park conducted successful test runs in December.Allegations of plagiarismThe credits for Led Zeppelin II were the subject of some debate after the album's release. The prelude to "Bring It On Home" is a cover of Sonny Boy Williamson's "Bring It On Home" and drew comparisons with Willie Dixon's "Bring It On Back". "Whole Lotta Love" () shared some lyrics with Dixon's "You Need Love/Woman You Need Love", though the riff from the song was an original Jimmy Page composition. In the 1970s, Arc Music, the publishing arm of Chess Records, brought a lawsuit against Led Zeppelin for copyright infringement over "Bring It On Home"; the case was settled out of court. Australian Broadcasting Corporation - Triple J Music Specials - Led Zeppelin (first broadcast 2000-07-12) Dixon himself did not benefit until he sued Arc Music to recover his royalties and copyrights. Sixteen years later, Dixon filed suit against Led Zeppelin over "Whole Lotta Love" and an out-of-court settlement was reached.Whole Lotta Love Later pressings of Led Zeppelin II credit Dixon. Similarly, the "Lemon Song", from the same album, included an adaptation of Howlin' Wolf's "Killing Floor". The band and Chester Burnett reached an out-of-court settlement to give co-credit to the author of the original song.The Lemon Song - Led Zeppelin's Influences - Turn Me On, Dead ManDave Headlam, in an article entitled "Does the song remain the same? Questions of authenticity and identification in the music of Led Zeppelin", suggests that "...in the course of studies on the music of Led Zeppelin, it has become apparent that many songs are compilations of pre-existent material from multiple sources, both acknowledged and unacknowledged." He contends that "...songs like 'Whole Lotta Love' and 'Dazed and Confused' are on the one hand not "authored" by Led Zeppelin, but are traditional lyrics..." Headlam, Dave. "Does the song remain the same? Questions of authenticity and identification in the music of Led Zeppelin." In ''Concert Music, Rock, and Jazz Since 1945: Essays and Analytical Studies. By Elizabeth West Marvin and Richard Hermann. Published 1995. Boydell & Brewer. 449 pages ISBN 1580460968 http://books.google.ca/books?id=OhUVusniuzoC&lt;/ref&gt; However, noted blues author and producer Robert Palmer states "It is the custom, in blues music, for a singer to borrow verses from contemporary sources, both oral and recorded, add his own tune and/or arrangement, and call the song his own". Folklorist Carl Lindahl, refers to these recycling of lyrics in songs as "floating lyrics". He defines it within the folk-music tradition as "lines that have circulated so long in folk communities that tradition-steeped singers call them instantly to mind and rearrange them constantly, and often unconsciously, to suit their personal and community aesthetics".Carl Lindahl, "Thrills and Miracles: Legends of Lloyd Chandler", Journal of Folklore Research, Bloomington: May-Dec 2004, Vol. 41, Issue 2/3, pp. 133-72.In an interview he gave to Guitar World magazine in 1993, Page commented on the band's use of classic blues songs: In another interview, Page responded to the suggestion that Led Zeppelin used a lot of traditional and blues lyrics and tunes and called them their own: DiscographyStudio albumsLed Zeppelin (1969)Led Zeppelin II (1969)Led Zeppelin III (1970)Led Zeppelin IV (1971)Houses of the Holy (1973)Physical Graffiti (1975)Presence (1976)In Through the Out Door (1979)Coda (1982)While some external sources, such as Allmusic, categorise Coda as a compilation album, Led Zeppelin's official album label, Atlantic Records, categorises it as studio album. See for example the liner notes for the Led Zeppelin Box Set, Vol. 2 and the label attached to the Complete Studio Recordings boxed set, which state that Led Zeppelin released nine studio albums.FilmographyThe Song Remains the Same (1976)Led Zeppelin (DVD) (2003)Mothership (DVD) (2007)ReferencesPublished sourcesDave Lewis (2003), Led Zeppelin: Celebration II: The 'Tight But Loose' Files, London: Omnibus Press. ISBN 1-84449-056-4.Dave Lewis and Simon Pallett (1997) Led Zeppelin: The Concert File, London: Omnibus Press. ISBN 0-7119-5307-4.Dave Lewis (1994) The Complete Guide to the Music of Led Zeppelin, London: Omnibus Press, ISBN 0-7119-3528-9.Chris Welch (2006) Led Zeppelin: Dazed and Confused: The Stories Behind Every Song, Thunder's Mouth Press, ISBN 1-56025-818-7.Chris Welch (2002), Peter Grant: The Man Who Led Zeppelin, London: Omnibus Press. ISBN 0-7119-9195-2.Richard Cole and Richard Trubo (1992), Stairway to Heaven: Led Zeppelin Uncensored, New York: HarperCollins, ISBN 0-06-018323-3.Stephen Davis (1985) Hammer of the Gods: The Led Zeppelin Saga, New York: William Morrow & Co., ISBN 0-688-04507-3.Luis Rey (1997) Led Zeppelin Live: An Illustrated Exploration of Underground Tapes, Ontario: The Hot Wacks Press. ISBN 4ISBN 0-9698080-7-0.Susan Fast (2001) In the Houses of the Holy: Led Zeppelin and the Power of Rock Music, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19514-723-5.The Rolling Stone Encyclopedia of Rock and Roll (2001 edition).External links  Led Zeppelin: Official SiteCategory:Led Zeppelin Category:English rock music groups Category:Hard rock groups Category:British heavy metal musical groups Category:Quartets Category:1960s music groups Category:1970s music groups Category:Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inductees‎ Category:Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award winners Category:UK Music Hall of Fame inductees Category:Middle-earth music Category:Musical groups established in 1968 Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1980 Category:Atlantic Records artists     ar:لد زبلين bar:Led Zeppelin br:Led Zeppelin bg:Лед Цепелин ca:Led Zeppelin cs:Led Zeppelin cy:Led Zeppelin da:Led Zeppelin de:Led Zeppelin et:Led Zeppelin el:Led Zeppelin es:Led Zeppelin eo:Led Zeppelin eu:Led Zeppelin fa:لد زپلین fr:Led Zeppelin ga:Led Zeppelin gd:Led Zeppelin gl:Led Zeppelin ko:레드 제플린 hr:Led Zeppelin id:Led Zeppelin is:Led Zeppelin it:Led Zeppelin he:לד זפלין ka:ლედ ზეპელინი sw:Led Zeppelin ku:Led Zeppelin la:Led Zeppelin lv:Led Zeppelin lt:Led Zeppelin hu:Led Zeppelin mk:Led Zeppelin nl:Led Zeppelin ja:レッド・ツェッペリン no:Led Zeppelin nn:Led Zeppelin oc:Led Zeppelin uz:Led Zeppelin pl:Led Zeppelin pt:Led Zeppelin ro:Led Zeppelin ru:Led Zeppelin sq:Led Zeppelin simple:Led Zeppelin sk:Led Zeppelin sl:Led Zeppelin sr:Лед цепелин sh:Led Zeppelin fi:Led Zeppelin sv:Led Zeppelin vi:Led Zeppelin tr:Led Zeppelin uk:Led Zeppelin zh:齐柏林飞船 (乐团)