 Psi is a GPL instant messaging client for the Jabber (XMPP) protocol which uses the Qt toolkit. It runs on Linux, Microsoft Windows, and Mac OS X.Ready-to-install deb and RPM packages are available for many Linux distributions. Successful ports of Psi were reported for FreeBSD and Sun Solaris operating systems.Due to Psi's free/open-source nature, several Forks have appeared, which occasionally contain features that may appear in future official Psi versions. These official and unofficial builds are documented on their Builds external wiki page.Mission statementThe goal of the Psi project is to create a powerful, yet easy-to-use Jabber/XMPP client that tries to strictly adhere to the XMPP drafts and Jabber JEPs. This means that in most cases, Psi will not implement a feature unless there is an accepted standard for it in the Jabber community. Doing so ensures that Psi will be compatible, stable, and predictable.FeaturesBecause Jabber allows gateways to other services, which many servers support, it can also connect to the Yahoo! Messenger, AIM, Gadu-Gadu, ICQ and .NET Messenger Service networks. Other services available using gateway servers, include RSS and Atom news feeds, sending SMS messages to cellular networks and weather reports.As of 2006, Psi has language packs for 20 languages, with more being created.Emoticon packs are supported using the jisp format. Many jisp emoticon packs are available, including ones from AIM, iChat, and Trillian.Psi supports file transfers between other Jabber clients, and it is possible to send to or receive files from other IM networks, if the user's servers support this. Psi supports Contact Is Typing Notification (which works with MSN and AIM contacts). Version 0.10, released in January 2006, brings automatically resizing contact list and composing window in chat dialogs, tabbed chats, support for Growl messaging system on Mac OS X, window transparency and many other changes.EncryptionPSI has built in GnuPG support for message encryption.HistoryThe application was created by Justin Karneges and it began as a side project. At various points during its existence Justin was paid to develop the codebase, during which Psi flourished. Typically however, the release cycle of Psi is relatively slow, but the client has always been seen by its fans as a very stable and powerful instant messaging client. Justin left the project in late 2004 to pursue other endeavors.[Psi-devel&amp;#93; Passing the torch&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In 2002 Michail Pishchagin started hacking Qt code which later became libpsi library. Michail joined the team in March 2003 and he is responsible for many large chunks in Psi code.Since November 2004, maintenance has now been taken over by Kevin Smith, a long-time contributor to the project. Justin is now working solely on Iris, the Qt/C++ Jabber library upon which Psi is based.Remko Tronçon started writing his custom patches for Psi in 2003, and became an official developer in May 2005.'Psi' is the twenty-third letter of the Greek alphabet (Ψ), which is used as the software's logo.See alsoList of Jabber client softwareComparison of instant messaging clientsReferencesExternal linksOfficial Psi websitePsi Author's blogPsi Maintainer's blogPsi Webmaster's blogPsi Lead Developer's blogPsi Developer's blogInterview with Justin KarnegesCategory:Free instant messaging clients Category:Free Jabber clients Category:Linux instant messaging clients Category:Mac OS X instant messengers Category:Windows instant messaging clients Category:Portable softwarecs:Psi (klient) de:Psi (Instant Messenger) el:Psi (πελάτης άμεσης επικοινωνίας) es:Psi (cliente de mensajería instantánea) eo:Psi (tujmesaĝilo) fr:Psi (messagerie instantanée) it:Psi (software) nl:Psi (computerprogramma) pl:Psi (komunikator internetowy) pt:Psi (mensageiro instantâneo) ru:Psi fi:Psi (tietokoneohjelma) sv:Psi (datorprogram) zh:Psi (即時通訊軟件)