''Zuul redirects here. For the videogame, see Zool.'' |language = English |budget = $30,000,000 | |music = Elmer Bernstein |awards = |followed_by = Ghostbusters II |amg_id = 1:19671 |imdb_id = 0087332  Ghostbusters (titled on-screen as Ghost Busters) is a 1984 fantasy-comedy film about three eccentric New York City parapsychologists-turned-ghost exterminators. The film was released in the United States on June 8, 1984. It was produced and directed by Ivan Reitman and stars Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Harold Ramis, Rick Moranis, Sigourney Weaver, Annie Potts, and Ernie Hudson. The film's original release grossed almost US$230 million in the U.S. and $50 million abroad during its theatrical run, making it the biggest grossing film of 1984.Boxofficemojo: Box office statistics for 1984It was followed by a sequel, Ghostbusters II (1989), and two animated television series, The Real Ghostbusters (later renamed Slimer! And the Real Ghostbusters) and Extreme Ghostbusters. Ramis, who co-wrote the first two films, has confirmed that a script for a potential third film is being developed by Gene Stupnitsky and Lee Eisenberg, the writing team best known for their work on Curb Your Enthusiasm and the American version of The Office. Judd Apatow (who is co-producing the upcoming Ramis-directed The Year One) is also slated to be involved on some level. In addition, the original films' four main castmembers may have minor on-screen roles.In 2000, readers of Total Film magazine voted Ghostbusters the 44th greatest comedy film of all time. The American Film Institute ranked it 28th in its list of the top 100 comedies of all time (in their "AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs" list). In 2005, IGN voted Ghostbusters the greatest comedy ever. In 2006, Bravo ranked Ghostbusters 76 on their "100 Funniest Movies" list.PlotThree misfit parapsychology research professors specializing in research on ghosts, Drs. Egon Spengler (Harold Ramis), Raymond &quot;Ray&quot; Stantz (Dan Aykroyd), and Peter Venkman (Bill Murray), are expelled from Columbia University after their research grants are terminated. To maintain their livelihood, they establish "Ghostbusters", an organization described by Venkman as a "professional paranormal investigations and eliminations" service, using an old firehouse as their headquarters, a 1959 Cadillac Miller-Meteor Ambulance dubbed "Ecto-1" as transport, and one Janine Melnitz (Annie Potts) as a receptionist. The cost of establishing and maintaining the initially unsuccessful business leads them to the brink of financial ruin, before they are hired by the staff of a hotel plagued by a ghost (whom, in The Real Ghostbusters, is named "Slimer" by Ray). They capture this ghost successfully, using their nuclear-powered "proton packs" to force it into a small holding trap for later transfer to a containment grid in the firehouse. Following their first successful endeavor, the Ghostbusters suddenly find themselves overwhelmed by calls from prospective clients, to the point that they hire a fourth member Winston Zeddemore (Ernie Hudson). Zeddmore ultimately comes to believe that the increase of ghostly activity is building up towards a single grand-scale paranormal event that will result in the apocalypse, or rather the biblical "Judgement Day", and is later proven to be correct.Meanwhile, a woman named Dana Barrett (Sigourney Weaver), who lives in an apartment at 55 Central Park West, asks the team to investigate a bizarre occurrence in her kitchen. Venkman takes an immediate attraction to the woman, and sees in her request for help an opportunity to become romantically involved with her. He decides to take charge of the case and visits her apartment. He then learns from Barrett that a demonic figure speaking from within her refrigerator called her by the name "Zuul", who he discovers is a (fictional) demigod worshipped in 6000 BC by the Hittites, Mesopotamians and Sumerians and a minion of the deity Gozer. Venkman asks a mildly impressed Dana to go on a date with him. On the night of the date, Barrett is abducted and put into demonic possession by a dog-like beast in her own apartment, whereinafter Venkman arrives to find her in a trance, wherein her sole object is to locate another possessed person. At the same time, accountant Louis Tully (Rick Moranis), Barrett's neighbor, is chased down and possessed by a similar beast. He is caught by the police and brought to the Ghostbusters, of whom Spengler recognizes that the beings possessing Barrett and Tully, Zuul ("Gatekeeper") and Vinz Clortho ("Keymaster") respectively, are seeking each other, and the team agrees to keep them apart to prevent something disastrous from occurring.As the ghost containment grid nears its maximum storage capacity, the Ghostbusters are visited by Walter Peck (William Atherton), a representative of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, who had previously questioned the business' safety only to be turned away by Venkman. Peck has obtained a court order by which to shut the system down; unable to stop him, the team flees the firehouse as the grid collapses and hundreds of freed ghosts flood the city. In the chaos, the possessed Tully roams free and makes his way to 55 Central Park West, while Peck has the Ghostbusters arrested. While they wait in jail, Stantz determines that the building located at 55 Central Park West was constructed specifically to summon Gozer, who would then destroy the world. The mayor (David Margulies) orders the release of the Ghostbusters from jail, overriding Peck's demands, and sends them to prevent the potential catastrophe.s.]] Assisted by the police and Army, the Ghostbusters proceed to the top of 55 Central Park West. They are too late, however to prevent Barrett and Tully from meeting. Upon their contact, an interdimensional portal opens, allowing Gozer to enter the human world, while the two are transformed into the doglike shapes seen earlier. When Gozer (Slavitza Jovan) emerges in a female humanoid form, the Ghostbusters force her back into her dimension with their proton guns. Being led to believe that they are its prophesized adversaries, Gozer challenges them to choose a form for the world's destroyer to assume. When Venkman orders his teammates to think of nothing, Stantz is unable to avoid thinking of the most innocent being he could imagine: the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man. Upon this, a gigantic version of the Marshmallow Man appears and begins to lay waste to the city. Seeing this, Spengler realizes that their only hope is to cross their weapons' emitted energy streams, destroying Gozer's home dimension and everything that came from it, despite the fact that the Ghostbusters themselves may be killed as a result. As the Marshmallow Man reaches the top of the building, the team executes this plan, causing the gate to explode and reducing Stay Puft to torrents of melted marshmallow. The Ghostbusters survive, whereupon Venkman frees Tully and Barrett from their doglike forms, which have been carbonized. When they leave the building, the Ghostbusters are met by Janine, who had been waiting for them, and as they leave the scene in the Ecto-1, the public cheers them, followed by Slimer.DevelopmentThe concept was inspired by Aykroyd's own fascination with the paranormal and it was conceived as a vehicle for himself and friend John Belushi, fellow Saturday Night Live alumnus.Shay, Don (1985). Making Ghostbusters, New York: New York Zoetrope. ISBN 0918432685 The original story, as written by Aykroyd, was very different than what was eventually filmed. In that early version, a group of Ghostbusters travelled through time, space and other dimensions taking on huge ghosts (of which the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man was just one of many). Also, the Ghostbusters wore S.W.A.T.-like outfits and used wands instead of Proton Packs to fight the ghosts. Ghostbusters storyboards show them wearing riotsquad-type helmets with movable transparent visors.A Ghostbusters I and II DVD pack included a 28-page booklet of copies of Ghostbusters storyboards.Aykroyd pitched his story to director / producer Ivan Reitman, who liked the basic idea but immediately saw the budgetary impossibilities demanded by Aykroyd's first draft. At Reitman's suggestion, the story was given a major overhaul, eventually evolving into the final screenplay which Aykroyd and Ramis hammered out over the course of three weeks in a Martha's Vineyard bomb shelter. Aykroyd and Ramis initially wrote the script with roles written especially for Belushi, Eddie Murphy and John Candy. However, Belushi died during the writing of the screenplay, and neither Murphy nor Candy would commit to the movie, so Aykroyd and Ramis shifted some of these changes around and polished a basic, yet sci-fi oriented screenplay for their final draft.In addition to Aykroyd's high-concept basic premise, and Ramis' skill at grounding the fantastic elements with a realistic setting, the film benefits from Bill Murray's semi-improvisational performance as Peter Venkman, the character initially intended for Belushi.  The extent of Murray's improvisation while delivering his lines varies wildly with every re-telling of the making of the film; some say he never even read the script, and improvised so much he deserves a writing credit, while others insist that he only improvised a few lines, and used his deadpan comic delivery to make scripted lines seem spontaneous. The Ghostbusters DVD credits Ramis' writing with nearly all of Murray's lines.Louis Tully was originally conceived to be a conservative man in a business suit played by comedian John Candy, but with Candy unable to commit to the role, it was taken by Rick Moranis, portraying Louis as a geek. Gozer was originally going to appear in the form of Ivo Shandor as a slender, unremarkable man in a suit played by Paul Reubens. In the end, the role was played by Yugoslavian model Slavitza Jovan, whose Eastern European accent (later dubbed by Paddi Edwards) caused Gozer's line of "choose and perish" to sound like "Jews and berries" to the crew's amusement.Harold Ramis had no intention of acting in any role in the film as he planned on only helping Aykroyd write the screenplay. However, the crew struggled to cast the role of Egon Spengler, even after renowned actors such as Chevy Chase, Michael Keaton, Christopher Walken, John Lithgow, Christopher Lloyd (who eventually played another famous comedic sci-fi scientist: Doc Brown) and Jeff Goldblum (who played serious scientists in ''The Fly'' and ''Jurassic Park'') were considered. Feeling he knew the character best since he created him, Ramis accepted the role of Egon. He credits this move in revitalizing his acting career, as Ramis basically focused on off-screen work such as writing and directing before this.Winston Zeddemore was written with Eddie Murphy in mind, but he had to decline the role as he was filming Beverly Hills Cop at the same time. If Murphy had been cast, Zeddemore would have been hired much earlier in the film, and would've accompanied the trio on their hunt for Slimer at the hotel and be slimed in place of Peter Venkman. When Ernie Hudson took over, it was decided that he be brought in later to indicate how the Ghostbusters were struggling to keep up with the outbreak of ghosts. Murphy would later star in another ghost-related film, ''The Haunted Mansion''.In order to properly light the set for Gozer's temple and create the physical effects for the set, other stages needed to be shut down and all their power diverted over to the set. The hallway sets for the Sedgewick Hotel were originally built for the movie Rich and Famous in 1981 and patterned after the Algonquin Hotel in New York City, where Reitman originally wanted to do the hotel bust. The Biltmore Hotel was chosen because the large lobby allowed for a tracking shot of the Ghostbusters in complete gear for the first time. Dana Barrett and Louis Tully's apartments were constructed across two stages and were actually on the other side of their doors in the hallway, an unusual move in filmmaking.A problem arose during filming when it was discovered that a show was produced in 1975 by Filmation for CBS called The Ghost Busters, starring Larry Storch and Forrest Tucker. Columbia Pictures prepared a list of alternative names just in case the rights could not be secured, but during the filming of the crowd for the final battle, the extras were all chanting "Ghostbusters", which inspired the producers to insist that the studio buy the rights to the name. This caused the cartoon series to refer to them as the "real" Ghostbusters, while the later Filmation cartoon series had the unnoficial name of Filmation's Ghostbusters.For the test screening of Ghostbusters, half of the ghost effects were missing, not yet having been completed by the production team. The audience response was still enthusiastic, and the ghost elements were completed for the official theatrical release shortly thereafter.CastBill Murray as Dr. Peter VenkmanDan Aykroyd as Dr. Raymond StantzSigourney Weaver as Dana BarrettHarold Ramis as Dr. Egon SpenglerRick Moranis as Louis TullyAnnie Potts as Janine MelnitzWilliam Atherton as Walter PeckErnie Hudson as Winston ZeddemoreDavid Margulies as Mayor LennySlavitza Jovan as Gozer (voiced by Paddi Edwards)Ivan Reitman as Zuul / Slimer (voice)CameosRoger GrimsbyLarry KingJoe FranklinCasey KasemBill WaltonReceptionGhostbusters was well-received and holds a 93% Fresh Rating at Rotten Tomatoes.Ghostbusters Movie Reviews, Pictures - Rotten Tomatoes&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In her review for the New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote, "Its jokes, characters and story line are as wispy as the ghosts themselves, and a good deal less substantial."&lt;/ref&gt; ''[[Newsweek]]'' magazine's David Ansen wrote, &quot;Everyone seems to be working toward the same goal of relaxed insanity. ''Ghostbusters'' is wonderful summer nonsense.&quot;&lt;ref&gt;&lt;/ref&gt;Ghostbusters was an enormous financial success. During its first release, it grossed $229,242,989 at the box office, making it the second highest-grossing film of 1984, behind only Beverly Hills Cop. At the time, these figures put it within the top ten highest-grossing films of all-time.Boxofficemojo: All time domestic box office results A re-release in 1985 gave the film a total gross of $238,632,124, surpassing Beverly Hills CopBoxofficemojo: Release history for Ghostbusters and making Ghostbusters the most successful comedy of the 1980s.In 2000, readers of Total Film magazine voted Ghostbusters the 44th greatest comedy film of all time. The American Film Institute ranked it 28th in its list of the top 100 comedies of all time (in their "AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs" list). In 2005, IGN voted Ghostbusters the greatest comedy ever. In 2006, Bravo ranked Ghostbusters 76 on their "100 Funniest Movies" list. Entertainment Weekly ranked it as the Funniest Movie of the Past 25 Years.&lt;/ref&gt;LegacyThe film spawned a theme park special effects show at Universal Studios Florida. (The show closed some time in 1997 to make way for Twister: Ride it Out!) The Ghostbusters were also featured in a lip-synching dance show featuring Beetlejuice on the steps of the New York Public Library facade at the park after the attraction closed. The GBs were all new and "extreme" versions in the show, save for the Zeddemore character. Their Ecto-1 automobile was used to drive them around the park, and was often used in the park's annual "Macy's Holiday Parade". The show, Ecto-1, and all other Ghostbuster trademarks were discontinued in 2005 when Universal failed to renew the rights for theme park use. Currently, the Ghostbuster Firehouse can still be seen near Twister, without its GB logo and "Engine 89" ribbon. A "paranormal investigator" etching on a nearby doorway hints at the old show.NECA released a line of action figures based on the first movie but only produced a series of ghost characters, as Bill Murray refused the rights to use his facial likeness. Their first and only series included Gozer, Slimer, the Terror Dogs (Vinz Clortho and Zuul), and a massive Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man, contrasting the diminutive figure that was in the original figure line. Ertl released a die-cast 1/25 scale Ectomobile, also known as Ecto-1, the Ghostbusters' main transportation. iBooks published the novel Ghostbusters: The Return by Sholly Fisch and Rubies' Costumes has produced a Ghostbusters Halloween costume, consisting of a one-piece jumpsuit with logos and an inflatable Proton Pack.MusicThe film score was composed by Elmer Bernstein, notable for its use of ondes martenot (a staple of Bernstein's 1980s work) and also the Yamaha DX-7 synthesizer. Orchestrators contributing to the film were Peter Bernstein, David Spear and Patrick Russ. The first film sparked the catchphrases "Who you gonna call? Ghostbusters!" and "I ain't afraid of no ghost(s)". Both came from the hit theme song written and performed by Ray Parker, Jr. The song was a huge hit, staying #1 for three weeks on Billboard's Hot 100 chart and #1 for two weeks on the Black Singles chart. The song earned Parker an Academy Award nomination for "Best Original Song".The music video produced for the song is considered one of the key productions of the already booming music video industry, and was a #1 MTV video. Directed by Ivan Reitman, produced by Jeffrey Abelson, and conceptualised by Keith Williams, the video integrated footage of the film in a specially designed, haunted house made entirely of neon. Film footage was intercut with a humorous performance by Parker, and featured cameo appearances by celebrities who joined in the call and response chorus, including Chevy Chase (who was considered for the role of Egon), Irene Cara, John Candy (who was considered for the role of Louis Tully), Nickolas Ashford, Melissa Gilbert, Jeffrey Tambor, George Wendt, Al Franken, Danny DeVito, Carly Simon, Peter Falk, and Teri Garr. The video ends with footage of the four main Ghostbusters actors in costume and character, dancing in Times Square behind Parker, joining in the singing.In autumn 1984 and throughout 1985, Huey Lewis successfully sued Ray Parker, Jr. for plagiarism, citing that Parker stole the melody from his 1983 song "I Want A New Drug". Lewis had been approached to compose the main theme song for the movie, but he declined due to his work on the soundtrack for Back to the Future. It was reported in 2001 that Lewis allegedly breached an agreement not to mention the original suit, doing so on VH1's Behind the Music. http://www.ecto-web.org/~spookcentral/huey_lewis_lawsuit.htmLindsey Buckingham was also approached to do the theme song based on his success with "Holiday Road" for the National Lampoon's Vacation films. He declined, reasoning that he did not want to be known as just a soundtrack artist.ReleasesThe DVD version of the movie was released and became one of the fastest selling units ever on Reel.com. Sony had announced at Comic-Con 2008 that the Blu-Ray version of the film was to be released on October 21, 2008, however it was recently announced that the Blu-Ray release will be postponed until sometime in 2009. Ghostbusters is to be the first film ever officially released on a USB flashdrive. http://www.custompc.co.uk/news/604788/ghostbusters-is-first-film-to-be-released-on-usb-stick.html&lt;/ref&gt;Computer and video gamesThere are many computer and video games based on the Ghostbusters films:''Ghostbusters'' (Activision): a game released for the Atari Video Computer System (1984, 1985), and the Nintendo Entertainment System (1986), the 1984 Activision video game for the Atari 800, Commodore 64, Sega Master System (1987), and others.''Real Ghostbusters'' (arcade game): a video game loosely based on the cartoon.''Ghostbusters II'': the 1989 Activision video game.''New Ghostbusters 2'': The 1990 HAL Laboratory video game''Ghostbusters'' (Sega video game): the 1990 Sega video game.''Extreme Ghostbusters'': the 2001 LSP video game''Extreme Ghostbusters: Code Ecto-1'': the 2002 DreamCatcher video game''Extreme Ghostbusters: The Ultimate Invasion'': the 2004 LSP video game''Ghostbusters'' mobile game: released for cell phones on Verizon, Sprint, Tmobile, and Cingular (now AT&T) networks,Ghostbusters: The Video Game: the 2008 Vivendi video game for Windows, Xbox 360, PS2, PS3, Wii, DS, actually acting as the third installment of the series. The Game was in playable form in Comic Con 2008.Tie-in novelizationsThere were two novelizations of the film published. The first, which came out around the same time the movie did, was written by Larry Milne and was 191 pages long. The narrative, interestingly, is written in the present tense, and the novel contains a behind-the-scenes section (profiling the major cast and crew members), and also the movie's complete end credits. A second novelization, written by Richard Mueller, was released in 1985. It was 65 pages longer at 256 pages, and had the extended subtitle The Supernatural Experience. Both differ from the finished version of the film in many respects, containing scenes that ultimately did not make the cut, most notably the sequence set at Fort Detmerring. Mueller's book in particular also contained a subplot involving the two homeless men played by Murray and Aykroyd in the deleted scene, who are identified as Harlan Bojay and Robert Learned Coombs.A larger A4 sized book was also released by Hippo Books, containing a large number of stills - some from the movie, some publicity shots - tying in with the story on the relevant page. This publication is more child friendly than the previous two, and the story, while still quite extensive, is somewhat scaled down in detail.ReferencesExternal linksGhostbusters official siteGhostbusters at Rotten TomatoesGhostbusters at Hulu.com Category:Ghostbusters Category:1984 films Category:American films Category:Columbia Pictures films Category:Comedy science fiction films Category:English-language films Category:Fantasy-comedy films Category:Films directed by Ivan Reitman Category:Films shot anamorphically Category:Films set in New York City Category:Ghost films Category:1980s comedy filmscs:Krotitelé duchů cy:Ghostbusters de:Ghostbusters – Die Geisterjäger es:Los cazafantasmas (película) fr:S.O.S. Fantômes hr:Istjerivači duhova id:Ghostbusters it:Ghostbusters - Acchiappafantasmi he:מכסחי השדים hu:Szellemirtók ms:Ghostbusters nl:Ghostbusters (film) ja:ゴーストバスターズ no:Ghostbusters nds:Ghost Busters pl:Pogromcy duchów pt:Ghost Busters ru:Охотники за привидениями (фильм) sk:Krotitelia duchov fi:Haamujengi sv:Ghostbusters - Spökligan