  | location = Denver, Colorado, U.S. | birthname = David Leo Fincher | othername = Finch  Davey | occupation = film director | yearsactive = 1984 - present | spouse = Donya Fiorentino (1990-1995) | children = Phelix Imogen Fincher | website = | footnotes =  David Leo Fincher (born August 28, 1962) is an American film and music video director known for his dark and stylish portraits of the human experience.Early life and careerBorn in Denver, Colorado, Fincher was raised in Marin County, California. He moved to Ashland, Oregon in his teens where he graduated from Ashland High School. Inspired by Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Fincher began making movies at age eight with an 8 mm camera. Fincher eschewed the film school route, getting a job loading cameras and doing other hands-on work for John Korty's Korty Films. He was later hired by Industrial Light &amp; Magic in 1980, where he worked on productions for Twice Upon a Time, Return of the Jedi and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. In 1984, he left ILM to direct a commercial for the American Cancer Society, that would show a fetus smoking a cigarette. This quickly brought Fincher to the attention of producers in Los Angeles and he was given the chance to direct the documentary The Beat of the Live Drum featuring Rick Springfield in 1985. Though he would continue to direct spots for companies like Revlon, Converse, Nike, Pepsi, Sony, and Levi's, Fincher soon discovered music videos and went on to direct many famous promos.Propaganda FilmsWith his sights set on a directing career, Fincher joined video-production company Propaganda Films and started off directing music videos and commercials. Like Fincher, other directors such as Meiert Avis, David Kellogg, Michael Bay, Antoine Fuqua, Neil LaBute, Spike Jonze, Mark Romanek, Michel Gondry, Zack Snyder, Gore Verbinski, and Alex Proyas honed their talents at Propaganda Films before moving on to feature films.Music videosFincher directed big budget music videos for artists such as Madonna (including "Express Yourself", "Vogue" "Oh Father" and "Bad Girl"), Billy Idol ("Cradle of Love"), Jody Watley, Rick Springfield, Steve Winwood, George Michael, Michael Jackson, Aerosmith, Paula Abdul (including "(It's Just) The Way That You Love Me","Straight Up", "Forever Your Girl", "Cold Hearted", and "Opposites Attract"), The Rolling Stones (including "Love Is Strong"), Nine Inch Nails ("Only"), the Wallflowers, The Outfield and A Perfect Circle ("Judith").Features''Alien³''After directing several popular music videos, Fincher's feature debut was Alien³ (1992), which was at the time the most expensive picture ever made by a first time director. While it received an Oscar nomination for special effects, the film was not well received by critics or movie goers. Fincher became involved with several disputes with 20th Century Fox over script and budget issues, which eventually led Fincher to disassociate himself with the production in later years, as evidenced by his refusal to record a commentary track for the 9-disc Alien Quadrilogy box-set released in 2003 as well as having the film removed from his filmography sections on the DVDs for Fight Club and Panic Room. In "The Director's Cut"Conversations with 21 Hollywood directors, he blames the producers for not putting the necessary trust in him. He opines that they were not interested in making a good film but instead wanted to exploit the franchise in the most profitable manner. Even after the film had already opened in the USA, a Japanese trailer still advertised a storyline that was not in the movie but which the producers would have preferred because of greater expected popularity at the international box office. After this, Fincher retreated back into the world of commercial and music video directing, earning a Grammy for the Rolling Stones' video "Love Is Strong" (1994).''Se7en''In 1995 Fincher directed Se7en. The film, based on a screenplay by Andrew Kevin Walker, told the story of two detectives (played in the movie by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman) tracking down a serial killer (Kevin Spacey) who bases his killings on the seven deadly sins. The movie grossed more than $100 million domestically (over $300 million internationally).Seven (1995)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; The chairman of New Line Cinema, Arnold Kopelson, originally refused to allow filming of the shocking climactic scene. With the aid of Brad Pitt, who stated that he would not be involved with the picture if its ending was changed, Fincher was allowed to film the original scene and use it in the final cut.''The Game''After the success of Se7en, Fincher went on to film The Game (1997), a Twilight Zone-style thriller which shared many similarities in style with Se7en. Yet the film failed to get the warm reception enjoyed by its predecessor. The story focused on a closed off San Francisco businessman (played by Michael Douglas) who receives an unusual gift from his younger brother (Sean Penn), in which he becomes the main player of a role-playing game that takes over his life. It was well received by critics despite middling box-office returns.''Fight Club''Fight Club was a screen adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk's novel of the same name about an insomniac office worker who opens up a club devoted exclusively to bare knuckle fighting for men. Featuring Edward Norton, Helena Bonham Carter, and Se7en collaborator Brad Pitt, the 1999 film was easily one of the most publicized of the year but was an early disappointment at the box-office and received mixed reviews. Fight Club was panned by several critics and alienated audiences leading to its box office failure in the United States.However many critics and audiences later changed their perceptions and the film appeared on many 'best of the year' lists and soon developed a following. Entertainment Weekly, which had originally given the film a negative grade of D, later ranked the DVD #1 on its list of "The Top 50 DVDs You Need To Own."In 2006 the British magazine Total Film voted Fight Club number four in the 100 Greatest Movies of All Time, beaten only by Jaws, Vertigo and Goodfellas at 3, 2 and 1 respectively.Total Film - Who is the greatest?&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;''Panic Room''In 2002, Fincher followed up with the thriller Panic Room. Though the film impressively pulled in over $92 million at the U.S. box office, it was not as well received by critics as Se7en, Fight Club or The Game. The story follows a single mother (Jodie Foster) and her daughter as they hide in a safe room of their new house, away from criminals (Forest Whitaker, Dwight Yoakam and Fight Club collaborator Jared Leto) bent on finding a missing fortune. Fincher acknowledged Panic Room as a more mainstream thriller, describing the film as a "really good B movie" about "two people trapped in a closet" on the DVD's audio commentary.''Zodiac''Five years after Panic Room, Fincher returned on March 2, 2007 with Zodiac, an adaptation of Robert Graysmith's books about the hunt for the Zodiac Killer that starred major actors such as Jake Gyllenhaal, Mark Ruffalo, Robert Downey Jr., Anthony Edwards, and Brian Cox. The vast majority of the film was shot digitally on a Thompson Viper Film Stream Camera. It was the first of Fincher's films to be shot digitally, although contrary to popular belief, it was not entirely digital; high-speed film cameras were used for the Blue Rock Springs and Presidio Heights murder scenes for the slow-motion shots.Zodiac Director's Cut DVD, 2nd Disc, Visual Effects featurette It was originally to be released in the fall of 2006 but was pushed back after Fincher refused to cut 20 minutes off the film.Zodiac was one of the best-reviewed films of that year, with only two other 2007 films appearing on more top-10 lists (No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood).Best of 2007 « CriticsTop10&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Despite the high-praise, however, the film struggled at the box office, earning only $33 Million in the U.S.Box Office Report - 2007 Box Office&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Despite an aggressive campaign by the studio, expectations surrounding Robert Downey Jr.'s supporting performance, Fincher's direction and Vanderbilt's adapted script, the film did not earn a single Academy Award nomination.Nominees | 80th Annual Academy Awards | Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Future projects''The Curious Case of Benjamin Button''Described as a sci-fi love story, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is Fincher's next film, completed and set for its debut in theaters on December 25, 2008. It is an adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald's short story of the same name. The film will unite Fincher with Brad Pitt for the third time. The film started shooting in November 2006 in New Orleans, before moving on to the Virgin Islands, Montreal, and L.A.. Both Zodiac and this film are co-productions of Paramount Pictures and Warner Bros. Pictures. The budget for the film was estimated at 150 million dollars, partly due to the CGI effects used to reverse the aging in Brad Pitt's character. The film makes the first PG-13 film ever directed by Fincher, in which he previously directed R-rated films since his debut with Alien 3.''Torso''David Fincher is also attached to direct an adaptation of Marc Andreyko and Brian Michael Bendis' graphic novel Torso, with Jake Gyllenhaal attached to the lead role, reuniting him with Fincher after Zodiac.Strike Memo Reveals Lots of Juicy Info! - ComingSoon.net&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; On September 5 2008, Firstshowing.net reported that Matt Damon is in talks to play Eliot Ness in Torso, and that the producers were looking for locations in Cleveland, Ohio.Rumor: Matt Damon in David Fincher's Torso Adaptation?''Rendezvous with Rama''David Fincher has been long attached to do an adaptation of Arthur C. Clarke's 1972 sci-fi book, Rendezvous with Rama. It was brought to his attention by Se7en star Morgan Freeman, whose company, Revelations Entertainment had optioned it. The film was originally to have been made by PolyGram Filmed Entertainment, but after being bought out by Universal Pictures, the film has since moved over to Paramount Pictures (which currently has a joint venture with Universal for international distribution of the 2 studios' films, United International Pictures). It has since been in development.''The Killer''On November 1st, 2007, Variety reported that Fincher was attached to do an adaptation of a French graphic novel called The Killer by Alexis Nolent, which was optioned by Paramount Pictures and Brad Pitt's Plan B Entertainment, with Pitt attached to star in the film. Scripted by Allesandro Camon, the film is about a top assassin, with his conscience getting the better of him, and a cop on his tail.Paramount, Fincher catch 'Killer' - Entertainment News, Film News, Media - Variety&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;''Black Hole''On February 20th, 2008, Variety reported that Fincher was set to direct an adaptation of the Charles Burns comic book, Black Hole. The film, set up at Paramount Pictures, is set to follow sexually active teens who begin to transmit a 'bug' sexually, which causes strange mutations. As of now, no production timetable has been set.''The Goon''On July 2nd, 2008, it was announced that Fincher has optioned Eric Powell's award winning comic, The Goon. BLUR STUDIO is to develop as a CG animated feature film with Dark Horse Entertainment for Universal Pictures.Ready for this GOON fans? Eric Powell's comic book optioned... by someone really cool... - Ain't It Cool News: The best in movie, TV, DVD, and comic book news&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;''Heavy Metal''Variety reported that Paramount Pictures will make another animated film with David Fincher, based on the Heavy Metal comics. Fincher is set to direct one of the film's eight or nine segments, which will also feature other directors such as animator Tim Miller and magazine owner and publisher Kevin Eastman directing another. The film is envisioned as being an animated, adult-themed R-rated filmPar, Fincher put pedal to 'Metal' Eastman, Miller to direct animated segments. On July 14, 2008 Paramount Pictures announced the movie is put on holdHeavy Metal remake on hold. On September 4 2008, it was announced the film was to be made by Columbia Pictures, and a few of the directors attached to make a segment each includes Zack Snyder, Gore Verbinski and Guillermo del ToroZack Snyder, Gore Verbinski, Guillermo del Toro Directing Heavy Metal Segments?FilmographyTheatrical filmsAlien³ (1992)Se7en (1995)The Game (1997)Fight Club (1999)Panic Room (2002)Zodiac (2007)The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008) (completed)Torso (2009) (announced)Heavy Metal (2010, segment)Rendezvous with Rama (TBA)Integrity (TBA)Black Hole (TBA)Music videos"Dance This World Away" Rick Springfield (1984)"Celebrate Youth" Rick Springfield (1984)"Bop Til You Drop" Rick Springfield (1984)"Shame," The Motels (1985)"Shock," The Motels (1985)"All The Love," The Outfield (1986)"Every Time You Cry," The Outfield (1986)"One Simple Thing," Stabilizers (1986)"She Comes On," Wire Train (1987)"Should She Cry," Wire Train (1987)"Endless Nights," Eddie Money (1987)"Downtown Train," Patty Smyth (1987)"I Don't Mind At All," Bourgeois Tagg (1987)"Notorious," Loverboy (1987)"Love Will Rise Again," Loverboy (1987)"Johnny B," The Hooters (1987)"Storybook Story," Mark Knopfler (1987)"Can I Hold You," Colin Hay (1987)"No Surrender," The Outfield (1987)"Say You Will," Foreigner (1987)"Don't Tell Me The Time," Martha Davis (1987)"Tell It To the Moon," Martha Davis (1988)"Heart of Gold," Johnny Hates Jazz (1988)"Englishman in New York," Sting (1988)"Shattered Dreams" (second version), Johnny Hates Jazz (1988)"Get Rhythm," Ry Cooder (1988)"Most of All," Jody Watley (1988)"Roll With It," Steve Winwood (1988)"The Way That You Love Me" (first version), Paula Abdul (1988)"Holding On," Steve Winwood (1988)"Heart," Neneh Cherry (1989)"Bamboleo" (second version), Gypsy Kings (1989)"Straight Up," Paula Abdul (1989)"Most Of All" Jody Watley (1989)"Real Love," Jody Watley (1989)"Bamboleo" (third version), Gypsy Kings (1989)"She's A Mystery To Me," Roy Orbison (1989)"Forever Your Girl," Paula Abdul (1989)"Express Yourself," Madonna (1989)"The End of the Innocence (song)," Don Henley (1989)"Cold Hearted," Paula Abdul (1989)"Oh Father," Madonna (1989)"Janie's Got a Gun," Aerosmith (1989)"Opposites Attract," Paula Abdul (1990)"Vogue," Madonna (1990)"Cradle of Love," Billy Idol (1990)"L.A. Woman," Billy Idol (1990)"Freedom '90," George Michael (1990)"Bad Girl," Madonna (1993)"Who Is It?," Michael Jackson (1993)"Love Is Strong," The Rolling Stones (1994)"6th Avenue Heartache," The Wallflowers (1996)"Judith," A Perfect Circle (2000)"Only," Nine Inch Nails (2005)CommercialsAmerican Cancer Society - "Smoking Fetus" (1984)AT&amp;T - "You Will" (1995)Adidas - "Legs" (2002)Budweiser - "Pool Hall" (1993)Chanel - "The Director" (1992)Coke - "Blade Roller" (1993)Coke - "The Arquettes" (2003)Heineken - "Beer Run" (2004)Honda - "Escape" (1995)HP - "Constant Change" (2004)Levi's - "Restaurant" (1994)Levi's - "Chase" (1996)Levi's - "Reason #259" (1998)Motorola - "Pebl" (2005)Nike - "Barkley On Broadway" (1992)Nike - "Game Breakers" (2003)Nike - "Instant Karma" (1993)Nike - "Speed Chain" (2003)Xbox 360 - Gears of War "Mad World" (2006, as "creative consultant" only)Fight Club Director's Gears Of War Trailer Out Now: News from 1UP.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Xelibri - "Beauty For Sale" (2003)Sprite (2007) - featured artists: Se7en, JJ Lin, and He Jie세븐, '파이트클럽' 데이비드 핀처 감독 만났다Softbank - "Internet Machine" (2008)Apple Inc. - "iPhone 3G" (2008)InterviewsDavid Fincher interview with Paul Guyot of www.dvdtalk.comDavid Fincher interview with Michael Moses of www.drdrew.comDavid Fincher interview with Gavin Smith of edward-norton.org[http://www.esquire.com/features/ESQ0307fincher Esquire magazine interview with Fincher]IndieLondon interview with FincherDavid Fincher Didn't Want To Make 'Another Serial-Killer Movie' ... Until 'Zodiac' Came Along - Part 1 interview with MTVDavid Fincher Discusses Reunion With Brad Pitt, Possible 'Fight Club' Musical - Part 2 interview with MTVCHUD: Exclusive Interview: David FincherMovieweb: David Fincher Talks Zodiac: Director's CutLA Weekly - David Fincher discusses Zodiac's rising starSee alsoList of directorsBooksDark Eye: The Films of David Fincher by James Swallow. Reynolds & Hearn (June 1, 2003) ISBN 1-905287-30-5Henry Keazor, Thorsten Wübbena: Video Thrills The Radio Star. Musikvideos: Geschichte, Themen, Analysen. Bielefeld 2005, p. 260ss., p. 271ss., p. 303ss ISBN 3-89942-383-6ReferencesExternal linksDavid Fincher Blog at fincherfanatic.blogspot.comDavid Fincher at AllmovieSenses of Cinema: Great Directors Critical DatabaseMusic Videos & Commercials at anonymous contentLove Costs: Rescuing Se7en from Nihilism essay at 24 Lies A Second Category:1962 births Category:American film directors Category:American music video directors Category:Grammy Award winners Category:Living people Category:People from Ashland, Oregon Category:People from Denver, Coloradobr:David Fincher bg:Дейвид Финчър ca:David Fincher cs:David Fincher da:David Fincher de:David Fincher es:David Fincher fa:دیوید فینچر fr:David Fincher id:David Fincher it:David Fincher he:דייוויד פינצ'ר nl:David Fincher ja:デヴィッド・フィンチャー no:David Fincher pl:David Fincher pt:David Fincher ro:David Fincher ru:Финчер, Дэвид sq:David Fincher sl:David Fincher sr:Дејвид Финчер fi:David Fincher sv:David Fincher tr:David Fincher zh:大卫·芬奇