   Gentousha Comics (1st edition)Shueisha(2nd edition) | publisher_other =  Tokyopop   Tokyopop   Soleil Manga   Flashbook   Ever Glory Publishing Co., LTD (Taiwan) | demographic = Seinen | magazine = Comic Birz | first = September 2002 | last = June 2007 | volumes = 8   Shueisha | publisher_other = | demographic = Seinen | magazine = Weekly Young Jump | first = 17 April 2008 | last = (ongoing) | volumes =   Nomad | licensor =   Geneon Tokyopop  Qwiny, Tooniverse  Kaze | network =  TBS, BS-i | first = 7 October 2004 | last = 23 December 2004 | episodes = 12   Nomad | licensor =   Geneon Tokyopop  Qwiny  Kaze | network =  TBS, BS-i | first = 20 October 2005 | last = 5 January 2006 | episodes = 12   Nomad | licensor =  Kaze | network =  TBS, BS-i | first = 22 December 2006 | last = 23 December 2006 | episodes = 2   is a manga by the group Peach-Pit, with an anime series of the same name. The story centers around Sakurada Jun, a young hikikomori boy that finds himself indebted to a living doll by the name of Shinku. Jun's sometimes comedic, sometimes dramatic, experiences with Shinku--as well as the other six dolls of the Rozen Maiden--slowly bring him out of his depression and back into the world that he had abandoned.In TV Asahi's "Top 100 Anime Ranking" polled in 2006, Rozen Maiden was ranked 9th on the list. tv asahi's top 100 anime ranking for 2006Background informationStoryJun Sakurada is a Junior High School student who refuses to go to school after being traumatized by an embarrassing experience there (see Hikikomori). He has taken to locking himself in his room, never leaving the house, and spends the day ordering supernatural goods online and returning them before the date in which he has to pay. His older sister, Nori Sakurada, does everything she can to brighten Jun's dreary existence, but is unable to change his situation.One day, Jun receives a letter claiming he has won a prize. The letter asks whether he will "wind" (まきますか？ makimasu ka?) or "not wind" (まきませんか？ makimasen ka?). It states that after he has made his decision, he must place the letter in the drawer of his desk, and a supernatural liaison will take it to the spirit world. Despite his skepticism, he follows these instructions, and discovers soon after that the envelope has vanished. Moments later, he realizes that a richly detailed wood case has materialized within his room. The box contains a strange realistic doll dressed in French aristocratic (synonymous with Gothic Lolita) attire. Jun carefully winds up the doll. The doll creaks, stands up on its own, then proceeds to slap him for handling her as crudely as he had. She introduces herself as, "...Shinku, the fifth doll of the Rozen Maiden."Shinku is a doll from the unique "Rozen Maiden" collection, and before Jun can fully comprehend the weight of his new situation, a stuffed clown plush doll attacks. Shinku promises that she will save Jun's life, but only if he will vow to serve her. Thus, Jun becomes entrusted with the responsibility of protecting Shinku's "Rosa Mystica" whilst she is engaged in a centuries old fight with the other Rozen Maiden dolls for the title of "Alice."The Rozen MaidensThe "Rozen Maidens" are a collection of dolls created by a craftsman named Rozen, whom the dolls refer to as "Father". Their primary source of power is a human host (referred to as a "medium") who wears a ring to symbolize his bond with the doll, although certain dolls have been shown to act without a medium. According to Shinku, she can only be at full power when her medium is present. Each Rozen Maiden has her own distinct personality, guardian spirit, and supernatural ability.Characters of Rozen MaidenThe Alice GameThe Rozen Maidens' apparent purpose is to participate in the "Alice Game", a lethal competition that promises the winner the right to meet "Father" by becoming "Alice," a girl of supreme beauty and perfection whose spirit lives inside of "Father"; she is said to be "more sublime than any flower, purer than any gem, and without a touch of impurity."The game encompasses duels in which the dolls fight each other using both their guardian spirits and respective abilities, such as the manipulation of strawberry vines, as well as the spiritual energy from their medium. The doll that loses the duel loses her "Rosa Mystica," the very essence that endows her with the ability to move. The lost Rosa Mystica, which contains the memories and emotions of the duel's loser, is then collected and absorbed by the duel's winner. The doll that acquires all seven Rosae Mysticae will become Alice. The game has gone on for years, mostly because dolls have repeatedly broken off duels rather than fight them to a conclusion. Shinku, the central doll of the series, is notable in that while she does not refuse to fight, she does think that it is possible to win the game without killing her sisters: Hina Ichigo lost the Alice game when she renounced her contract with her medium. Shinku granted Hina Ichigo a new subcontract and did not take her Rosa Mystica. A doll can also no longer become Alice if she loses her Rosa Mystica. However, when such a subcontract is given, the source of power is still the original human medium. Therefore, Hina Ichigo draws energy in duels from Shinku, but this energy is actually Jun's.MangaThe Rozen Maiden manga, produced by Peach-Pit, has been serialized in two different magazines: Monthly Comic Birz from 2002 to 2007, and Weekly Young Jump from April 2008 onwards. It has garnered quite a few followers, including Japan's current Prime Minister, Taro Aso, who gained the nickname "Rozen Aso" after being seen reading Volume one of the Birz manga in public, allegedly while waiting at Tokyo International Airport. Aso remarked about the manga, "Although it looked girlish, I was impressed that its story was so deep."『自由と繁栄の弧』 P.296～P.305 「やっぱり読んでいたんですね 直撃! ローゼンメイデン疑惑?」 ISBN 9784344013339 Written by Taro Aso, edited by Ryota IshizukaFirst series (Comic Birz)Rozen Maiden was serialized in Comic Birz from September 2002 to July 2007. Individual chapters were referred to as "phases", of which around 43 were published. After March 2007, publication stopped for several months. Some speculated that the editorial department lost Peach-Pit's draft, while others said there was some kind of disagreement between Peach-Pit and the editorial department.Rozen Maiden Serialization Suspended - Comi Press, 2007-01-30. The finale of Rozen Maiden was serialized in the July issue of Birz, with Peach-Pit apologizing to their readers for the abrupt ending—amounting as it did to a deus ex machina.PEACH-PIT Apologizes for Rozen Maiden Incident - Comi Press, 2007-06-26 The manga, which had been collected into seven volumes thus far, ended with an abridged volume that stopped at Phase 43. At only 90 pages, Volume 8 was noticeably thinner than the previous seven, compared to about 175 for each of the others.VolumeISBNPublished1Japan: 4-344-80212-8Japan: 24 March 20032Japan: 4-344-80340-XJapan: 24 December 20033Japan: 4-344-80452-XJapan: 24 September 20044Japan: 4-344-80505-4Japan: 24 December 20045Japan: 4-344-80620-4Japan: 24 August 20056Japan: 4-344-80691-3Japan: 24 January 20067Japan: 4-344-80822-3Japan: 24 September 20068Japan: 9784344810303Japan: 23 June 2007まんがの森&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Languages: Besides Japanese, the first series manga is also available in Chinese, Bengali, English, French, German, Italian, Thai, Korean, and Spanish.Remodeled MangaIn accordance to starting the serialization of the second series of Rozen Maiden manga, Young Jump has announced the production of a new edition (新装版; "remodeled edition") of the original manga series. Young Jump also promised to publish the new edition's books on a monthly basis, and will publish (via the Shueisha company) a total of 7 books. The new books are adorned with golden covers and new cover art, featuring each of the Rozen Maiden dolls in order of their creation by Rozen. Each book contains a promotional colored post-card. In addition, new color pages were said to be added.Young Jump's Rozen Maiden webpageSecond series (Weekly Young Jump)In March 2008, a one-shot manga titled Shōjo no Tsukuri-kata ("How to Make a Girl") appeared in Japan's Weekly Young Jump magazine, briefly telling the story of the making of Shinku.[http://www.animenewsnetwork.com/news/2008-03-17/peach-pit-draws-one-shot-manga-in-young-jump-mag Anime News Network: Peach-Pit Draws One-Shot Manga in Young Jump Mag] Soon afterwards, Peach-Pit announced that Rozen Maiden would once again be serialized, this time in Weekly Young Jump magazineRozen Maiden Confirmed to Restart in Young Jump Mag - Anime News Network, a fact which was confirmed in the April 17, 2008 issue.The second manga series—with individual chapters referred to as "tales"—began serialization in issue 20 of Weekly Young Jump. Despite appearing in a weekly magazine, the manga continues to be released in monthly installments, as the original did in Birz. The manga is again titled "Rozen Maiden", and stars an older Jun, now a university student. Jun's workaday life is disrupted when he suddenly finds himself in possession of a weekly magazine titled "How to Make a Girl", which comes with a box containing doll parts. He decides to put together the doll from the parts he has received, and, after receiving mysterious communications from someone claiming to be a past version of him, is soon able to awaken Shinku. The series continues, following Jun's struggles to deal with his new life with Shinku, and elucidating many of the mysteries brought about by the sudden ending of the previous manga series.TV mangaA series of manga based on the anime have also been released. It uses the anime storyline, and is in full color with screenshots fitted into manga format.AnimeRozen Maiden (first season)The first season of Rozen Maiden focuses primarily on the psychological rehabilitation of Jun Sakurada. He is a hikikomori, and spends most of his time locked in the safety of his room and ordering items from the internet. However, through a strange order form, he finds himself in possession of an enchanted doll that calls herself "Shinku, the fifth Rozen Maiden doll". Much to Jun's displeasure, Shinku calls on him to create a strange bond with her, and the socially disinclined boy winds up being her "servant". The series follows the two of them as they encounter more Rozen Maidens, dolls that for the most part seem to want nothing more than to drink tea, destroy windows, and draw on his floor with crayons. In this season, five dolls are introduced: Shinku, Hinaichigo, Suigintou, Suiseiseki, and Souseiseki. Suigintou is the primary villain.Rozen Maiden's first season consists of twelve episodes that began airing on October 7, 2004 and ended on December 23, 2004.Rozen Maiden: Träumend (second season)The second season of Rozen Maiden, subtitled  has a slightly darker tone. Träumend is German for "dreaming." The episodes are more plot-driven and deal with topics such as "Father" — the Rozen Maiden's creator — and the inevitable conclusion to the "Alice Game." Jun does not yet attend school (he has much work to make up before he can go back), but studies at home and at the local library. He is much more willing and eager to go outside the house, and seems to have even grown fond of the ever-present dolls. Shinku has also been changed, thanks to the events of the previous season, but she is generally as aristocratic as ever, lecturing and punishing Jun at every opportunity. Several new non-doll characters are introduced, including a riddle-spouting, tuxedo-attired anthropomorphic rabbit and two mysterious men who operate a doll shop. The final group of dolls also appear this season: Kanaria, the second doll, Barasuishou, who introduces herself as the seventh doll, and Kirakishou, the true seventh doll (though not by name).Rozen Maiden: Träumend consists of twelve episodes that began airing on October 20, 2005 and ended on January 26, 2006. Only the first volume of DVDs—including the first four episodes—is currently available in North America, after Geneon cancelled its North American releases in September 2007 Geneon USA to Cancel DVD Sales, Distribution by Friday - Anime News Network. On July 3, 2008, Geneon Entertainment and Funimation Entertainment announced an agreement to distribute select titles in North America. While Geneon Entertainment will still retain the license, Funimation Entertainment will assume exclusive rights to the manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of select titles. Rozen Maiden and Rozen Maiden Traumend were two of several titles involved in the deal. in DVD format, thus raising hopes that Träumend would be released in its entirety. Volume 2 is now officially set for release in North America on October 28, 2008. http://www.amazon.com/Rozen-Maiden-Traumend-Vol-2/dp/B001DN0UX0/ref=wl_it_dp?ie=UTF8&amp;coliid=I2WTG77Q43NL1M&amp;colid=1ZOJ50450EJB8Rozen Maiden: OuvertüreThis two-episode Rozen Maiden special was aired on the December 22, 2006 and December 23, 2006 on TBS in Japan. It is a brief prequel to the events of the TV series. , German for "opening", is set at some point during Träumend (most likely between episodes six and seven) and answers critical questions about Suigintou's past, particularly those pertaining to the rivalry she holds with Shinku. The majority of the two-episode special is told by Souseiseki and takes place as a flashback to the nineteenth century in London. Ali Project once again lends its talents for the opening song. As with the series, Kukui sings the ending theme.Detective Kunkun – Duell Walzer OVADuell Walzer OVA is a 7 minute Detective Kunkun episode. The show is presented as an opera performance with curtains, showtime buzzer and stage. The story is about how Detective Kunkun foils the evil cat's plans to steal a beautiful gem from another character. This episode portrays watching Detective Kunkun's show from a Rozen Maiden doll's perspective."Duell Walzer OVA" consists of only one episode, and is found on the Rozen Maiden-Duellwalzer PlayStation 2 game disc.Unresolved issuesKirakishouBarasuishou is actually not the seventh Rozen Maiden, but rather a copy of one. The true seventh Rozen Maiden, Kirakishou, is shown very briefly towards the end of the final episode of Rozen Maiden Träumend, watching Laplace no Ma dance with two Rosae Mysticae in his hands. Nothing more about Kirakishou has been revealed in the anime.LaplaceAt first, he seems to support Enju and Barasuishou in the battle against the Rozen Maidens, but in the final episode of Rozen Maiden träumend, he slips away after Barasuishou's destruction, declaring that his amusement has come to an end for the time being. Later on in the episode, he is shown dancing with Kirakishou, holding two Rosae Mysticae, most likely those of Souseiseki and Hinaichigo. When appearing in the Ouvertüre OVA, it seems that he controls the duration of the Alice Game, since he can force the dolls to return to their suit cases when the current Alice Game participants terminate their contracts with their mediums.FatherAt the end of Rozen Maiden Träumend, Enju turns out not to be the man known as Rozen, or "Father", but rather a jealous apprentice of his, who seeks to eclipse Rozen's art. To accomplish his goal, Enju created Barasuishou to destroy the Rozen Maidens and thus become Alice. Barasuishou succeeds in defeating most of the Rozen Maidens and acquires all six of their Rosae Mysticae, but because she is not a true Rozen Maiden, she is unable to contain the Rosae Mysticae and crumbles away in Enju's arms. The true "Father" appears afterwards, and resurrects all of the Rozen Maidens except Souseiseki and Hinaichigo, since they were legitimately defeated. He then tells Shinku that there is another way to become Alice, without playing the lethal game, and that it is up to her to figure out how. He also entrusts her with "finding a solution" regarding Souseiseki and Hinaichigo. The series ends shortly after, with no solution to either puzzle.The Magical PowerIt is known that Enju and Rozen have the ability to bring dolls to life, and Shirosaki, or more precisely, Laplace, can change his appearance and move to and from the N-field at will. At the end of Rozen Maiden, Jun was able to magically reattach Shinku's arm. Suigintou notes that apparently only a Maestro (referencing to Rozen) possesses this sort of power, though Shinku notes that in Jun's world, he can do whatever he wishes he can do. Clearly, Jun is not Rozen, but his sewing expertise was able to restore a doll to life earlier in the series, which would suggest that Jun may have latent magical power with the potential to equal Rozen's.Anime and manga differencesThe anime and manga bear significant differences from each other, including different stories, characters and sequence of events.Story and charactersWhile the anime's first season portrays Shinku as extremely serious and composed, in the manga she is often shown in compromising and amusing situations using a simplified version of her face.In the anime, Souseiseki's master is an old man who uses her as a surrogate for his long-dead son. In the manga, Souseiseki's master is a wealthy and bitter old man who wants to exact revenge on the woman who eloped with his twin brother many years ago; on the day they eloped, they were unfortunately caught in a disaster at sea that the twin brother did not survive. Souseiskei's master thus blamed his brother's fiancée for his twin's death.In the first episode of the anime, and the first chapter of the manga, Suigintou sends a doll to kill Jun when Shinku first arrives. In the anime, the doll is a clown doll, but in the manga the doll is a teddy bear named "Bu Bear" (クマのブさん Kuma no Bu-san) or "Booh Bear" in the English translation (most likely a reference to Winnie-the-Pooh).In the manga, Suigintou tears Bu Bear apart after it has failed its mission, but leaves the remains in Jun's room. In the anime, the clown doll is torn apart when it protects Shinku from an attack by Suigintou. In both cases, Jun is able to restore the dolls.Barasuishou, Enju, the Shibasakis, Shirosaki, Sara and Yamamoto-kun do not exist in the manga.In the manga, Jun withdraws from school in humiliation after he is revealed as the designer of a special occasion dress for the class beauty; he had previously denied adamantly that he liked designing girls' fashions. In the anime, Jun withdraws from school after everyone in his class started whispering behind his back about how he did poorly on a test — most likely, an entrance exam for a competitive junior high school. This was traumatic for Jun because he had been previously regarded as an academic genius.In the anime, Hinaichigo loses for good in the Alice Game when "Father" terminates the link between Shinku and her; Shinku had established the link after she defeated Hinaichigo previously so that Hinaichigo could use Jun as her medium. In the manga, Hinaichigo's body is forcefully taken and consumed by Kirakishou in the N-Field. In both versions, Shinku receives Hinaichigo's Rosa Mystica.In the manga, Suigintou steals Souseiseki's Rosa Mystica after she sacrifices herself for the good of her master. In the anime, Suigintou defeats Souseiseki in battle and wins Souseiseki's Rosa Mystica outright.In the fifth volume of the manga, "Father" is revealed to be the Count of St Germain. The anime, to date, makes no revelation as to "Father"'s true identity.MediaCDs A variety of CDs have been released for Rozen Maiden, largely involving Drama CDs, or original soundtracks. Rozen Maiden OST and Rozen Maiden Drama CDs DVDsGeneon licensed Rozen Maiden, and completely released the first season on DVD (first DVD containing 4 episodes was released on May 29, 2007 with officially dubbed English. The other 8 episodes were released on two other DVDs ('Maiden War' and 'War of the Rose'). The special edition DVD comes with a velveteen artbox. Geneon's Rozen Maiden license was announced through a unique "Guess The Geneon License" contest through Anime News Network. This contest was conducted through a scavenger hunt held in the form of a podcast. Listeners had to discover various clues that were littered throughout the podcast English logo for Little airplane .The first DVD of the second season, 'Puppet Show', was released on October 23, 2007. The other two DVDs, 'Revival' and 'The Alice game' were supposed to come out in December of that year, but were delayed due to Geneon pulling out of North American DVD salesGeneon USA to Cancel DVD Sales, Distribution by Friday - Anime News Network&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. On July 3, 2008, Geneon Entertainment and Funimation Entertainment announced an agreement to distribute select titles in North America. While Geneon Entertainment will still retain the license, Funimation Entertainment will assume exclusive rights to the manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution of select titles. Rozen Maiden and Rozen Maiden Traumend were two of several titles involved in the deal.Tokyopop Germany has completely released the first season on DVD, and the first Träumend DVD has originally been announced for March 2008, but due to increasing illegal downloads and DVD anime sales decreasing, it will not be releasedTOKYOPOP - NEWS: Aktuelle Meldungen&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;.Kaze, an anime publisher in France, has licensed the anime and has completely released the first, the second season and the OVA.Video gamesRozen Maiden AliBat (Record of Rozen War) is a 3-D fighting doujin game. AliBat (short for "Alice Battle") was originally released at Comiket 69 as a basic demo, where only Shinku, Suigintou, and Suiseiseki were playable characters. The latest version included Hinaichigo, Kanaria, Souseiseki, Barasuishou and even Kirakishou as further playable characters. Detective Kun-Kun is also available as an unlockable character. As a fan-made game, the available abilities and graphic design are basic. The game is freely available over the internet.Rozen Maiden: Battle Royale is a doujin game featuring the cast from Rozen Maiden made with Enterbrain's Fighter Maker game engine. As the name suggests, the characters are pitted against one another one by one along with a simple storyline surrounding the whereabouts of the detective dog Kun-kun. Although a sequel was in development featuring the mediums, the creator has since scrapped the project for other pursuits.Rozen MUGEN is an unofficial mugen fighting game featuring the cast from Rozen Maiden made with the M.U.G.E.N. engine. The stages and characters are developed entirely by an individual known only by the alias drowin.Rozen Maiden: Duellwalzer (CERO Rating: A) is a visual novel game developed by Taito. It was released in Japan for Sony's PlayStation 2 console on 27 April 2006. Two versions were marketed for release: a "normal" one, which only included the game, and a special edition which also included a Rozen Maiden handwatch, similar to the one Shinku is seen using. There are currently no plans to release this game outside of Japan.Rozen Maiden: Gebetgarten (CERO Rating: A) is the second official Rozen Maiden game which was released in March, 2007. Like AliBat, it is a 3-D fighter, but made by Taito with cel-shaded graphics. It will also be for the PlayStation 2 console.ArtbooksThere have been several Rozen Maiden artbooks published. The most notable are called Rozen Maiden Entr'acte, Rozen Maiden ERINNERUNG and well as two novels called Die Romane der Rozen Maiden - Schwarzer Wind and Die Romane der Rozen Maiden - Kalkgrun Augen. DollsBoth Fashion doll companies Jun Planning and Volks have released a series of Rozen Maiden dolls. The Planning dolls are based on their Pullip and Dal Doll models.Rozen Maiden, Pullip, and Dal Doll Collaboration Volks' Rozen Maiden-inspired designs are released as Super Dollfies. TBS shopReferencesExternal linksOfficial sites Peach-Pit The creators of Rozen Maiden Rozen Maiden Official anime website of the first season Rozen Maiden träumend Official anime website of the second season Rozen Maiden ouvertüre Official anime website of the ouvertüre OVA Rozen Maiden Duellwalzer Official website of Duellwalzer (PlayStation 2 game) Gentosha Comics Publisher of Comic Birz Tokyopop English language manga publisher Geneon Official Rozen Maiden Anime WebsiteFrom Little Airplane Productions Tokyopop German language anime and manga publisherDatabases    Category:Anime of 2004 Category:Anime of 2005 Category:Anime of 2006 Category:Comedy anime and manga Category:Creature anime and manga Category:Dolls Category:Drama anime and manga Category:Funimation Entertainment Category:Geneon Category:Rozen Maiden Category:Seinen Category:Supernatural anime and mangade:Rozen Maiden es:Rozen Maiden eo:Rozen Maiden fr:Rozen Maiden ko:로젠 메이든 it:Rozen Maiden nl:Rozen Maiden ja:ローゼンメイデン pl:Rozen Maiden pt:Rozen Maiden ro:Rozen Maiden ru:Rozen Maiden fi:Rozen Maiden th:โรเซน ไมเดน vi:Rozen Maiden zh:薔薇少女