Barbuda is an island in the Eastern Caribbean, and forms part of the state of Antigua and Barbuda. It has a population of about 1,500, most of whom live in the town of Codrington.Barbuda is located north of Antigua, in the middle of the Leeward Islands. To the south are the islands of Montserrat and Guadaloupe, and to the north and west are Nevis, St. Kitts, St. Barts, and St. Martin.The Ciboney were the first to inhabit the island of Barbuda in 2400 BC, but Arawak and Carib Indians populated the island when Christopher Columbus landed on his second voyage in 1493. Early settlements by the Spanish and French were succeeded by the English, who formed a colony in 1666.In Christopher and John Codrington, who had founded the town of Codrington. The Codrington family produced food on their land in Barbuda, and also transported slaves as labour for their sugar plantations on Antigua. There was more than one slave rebellion at Codrington during the 1740s, during which slaves rose against managers. All the slaves were freed in 1834.In 1719, Codrington and the island of Barbuda had its first census (of both people and livestock), conducted by Sir William Codrington (1715-1790).In the second half of the 18th century, the first map of Barbuda was made. This indicates:substantial buildings in the Highland areaa castle in Codringtona fort at River, now known as the Martello Towerhouses at Palmetto_Point_(Antigua_and_Barbuda), Coco Point, and Castle Hilleight catching pensseveral defensive cannon gun battery units in the south, north, west, and easttwo large plantations in the Meadow and Guava area and in the Highlands areaBarbuda is home to the Frigate Bird Sanctuary, which is located in the Codrington Lagoon. Other points of interest include Highland House (the 18th century home of the Codrington family) and the Indian Cave, which contains ancient Amerindian petroglyphs.GeographyLand area: 160.56 km²Capital and largest city (1991): Codrington (capital of Barbuda), est. pop. 1,000Climate: tropical marine; little seasonal temperature variation.Terrain: mostly coral limestone islandsElevation extremes:Lowest point: Caribbean Sea 0 m.Highest point: Highlands 38 m.ClimateIn January and February, the coolest months, the average daily high temperature is 81°F (27°C). In July and August, the warmest months, the average daily high is 86°F (30°C).Category:Lesser Antilles Category:Islands of Antigua and Barbudabr:Barbuda de:Barbuda et:Barbuda es:Barbuda eu:Barbuda fr:Barbuda gl:Barbuda it:Barbuda he:ברבודה lt:Barbuda mk:Барбуда nl:Barbuda ja:バーブーダ島 no:Barbuda pms:Barbuda pl:Barbuda pt:Barbuda simple:Barbuda fi:Barbuda sv:Barbuda zh:巴布達島