The flag of the British Indian Ocean Territory (BIOT) is similar to the flags of other British dependencies and colonies as it has the Union Flag in the upper hoist-side corner. The palm tree and crown are symbols of the Indian Ocean Territory. The origin or meaning of the wavy lines is unknown, and their existence is a break from the traditional practice of flags of British colonies or former colonies. It is understood that the flag, which was granted by Queen Elizabeth II on the 25th anniversary of the BIOT in 1990 Official BIOT Emblems. Cable and Wireless Diego Garcia. Accessed 1 February 2007. is that of the Commissioner and has only semi-official status.Given that it is impossible for civilians to visit the British Indian Ocean Territory, it is not clear whether the flag is actually used. However, a video was released by the Naval Support Facility on Diego Garcia. It shows a scene were the flag is being flown. Command Video. Naval Support Facility Diego Garcia. Accessed 28 August 2006. The only settlements on the Islands are the Anglo-American naval and air facilities.It appears that the flag is also used by the Commissioner of the British Indian Ocean Territory Flags of the World - British Indian Ocean Territory. Accessed 28 August 2006. The Commissioner is based at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London.CIA - The World Factbook -- British Indian Ocean Territory. Accessed 28 August 2006.Other images Image:Flag of the British Indian Ocean Territory 1990.svg|The flag as used in 1990 Image:BIOT flag flying at full mast.jpg|The flag flying on Diego Garcia Notes   Category:Culture of British Indian Ocean Territory British Indian Ocean Territory British Indian Ocean Territorybe-x-old:Сьцяг Брытанскай тэрыторыі ў Індыйскім акіяне cs:Vlajka Britského indickooceánského území de:Flagge des Britischen Territoriums im Indischen Ozean el:Σημαία του Βρετανικού Εδάφους Ινδικού Ωκεανού es:Bandera del Territorio Británico del Océano Índico fr:Drapeau du Territoire britannique de l'océan Indien he:דגל הטריטוריה הבריטית באוקיינוס ההודי lt:Britų teritorijos Indijos vandenyne vėliava hu:A Brit Indiai-óceáni Terület zászlaja ms:Bendera Wilayah Lautan Hindi British nl:Vlag van het Brits Territorium in de Indische Oceaan no:Det britiske territoriet i Indiahavets flagg pl:Flaga Brytyjskiego Terytorium Oceanu Indyjskiego pt:Bandeira do Território Britânico do Oceano Índico ru:Флаг Британской территории в Индийском океане fi:Brittiläisen Intian valtameren alueen lippu sv:Brittiska territoriet i Indiska oceanens flagga