  Fedde le Grand (born 1977, Utrecht, The Netherlands) is a Dutch house DJ and producer whose single "Put Your Hands Up For Detroit" (UK/AUS) / "Put Your Hands Up 4 Detroit" (Europe, excluding UK) hit number one on the UK's singles and the top 5 in the Dutch singles chart, and five weeks in the Spanish dance chart.Biography Fedde le Grand was born in Utrecht on 7 September 1977. As a teenager he became a disc jockey.Le Grand is also one of the innovators of the concept Sneakerz (2004). He created a formula; different venues with three areas throughout the Netherlands, all with their own sound, and a chance given to upcoming talent performing together with famous DJs. Sneakerz started off at ‘De Rechter’ in Eindhoven and it has grown into one of the most popular clubbing nights all over the Netherlands (‘Panama’ Amsterdam, ‘T Paard van Troje’ The Hague, Sneakerz@the Beach in Scheveningen and Bloomingdale).Besides DJing and organising club nights, Fedde le Grand has been producing since 2001. In 2004 he teamed up with Funkerman and Raf. They started Flamingo Recordings, an independent record label that releases their tracks without any compromises. This label has allowed them to keep their underground identity and release fresh tracks sooner than most other labels. They have established themselves in the international label scene with releases licensed to partners such as Defected, Ministry of Sound and CR2 Records.With the release of ‘Put Your Hands Up 4 Detroit’ Fedde le Grand became known to the world. Eminem’s Detroit based hip-hop crew D12 created a vocal version over 'Put Your Hands Up 4 Detroit’ released early 2007. Fedde created remixes for Sharam, Freeform Five, Roog & Greg, Kurd Maverick, Tall Paul, Pete Tong, Camille Jones, Ida Corr, Anita Kelsey, Mr. V and Robbie Williams. Fedde made three compilation albums; The Ministry of Sound album ‘Sessions’ released in the beginning of 2007 and Top of the Clubs volume 33, released on Kontor Records in 2006. His first compilation album ‘Sneakerz’ was mixed and compiled together with Gregor Salto in May 2006.At the end of the summer 2006 ‘Put Your Hands Up 4 Detroit’ won the award ‘#1 summer anthem of Ibiza’. It reached the number one position in the official UK singles chart later that year in November. Other countries followed up and Fedde le Grand got more and more requests from all over the world. March 2007, he had his first international tour through Indonesia, Australia/New Zealand and Miami. At the Winter Music Conference in Miami – where this tour ended – Fedde took home three International Dance Music Awards; Best Breakthrough Solo Artist, Best Breaks/Electro Sound, and Best Underground House Track. He also won two Danish Deejay Awards and the Australian MTV Award.His follow up ‘The Creeps’, a remix of Camille Jones, reached the top 10 of the official UK singles chart. His production ‘Take No Shhh..’ was a major hit within the dance scene together with ‘Just Trippin’. His F to the F project (with his partner Funkerman) ‘Wheels in Motion’ is currently making its way into Europe. Fedde’s latest remix of Ida Corr ‘Let Me Think About It’ has been released May 2007 and was elected DanceSmash at Dutch radio 538 a few weeks later.In May 2007, he toured the United States and Canada, closing his tour in China.In 2008, le Grand performed on stage for the Dutch version of the Live Earth campaign happening world-wide on July 7th. He was part of the Dutch act in his own country taking place in Amsterdam, Netherlands. He performed the ('anthem') theme for Live Earth, 'Mirror 070707'. A few hours later he played at Sensation White in the Amsterdam Arena.Le Grand's work with Ida Corr, 'Let Me Think About It', is now in the process of being released all over Europe. Let Me Think About It" is a 2007 single. The single reached No. 2 on the UK Singles Chart on the October 7, 2007 chart and stayed there for one more week. It has peaked at number 14 on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart so far, number 58 in the Polish Singles Chart and number 11 on South African Radio 5FM. The single also peaked 3 in Romania. In the United States it was released by Ida Corr (but listed as "Ida Corr Vs. Feddy le Grand") and reached number one on Billboard's Hot Dance Airplay chart on February 9, 2008, making it the first import single to reach the chart, up until the week ending March 1, when Warner Bros. Records picked up the single for a US commercial release.On September 23, 2007, Fedde le Grand was featured on BBC Radio 1's Essential Mix.Awards overview2007 Best Dance Video – MTV, Australia2007 International Deejay – Favourite of the year – DDJA, Denmark2007 International Upfront – Release of the year – DDJA, Denmark2007 Best Underground House Track – IDMA, Miami2007 Best Breaks/Electro Track – IDMA, Miami2007 Best Breakthrough Solo Artist – IDMA, Miami2006 '#1 summer anthem of Ibiza' – M8, IbizaGlobal Gathering 2k7Fedde le Grand was the headlining act during Global Gathering 2007 at Stratford Upon Avon in July.DiscographyReferencesExternal linksOfficial SiteSneakerz.nlPut your hands up for Detroit (Behind the scenes) video Category:Dutch DJs Category:Dutch musicians Category:Dutch dance musicians Category:People from Utrecht (city) Category:1977 births Category:Living people Category:House musiciansde:Fedde le Grand es:Fedde le Grand fr:Fedde le Grand it:Fedde Le Grand nl:Fedde le Grand pl:Fedde Le Grand pt:Fedde le Grand tr:Fedde le Grand