  Herod Antipas (short for Antipatros) (before 20 BC &ndash; after AD 39) was a first century AD ruler of Galilee and Perea, who bore the title of tetrarch ("ruler of a quarter"). He is best known today for his role in the events that led to the executions of John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth, both from the accounts of these events in the New Testament and their portrayal in modern media such as film.After inheriting his territories when the kingdom of his father Herod the Great was divided upon his death in 4 BC, Antipas ruled them as a client state of the Roman Empire. He was responsible for building projects at Sepphoris and Betharamphtha, and more importantly for the construction of his capital Tiberias on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee. Named in honor of his patron, the emperor Tiberius, the city later became a center of rabbinic learning.Antipas divorced his first wife, the daughter of King Aretas IV of Nabatea, in favour of Herodias, who had formerly been married to his brother. According to the New Testament Gospels, it was John the Baptist's condemnation of this arrangement that led Antipas to have him arrested; John was subsequently put to death. The Gospel of Luke states that when Jesus was brought before Pontius Pilate for trial, Pilate handed him over to Antipas, in whose territory Jesus had been active. However, Antipas sent him back to Pilate. The legal basis for these events, and the very historicity of Antipas' involvement in the trial, have been the subject of scholarly debate. Besides provoking his conflict with the Baptist, the tetrarch's divorce added a personal grievance to previous disputes with Aretas over territory on the border of Perea and Nabatea. The result was a war that proved disastrous for Antipas; a Roman counter-offensive was ordered by Tiberius, but abandoned upon that emperor's death in AD 37. In AD 39 Antipas was accused by his nephew Agrippa I of conspiracy against the new Roman emperor Caligula, who sent him into exile in Gaul. Accompanied there by Herodias, he died at an unknown date.BiographyEarly lifeAntipas was a son of Herod the Great, who had become king of Judea, and Malthace, who was from Samaria.Josephus, Antiquities 17.20, War 1.562. His date of birth is unknown but was before 20 BC.Milwitzky 638. Antipas, his full brother Archelaus and his half-brother Philip were educated in Rome.Josephus, Antiquities 17.20&amp;ndash;21.Antipas was not Herod's first choice of heir. That honor fell to Aristobulus and Alexander, Herod's sons by the Hasmonaean princess Mariamne. It was only after they were executed (c. 7 BC), and Herod's oldest son Antipater was convicted of trying to poison his father (5 BC), that the now elderly Herod fell back on his youngest son Antipas, revising his will to make him heir.Bruce 6&ndash;7; Schürer 320&ndash;325. During his fatal illness in 4 BC, Herod had yet another change of heart about the succession. According to the final version of his will, Antipas' elder brother Archelaus was now to become king of Judea, Idumea and Samaria, while Antipas would rule Galilee and Perea with the lesser title of tetrarch. Philip was to receive Gaulanitis (the Golan Heights), Batanaea (southern Syria), Trachonitis and Auranitis (Hauran).Josephus, Antiquities 17.188&amp;ndash;189, War 1.664.Because of Judea's status as a Roman client kingdom, Herod's plans for the succession had to be ratified by Augustus. The three heirs therefore travelled to Rome to make their claims, Antipas arguing he ought to inherit the whole kingdom and the others maintaining that Herod's final will ought to be honored. Despite qualified support for Antipas from Herodian family members in Rome, who favoured direct Roman rule of Judea but considered Antipas preferable to his brother, Augustus largely confirmed the division of territory set out by Herod in his final will. Archelaus had, however, to be content with the title of ethnarch rather than king.Josephus, Antiquities 17.224&amp;ndash;249, 299&amp;ndash;323.Kingdom: ]] , 1509]]ReignTo circa AD 29While Archelaus was deemed incompetent by Augustus and replaced with a prefect in AD 6, Antipas would govern Galilee and Perea for forty-two years.Bruce 8. These territories were separated by the region of the Decapolis, with Galilee to the north and Perea to the south (see map). Threats to stability in both areas would have been clear to Antipas when he took office. While he had been making his case to Augustus in Rome, dissidents led by one Judas son of Hezekiah had attacked the palace of Sepphoris in Galilee, seizing money and weapons with which they terrorised the area.Josephus, Antiquities 17.271&amp;ndash;272, War 2.56. This Judas may be identical with the Judas of Galilee who led resistance to the Census of Quirinius (Schürer 381). In a counterattack ordered by Quinctilius Varus, Roman governor of Syria, Sepphoris was destroyed by fire and its inhabitants sold as slaves.Josephus, Antiquities 17.288&amp;ndash;289, War 2.68. Perea, meanwhile, bordered on the kingdom of Nabatea, which had long had uneasy relations with Romans and Jews.For Nabatean history, see Schürer 574&ndash;586.Part of Antipas' solution was to follow in his father's footsteps as a builder. He rebuilt and fortified Sepphoris, while also adding a wall to Betharamphtha in Perea.Josephus, Antiquities 18.27, War 2.168. The latter city was renamed Livias after Augustus' wife Livia, and later Julias after his daughter.Bruce 9; Schürer 342. However, the tetrarch's most noted construction was his capital on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee &ndash; Tiberias, so named to honor his patron Tiberius, who had succeeded Augustus as emperor in AD 14.Josephus, Antiquities 18.36. Residents could bathe nearby at the warm springs of Emmaus, and by the time of the First Jewish-Roman War the city's own buildings included a stadium, a royal palace and a sanctuary for prayer.Schürer 342&ndash;343. It gave its name to the sea and later became a center of rabbinic learning.Bruce 9, citing  and  for the "Sea of Tiberias". However, pious Jews at first refused to live in it because it was built atop a graveyard and therefore a source of ritual impurity; Antipas had to colonise it using a mixture of foreigners, forced migrants, poor people and freed slaves.Josephus, Antiquities 18.37&amp;ndash;38.At other times Antipas was more sensitive to Jewish tradition. His coins carried no images, which would have violated Jewish prescriptions against idolatry.Schürer 343 and n. 16. When Pontius Pilate, governor of Judea from AD 26 to 36, caused offence by placing votive shields in the royal palace at Jerusalem, Antipas and his brothers successfully petitioned for their removal.Philo, On the Embassy to Gaius 299&ndash;305.John the Baptist and JesusEarly in his reign, Antipas had married the daughter of King Aretas IV of Nabatea. However, while staying in Rome with his half-brother Herod (son of Herod the Great and Mariamne II), he fell in love with his host's wife Herodias (granddaughter of Herod the Great and Mariamne I). Antipas and Herodias agreed to divorce their previous spouses in order to marry each other.Josephus, Antiquities 18.109&amp;ndash;110.  calls Herodias' former husband Philip; either the author is confusing him with Philip the tetrarch, or both Herods shared the name Philip (Bruce 10 n. 16; Schürer 344 and n. 19). On learning of this, Aretas' daughter travelled to the fortress of Machaerus, from where Nabatean forces escorted her to her father. Relations between Antipas and Aretas soured and in time preparations began for war.Josephus, Antiquities 18.111&amp;ndash;113.Antipas faced more immediate problems in his own tetrarchy when John the Baptist &ndash; in AD 28/29 according to the Gospel of Luke. &ndash; began a ministry of preaching and baptism by the Jordan River, which marked the western edge of Antipas' territory of Perea. The New Testament Gospels state that John attacked the tetrarch's marriage as contrary to Jewish law, while Josephus says that John's public influence made him fearful of rebellion.; ; ; Josephus, Antiquities 18.118. John was imprisoned in Machaerus and executed.Josephus, Antiquities 18.119. According to Matthew and Mark, Herod was reluctant to order John's death but was compelled by Herodias' daughter (unnamed in the text but traditionally Salome), to whom he had promised any reward she chose in exchange for her dancing.; .Among those baptized by John was Jesus of Nazareth, who began his own ministry in Galilee &ndash; causing Antipas, according to Matthew and Mark, to fear that the Baptist had been raised from the dead.; ; cf. . Luke alone among the Gospels states that a group of Pharisees warned Jesus that Antipas was plotting his death, whereupon Jesus denounced the tetrarch as a "fox" and declared that he, Jesus, would not fall victim to such a plot because "it cannot be that a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem".. The "fox" had been interpreted as a symbol of either cunning or destruction (Schürer 342 and n. 5). Robert H. Gundry, noting that the Greek word is feminine, suggests that "Jesus is calling Herod a vixen ... not an animal to be afraid of or to run away from" (Gundry 3). Luke also credits the tetrarch with a role in Jesus' trial. According to Luke, Pilate, on learning that Jesus was a Galilean and therefore under Herod's jurisdiction, sent him to Antipas, who was also in Jerusalem at the time. Initially, Antipas was pleased to see Jesus, hoping to see him perform a miracle, but when Jesus remained silent in the face of questioning Antipas mocked him and sent him back to Pilate. Luke says that these events improved relations between Pilate and Herod despite their earlier enmity..The reason for Antipas' involvement has been debated. Theodor Mommsen argued that the normal legal procedure of the early Roman empire was for defendants to be tried by the authorities of their home provinces.Cited by Sherwin-White 28. A. N. Sherwin-White re-examined the relevant legal texts and concluded that trials were generally based on the location of the alleged crimes, but that there was a possibility of referral to a province of origin in special cases.Sherwin-White 28&ndash;31. If Pilate was not required to send Jesus to Antipas, he may have been making a show of courtesy to the tetrarchBruce 16&ndash;17; Hoehner 88. and trying to avoid the need to deal with the Jewish authorities himself.Hoehner 88. When Jesus was sent back, Pilate could still have represented Antipas' failure to convict as support for his own view (according to Luke) that Jesus was not guilty of a capital offence,; Bruce 17; Hoehner 89&ndash;90. thus allowing him to avoid responsibility for Jesus' execution.Hoehner 90.Some scholars believe that Jesus' trial by Herod Antipas is unhistorical.Jensen 121. Robin Lane Fox, for example, argues that the story was invented based on Psalm 2, in which "the kings of the earth" are described as opposing the Lord's "anointed", and also served to show that the authorities failed to find grounds for convicting Jesus. (also quoted in ); Lane Fox 297. Helen Bond argues that the trial is probably a literary composition designed to parallel the trials of Paul.Bond 149.Later reignIt was in AD 36 that the conflict with Aretas of Nabatea, caused by Antipas' divorce and the rulers' disagreement over territory, developed into open war. Antipas' army suffered a devastating defeat after fugitives from the former tetrarchy of Philip sided with the Nabateans, and Antipas was forced to appeal to Tiberius for help. The emperor ordered Lucius Vitellius, governor of Syria, to march against Aretas and ensure that he was captured or killed.Josephus, Antiquities 18.113&amp;ndash;115; Schürer 350. Vitellius obediently mobilized two legions, sending them on a detour around Judea while he joined Antipas in attending a festival at Jerusalem. While staying there he learned of the death of Tiberius (16 March AD 37), concluded he lacked the authority to go to war, and recalled his troops.Josephus, Antiquities 18.120&amp;ndash;126; Schürer 350.Josephus implies that Vitellius was unwilling to cooperate with the tetrarch because of a grudge he bore from an earlier incident. According to his account, Antipas provided hospitality at a conference on the Euphrates between Vitellius and King Artabanus II of Parthia, and after Vitellius' diplomatic success anticipated the governor in sending a report to Tiberius.Josephus, Antiquities 18.101&amp;ndash;105. However, other sources place the meeting between Vitellius and Artabanus under Tiberius' successor Caligula,Suetonius, Caligula 14.3; Dio 59.27.2&amp;ndash;3. leading some historians to think that Josephus misdated it to the reign of Tiberius or conflated it with an earlier diplomatic meeting involving Antipas and Vitellius.Bruce 18&ndash;19; Schürer 350&ndash;351.Exile and deathAntipas' fall from power was due to Caligula and to his own nephew Agrippa, brother of Herodias. When Agrippa fell into debt during the reign of Tiberius despite his connections with the imperial family, Herodias persuaded Antipas to provide for him, but the two men quarrelled and Agrippa departed. After Agrippa was heard expressing to his friend Caligula his eagerness for Tiberius to die and leave room for Caligula to succeed him, he was imprisoned. When Caligula finally became emperor in AD 37, he not only released his friend but granted him rule of Philip's former tetrarchy (slightly extended), with the title of king.Josephus, Antiquities 18.143&amp;ndash;239, War 2.178&amp;ndash;181; Bruce 19&ndash;20.Josephus relates that Herodias, jealous at Agrippa's success, persuaded Antipas to ask Caligula for the title of king for himself. However, Agrippa simultaneously presented the emperor with a list of charges against the tetrarch: allegedly, he had conspired against Tiberius with Sejanus (executed AD 31) and was now plotting against Caligula with Artabanus. As evidence, Agrippa noted that Antipas had a stockpile of weaponry sufficient for 70,000 men. Hearing Antipas' admission to this last charge, Caligula decided to credit the allegations of conspiracy. In the summer of AD 39, Antipas' money and territory were turned over to Agrippa, while he himself was exiled.Josephus, Antiquities 18.240&amp;ndash;252, War 2.181&amp;ndash;183. For the date, see Schürer 352&ndash;353 n. 42. The place of his exile is given by Josephus' Antiquities as "Lugdunum" in Gaul.Josephus, Antiquities 18.252. (This may mean the city of Lugdunum now known as Lyon,Bruce 21. or the less important Lugdunum Convenarum, modern Saint-Bertrand-de-Comminges.Schürer 352 n. 41, observing that the transmitted text of Josephus' War states that Antipas was exiled to Spain, and that Lugdunum Convenarum lay on the Gallic-Spanish border.) Caligula offered to allow Herodias, as Agrippa's sister, to retain her property. However, she chose instead to join her husband in exile.Josephus, Antiquities 18.253&amp;ndash;255.Antipas died in exile.Josephus, War 2.183. The third-century historian Cassius Dio seems to imply that Caligula had him killed, but this is usually treated with skepticism by modern historians.Dio 59.8.2; Milwitzky 639. Schürer calls Dio's statement "confused" (353), while Bruce simply remarks that "in exile Antipas and Herodias together disappear from history" (21).LegacyAmong the followers of Jesus and members of the early Christian movement mentioned in the New Testament are Joanna, the wife of one of Antipas' stewards, and Manaen, a "foster-brother" or "companion" of Antipas (both translations are possible for the Greek ). It has been conjectured that these were sources for early Christian knowledge of Antipas and his court. and , with Bruce 13&ndash;14; Lane Fox 297 is skeptical. In any case, Antipas featured prominently in the New Testament in connection with the deaths of John the Baptist and Jesus (see above). The pseudepigraphical Gospel of Peter went further, stating that it was Antipas rather than Pilate who ordered the crucifixion of Jesus. In line with the works's anti-Semitic theme, it pointedly remarked that Herod and "the Jews", unlike Pilate, refused to "wash their hands" of responsibility for the death.Gospel of Peter 1.Antipas has appeared in a large number of more recent representations of the passion of Jesus &ndash; often, as in the films Jesus Christ Superstar and The Passion of the Christ, being portrayed as effeminate. The origin of this tradition may have been Antipas' manipulation by his wife Herodias, as well as Christ's description of him as a "fox" in Luke 13:32, using a feminine word in the original Greek.Gundry 3, endorsed by Goodacre passim.NotesReferencesAncientThe Bible: ; ; ; , , , , , ; , ; , .Dio 59.8.2, 59.27.2&amp;ndash;3.Josephus, Antiquities 17&amp;ndash;18, War 1&amp;ndash;2.Gospel of Peter 1.Philo, On the Embassy to Gaius 299&ndash;305.Suetonius, Caligula 14.3.Modern Pages 340&ndash;353 treat Antipas' reign.External linksGalilee under Antipas and Antipas entries in historical sourcebook by Mahlon H. Smith       Category:1st century BC births Category:1st century deaths Category:Ancient Jewish Roman history Category:Ancient people Category:Herodian dynasty Category:New Testament people Category:Jesus and historyca:Herodes Antipas cs:Héródés Antipas cy:Herod Antipas da:Herodes Antipas de:Herodes Antipas es:Herodes Antipas fr:Hérode Antipas ko:헤로데 안티파스 it:Erode Antipa he:הורדוס אנטיפס nl:Herodes Antipas ja:ヘロデ・アンティパス no:Herodes Antipas oc:Eròdes Antipas pl:Herod Antypas pt:Herodes Antipas ru:Ирод Антипа sl:Herod Antipa fi:Herodes Antipas sv:Herodes Antipas uk:Ірод Антипас yi:הורדוס אנטיפס