Sambo (—also called Sombo or Cambo and sometimes written in all-caps) is a modern martial art, combat sport and self-defense system developed in the Soviet Union and recognized as an official sport by the USSR All-Union Sports Committee in 1938, presented by Anatoly Kharlampiev.The word Cambo(Sambo) is an acronym of  meaning "self-defense without weapons" in Russian. Sambo has its roots in Chinese Shuaijiao, Japanese judo and traditional folk styles of wrestling such as Armenian Koch, Georgian Chidaoba, Moldovan Trîntǎ, Uzbek Kurash, Mongolian Khapsagay and Azerbaijani Gulesh.The founders of Sambo were Vasili Oshchepkov (who died during the political purges of 1937 for refusing to deny his education in judo under its founder Kano Jigoro) and Viktor Spiridonov. They independently developed two different styles, both with the same name. Spiridonov's style was a soft, aikido-like system developed after he was maimed during World War I.Виктор Афанасьевич Спиридонов (Viktor Spiridonov) - biography at peoples.ru (in Russian) Anatoly Kharlampiev, a student of Victor Spiridonov, is often officially recognized as the founder of Sport Sambo.StylesAlthough it was originally a single system, there are now five generally recognized styles of Sambo:Sport Sambo (,Bor'ba Sambo) is stylistically similar to amateur wrestling or judo. The competition is similar to judo, but with some differences in rules, protocol, and uniform. For example, in contrast with judo, Sambo allows all types of leg locks, while not allowing chokeholds and focuses on throwing, ground work and submissions.Classic Sambo - Get the Upper Hand on Your Opponent With Nasty Leglocks by Stephen Koepfer, in Grappling magazineSelf-defense Sambo, which is similar to aikijutsu, jujutsu or aikido and is based on self-defense application, such as defending against attacks by both armed and unarmed attackers. Many practitioners consider Self-Defense Sambo as part of Combat Sambo and not a system unto itself.Combat Sambo (, Boyevoye Sambo). Utilized and developed for the military, Combat Sambo includes practice with weapons, including disarming techniques. Competition in Combat Sambo resembles older forms of judo and modern mixed martial arts, including extensive forms of striking and grappling. The first FIAS World Sambo Championships were held in 2001.Special Sambo - developed for Army Special Forces and Rapid Reaction Police (Militsija) teams and other law enforcement formations. The Special Sambo style differs from team to team due to different tasks and aims; however, the base of any special system developed in that field is of course Sambo. The term "Special Sambo" is a relatively new term which refers to specialized versions of combat Sambo.Freestyle Sambo - uniquely American set of competitive Sambo rules created by the American Sambo Association (ASA) in 2004. These rules differ from traditional Sport Sambo in that they allow choke holds and other submissions from Combat Sambo that are not permitted in Sport Sambo. Freestyle Sambo, like all Sambo, focuses on throwing skills and fast ground work. No strikes are permitted in Freestyle Sambo. The ASA created this rule set in order to encourage non-Sambo practitioners from judo and jujitsu to participate in Sambo events.Uniform and RankingSambo Rating RankEquivalent Competitive AchievementThird-Class Sportsmancity championSecond-Class Sportsmanstate championFirst-Class Sportsmanregional championCandidate for Master of Sportsnationally ranked playerMaster of Sportsnational championInternational Master of Sportsinternational championDistinguished Master of Sportsinternational champion withA Sambo practitioner normally wears either a red or a blue jacket kurtka, a belt and shorts of the same color, and sambovki (Sambo shoes). The Sambo uniform does not reflect rank or competitive rating. Sport rules require an athlete to have both red and blue sets to visually distinguish competitors on the mat.In Russia, a competitive rating system is used rather than belt colors like judo and jiujitsu to demonstrate rank, though some schools around the world now institute belt colors as well. The rating system is called Unified Sports Classification System of the USSR, with the highest athletic distinction known as the Distinguished Masters of Sport in Sambo.Examination requirements vary depending on the age group and can vary from country to country. The examination itself includes competitive accomplishment as well as technical demonstration of knowledge. Higher level exams must be supervised by independent judges from a national Sambo association. For a rating to be recognised, it must be registered with the national Sambo organization.HistoryOrigins and influencesThe founders of Sambo deliberately sifted through all of the world's martial arts available to them to augment their military's hand-to-hand combat system. One of these men, Vasili Oschepkov, taught judo and karate to elite Red Army forces at the Central Red Army House. He had earned his nidan (second degree black belt out of then five) from judo's founder, Kano Jigoro, and used some of Kano's philosophy in formulating the early development of the new Russian art.Sambo was in part born of native Russian and other regional styles of grappling and combative wrestling, bolstered with the most useful and adaptable concepts and techniques from the rest of the world.As the buffer between Europe and Asia, Russia had more than ample opportunity to evaluate the martial skills of various invaders. Earlier Russians had experienced threats from the Vikings in the West and the Tatars and Genghis Khan's Golden Horde from Mongolia in the East. The regional, native combat systems included in Sambo's genesis are Tuvan Khuresh, Yakuts khapsagai, Chuvash akatuy, Georgian chidaoba, Moldavian trinta, Armenian kokh, and Uzbek Kurash to name a few.The foreign influences included various styles of European wrestling, Japanese jujutsu, and other martial arts of the day plus the classical Olympic sports of amateur boxing and Greco-Roman and freestyle wrestling. Sambo even derived lunging and parrying techniques from the Italian school of swordsmanship.Sambo's early development stemmed from the independent efforts of Oschepkov and another Russian, Victor Spiridonov, to integrate the techniques of judo into native wrestling styles. Spiridonov's background involved indigenous styles of Russian martial art. His "soft-style" was based on the fact that he received a bayonet wound during the Russo-Japanese War which left his left arm lame. Both Oschepkov and Spiridonov hoped that the Russian styles could be improved by an infusion of the techniques distilled from jujutsu by Kano Jigoro into his new style of jacket wrestling. Contrary to common lore, Oschepkov and Spiridonov did not cooperate on the development of their hand-to-hand systems. Rather, their independent notions of hand-to-hand combat merged through cross-training between students and formulative efforts by their students and military staff. While Oschepkov and Spiridonov did have occasion to collaborate, their efforts were not completely united.Each technique was carefully dissected and considered for its merits, and if found acceptable in unarmed combat, refined to reach Sambo's ultimate goal: to stop an armed or unarmed adversary in the least time possible. Thus, the best techniques of jujutsu and its cousin, judo, entered the Sambo repertoire. When the techniques were perfected, they were woven into Sambo applications for personal self-defense, police, crowd control, border guards, secret police, dignitary protection, psychiatric hospital staff, military, and commandos.DevelopmentIn 1918, Lenin created Vseobuch (Vseobshchee voennoye obuchienie or General Military Training) under the leadership of N.I. Podovoyskiy to train the Red Army. The task of developing and organizing Russian military hand-to-hand combat training fell to K. Voroshilov, who in turn, created the NKVD physical training center Dinamo.Spiridonov was a combat veteran of World War I and one of the first wrestling and self-defense instructors hired for Dinamo. His background included Greco-Roman wrestling, freestyle wrestling, many Slavic wrestling styles, and Japanese jujutsu. As a combatives investigator for Dinamo, he traveled to Mongolia and China to observe their native fighting styles.In 1923, Oschepkov and Spiridinov collaborated (independently) with a team of other experts on a grant from the Soviet government to improve the Red Army's hand-to-hand combat system. Spiridonov had envisioned integrating all of the world's fighting systems into one comprehensive style that could adapt to any threat. Oschepkov had observed Kano's distillation of Tenjin Shin’yo Ryu jujutsu and Kito Ryu jujutsu into judo, and he had developed the insight required to evaluate and integrate combative techniques into a new system. Their development team was supplemented by Anatoly Kharlampiev and I.V. Vasiliev who also traveled the globe to study the native fighting arts of the world. Ten years in the making, their catalogue of techniques was instrumental in formulating the early framework of the art to be eventually referred to as Sambo. Here, Oschepkov and Spiridonov's improvements in Russian wrestling slipped into the military's hand-to-hand-combat system.Kharlampiev is often called the father of Sambo. This may be largely semantics, since only he had the longevity and political connections to remain with the art while the new system was named "Sambo". However, Kharlampiev's political maneuvering is single-handedly responsible for the USSR Committee of Sport accepting Sambo as the official combat sport of the Soviet Union in 1938—decidedly the "birth" of Sambo. So, more accurately, Kharlampiev could be considered the father of "sport" Sambo.Spiridonov was the first to actually begin referring to the new system as one of the "S" variations cited above. He eventually developed a softer, more aikido-like system called Samoz that could be used by smaller, weaker practitioners or even wounded soldiers and secret agents. Spiridonov's inspiration to develop Samoz stemmed from his injury that he suffered that greatly restricted his ability to practice Sambo or wrestling. Refined versions of Sambo are still used today or fused with specific Sambo applications to meet the needs of Russian commandos today.As an Olympic SportIt is often stated that Sambo was a demonstration sport at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, USSR. Youth Sambo was demonstrated in the Games' opening ceremonies; however, Sambo was not formally recognized as demonstration sport. Several sources note this common error in history books including History of SAMBO by A. Makoveski and Lukashev's History of Hand-to-Hand Combat in the First Half of the 20th Century: Founders and Authors Sambo a demo sport in 1980 olympics? (Worldwide Grappling Forums). Furthermore, the official documents of the 1980 Olympic Organizing Committee do not mention Sambo as a participating sport in the Games. Games of the XXIII Olympiad (Volume 3 - Participants and Results) (640 pages)TodayThe FILA accepted Sambo as the third style of international wrestling in 1968, until the Sambo community formed its own organization, Federation International Amateur Sambo (FIAS),in 1985. In 1993, FIAS split into two organizations, both used the same name and logo and the two groups were often referred to as FIAS "East" (under Russian control) and FIAS "West" (under US and Western European control). This split mirrored the last days of Cold War politics of the time as well as the recent break-up of the Soviet Union. In 2005, FILA reached an agreement with FIAS "West" and re-assumed sanctioning over sport Sambo.Struggling To Survive - Can FILA End Sambo's Civil War? - in Grappling magazine At present, FILA sanctions international competition in the style, as does FIAS (formerly FIAS "East"). Both organizations conduct separate world championships and other international events. However, only FIAS sanctions and conducts Combat Sambo competition.PractitionersChampions, the venue of many Sambo competitions]]Fedor Emelianenko, World Combat Sambo Champion and Russian Combat Sambo Champion. He was the last heavyweight champion of the former PRIDE Fighting Championships and current WAMMA heavyweight champion.Andrei Arlovski, former UFC heavyweight champion. He was also the Junior World Sambo Champion, as well as a silver medalist in the World Sambo Championship and World Sambo Cup.Clinton Burke, NCAA wrestling finalist and All-American from the University of Oklahoma, was a four-time finalist in world competition beginning in 1987, when he earned a silver medal in the World Cup in Tokyo. He won World Championship silver medals in three different weight classes (62&nbsp;kg, 68&nbsp;kg, and 74&nbsp;kg), closing his career in 1993 as runner-up in the World Championships in Kstovo, Russia.Lance Campbell Sport Sombo World Champion. One of only eight grapplers selected to compete in the Ultimate Submission Showdown.Ansar Chalangov, a mixed martial arts competitor who has appeared in two fights in UFC's welterweight division.Amy Ehlenfeldt, an accomplished US judo player; she won the 1991 FIAS World Championships in Montreal, Canada, becoming the first American woman to achieve victory over a female USSR competitor.Aleksander Emelianenko, Fedor's brother, is a two-time Russian national Sambo champion and two-time world Sambo champion in the absolute divisions.Megumi Fujii, a currently undefeated female MMA fighter. She is known as the Princess of Sambo. She is currently training in catch wrestling under former PRIDE Fighting Championship top heavyweight contender, Josh Barnett.James Chico Hernandez, the first Sambo Champion to be featured on a box of Wheaties Energy Crunch. He is a World Cup Vice-Champion, US National Sambo Champion and British Sambo medalistSergei Kharitonov, a PRIDE Fighting Championship competitorSatoko Shinashi, an accomplished Japanese mixed martial arts competitor often called the "Queen of MMA"Scott Sonnon, Honourable Master of Sports in Sambo http://www.rmaxinternational.com/images/sambo/sonnonsambodiplomasmall.jpg, was nominated for the American Sambo Association's Pioneer of American Sambo award, World Sambo Games Vice-Champion, USA Grand National and Pan-American Sambo Champion, and USA National Sambo Team Coach.Martial Arts Biography by Scott Sonnon Sonnon specializes in no-gi Sambo for mixed martial arts competition, focusing on training UFC fighters such as Alberto Crane and Jorge Rivera.Sambo for MMA and Jiujitsu (mmasaddle.com)Oleg Taktarov, UFC 6 Champion, UFC '95 Ultimate Ultimate Tournament finalist, and actor.Ron Tripp, World Sambo and Judo champion and current president of USA Judo. Tripp was promoted to 10th degree in Sambo in 1995 and became America's first Distinguished Masters of Sport in 1996.Igor Yakimov, World Judo Champion, as well a world Sport Sambo Champion and a medallist at the Combat Sambo world championships.Fictional practitionersBoris Ivanov and Alexander Kareda from the manga Shijō Saikyō no Deshi Ken'ichiThe fictional character Blue Mary of the King of Fighters video game series uses a stylized version of Sambo.Sergei Dragunov of Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection uses the military version of Sambo.Bayman and Leon of the Dead or Alive game series both use Combat Sambo.Cyrax and Sektor use Sambo in Mortal Kombat: Deadly Alliance.Zangief uses a variation of Sambo and integrates it into Pro Wrestling.Professional wrestler Dave Taylor was a Sambo champion in England and is a third-generation practitioner of the sport.Mikhail Bakunin of the TV series Lost appears to use Sambo, probably due to his military training before joining the DHARMA Initiative.Michael Westen uses Sambo as part of his under cover operation in the Burn Notice episode 'Comrades'.Celebrity practitionersVladimir Putin, Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, is Master of Sports in both Sambo and judo.FootnotesSourcesFILA Sombo Rules - May 2006Sombo handbook - by Bruce Gabrielson, PhDCreation of Sambo - by Michail Lukashev, first published in Physical Culture and Sport magazine N9-10/91.Classical SAMBO - with many examples and pictures.About Sombo - Sambo overview at AnyMartialArt.orgCST Magazine Interview with Steve Koepfer from the American Sambo Association - information about combat and freestyle Sambo.External linksOrganisationsFIAS (Federation International Amateur Sambo)Asian SAMBO FederationFILA SamboAmerican Sambo AssociationUnited States Sombo Association - FILA affiliatedUnited States Combat SAMBO AssociationOtherhttp://www.sambo-asia.org Asian SAMBO Federation official web-siteRussian Sambo Video Clips, Articles and Technique TutorialsPhotoalbum (SAMBO, information database) | ruMMA SaddleSAMBO, information database | ru Category:Combat sports Category:Russian culture Category:Soviet culture Category:Sport in the Soviet Union Category:Russian martial arts Category:Russian loanwords Category:Sambo Category:Military of the Soviet Unionbg:Самбо da:Sambobrydning de:Sambo es:Sambo eo:Sambo (luktosporto) fr:Sambo hr:Sambo id:Sambo it:Sambo he:סמבו (אמנות לחימה) ka:სამბო kk:Самбо hu:Szambó nl:Sambo ja:サンボ (格闘技) pl:Sambo (sztuka walki) pt:Sambô ro:Sambo ru:Самбо scn:Sambo sk:Sambo sr:Самбо fi:Sambo sv:Sambo (kampsport) tr:Sambo zh:桑搏