 | location = San Francisco, California | birthname = Lisa Michelle Bonet | othername = Lilakoi Moon | partner = Jason Momoa | notable role = Denise Huxtable in The Cosby Show and A Different WorldEpiphany Proudfoot in Angel HeartRachel F. Banks in Enemy of the State | spouse = Lenny Kravitz (1987 - 1993) (divorced)Lisa Bonet (born November 16, 1967) is an Emmy Award-nominated American actress. She is perhaps best known for portraying the character of Denise Huxtable on The Cosby Show and its spinoff A Different World.BiographyEarly lifeBonet was born Lisa Michelle Bonet in San Francisco, California. Her African American father is Allen Bonet and her Jewish American mother is Arlene Litman Bonet Lisa Bonet Picture, Profile, Gossip, and News at CelebrityWonder.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; . Her parents divorced when she was young. She lived most of her life in New York and Los Angeles, where she attended Reseda High School in Reseda, California, and Celluloid Actor's Studio in North Hollywood where she majored in acting .Personal lifeOn her 20th birthday, she eloped with singer Lenny Kravitz in Las Vegas. Bonet recalled of their relationship:She gave birth to daughter Zoë Isabella on December 1, 1988. She and Kravitz separated and eventually divorced in 1993.In 1992, Lisa started dating yoga instructor Bryan Kest. They began living together but did not have a child as previously reported.It was around this time (1992) that Lisa legally changed her name to Lilakoi Moon, although she still uses the name Lisa Bonet for her entertainment career. Lisa has said that she has deliberately cut back on acting so that she could spend more time with her family.Bonet gave birth on July 23, 2007, to her second child, daughter Lola Iolani Momoa. This is her first child with Jason Momoa, an actor noted for his roles in the television shows Baywatch and Stargate Atlantis Celebrity Baby Scoop&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. she is currently expecting her second child with Momoa http://www.celebritybabyscoop.com/index.php?s=lisa+bonet.CareerBonet is known for playing the role of Denise Huxtable on The Cosby Show alongside Bill Cosby and Phylicia Rashād, among others, but Bonet actually began acting when she was 11, attending auditions and participating in television commercials before she became well-known.In 1987 she accepted the role of Epiphany Proudfoot in the movie Angel Heart opposite Mickey Rourke, directed by Alan Parker. Her appearance caused controversy and some scenes had to be cut to avoid an X rating.http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9B0DEEDA1F3DF932A15751C0A961948260 R rating upheld for Angel HeartBonet began to accept jobs on straight-to-video releases and made-for-TV movies. She changed her name legally in 1995 to Lilakoi Moon, deciding to continue using her birth name on the productions she participated in. In 1998 she had a supporting role in Enemy of the State with Will Smith. In 2000 she appeared in the movie High Fidelity. Her most recent film appearance was in Biker Boyz which reunited her with former co-star Kadeem Hardison of A Different World.In August 2006, Bonet appeared in a week-long A Different World reunion special that aired on Nick at Nite, along with fellow co-stars Hardison, Jasmine Guy, Cree Summer, Dawnn Lewis, Darryl M. Bell, and Sinbad. Bonet co-starred in the 2006 film Whitepaddy, alongside Sherilyn Fenn, Hill Harper, Debra Wilson, Karen Black, and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Bonet is also in negotiation for a role in the 2007 Coen brothers film Gambit, also starring Jennifer Aniston, Colin Firth, and Sir Ben Kingsley .In the fall of 2008, it was announced that Lisa will make her much-anticipated return to television starring alonside Harvey Keitel in the ABC drama, Life on Mars.FilmographyAngel Heart (1987)Bank Robber (1993)New Eden (1994)Dead Connection (1994)Enemy of the State (1998)High Fidelity (2000)Lathe of Heaven (2002)Biker Boyz (2003)Whitepaddy (2006)TriviaA hip-hop album dedicated to Lisa Bonet called Felt, Vol. 2: A Tribute to Lisa Bonet was created by Slug (from Atmosphere) and MURS (from Living Legends) and produced by Ant (also from Atmosphere) and was released on July 12, 2005..ReferencesExternal links Category:1967 births Category:Living people Category:African American actors Category:American film actors Category:American Jews Category:American television actors Category:American vegetarians Category:Black Jews Category:California actors Category:Jewish actors Category:Multiracial actors Category:People from San Francisco, California Category:People of mixed Black African-European ethnicityde:Lisa Bonet es:Lisa Bonet fr:Lisa Bonet it:Lisa Bonet nl:Lisa Bonet ja:リサ・ボネット pl:Lisa Bonet simple:Lisa Bonet fi:Lisa Bonet sv:Lisa Bonet