A mousepad (sometimes mouse pad, mousemat, or mouse mat), is a surface for enhancing the usability of a computer mouse.HistoryDuring a 1968 presentation by Douglas Engelbart marking the public debut of a mouse,, final video Engelbart used a control console designed by Jack Kelley of Herman Miller that included a keyboard and an inset portion used as a support area for the mouse., time: 1:12:35According to Kelley and also stated by Alex Pang, Kelley designed the first mousepad a year later, in 1969.Details of a mousepad designed by Armando M. Fernandez were published in the Xerox Disclosure Journal in 1979 with the description: By 1982, most users of the Xerox ball mouse were using "special pads" to increase the friction of the ball.&lt;/ref&gt;The Oxford English Dictionary tracks the term mouse pad to the 25 August, 1983, publication of InfoWorld, and the predominantly British term mousemat to 17 October, 1989, in the publication 3D.Oxford English Dictionary Online, "mouse", compounds 20. d.BenefitsThe three most important benefits of the introduction of the mousepad were higher speed, more precision, and comfort for the user. A secondary benefit was keeping the desk or table surface from being scratched and worn by continuous hand and mouse rubbing motion. Another benefit was reduction of the collection of debris under the mouse, which resulted in reduced jitter of the pointer on the display.When optical mice, which use image sensors to detect movement, were first introduced into the market, they required special mousepads with optical patterns printed on them. Modern optical mice can function to an acceptable degree of accuracy on plain paper and other surfaces. However, some optical mouse users may prefer a mousepad for comfort, speed and accuracy, and to prevent wear to the desk or table surface.TypesA variety of mousepads exist with many different textured surfaces to fit various different types of mouse technologies. Vinyl board cover, because of its tackiness, was a popular mousepad surface around 1980. After the rubberized silicon surface was incorporated onto the surface of the steel roller ball mouse, the popular fabric-surface mousepad was found to be the most appropriate. It helped keep the rubberized roller-ball surface cleaner and with better tracking, speed and accuracy than just a desk surface, which collected dirt and slowed the mouse's motion.Optical mice have the problem of not working well on transparent or reflective surfaces (such as glass or highly polished wood). These surfaces, which often include desk and table surfaces, cause jitter and loss of tracking on the display pointer as the mouse moves over these reflective spots. The use of mousepads with precision surfaces eliminates spot jitter effects of modern optical mice.DesignsOriginally, mousepads were available in a simple rectangular shape. In recent years, though, they have been available in many shapes and designs. Ergonomic designs are available with built-in wrist rests made of silicone gel, foamed and beaded materials.Companies often give away mousepads for promotional reasons, and computer manufacturers often include a mousepad with their logo on it, usually with technical support information. Many artists have published work on mousepads.There is now a fairly large variety of high quality "gaming grade" mousepads. In the beginning there were only a few such manufacturers: Everglide, fUnc Industries, Icemat, SteelSeries and Ratpadz (made by [[Hard|OCP]]). In 2005, several more companies followed suit, including Razer, Qpad, Corepad, Xtracpads, X-Ray, Gamerzstuff, Ideazon, and Allsop. These pads are available in a wide variety of sizes to suit the different sensitivity settings that gamers choose. The Corepad Deskpad XXXL, one of the largest pads on the market, measures 90cm x 45cm.Corepad Victory &amp; Deskpad XXXL product reviewMaterialsModern mousepads are typically made of lesser density rubber composites (open cell styrene, butadiene rubber or open cell SBR) with fabric bonded to the upper surface. However, many other types of material have been used, including fabric, plastics, recycled rubber tires, silicone rubber, leather, glass, cork, wood, aluminum, stone and stainless steel. High-quality gaming mats are usually made from plastic or high-tech fibers.References Category:Pointing devices Category:Computing input devices Category:History of human-computer interaction Category:Video game control methodscs:Podložka pod myš da:Musemåtte de:Mauspad es:Alfombrilla de ratón eo:Musmato fr:Tapis de souris kk:Тінтуір төсемі ko:마우스패드 it:Mousepad ml:മൗസ് പാഡ് nl:Muismat ja:マウスパッド no:Musematte pl:Podkładka pod mysz komputerową pt:Mousepad ru:Коврик для мышки fi:Hiirimatto sv:Musmatta zh:鼠标垫