1970,  – Equipe Matra]]-Simca1972)Class Wins = 0Albert François Cevert Goldenberg (February 25, 1944 in Paris – October 6, 1973 at Watkins Glen) was a French racing driver, who took part in the Formula One World Championship. Cevert was the son of a Paris jeweler and brother-in-law of Grand Prix driver Jean-Pierre Beltoise.Family backgroundThe son of Charles Goldenberg (1901-1985), a successful Parisian jeweller, and Huguette Cevert, François Cevert was born in Paris in early 1944. His father was a Russian-Jewish emigre who had been brought to France as a young boy, by his parents, to escape the Russian Revolution of 1905. During World War II, with France occupied by the Nazis, as a registered Jew Charles Goldenberg joined the French Resistance to avoid forced deportation to Poland. In order not to draw the authorities' notice to his continuing presence in the heavily controlled capital, Charles and Huguette's four children were all registered with her surname rather than his. Some years after the liberation of France, Cevert's father wanted to rename his children Goldenberg, but the family objected as by now they had become known as Cevert.Cooper, A. 1998. A Date With Destiny? Motor Sport, LXXIV/11 (November 1998), 66-73Early careerFrançois Cevert began his motorsport career on two wheels, rather than four, initially racing his mother's Vespa scooter against friends, before graduating to his own Norton at the age of 19. After completing his National Service, Cevert switched his attention to cars. In 1966 he completed a training course at the Le Mans school, before enrolling at the Magny-Cours racing school. At the same time he registered for the Volant Shell scholarship competition, which offered the top finisher the prize of an Alpine Formula Three car. Cevert duly qualified for the final race and won.His first season in F3, at the wheel of his prize Alpine, did not go well. He lacked the funds and experience to properly set up and maintain his car. After finding sponsorship for the 1968 season, Cevert traded in his Alpine for a more competitive Tecno car. With his new mount Cevert finally started to win races, and by the end of the season he was French Formula 3 Champion, just ahead of Jean-Pierre Jabouille.After winning the French Formula 3 Championship, Cevert joined the works Tecno Formula Two team in 1969, and finished third overall, as well as driving in the F2 class of the 1969 German Grand Prix. At the time, Formula Two was an ideal training ground for ambitious drivers, as many top Grand Prix drivers also competed in the F2 class, when their Formula One schedules permitted. When Jackie Stewart had a hard time getting around Cevert in an F2 race at Crystal Palace the same year, Stewart told his team manager Ken Tyrrell to keep an eye on the young Frenchman. This personal recommendation was to pay off in 1970, as when Tyrrell needed a new driver at short notice Stewart's recommendation was still in his mind. Tyrrell later commented on the reason for Cevert's appointment to the Formula One team that "everybody said it was ''oil company and Tyrrell sponsor Elf, but it was really what Jackie said about him.''"Formula OneWhen Johnny Servoz-Gavin suddenly retired from the Tyrrell Formula One team three races into the 1970 season, Tyrrell called upon Cevert to be his number two driver, alongside defending World Champion Stewart. Over the next four seasons, Cevert became the veteran Stewart's devoted protégé. After making his debut at the Dutch Grand Prix at Zandvoort in Tyrrell's second customer March-Ford, he increased his pace and closed the gap to Stewart with virtually every race. He earned his first World Championship point by finishing sixth in the Italian Grand Prix at Monza.In 1971, with the Tyrrell team now building their own cars, Cevert finished second in France and Germany, both times behind team leader Stewart. Then, in the season-ending United States Grand Prix at the newly-extended Watkins Glen race course, the Frenchman earned his first and only Grand Prix win: Having started from fifth spot, Cevert took the lead from Stewart on lap 14 as the Scot's tires began to go off in the 100° heat. At about half-distance, Cevert finally began to struggle with the same understeer that had plagued Stewart much earlier. Jacky Ickx was closing, and his Firestones were getting better as the race went on. On lap 43, Ickx set the fastest lap of the race, and the gap was down to 2.2 seconds. Then, on lap 49, the alternator on Ickx's Ferrari fell off, punching a hole in the gearbox and spilling oil all over the track! Denny Hulme's McLaren hit the oil and spun into the barrier, bending his front suspension. Hulme was standing beside the track when Cevert came by and also slid off and hit the barrier, but he kept going, now 29 seconds in the lead! Cevert coasted home, taking both hands off the wheel to wave as he crossed the line. http://www.forix.com/asp/notes.asp?z=0&amp;k=0&amp;l=0&amp;i=3582&amp;c=6 Cevert became only the second Frenchman to win a Formula One World Championship Grand Prix (Maurice Trintignant won at Monaco in 1955 and 1958), and it was the high point of his career, helping him take third place in the 1971 Driver's Championship behind Stewart and Ronnie Peterson.Great expectations for Cevert, Stewart and Tyrrell were not fulfilled in 1972 as Emerson Fittipaldi and Lotus won the Driver's and Constructor's Championships. Cevert finished in the points only three times, with second places at Belgium and the US, and a fourth at his home race in France at the Clermont-Ferrand circuit. One bright spot in a disappointing year for Cevert was his second place finish at the 24 hours of Le Mans, driving a Matra-Simca 670 with New Zealand's Howden Ganley.DeathIn 1973, the Tyrrell team was back on top in Formula One and Cevert showed he was capable of running with Stewart at almost every race. He finished second six times, three times behind Stewart, who acknowledged that, at times, the Frenchman had been a very "obedient" teammate. As Cevert began to draw even with Stewart's driving abilities, the Scot was secretly planning to retire after the last race of the season in the United States. For the 1974 season, Cevert would be Tyrrell's well deserving team leader.Tragically, at Watkins Glen, with Stewart having already clinched his third World Championship, Cevert was killed during Saturday morning qualifying, while battling for pole position with Ronnie Peterson. In the fast right-left uphill combination called "The Esses" Cevert's car was a little too much toward the left side, getting a bump from the kerbs described by Niki Lauda in his book The Art and Science of Grand Prix Driving as unbelievably dangerous (the kerbing at the circuit was not changed until 2005 when the Indy Racing League began racing at the circuit). Due to the bump, Cevert's car swerved too much to the right-hand side of the track, where it touched the track's signature powder blue safety barriers causing the car to spin and crash into the barriers on the other side of the track at a near 90° angle, uprooting and lifting the barrier. Cevert died instantly of massive injuries inflicted by the barrier.Jackie Stewart was one of the first on the scene of Cevert's accident and said later "They had left him the car, because he was so clearly dead." When practice resumed, Stewart went out on the track in his car on a personal fact-finding mission. His conclusion was that his preference was to take The Esses complex in fifth gear in the Tyrrell, hence he would be at the low end of the engine's rev range. Cevert however preferred to use fourth gear and be at the top end of his engine's power range: it was always something of a compromise because of the need to accelerate through the combination of corners. Stewart noted that the Tyrrell always felt jumpy through this section of the Watkins Glen track owing to its short wheelbase; he felt that this was somewhat counteracted by driving in the higher gear even though this meant a time penalty if he got his line wrong through the corner. Thus Cevert's driving technique may have been a contributory factor in the accident. Stewart did not run his final race because of Cevert's death.Cevert was 29 years and 224 days old. François Cevert is buried in the Cimétière de Vaudelnay in the village of Vaudelnay, Maine-et-Loire. His grave is covered with a brass of fine black marble and a black relief attached to the wall behind showing his portrait.Complete Formula One results(key) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)YearEntrantChassisEngine123456789101112131415WDCPts.1970]]Tyrrell Racing Organisation]]March]] 701Ford]] V8RSAESPMONBELNEDRetFRA11GBR7GER7AUTRetITA6CAN9USARetMEXRet22nd11971]]Elf]] Team TyrrellTyrrell]] 002Ford]] V8RSARetESP7MONRetNEDRetFRA2GBR10GER2AUTRetITA3CAN6USA13rd261972Elf Team TyrrellTyrrell]] 002Ford]] V8ARGRetRSA9ESPRetMONNCBEL2FRA4GBRRetGER10AUT9ITARet6th15Tyrrell]] 006Ford]] V8CANRetUSA21973Elf Team TyrrellTyrrell]] 006Ford]] V8ARG2BRA10ESP2BEL2MON4SWE3FRA2GBR5NED2GER2AUTRetITA5CANRetUSADNS4th47Tyrrell]] 005Ford]] V8RSANCReferencesHamilton, Maurice, Ken Tyrrell: The Authorised Biography, HarperCollinsWillow 2002, ISBN 0007143761Team Tyrrell Drivers - 1971Grand Prix EncyclopediaF1 Legend8W - Tyrrell in 1973Atlas F1 Bulletin Board with 3 photographs of Cevert's grave at VaudelnayExternal linksFrancois Cevert tribute videoVideo Tribute to François Cevert and his Tyrrell teammate Jackie Stewart    Category:French racecar drivers Category:French Formula One drivers Category:European Formula Two Championship drivers Category:French Formula Three Championship drivers Category:Racecar drivers killed while racing Category:French people of Jewish Descent Category:1944 births Category:1973 deaths Category:Sports deaths in New Yorkca:François Cevert cs:Francois Cevert de:François Cevert es:François Cevert fr:François Cevert hr:François Cevert it:François Cévert nl:François Cevert ja:フランソワ・セベール pl:François Cévert pt:François Cévert ro:François Cevert sl:François Cevert fi:François Cevert sv:François Cévert