  Henri Christophe (October 6, 1767 – October 8, 1820) became a career officer and general in the military forces that became the Haïtian Army, leading the rebellion and achieving independence for Haiti. Creating a separate nation in the north, Christophe was elected President of the State of Haiti on February 17, 1807. He then created a kingdom in the north, where he was proclaimed Henri I, King of Haïti on March 26, 1811. Christophe committed suicide on October 8, 1820.Early lifeBorn in St Kitts&lt;/ref&gt;, Christophe was brought to [[Saint Domingue]] as a slave in the northern region.  He was said to be of mixed race.  In 1779 he may have served with the French Forces as a drummer boy in the [[American Revolution]] in the Chasseurs-Volontaires de Saint-Dominigue, a regiment composed of [[gens de couleur]]. They fought at the [[Siege of Savannah]].  As an adult, Christophe worked in and managed a hotel restaurant in Le Cap, a major city of northern Saint-Domingue, where he became skilled at dealing with the grand blancs, as the wealthy white French planters were called. Such political skills also served him well when he became an officer in the military and leader in the country. He was said to have obtained his freedom as a young man, before the slave uprising of 1791.Beginning with the slave uprising of 1791, Christophe distinguished himself in the Haïtian Revolution and quickly rose to be an officer. He fought for years with Toussaint Louverture in the north, helping defeat the grand blancs, the Spanish, British, and finally French national troops. By 1802 he was a general under Toussaint Louverture.Independent HaitiAfter the French deported Toussaint Louverture to France, and fighting continued under Rochambeau, Jean Jacques Dessalines recognized they wanted to reenslave the blacks. He led the fight to defeat French forces. As leader, Dessaelines declared Saint-Domingue's independence and the new name of Haiti in 1804.In 1806 Christophe was aware of a plot to kill Dessalines; seeing an opportunity to seize power for himself, he did not warn the self-proclaimed Emperor. The plot was initiated by Alexandre Pétion, a competing gens de couleur. Pétion used assassination because of his weak position among the majority black leaders and population. After Dessaline's assassination, Christophe was elected to a newly created position of president, but without real powers.State and kingdom of HaïtiFeeling insulted, Christophe retreated with his followers to the Plaine du Nord and created a separate government there. Christophe had suspected that he would be next to be assassinated. In 1807 Christophe declared himself président et généralissime des forces de terre et de mer de l'État d'Haïti, in English, President and Generalissimo of the armies of land and sea of the State of Haïti. Pétion became President of the "Republic of Haïti" in the south backed by General Boyer who had control of the southern armies.In 1811 Henri made the northern state of Haïti a kingdom, and was ordained Emperor by Arch Bishop of Milot Corneil Breuil. The edict of 1 April 1811 gave his full title as Henri, par la grâce de Dieu et la Loi constitutionelle de l'État Roi d'Haïti, Souverain des Îles de la Tortue, Gonâve, et autres îles adjacentes, Destructeur de la tyrannie, Régénérateur et bienfaiteur de la nation haïtienne, Créateur de ses institutiones morales, politiques et guerrières, Premier monarque couronné du Nouveau-Monde, Défenseur de la foi, Fondateur de l'ordre royal et militaire de Saint-Henri. Henry, by the grace of God and constitutional law of the state, King of Haiti, Sovereign of Tortuga, Gonâve, and other adjacent islands, Destroyer of tyranny, Regenerator and Benefactor of the Haïtian nation, Creator of her moral, political, and martial institutions, First crowned monarch of the New World, Defender of the faith, Founder of the Royal Military Order of Saint Henry. He renamed Le Cap as Cap-Henri. It is now called Cap-Haïtien.Christophe named his legitimate son, Jacques-Victor Henry, heir apparent with the title Prince Royal of Haïti. Even in documents written in French, the king's name was usually given an English spelling.He had another son who was a colonel in his army.Christophe built for his own use six châteaux, eight palaces and the massive Citadelle Laferrière, still considered one of the wonders of the age. Nine years later, at the end of his monarchy, he had increased the number of designated nobility from the original 87 to 134. (Cheesman page 10) Politically, in North, Christophe was caught between reinforcing a version of the slave plantation system in an attempt to increase agricultural production, or handing out the plantation land for peasant cultivation (the approach taken by Alexandre Petion in the South of Haiti). King Henri took the route of enforcing plantation work on the population alongside his massive building projects. As a result, Northern Haiti during his reign was despotic but relatively wealthy. By contrast, Petion's Southern Haiti became much poorer because the land-share destroyed agricultural productivity (Griggs and Prator, James).Nobility and HeraldryOne of Christophe's first acts as king was to create a Haïtian Peerage, with four princes, seven dukes, 22 counts, 40 barons and 14 chevaliers. Christophe also founded a College of Arms to provide armorial bearings to the newly ennobled.Christophe's kingship was modelled in part on the enlightened absolutism of Frederick the Great. Thomas Clarkson, the English slave abolitionist, held a long written correspondence with Christophe which gives insights into his philosophy and style of government (Griggs and Prator). The king sought an education for his children along the lines of the princelings of Enlightenment Europe.End of reignDespite his efforts to promote education and establish a legal system called the Code Henri, King Henri was an unpopular autocratic monarch. In addition, his realm was constantly challenged by that of the South, which was ruled by gens de couleur. Toward the end of Christophe's reign, public sentiment was sharply against what many perceived to be his feudal policies, which he intended to develop the country. Ill and infirm at age fifty-three, King Henri shot himself with a silver bullet rather than face the possibility of a coup. He was buried within the Citadelle Laferriere.Pierre Nord Alexis, President of Haiti from 1902-1908, was Christophe's grandson.The Boy Scouts Troupe Henri Christophe, associated with College Notre Dame Du Perpetuel Secours in Cap-Haitien, Haiti, is named after him.Popular cultureDrums of Destiny, novel written by Peter Bourne and published by G.P. Putnam's Sons in New York in 1946.The Kingdom of This World novel by Aléjo Carpentier, first published in Spanish in 1949 in Mexico DF as El Reino de Este Mundo. Translated into English and published in 19xx.La Tragédie du Roi Christophe, a 1963 play written by Martinican Aimé Césaire.References'Henry Christophe and Thomas Clarkson: A Correspondence' Griggs, E.L. and C.H. Prator (eds) 1968.'The Black Jacobins' James, C.L.R. 1968.External linksHaitian American Historical Society Savannah Monument ProjectMarvin T. Jones's blog &quot;Photographing Haiti's Citadelle Henry&quot;Institut de la Maison Imperiale d'Haiti   Category:1767 births Category:1820 deaths Category:Deaths by firearm in Haiti Category:Suicides by firearm Category:People of the Haitian Revolution Category:Presidents of Haiti Category:Haitian slaves Category:Politicians who committed suicide Category:Haitian rebel slaves Category:Suicides in Haitide:Henri Christophe es:Henri Christophe fr:Henri Christophe it:Henri Christophe ht:Anri Kristòf nl:Hendrik I van Haïti ja:アンリ・クリストフ pl:Henri Christophe pt:Henrique do Haiti ro:Henri Christophe ru:Кристоф, Анри sv:Henri Christophe vi:Henri Christophe zh:亨利·克里斯托夫