 | birthplace = Toronto, Ontario, Canada | occupation = Actor, producer, writer | yearsactive = 1986-present | spouse = Janet Holden (1997-present) | children = 1 | website = http://www.ericmccormack.com/ | emmyawards = Outstanding Lead Actor - Comedy Series2001 Will &amp; Grace | sagawards = Outstanding Ensemble - Comedy Series2001 Will &amp; Grace | awards = Festival Prize - Outstanding Actor in a Film2005 The SistersVanguard Award2003  Eric James McCormack (born April 18, 1963) is an Emmy Award-winning Canadian-American actor, musician, television producer and writer.He is best known for his role as Will Truman in the American sitcom Will &amp; Grace.BiographyEarly lifeMcCormack was born in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, the son of Doris, a homemaker, and Keith McCormack, an oil company financial analyst.Eric McCormack Biography (1963-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He has Cherokee and Scottish ancestry.Will &amp; trace; EXCLUSIVE COMEDY STAR ERIC HUNTS FOR HIS SCOTTISH FAMILY.(News) - Sunday Mail (Glasgow, Scotland) - HighBeam Research&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;globeandmail.com: Arts&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; McCormack attended Sir John A. Macdonald Collegiate Institute in Scarborough, Ontario. McCormack attended high school with David Furnish, Elton John's husband. Educated and trained as an actor in Canada at the Ryerson University School of Theatre in Toronto,Stated in interview on Inside the Actors Studio McCormack has been appearing in television productions since his debut in 1986.Acting careerMcCormack played Colonel Francis Clay Mosby in the 1-hour Western television miniseries Lonesome Dove: The Series (1994), and Lonesome Dove: The Outlaw Years (1995). He starred as the immortal Matthew McCormick in the Highlander: The Series episode "Manhunt" (1996). In 1997, he appeared in The Outer Limits in the episode "Tempests". In 1998, McCormack starred in the cult hit film Free Enterprise with William Shatner, playing a character based closely on the life of the film's co-writer Mark A. Altman. A sequel is in pre-production, and it is expected that McCormack will reprise his role as Mark.McCormack's role as gay lawyer Will Truman in the NBC sitcom Will &amp; Grace from 1998 until 2006 has brought him widespread recognition. Nominated for Emmy Awards on three occasions for this role, he won the award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy in 2001. During the 2001 Broadway season, McCormack briefly portrayed Prof. Harold Hill (replacing Craig Bierko) in the Susan Stroman revival of The Music Man while on hiatus from Will & Grace. In August 2002, as part of the Hollywood Bowl's Summer Concert Series, he reprised the role for a one-night only appearance in which he and other artists re-created the songs from the show. He also appeared briefly in the television series Dead Like Me. McCormack also starred in the off-Broadway play Some Girl(s) with Fran Drescher in 2006 and is the executive producer of the new Lifetime comedy, Lovespring International. McCormack also played James Novak in Monk's 100th episode.He has set up his own production company called Big Cattle Productions to develop ideas for TV. The naming of the company came out of wordplay as by shortening the word "production", you get "Big Cattle Prod".McCormack recorded a song, "The Greatest Discovery", which was written by Elton John and Bernie Taupin in 1970, for the album Unexpected Dreams: Songs from the Stars. He also wrote and sang a song called "Living with Grace" for the 2004 soundtrack to Will & Grace with piano music provided by Barry Manilow.Personal lifeMcCormack has been married to Janet Leigh Holden since 1997; they have a son, Finnigan Holden McCormack, born on July 1, 2002 in Los Angeles. He maintains residences in Los Angeles and Vancouver. McCormack became a US citizen in 1999 and now holds dual Canadian and US citizenship.McCormack is involved in many Los Angeles- and Canadian-based charitable organizations including Project Angel Food and others. The Wellness Community West Los Angeles Tribute to the Human Spirit Awards dinner presented an award to McCormack for his breast cancer awareness advocacy. McCormack shared with the audience how his comedy helped his mother, Doris McCormack, age 73 as of 2006, endure her breast cancer treatments.JewishJournal.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Doris was honored at the Lifetime’s Breast Cancer Heroes Luncheon in 2004.Breast Cancer Index | myLifetime.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Lifetime Television Honors Courageous Breast Cancer Survivors and Advocates, Including Moms of Eric Mccormack, Carson Daly and Christina Applegate; - Evelyn Lauder Honors Two Young Survivor Heroes in Her Life: Tami Agassi and Geralyn Lucas -. Industry &amp; Business Article - Research, News, Information, Contacts, Divisions, Subsidiaries, Business Associations&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; He serves as an honorary board member of the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation.MMRF Honorary BoardMcCormack sang both the American and Canadian national anthems at the 2004 NHL All Star game in Minnesota. He is an avid fan of Elton John, particularly his classic album Captain Fantastic and the Brown Dirt Cowboy. He wrote a tribute to the album that was featured on John's official website.Partial filmographyDouble, Double, Toil and TroubleHoly ManFree EnterpriseThe Audrey Hepburn StoryReferencesExternal linksEric McCormack Interview  Category:1963 births Category:American film actors Category:American musical theatre actors Category:American television actors Category:Canadian Americans Category:Canadian-born entertainers in the United States Category:Canadian film actors Category:Canadian musical theatre actors Category:Canadian socialists Category:Canadians of Cherokee descent Category:Canadians of Scottish descent Category:Canadian television actors Category:Emmy Award winners Category:Living people Category:Naturalized citizens of the United States Category:People from Toronto Category:Ryerson University alumnicy:Eric McCormack de:Eric McCormack es:Eric McCormack fr:Eric McCormack it:Eric McCormack nl:Eric McCormack ja:エリック・マコーマック pt:Eric McCormack sh:Eric McCormack fi:Eric McCormack pl:Eric McCormack sv:Eric McCormack