 The garden dormouse (Eliomys quercinus) is a rodent in the dormouse family.FeaturesDormice are typically  in length, with the tail adding an additional . It weighs . The coat is gray or brown, with a white underside. The garden dormouse can be recognized by black eye markings, relatively large ears, short hair, and a white tassel at the end of the tail.Range and habitatIn spite of its name, the garden dormouse's main habitat is the forest, though it can also be found in fruit-growing regions. It is particularly common in southern Europe, but its range extends into the north. Garden dormice are often found in the Alps, in the Bavarian Forest, and in the Ore Mountains.The species is also present in northern Germany, but the population there is apparently not capable of large-scale reproduction. Nearby, in the Netherlands, it is nearly extinct: in 2007 researchers reported finding only nine animals in two woods in the province of Limburg, where it used to be common. They suggested this is a result of the landscape becoming increasingly monotonous and due to climate change, which they said interrupts hibernation.Way of lifeGarden dormice are primarily nocturnal, sleeping in spherical nests in trees during the day. At night they look for food, mainly eating larger insects like grasshoppers and beetles, snails, eggs, young nestlings, small mice, and spiders, as well as berries, fruit, and nuts like acorns and beechnuts. While omnivorous, the diet of dormice contains slightly more animal protein than vegetation.The mating period lasts from April to June. During this time, the female indicates her readiness to mate by squeaking loudly. The young are usually born in litters of three to seven, after a gestation period of 23 days. Blind and naked at birth, they open their eyes after about eighteen days, and are nursed until they are one month old. They become independent at two months of age, but do not reach sexual maturity until the next year. They have a life expectancy of about five years.It is not unusual for a garden dormouse to eat one of its unfortunate rivals during the mating season. Cannibalism is also observed occasionally when the animal is coming out of hibernation.ClassificationOn the islands of the Mediterranean Sea there are several subspecies of garden dormouse, all of which are very rare. These are the Sardinian garden dormouse (E. q. sardus), the Sicilian garden dormouse (E. q. dichrurus) and the Liparian garden dormouse (E. q. liparensis). The populations of western Asia and north Africa, on the other hand, have recently been separated into their own species Eliomys melanurus.References Listed as Vulnerable (VU A1c v2.3)ITIS reportThis article includes information translated from the German and French Wikipedias.Category:Dormice Category:Mammals of Europeca:Rata cellarda de:Gartenschläfer es:Eliomys quercinus fr:Lérot it:Eliomys quercinus lt:Ąžuolinė miegapelė hu:Kerti pele nl:Eikelmuis pl:Żołędnica pt:Leirão sk:Plch záhradný fi:Tammihiiri sv:Trädgårdssovare