 The Cranberries were an Irish rock band formed in Limerick in 1990 under the name The Cranberry Saw Us, later changed by vocalist Dolores O'Riordan. Although widely associated with alternative rock, the band's sound also incorporates rock, post-punk and pop rock elements.The Cranberries rose to international fame in the 1990s with their debut album, Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?, which became a high commercial success and sold over five million copies in the United States. The group was one of the most successful rock acts of the '90s and sold over 12.5 million albums in the United States alone. The band has achieved four top 20 albums on the ''Billboard'' 200 chart (Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?, No Need To Argue, To the Faithful Departed and Bury the Hatchet) and eight top 20 singles on the Hot Modern Rock Tracks chart ("Linger", "Dreams, "Zombie", "Ode to My Family", "Ridiculous Thoughts, "Salvation", "Free To Decide" and "Promises").Origins and mainstream successNoel and Mike Hogan, two brothers from Limerick formed the band with drummer Fergal Lawler in 1990. The band was originally named The Cranberry Saw Us. The lead singer at that time was a friend of theirs named Niall Quinn. The remaining band members placed an advertisement for a female singer. Dolores O'Riordan responded to the advertisement and auditioned by writing lyrics and melodies to some existing demos. When she returned with a rough version of "Linger," the group hired her.After they hired Riordan they recorded their home-made demo tape. They made 300 copies. After the original run of 300 copies sold out, the group changed their name to the Cranberries and sent another demo tape, which featured early versions of both "Linger" and "Dreams," to record companies throughout the UK. The tape was made at Xeric studios, which was run by Pearse Gilmore, who would later become their manager.The demo tape earned the attention of both the UK press and record industry and there soon was a bidding war between major British record labels. Eventually, the group signed with Island Records. The Cranberries headed into the studio with Gilmore as their producer to record their first single, "Uncertain." The title proved to become controversial, as the band did indeed sound ill on the single, leading to poor reviews in the press. This lead to tension between the group and Gilmore. Before they were scheduled to record their debut in 1992, the band nearly broke up because of the tension. Instead, the band outraged with the results severed all relations with Gilmore, hired Geoff Travis as their new manager, and hired Stephen Street, who had previously worked with The Smiths, as their new producer.The Cranberries' debut album, Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?, was released in the spring of 1993, followed by a single of "Dreams." Neither the album or the single gained much attention, nor did a second single, "Linger", until the band embarked on a tour, catching the attention of MTV, which put their videos into heavy rotation. Although singles-wise in the UK, Linger was released first in February, 1993 peaking at 74, the single was latter re-issued in February, 1994 peaking at 14 and was followed by Dreams released in May 1994 peaking at #27) .O'Riordan married the band's tour manager, Don Burton, in July, 1994. The marriage, as well as the group's videos, emphasized the singer as the focal point of the band. O'Riordan's position in the group continued to rise with the fall release of the group's second album, No Need to Argue. Boasting a slightly harder, more streamlined sound, yet still produced by Stephen Street, the record debuted at number six on the US charts and eventually outsold its predecessor; within a year it went triple platinum, spawning the number one modern rock hit "Zombie" and the number 11 "Ode to My Family on the modern rock tracks. In 1995, they continued with a tour, and they released two more singles "I Can't Be With You" and "Ridiculous Thoughts". To date the album has sold very well. It went 5x platinum in Canada, platinum in Switzerland, and seven times platinum in the United States.Late 1990s During the tour for No Need to Argue, a rumor started that stated that O'Riordan was going to leave the band to start a solo career, which the band vehemently denied.Nevertheless, the rumors continued until the band began recording their third album with producer Bruce Fairbairn, who had previously worked with Bon Jovi and Aerosmith. The result, To the Faithful Departed, was a heavier album, which failed to garner the same reception as its predecessors. On its spring release, the album entered the charts, peaking at number 2 on the UK Album Chart and number 4 on the Billboard 200. Despite favorable reviews, the album did not match the sales of No Need to Argue. The album only went double platinum in the US and Gold in the UK, which was somewhat disappointing in light of its two predecessors' which was certified seven times platinum. The first single from the album was "Salvation" which peaked at number one on the modern rock tracks. The second single from the album was "Free To Decide", the singles peak in the UK was 33. During the autumn of 1996, the group cancelled their Australian and European tour, sparking another round of rumors that O'Riordan was about to launch a solo career. In early 1997 "When You're Gone" was released as a single in the United States, peaking at 22 on the Billboard Hot 100, thereby becoming the second single to chart on the Billboard Hot 100 from the album, the first was "Free To Decide".In 1999, the group released their fourth studio album Bury the Hatchet. The first single "Promises" was released in February. "Promises" would be the only single from the album to chart in the US and last single before their hiatus.They guest appeared in an episode of Charmed in season two at one of the characters clubs "P3" and performed the song "Just My Imagination".The album was released in April 1999 and peaked at 7 in the UK and 13 in the US. The album was certified gold in the US. The second single from the album was "Animal Instinct", which didn't chart in the UK, but it did chart in France, Austria and many others. The third and fourth singles were "Just My Imagination" and "You & Me", respectively. The group started a world tour in April 1999 and it finished in July 2000. It was the biggest and most successful tour of the Cranberries' career.The tour brought them back to Ireland for their first date since May 2000. They performed at Millstreet in County Cork. As the tour rolled on, the band released "Bury The Hatchet - The Complete Sessions", a double CD featuring B-sides as well as live tracks taken from a live show in Paris.2000s In October 2001, the album Wake Up and Smell the Coffee was released. The band's old producer Stephen Street, had returned and produced their new music video. The album peaked at 46 on the Billboard 200. It's peak in the UK was #61. The first single released from the album was "Analyse", which didn't chart in the UK but chart in US Adult Top 40 at 26 peak.. In January 2002, they released the second single "Time Is Ticking Out", and some months later another one, "This Is The Day". None of the songs charted.The following year a greatest hits album was released entitled Stars - The Best of 1992 - 2002 which was released along side with Stars - The Best of 1992 - 2002 DVD of music videos. The album peak in the UK was 20. The song "Stars" was released as a single from that album.They started a European tour in mid October 2002, which ended in December of the same year. In mid 2003, the band played a few tour dates, some with the Rolling Stones (as opening act), and some alone. They performed two new songs during those dates ("Astral Projection" and "In It Together"), which were supposed to be released on the band's sixth studio album.Hiatus and solo careers In September 2003, despite working on a new albumThe Cranberries' unreleased sixth album, the Cranberries announced they were taking some time to pursue individual careers. Since then Dolores O'Riordan has been collaborating on a number of musical projects, before launching her solo career with the album Are You Listening? in 2007. Noel Hogan started a new project called mono band, whose first full-length self-titled album saw a limited release in 2005. He went on to form Arkitekt with singer-songwriter Richard Walters. Fergal Lawler is now a member of The Low Network, whose first album was released in 2007.DiscographyStudio albumsYearTitleLabel1993Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We?Island Records1994No Need to Argue1996To the Faithful Departed1999Bury the Hatchet]]''2001Wake Up and Smell the CoffeeReferencesExternal linksOfficial websiteFan SiteFan-siteThe Cranberries at RollingStone.comCategory:The Cranberries Cranberries, The Cranberries, The Cranberries, The Cranberries, The Cranberries, The Cranberries, Thear:ذا كرانبيريز zh-min-nan:The Cranberries ca:The Cranberries cs:The Cranberries da:The Cranberries de:The Cranberries et:The Cranberries el:The Cranberries es:The Cranberries fr:The Cranberries ko:크랜베리스 hsb:The Cranberries hr:The Cranberries it:The Cranberries he:הקרנבריז la:The Cranberries lt:The Cranberries hu:The Cranberries nah:The Cranberries nl:The Cranberries ja:クランベリーズ no:The Cranberries uz:The Cranberries pl:The Cranberries pt:The Cranberries ru:The Cranberries sk:The Cranberries fi:The Cranberries szl:The Cranberries sv:The Cranberries tr:The Cranberries uk:The Cranberries zh:小紅莓樂隊