 The orioles are a family of Old World passerine birds. The family Oriolidae comprises the Figbird Sphecotheres viridis, the only member of the genus Sphecotheres, and the Old World orioles in the genus Oriolus.Walther B. & P. Jones (2008) "Family Oriolidae (Orioles and Figbirds). Excerpt from upcoming book. Handbook of the Birds of the World. Volume 13 Accessed: 11 April 2008.  Several other genera have been proposed to split up the genus Oriolus. For example, the African black-headed species are sometimes placed in the genus Baruffius. The family is not related to the New World orioles, which are icterids, family Icteridae. The family is distributed across Africa, Europe, Asia down into Australia. The few temperate nesting species are migratory, and some tropical species also show seasonal movements.The orioles and Figbird are medium sized passerines, around 20–30 cm in length, with the females only slightly smaller than the males. The beak is slightly curved and hooked, and, except in the Figbird, as long again as the head. The plumage of most species is bright and showy, although the females often have duller plumage than the males do. The plumage of many Australasian orioles mimics that of friarbirds (a genus of large honeyeaters), probably to reduce aggression against the smaller orioles.Diamond J (1982) "Mimicry of friarbirds by orioles" The Auk 99(2): 187-196 Orioles are arboreal and tend to feed in the canopy. Many species are able to survive in open forests and woodlands, although a few are restricted to closed forest. They are opportunistic omnivores, with the main components of their diet being fruit, berries, and arthropods.Orioles are monogamous, breeding in territorial pairs (although the Figbird breeds in loose colonies). Nesting sites may be chosen near aggressive species such as drongos, shrikes or friarbirds, which confer a degree of protection. The nest is a deep woven cup suspended like a hammock from a branch. They usually lay two or three eggs, but as many as six have been recorded.ReferencesExternal linksOriole videos on the Internet Bird Collection* Category:Genera of birdsaf:Wielewaal ca:Oriòlid de:Pirole myv:Ожопуло es:Oriolidae eo:Orioledoj fr:Oriolidae ko:꾀꼬리과 os:Бурцъиу lt:Volunginiai hu:Sárgarigófélék nl:Wielewalen en vijgvogels ja:コウライウグイス族 (Sibley) nn:Pirolfamilien pl:Wilgi pt:Oriolini ru:Иволговые simple:Oriole fi:Kuhankeittäjät sv:Gyllingar vi:Họ Vàng anh tr:Sarıasmagiller uk:Вивільгові zh:黄鹂科