(For other uses of elongation, see Elongation)Elongation is an astronomical term that refers to the angle between the Sun and a planet, as viewed from Earth.When an inferior planet is visible after sunset, it is near its greatest eastern elongation. When an inferior planet is visible before sunrise, it is near its greatest western elongation. The value of the greatest elongation (west or east), for Mercury, is between 18° and 28°; and for Venus between 45° and 47°. This value varies because the orbits of the planets are elliptical, rather than perfect circles. Another minor contributor to this inconsistency is orbital inclination: each planet's orbit is in a slightly different plane.Refer to astronomical tables and websites such as heavens-above to see when the planets reach their next maximum elongations.In 2008, Venus does not have a greatest elongation - either eastern or western. The planet instead moves from a greatest western elongation on October 26, 2007 to a greatest eastern elongation on January 17, 2009.In 2008, Mercury has greatest eastern elongations on January 21, May 14, and September 11 (and after that on January 4, 2009). Western ones happen on March 3, July 1, and October 22.Elongation periodGreatest elongations of a planet happen periodically, with a greatest eastern elongation followed by a greatest western elongation, and vice versa. The period depends on the relative angular velocity of Earth and the planet, as seen from the Sun. The time it takes to complete this period is the synodic period of the planet.Let T be the period (for example the time between two greatest eastern elongations), \omega be the relative angular velocity, \omega_e Earth's angular velocity and \omega_p the planet's angular velocity. ThenT =  =  =  - =  where Te and Tp are Earth's and the planet's years (i.e. periods of revolution around the Sun, called sidereal periods).For example, Venus's year (sidereal period) is 225 days, and Earth's is 365 days. Thus Venus' synodic period, which gives the time between two subsequent eastern (or western) greatest elongations, is 584 days.These values are approximate, because (as mentioned above) the planets do not have perfectly circular, coplanar orbits. When a planet is closer to the Sun it moves faster than when it is further away, so exact determination of the date and time of greatest elongation requires a much more complicated analysis of orbital mechanics.Elongation of superior planetsSuperior planets, dwarf planets and asteroids undergo a different cycle. After superior conjunction, such an object's elongation continues to increase until it approaches a maximum value larger than 90&deg; (impossible with inferior planets) and typically very near 180&deg;, which is known as opposition and corresponds to a heliocentric conjunction with Earth. In other words, as seen from an observer on the superior planet at opposition, the Earth appears at inferior conjunction with the Sun. Technically, the exact moment of opposition is slightly different from the moment of maximum elongation. Opposition is defined as the moment when the apparent ecliptic longitudes of the superior planet and the Sun differ by 180&deg;, which ignores the fact that the planet is outside the plane of the Earth's orbit. For example, Pluto, whose orbit is highly inclined to the Earth's orbital plane, can have a maximum elongation significantly less than 180&deg; at opposition.All superior planets are most easily visible at their oppositions because they are near their closest approach to Earth and are also above the horizon all night. The variation in magnitude caused by changes in elongation are greater the closer the planet's orbit is to the Earth's. Mars' magnitude in particular changes with elongation: it can be as low as +1.8 when in conjunction near aphelion but at a rare favourable opposition it is as high as -2.9, or seventy-five times brighter than its minimum brightness. As one moves further out, the difference in magnitude caused by the difference in elongation gradually fall. The maximum and minimum brightness of Jupiter differ by only a factor of 3.3 times, whilst those of Uranus - which is the most distant Solar System body visible to the naked eye - differ by a factor of 1.7 times.Since asteroids travel in an orbit not much larger than the Earth's, their magnitude can vary greatly depending on elongation. Although more than a dozen objects in the asteroid belt can be seen with 10x50 binoculars at an average opposition, only Ceres and Vesta are always above the binocular limit of +9.5 at small elongations.See alsoAspects of Mercury for greatest elongations of MercuryAspects of Venus for greatest elongations of VenusAstronomical conjunctionExternal linksMercury Chaser's Calculator (Greatest Elongations of Mercury)Category:Spherical astronomy Category:Celestial mechanics Category:Technical factors of astrology Category:Astrological aspectsbn:প্রতান bg:Елонгация cs:Elongace de:Elongation (Astronomie) el:Αποχή (αστρονομία) es:Elongación (astronomía) fr:Élongation (astronomie) hr:Elongacija it:Elongazione he:אלונגציה (אסטרונומיה) kn:ನೀಳತೆ (ಖಗೋಳಶಾಸ್ತ್ರ) ka:ელონგაცია lt:Elongacija (astronomija) mk:Елонгација nl:Elongatie (astronomie) ja:離角 pl:Elongacja simple:Elongation sk:Elongácia (astronómia) sl:Elongacija fi:Elongaatio tr:Uzanım zh:距角