Abacá, from Spanish "abacá" ( "ah buh KAH"), or Musa textilis, is a species of banana native to the Philippines, grown widely as well in Borneo and Sumatra. It is sometimes referred to as "BacBac". The plant is of great economic importance, being harvested for its fibre, called Manila hemp, extracted from the large, oblong leaves and stems. On average, the plant grows about 20 feet (6 meters) tall. The fibre is used for making twines and ropes as well as the Manila envelope. It is classified as a hard fibre, along with coir, henequin and sisal. The plant's name is sometimes spelt Abaká.Abacá was first cultivated on a large scale in Sumatra in 1925 under the Dutch, who had observed its cultivation in the Philippines for cordage since the 1800s, followed up by plantings in Central America sponsored by the U.S. Department of Agriculture&quot;abaca.&quot; Encyclopædia Britannica. 22 January 2007. Commercial planting began in 1930 in British North Borneo; with the commencement of WWII, the supply from the Philippines was eliminated by the Japanese.Other common names for Manila hemp include "Cebu hemp" and "Davao hemp".CompositionThe leaves grow from the trunk of the plant, and the bases of the leaves form a ''sheath'' (covering) around the trunk; there are approximately 25 of these, with 5 cm in diameter and from 12 to 25 leaves with overlapping petioles, covering the stalk to form a shrub, "false trunk" or pseudotrunk about 30 to 40 cm in diameter. They grow in succession, with the oldest growing from the bottom of the trunk and successively younger ones from the top. The sheaths contain the valuable fibre. The coarse fibres range from 5 to 11½ feet (1.5 to 3.5 metres) in length. They are composed primarily of the plant materials such as cellulose, lignin, and pectin. After the fibre has been separated, it is sold under the name Manila, the capital of the Philippines.HarvestingThe plant is normally grown in well-drained loamy soil, using pieces of mature root planted at the start of the rainy season. Growers harvest abacá fields every three to eight months after an initial growth period of 18-25 months and a total lifespan of about 10 years. Harvest generally includes having several operations concerning the leaf sheaths:tuxying (separation of primary and secondary sheath)stripping (getting the fibers)drying (usually following tradition of sun-drying).The fibers can then be spun into twines or cordage.ApplicationsAbacá rope is very durable, flexible and resistant to salt water damage, allowing its use in rope, hawsers, ship's lines and fishing nets . It can be used to make handcrafts like bags, carpets, clothing and furniture. The fibers can be pulped and processed into specialty paper used in tea bags, vacuum bags, currency, and more. Lupis is the finest quality of abacá. Sinamay is woven chiefly from abaca."lupis", "sinamay" in Merriam-Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, third editionScientific classificationThe abacá plant belongs to the banana family, Musaceae; it resembles its closely related cousin plant, the Musa sapientum. Its scientific name is Musa textilis.ReferencesThe World Book encyclopedia set, 1988.External linksHistorical notesPlants USDAAbaca A comprehensive pamphlet about Philippine abaca presented 1915 Panama Pacific International Exposition held in San Francisco. Online publication uploaded in Filipiniana.netCategory:Musaceae Category:Flora of the Philippines Category:Tagalog words and phrases Category:Fiber plantsbn:অ্যাবাকা bg:Абака ca:Abacà cs:Banánovník textilní da:Tekstil-Banan de:Abacá et:Kanepbanaan es:Musa textilis fr:Abaca gl:Abacá id:Pisang abaka it:Musa textilis pam:Abaka (tanaman) lt:Pluoštinis bananas nl:Abaca ja:マニラアサ pl:Banan manilski pt:Abacá ru:Абака (растение) fi:Manilla sv:Abacá tl:Abaka (halaman) tr:Manila keneviri uk:Абака (рослина) zh:馬尼拉麻蕉