āhau Tupou IV | title =King of Tonga | image = |caption =King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV (left) with former Howard Hughes business associate John H. Meier (right) | reign =16 December 1965–10 September 2006 | coronation = | predecessor =Sālote Tupou III | successor =Siaosi Tupou V | heir = | consort =Halaevalu Mataaho Ahomee, on 10 June 1947 | issue =Siaosi Tāufaāhau Manumataongo Tukuaho TupouSālote Mafileo Pilolevu TuitaFatafehi Alaivahamamao TukuahoTupoutoa Lavaka (Ahoeitu Unuakiotonga Tukuaho) | royal house =Tupou | royal anthem =Ko e fasi o e tui o e Otu Tonga | father =Viliami Tungī Mailefihi | mother =Sālote Tupou | date of birth = | place of birth =Royal Palace, Nukualofa, Tonga | date of death = | place of death =Auckland, New Zealand | place of burial=Malae Kula |  Tāufaāhau Tupou IV, King of Tonga, GCMG, GCVO, KBE, KStJ (4 July 1918 &ndash; 10 September 2006) son of Queen Sālote Tupou III and her consort Prince Viliami Tungī Mailefihi, was the king of Tonga from the death of his mother in 1965 until his own death in 2006. He was married to Queen Halaevalu Mataaho Ahomee, born in 1926, and the couple had four children:Siaosi Tāufaāhau Manumataongo Tukuaho Tupou, while as crown prince better known by the hereditary title: Tupoutoa (once his father did not need it any longer). He succeeded him later as George Tupou V.Princess Sālote Mafileo Pilolevu Tuita (born Tukuaho)Ex-prince Fatafehi Alaivahamamao Tukuaho (stripped of his title after marrying a commoner, later bestowed with the hereditary title of Māatu, deceased 2004)Prince Ahoeitu Unuakiotonga Tukuaho better known by his traditional titles: Tupoutoa Lavaka (until the death of his father known as: Ulukālala Lavaka Ata).The king's full baptisal name was Siaosi Tāufaāhau Tupoulahi, but he was soon better known by the traditional title reserved for crown princes: Tupoutoa, (bestowed in 1937) later replaced by the title he inherited from his father: Tungī (or using both: Tupoutoa-Tungī, in that time written as Tuboutoa-Tugi). He kept the Tungī title until his death. From a traditional point of view he was not only the Tungī, which is the direct descendent from the Tui Haatakalaua, but he was also, on becoming king, the 22nd Tui Kanokupolu. The link with the Tui Tonga, was more indirect. He was not a Tui Tonga too (as that office has gone over into the Kalaniuvalu line), but his grandmother Lavinia Veiongo (wife of George Tupou II) was the great granddaughter of Laufilitonga, the last Tui Tonga, and his wife Halaevalu Mataaho (not to be confused with the king's wife of the same name and same family), who was the daughter of Tupou Ahomee, who was the daughter of Lātūfuipeka, the Tamahā (sister of the Tui Tonga). By consequence, the king's daughter, Pilolevu, was the first woman in Tongan culture to really have the blood of the three major royal dynasties in her veins and become the highest ranking person ever.The king was a keen sportsman and religious preacher in his youth, he was educated at Newington College and studied Law at Sydney University while resident at Wesley College in Sydney, Australia. He was appointed Minister of Education by Queen Sālote in 1943, Minister of Health in 1944, and in 1949, Premier. He remained a lay preacher of the Free Wesleyan Church until his death, and in some circumstances was empowered to appoint an acting church president. In the 1970s he was the heaviest monarch in the world, weighing in at over 200&nbsp;kg (440 pounds). For his visits to Germany, the German government used to commission special chairs that could support his weight. The King used to take them home, considering them as state presents. In the 1990s he took part in a national fitness campaign, losing a third of his weight.The King was also quite tall, standing 6' 5".He wielded great political authority and influence in Tonga's essentially aristocratic system of government, together with the country's nobles, who control 70% of the Legislative Assembly of Tonga. His involvement in an investment scandal, however, involving his appointed court jester Jesse Bogdonoff, had in his last years embroiled the King in controversy, and led to calls for greater government transparency and democratisation. In 2005 the government spent several weeks negotiating with striking civil service workers before reaching a settlement. The king's nephew, Tui Pelehake (Uluvalu), served as mediator. A constitutional commission presented a series of recommendations for constitutional reform to the king a few weeks before his death.On 15 August 2006, Tongan Prime Minister Feleti Sevele interrupted radio and television broadcasts to announce that the King was gravely ill in the Mercy Hospital in Auckland and to ask the 104,000 people of the island chain to pray for their king, but he died almost a month later, at 23:34 on 10 September 2006 (New Zealand time: it was just after midnight on 11 September in Tongan time). He was 88 and had reigned for 41 years.The king's death as reported on Fijian TVhttp://www.iht.com/articles/ap/2006/09/10/asia/AS_GEN_Tonga_New_King.phpTāufaāhau Tupou IV was buried on 19 September 2006 at Malae Kula (the royal cemetery) in the Tongan capital, Nukualofa. Thousands of Tongans watched the funeral and mourners included many foreign dignitaries, including Japanese Crown Prince Naruhito, New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark, Fijian Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, Vanuatu president Kalkot Mataskelekele, the American Samoan governor Togiola Tulafono, Niue Premier Vivian Young, and the Duke of Gloucester, a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II. The funeral blended Christian and ancient Polynesian burial rites. The funeral was overseen by the royal undertaker Lauaki and his men of the Haatufunga (clan), also known as the nima tapu (sacred hands).http://news.yahoo.com/s/afp/20060919/wl_asia_afp/tongaroyalkingAccording to the International Herald Tribune, "Tupou IV's 41-year reign made him one of the world's longest-serving sovereigns, after Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej, Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Samoa's head of state Malietoa Tanumafili II."       NotesExternal linksObituary of Tāufaāhau Tupou IV with historical contextOfficial announcement of Tāufaāhau Tupou IV's passing awayWebsite of the Tongan MonarchyNew Zealand Herald Feature ArticleRecent Visit of HM King Tāufaāhau Tupou IV to Hong KongThe 1993 Silver Jubilee of Tāufaāhau Tupou IVPacific Magazine: Thousands Turn Out For King's Funeral Category:Tongan Methodists Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George Category:Knights Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order Category:Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire Category:1918 births Category:2006 deaths Category:Old Newingtonians Category:Tongan monarchs Category:Prime Ministers of Tongaar:تاوفآهاو توبو الرابع da:Taufa'ahau Tupou 4. af Tonga de:Taufaʻahau Tupou IV. et:Tāufa'āhau Tupou IV el:Ταουφααχάου Τουπόου Δ' es:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV fr:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV gl:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV ko:타우파아하우 투포우 4세 id:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV it:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV la:Tāufa'ahau Tupou IV lt:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV ms:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV nl:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV ja:タウファアハウ・ツポウ4世 pl:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV pt:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV ru:Тауфа’ахау Тупоу IV sh:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV. fi:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV sv:Taufa'ahau Tupou IV th:สมเด็จพระราชาธิบดีเตาฟาอาเฮา ตูปูที่ 4 to:Tāufaʻāhau Tupou IV zh:陶法阿豪·圖普四世