 ([[Clamart]]) |
school_tradition = [[Christian existentialism]] |
main_interests = [[Creativity]], [[morality]], [[freedom]] |
influences = [[Immanuel Kant|Kant]], [[Jacob Boehme|Boehme]], [[Fyodor Dostoyevsky|Dostoyevsky]] |
influenced = [[Davor Dzalto ]] Nikolai Alexandrovich Berdyaev (Николай Александрович Бердяев) ( &ndash; March 24 1948) was a Russian religious and political philosopher.BiographyEarly Life and EducationBerdyaev was born in Kiev into an aristocratic military family. He spent a solitary childhood at home, where his father's library allowed him to read widely. He read Hegel, Schopenhauer, and Kant when only fourteen years old and excelled at languages.Revolutionary ActivitiesBerdyaev decided on an intellectual career and entered the Kiev University in 1894. This was a time of revolutionary fervor among the students and the intelligentsia. Berdyaev became a Marxist and in 1898 was arrested in a student demonstration and expelled from the University. Later his involvement in illegal activities led to three years of internal exile in central Russia – a mild sentence compared to that faced by many other revolutionaries.In 1904 Berdyaev married Lydia Trusheff and the couple moved to Saint Petersburg, the Russian capital and center of intellectual and revolutionary activity. Berdyaev participated fully in intellectual and spiritual debate, eventually departing from radical Marxism to focus his attention on philosophy and spirituality. Berdyaev and Trusheff remained deeply committed to each other until the latter's death in 1945.Berdyaev was a believer in orthodox Christianity, but was often critical of the institutional church. A fiery 1913 article criticising the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church caused him to be charged with the crime of blasphemy, the punishment for which was exile to Siberia for life. The World War and the Bolshevik Revolution prevented the matter coming to trial.He was a Christian universalist.Apokatastasis at Theandros, The Online Journal of Orthodox Christian Theology and Philosophy. Accessed Aug. 12, 2007Sergeev, Mikhail."Post-Modern themes in the philosophy of Nicolas Berdyaev". Religion in Eastern Europe. Accessed Aug. 12, 2007 Berdyaev writes with approval that The greater part of Eastern teachers of the Church, from Clement of Alexandria to Maximus the Confessor, were supporters of Apokatastasis, of universal salvation and resurrection. ... Orthodox thought has never been suppressed by the idea of Divine justice and it never forgot the idea of Divine love. Chiefly - it did not define man from the point of view of Divine justice but from the idea of transfiguration and Deification of man and cosmos.Berdyaev, Nikolai. "The Truth of Orthodoxy". Accessed Aug. 12, 2007. Expulsion from RussiaBerdyaev could not accept the Bolshevik regime, because of its authoritarianism and the domination of the state over the freedom of the individual. Yet, he accepted the hardships of the revolutionary period, as he was permitted for the time being to continue to lecture and write.His philosophy has been characterized as Christian existentialist. He was preoccupied with creativity and in particular freedom from anything that inhibited said creativity, whence his opposition against a "collectivized and mechanized society".In September 1922, Berdyaev was among a carefully selected group of some 160 prominent writers, scholars, and intellectuals whose ideas the Bolshevik government found objectionable, who were sent into exile on the so-called "philosophers' ship". Overall, they were supporters neither of the Czarist regime nor of the Bolsheviks, preferring less autocratic forms of government. They included those who argued for personal liberty, spiritual development, Christian ethics, and a pathway informed by reason and guided by faith.Exile in FranceAt first Berdyaev and other émigrés went to Berlin, but economic and political conditions in Weimar Germany caused him and his wife to move to Paris in 1923. There he founded an Academy, taught, lectured, and wrote, working for an exchange of ideas with the French intellectual community.During the German occupation of France, Berdyaev continued to write books that were published after the war — some of them after his death. In the years that he spent in France, Berdyaev wrote fifteen books, including most of his most important works. He died at his writing desk in his home in Clamart, near Paris, in March 1948.LegacyBerdyaev influenced many thinkers, but his work was also very often the subject of controversial discussions. His work has been read mostly in the circles of existential philosophy and orthodox theology. Out of Berdyaev's understanding of freedom and creativity, Davor Dzalto has developed his understanding of contemporary art production and its importance for the human being.WorksThe first date is of the Russian edition, the second date is of the first English editionThe Meaning of the Creative Act (1916) 1955Dostoevsky (1923) 1934The Meaning of History (1923) 1936The End of Our Time [aka The New Middle Ages] (1924) 1933Leontiev (1926) 1940''A NewFreedom and the Spirit (1927-8) 1935The Russian Revolution (1931)(anthology)The Destiny of Man 1931 (1937)Christianity and Class War 1931 (1933)''The Fate of Man in the Modern World (1934) 1938Solitude and Society (1934) 1938The Bourgeois Mind 1934 (anthology)''The Origin of Russian Communism (1937) 1955''Christianity and Anti-semitism (1938) 1952Slavery and Freedom (1939)The Russian Idea (1946) 1947Spirit and Reality (1946) 1957The Beginning and the End(1947) 1952''Towards a New Epoch" (1949) (anthology)Dream and Reality: An Essay in Autobiography (1949) 1950The Realm of Spirit and the Realm of Caesar (1949) 1952The Divine and the Human (1949) 1952Truth and Revelation (n.p.) 1953Sources:'"Bibliographie des Oeuvres de Nicolas Berdiaev" établie par Tamara Klépinine' published by the Institut d'études Slaves, Paris 1978[http://www.chebucto.ns.ca/Philosophy/Sui-Generis/Berdyaev/biblio.htm Berdyaev Bibliography on www.cherbucto.net]ReferencesWorks citedN. Berdyaev. Dream and reality: An essay in autobiography. Bles, London, 1950.M. A. Vallon. An apostle of freedom: Life and teachings of Nicolas Berdyaev. Philosophical Library, New York, 1960.Lesley Chamberlain. Lenin's Private War: The Voyage of the Philosophy Steamer and the Exile of the Intelligentsia. St. Martin’s Press, New York, 2007.See alsoChristian existentialismFyodor DostoevskyNikolai LosskysobornostRussian philosophyPhilosophers' shipExternal linksBibliographical information and many English translations of Berdyaev's articlesOverviewFr.Men on BerdyaevPHILOSOPHER OF FREEDOM by Dimitri LisinNikolai Lossky's bio on BerdyaevRussian idea of Nikolai Berdyaev Rus. Category:20th century philosophers Category:Existentialists Category:Christian philosophers Category:Russian philosophers Category:Ukrainian philosophers Category:Russian political writers Category:Russian memoirists Category:Russian expatriates in France Category:Soviet expellees Category:Eastern Orthodox victims of Soviet repressions Category:Russian Orthodox Christians Category:Christian Universalists Category:People from Kiev Category:1874 births Category:1948 deathsbe-x-old:Мікалай Бярдзяеў bg:Николай Бердяев cs:Nikolaj Berďajev de:Nikolai Alexandrowitsch Berdjajew et:Nikolai Berdjajev es:Nikolái Berdiáyev eo:Nikolaj Berdjajev fr:Nicolas Berdiaev hr:Nikolaj Berdjajev id:Nikolai Berdyaev it:Nikolaj Aleksandrovič Berdjaev lt:Nikolajus Berdiajevas nl:Nikolaj Berdjajev ja:ニコライ・ベルジャーエフ pl:Nikołaj Bierdiajew ro:Nikolai Berdiaev ru:Бердяев, Николай Александрович sk:Nikolaj Alexandrovič Berďajev sr:Николај Александрович Берђајев fi:Nikolai Berdjajev sv:Nikolaj Berdjajev tr:Nikolay Berdyayev uk:Бердяєв Микола Олександрович