 Mojito (; ) is a traditional Cuban highball.A mojito is traditionally made of five ingredients: white rum, sugar (traditionally sugar cane juice), lime, carbonated water, and mint. Its combination of sweetness, refreshing citrus and mint flavors are intended to mask the potent kick of the rum, and have made this clear highball a popular summer drink. Many hotels in Havana also add Angostura bitters to cut the sweetness of the mojito; while a popular variation, it is not the original version created in La Bodeguita del MedioTraditional Mojito recipe from Cuba.When preparing a mojito, lime juice is added to sugar (or syrup) and mint leaves. The mixture is then gently mashed with a muddler. The mint leaves should only be bruised to release the essential oils and must not be shredded. Then rum is added and the mixture is briefly stirred to dissolve the sugar and to lift the mint sprigs up from the bottom for better presentation. Finally, the drink is topped with ice cubes and sparkling water, and mint leaves and lime wedges are used to garnish the glass.The Classic Cuban MojitoThe mojito is one of the more famous rum-based highballs in the world. There are several different versions of the mojito.Cuban Mojito Recipe or American Mojito RecipeOriginCuba is the birthplace of the mojito, although the exact origin of this classic cocktail is the subject of debate. One story traces the mojito to a similar 16th century drink, the “El Draque,” in honor of Sir Francis Drake. It was made with tafia/aguardiente, a primitive predecessor of rum.MojitoCompany.com: Mojito History The other ingredients—mint, lime, and sugar (but without carbonated water)—were used to hide the harsh taste. If this is indeed true, the mojito could be considered as the world's first cocktail. The drink improved substantially in the 19th century, with the introduction of copper stills and the aging process that led to the modern form of rum.Some insist the mojito’s name comes from mojo, a Cuban seasoning made from lime and used to flavour dishes Mojito is derived from the Spanish mojo sauce, which often contains lime juice (see &quot;mojito&quot; at Dictionary.com, citing the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition, 2006, Houghton Mifflin), while mojo is derived from the Spanish verb mojar, meaning, "to make wet" (see definition 3 of &quot;mojo&quot; at Dictionary.com, citing Webster's New Millennium Dictionary of English, Preview Edition (v 0.9.7), 2003-2007, Lexico Publishing Group, LLC). Perhaps as a reference to its lime ingredient, the drink became known as the cocktail with "a little mojo"—in Spanish, "mojito."VariationsIn many places in Cuba dark or Golden rums are used along with brown sugar to create a stronger and heavier version compared to the Silver Dry original version.Whole lime wedges may be muddled in the bottom along with the mint and sugar, which are left in the drinkMojito sweetness can vary significantly. Icing sugar is often muddled with the mint leaves rather than cane sugar, and many establishments simply use sugar syrup to control sweetness.Maple syrup or agave syrup can be used as a natural sweetenerGinger ale is added along with carbonated water in some variations.Fruit flavored vodkas or rums are often substituted, such as mango, strawberry, lychee or mandarin mojitos. While not true to the classic recipe, they are still popular.Drinknation.com: Mojito variationsMojito concoctions using 12 oz of light citrusy beer (such as Tecate or Pacifico) with 2 TBS of sugar syrup, 1 TBS rum (or tequila), 2 TBS lime juice, and 6 crushed mint leaves, or similar combinations (e.g., http://www.barnonedrinks.com/drinks/t/tecate-mojito-13057.html or http://www.rickbayless.com/recipe/view?recipeID=80) are becoming increasingly popular.See alsoList of cocktailsMint JulepGrogReferencesCategory:Cocktails Category:Cocktails with rum Category:Cuban cuisinebg:Мохито cs:Mojito de:Mojito es:Mojito fr:Mojito it:Mojito mk:Мохито nl:Mojito ja:モヒート no:Mojito pl:Mojito pt:Mojito ro:Mojito ru:Мохито sr:Мохито fi:Mojito sv:Mojito tr:Mojito (içki) vls:Mojito