  Tachov (; ) is a town in the Pilsen Region of the Czech Republic. It lies on the Mže River, some  to the west from the region capital of Pilsen.Tachov is also the seat of the Municipality with Extended Competence and the Municipality with Commissioned Local Authority.HistoryThe area was inhabited by humans around 8,000-6,000 BCE. The first written document mentioning Tachov comes from 1115. A period of ravishing boom came over the place under Premysl Otakar II who had a new castle with a mighty round tower built of stone here. He also founded a town surrounded with walls near the castle. During the Hussite wars the city was several times besieged and conquered. The Thirty Years' War damaged the city considerably. In 1664, Jan A. Losy became the new proprietor and his descendants passed the title to the Windisch-Grätz Family in 1784. The Losys started a conversion of the medieval castle to a large baroque château. The Windisch-Grätzs, in their turn, made large investments to rebuild the house in the classical style.In 1945 most German-speaking inhabitants, the majority in the city, were expelled.After the war, during the Russian occupation, the area was only partly repopulated, not only by Czechs and Slovaks, but also by people from Romania, Ukraine etc. Later on uranium was found here and many adventurers moved to the area to work in the mines.The mines were closed when the Russians left. After the "Velvet Revolution" (1989), German companies started to operate factories to make use of the cheap labour. However, the Tachov area is still among the economically least developed Czech regions.External linksOfficial website (in Czech)Tachov (in English)Unofficial but informative website with photo gallery (in Czech)HistoryPortal for this area (in Czech)Resources Category:Cities and towns in the Czech Republic Category:Tachov Districtcs:Tachov da:Tachov de:Tachov et:Tachov el:Τάχοφ es:Tachov eo:Tachov (Tachov) fr:Tachov it:Tachov la:Tachovia lv:Tahova lt:Tachovas hu:Tachov nl:Tachov (okres Tachov) nn:Tachov pl:Tachov pt:Tachov ro:Tachov sk:Tachov fi:Tachov sv:Tachov tr:Tachov