Sneferu, also spelled as Snefru or Snofru (in Greek known as Soris), was the founder of the Fourth dynasty of Egypt, reigning from around 2613 BC to 2589 BC. He built at least three pyramids prior to the Giza pyramids, and he was well known in Ancient Egyptian times though in modern times, his pyramids are not visited by as many tourists as the Pyramids at Giza.NameThe name appears to be the root NFR 'good', 'perfect' or as a verb 'be good', 'be perfect', with the causative verb prefix S- forming a verb S-NFR 'make good', 'make perfect'. Thus, the name probably means 'he who perfects' or 'he who makes good'.FamilyHe was married to Hetepheres I who is thought to have been the daughter of his father Huni. It is thought that Huni and his wife were the parents of Hetepheres, while Sneferus’ mother was a concubine to Huni.Sneferu and Hetepheres were the parents of Egypt's most famous pyramid builder, Khufu.Sneferu's Building projectsSneferu was actually more prolific than his heir, being responsible for constructing three pyramids. He completed the Huni pyramid at Meidum, transforming it from a step pyramid to a true pyramid, the first of its kind. This pyramid later partially collapsed. He then built the famous Bent Pyramid at Dahshur, but this was also imperfect. He then constructed the Red Pyramid which is the 4th largest pyramid in Egypt after the Giza pyramids. Its name derives from its colour when the sun shines on it. A small pyramid at Seila, near Meidum, is also believed to have been built at his command. While the pyramids built under Sneferu are individually smaller than the Great Pyramid of Khufu, the total volume of stone used in Sneferu's monuments is the largest of all pharaohs.of Sneferu]]Despite the construction of such monuments, relatively little is known about his reign. From an inscription on the Palermo stone, it is evident that the Egyptians had already begun to import high-quality woods from abroad, as the inscription states that King Sneferu sent forty ships to acquire cedar from Lebanon. It is also known that he built boats used to transport goods and for military purposes to such places as the Sinai, Nubia, and Libya. Some of the court life from that time is evoked in the Westcar Papyrus, written sometime during the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. Tradition ascribes that Sneferu was a wise and just ruler. Indeed, his reign was regarded in later years as something of a golden age. Clearly, his lifetime marked some kind of watershed in Egyptian history, as the dramatic expansion of pyramid-building seems to imply.NotesReferencesAnderson, Julie. 1999. "Furniture of the Old Kingdom". in Egyptian Art in the Age of the Pyramids, The Metropolitan Museum of ArtLeclant, Jean. 1999. "A Brief History of the Old Kingdom". in Egyptian Art in the Age of the Pyramids, The Metropolitan Museum of ArtCategory:2589 BC deaths Category:Pharaohs of the Fourth dynasty of Egyptar:سنفرو br:Sneferou bg:Снофру ca:Snefru cs:Snofru da:Sneferu de:Snofru et:Snofru es:Seneferu eo:Snofru fr:Snéfrou gl:Snefru hr:Sneferu ko:스네프루 it:Nebmaat lt:Sneferu nl:Snofroe ja:スネフェル oc:Snefro pl:Snofru pt:Seneferu ro:Sneferu ru:Снофру sk:Snofru sr:Снефру sh:Sneferu fi:Sneferu sv:Snofru vi:Sneferu uk:Снофру zh:斯尼夫鲁