Riphean redirects here. For the time period, see Riphean stageThe Ural Mountains (, Uralskiye gory) (also known as the Urals, the Riphean Mountains in Greco-Roman antiquity, and known as the Stone Belt) are a mountain range that runs roughly north and south through western Russia. They are usually considered as the natural boundary between Europe and Asia.GeographyThe Urals extend 2,500&nbsp;km from the Kazakh steppes along the northern border of Kazakhstan to the coast of the Arctic ocean. Vaygach Island and the island of Novaya Zemlya form a further continuation of the chain. Geographically this range marks the northern part of the border between Asian and European sections of the Eurasian continent. Its highest peak is Mount Narodnaya (Poznurr, 1,895 m). Erosion has exposed considerable mineral wealth in the Urals, including gems such as topaz and beryl.The Virgin Komi Forests in the northern Urals are recognized as a World Heritage site. 68% of the Ural Mountains are located in Russia, whilst the remaining 32% are located in Kazakhstan.Ural Mountains - Peakbagger.com&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ural Mountains - MSN Encarta&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; __NOTOC__ Geographers have divided the Urals into five regions: South, Middle, North, Subarctic and Arctic Urals. The tree line drops from 1,400 metres to sea level as progressing north. Sections of the south and middle regions are completely forested.EtymologyThe Urals were named after the Uralian tribe that was once native to the northern region of Asia. The Uralians were hunter-gatherers; however the lack of plentiful resources in the area forced them to relocate, spreading throughout the Asian region. According to another explanation, the word Ural is of Turkic origin and means a stone belt. The Urals and Western Siberia in the Bronze and Iron Ages - Cambridge University Press&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Geology The Urals are among the world's oldest extant mountain ranges. For its age of 250 to 300 million years, the elevation of the mountains is unusually high. They were formed during the late Carboniferous period, when western Siberia collided with eastern Baltica (connected to Laurentia (North America) to form the minor supercontinent of Euramerica) and Kazakhstania to form the supercontinent of Laurasia. Later Laurasia and Gondwana collided to form the supercontinent of Pangaea, which subsequently broke itself apart into the seven continents known today. Europe and Siberia have remained joined together ever since.  The Urals were first studied in a systematic way by Russian mineralogist Ernst Karlovich Hofmann (1801-1871) of St. Petersburg University. During his tireless research, which began in 1828, Hofmann travelled thousands of miles in the Urals and gathered a vast collection of minerals, like gold, platinum, magnetite, ilmenite, perovskite, rutile, chromite, chrysoberyl, quartz, zircon, uvarovite, phenakite, topaz and beryl, among others.The Urals have large deposits of gold, platinum, coal, iron, nickel, silver, oil,and other minerals.ReferencesE. K. HofmannSee alsoPangaeaUral (region)Idel-Ural StateExternal linksFive parts of the Ural Mountains Image:Maksimovsky rock Chusovaya river.jpg|Chusovaya River in the Ural Mountains. Image:Polar Urals.jpg.jpg|Polar Urals, Vorkuta, Komi Image:Gorskii_04428u.jpg|A mine in the Ural Mountains, 1910    Category:Mountain ranges of Russia Category:Novaya Zemlya Category:Physiographic divisionsals:Ural ar:جبال الأورال bn:উরাল পর্বতমালা ba:Урал тауҙары be:Урал bs:Ural (planina) bg:Урал (планина) ca:Urals cv:Урал тăвĕсем cs:Ural da:Uralbjergene de:Ural et:Uural el:Ουράλια Όρη es:Montes Urales eo:Uralo (montaro) ext:Montis Uralis eu:Ural mendiak fr:Oural gl:Montes Urais ko:우랄 산맥 hi:यूराल hr:Ural (gorje) id:Pegunungan Ural is:Úralfjöll it:Urali he:הרי אורל ka:ურალის მთები la:Urales lv:Urāli lt:Uralo kalnai hu:Urál (hegység) mr:उरल पर्वत ms:Pergunungan Ural nl:Oeral (gebergte) ja:ウラル山脈 no:Uralfjellene nn:Uralfjella oc:Orals pl:Ural (góry) pt:Montes Urais ro:Munţii Ural ru:Уральские горы scn:Urali simple:Ural Mountains sk:Ural (pohorie) sr:Урал (планина) fi:Ural (vuoristo) sv:Uralbergen ta:உரால் மலைகள் vi:Núi Ural tg:Кӯҳҳои Урал tr:Ural Dağları uk:Урал ur:کوہ یورال zh:乌拉尔山脉