  ) | aka = Israeli Krav Maga, Krav | focus = Hybrid | hardness = Non-competitive | country =  Israel | creator = Imi Lichtenfeld (1910–1998) | parenthood = Imi Lichtenfeld | famous_pract = Imi Lichtenfeld, Haim Gidon, Raffi Liven,Alan Predolin, Eyal Yanilov, Darren Levine, Ran Nakash, Kobi Lichtenstein, Haim Zut, Rhon Mizrachi, David Kahn, Alan Feldman, Rick Blitstein, Nir Maman, Yigal Arbiv, Itay Gil, Moshe Katz | olympic = No | website =  Krav Maga (, lit. contact combat) is a military hand-to-hand combat system developed in Israel, which assumes no quarter will be given, and emphasizes maximum threat neutralization in a "real life" context.KRAV MAGA -Training Programs Practical Self Defense&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It came to prominence following its adoption by various Israeli Security Forces.EtymologyThe generic name in Hebrew means "close combat." The word maga () means "contact" or "close" and the word krav () means "combat". It refers to combat involving physical contact as opposed to combat using a weapon from afar (although Krav Maga does teach the use of modern day weapons such as rifles, pistols and common objects integrated with self defense techniques).Basic principlesIn Krav Maga, there are no hard-and-fast rules, and no distinction in training for men and women.http://www.tkmc.com.au Tactical Krav Maga Self Defense It is not a sport, and there are no specific uniforms, attire or competitions, although some organizations recognise progress through training with rank badges and different levels. All the techniques focus on maximum efficiency in real-life conditions. Krav Maga generally assumes that the individual attacking will give no quarter; therefore, as a response the attacks and defenses are intended only for use in potentially lethal threat situations with the aim to neutralize and escape as rapidly and safely as possible. Crippling attacks to vulnerable body parts, including groin and eye strikes, headbutts, and other efficient and potentially brutal attacks, improvised use of any objects available, and maximizing personal safety in a fight, are emphasized. However, it must be stressed that instructors can and do demonstrate how to moderate the techniques to fit the circumstances. While no limits are placed on techniques to be used in life-threatening situations, the legal need to inflict the appropriate minimal damage in other circumstances is recognized and stressed.The guiding principles for those performing Krav Maga techniques are as follows:Do not get hurtQuickly neutralize the attackerQuickly transition from defensive to offensive techniquesExploit the natural reflexes of the bodyExploit all vulnerable points on the bodyUse any available objects as aidsThese premises were developed in the context of life-threatening situations. Krav Maga Instructors constantly stress the need to match the response to the danger or risk.In general, Krav Maga requires the user to deal first with the immediate threat, prevent further attacks, and then neutralize the attacker. Actions are carried out in a methodical manner. Krav Maga emphasizes preventing further attack from the attacker. As such, some circumstances may require action in anticipation of being attacked, in order to avoid the development of dangerous situations.TrainingAlthough Krav Maga shares many techniques with other martial arts, the training is often quite different. It stresses fighting under worst-case conditions or from disadvantaged positions, for example: against several opponents, when protecting someone else, with one arm unusable, when dizzy or against armed opponents. Krav Maga emphasizes rapid learning and the retzef ("continuous combat motion"), with the imperative being effectiveness,Israeli Krav Maga - FAQ Page for either attack or defensive situations.Instructors emphasize two training rules: (1) there are no rules in a fight and (2) one must not injure oneself or one's partner when training. Training is an intense mixed aerobic and anaerobic workout, relying heavily on the use of pads in order to experience both delivery and defense of strikes at full force. This is important because it allows the student to practice the technique at full strength, and the student holding the pad learns a little of the impact they would feel when they get hit. It can be almost as taxing to hold a pad as to practice against one. Students will also wear head guards, gum shields, groin protectors, shin and forearm guards, etc. during practice of attack/defense techniques, so that a realistic level of violence may be used without injury. Some schools incorporate "Strike and Fight," which consists of full-contact sparring intended to familiarize the student with the stresses of a violent situation.Training may employ a speaker system blasting loud music, stroboscope and/or fog machine, meant to train the student to ignore peripheral distractions and focus on the needs of the situation. Other training methods to increase realism might include exercising the student to near exhaustion before having to defend, training outdoors on a variety of surfaces and restrictive situations, wearing a blindfold before being attacked, etc. The emphasis is on attempting to simulate real fight/attack situations as realistically as possible within the safety limitations of training.Training will usually also cover situational awareness, to develop an understanding of one's surroundings and potentially threatening circumstances before an attack is launched. It may also cover "Self Protection": ways to deal with situations which could end in fights, and physical and verbal methods to avoid violence whenever possible.A typical session in a civilian school is about an hour long and mixes conditioning with self-defense teaching. As levels increase, the instructors focus a little more on complicated and less common types of attacks, such as knife attacks, hostage situations and defense under extreme duress. First, the instructor will run a very intense drill to get the class' heart rates up. Then, after stretching, the instructor will teach two or three self-defense techniques. In the beginning the techniques will either be combative (punches, hammer-fists, elbows, and knees) or grappling (breaking out of chokes or wrist-grabs, getting out from under an opponent while on one's back). After that, the class usually moves to a drill that combines the techniques just taught with an aerobic technique. Finally, there is the final drill intended to burn out the students. Depending on the class - and on the instructor's mood - this drill may be at the very beginning or at the end of the class.HistoryImi LichtenfeldKrav Maga was developed in Hungary and Czechoslovakia in the 1930s by Imi Lichtenfeld, also known as Imi Sde-Or. (Sde-Or - "Light Field" - is a calque of his surname into Hebrew.) He first taught his fighting system in Bratislava in order to help protect the Jewish community from Nazi militia. Upon arriving in the British Mandate of Palestine prior to the establishment of the Jewish state, Imi began teaching hand-to-hand combat to the Haganah, the Jewish underground army. With the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Imi became the Chief Instructor of Physical Fitness and Krav Maga at the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) School of Combat Fitness. He served in the IDF for about 20 years, during which time he continued to develop and refine his hand-to-hand combat method. In 1978, Imi founded the non-profit Israeli Krav Maga Association with his senior instructors.http://www.israelikrav.com&lt;/ref&gt; He died in January 1998 in Netanya, Israel.International Krav Maga Federation&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Expansion outside IsraelPrior to 1980, all experts in Krav Maga lived in Israel and trained under the Israeli Krav Maga Association. That year marks the beginning of contact between Israeli Krav Maga experts and interested students in the United States. In 1981, a group of six Krav Maga instructors traveled to the US to offer demonstrations of the system, primarily at local Jewish Community Centers. This, in turn, led to demonstrations at the New York Field Office of the FBI and the FBI's Main Training Center at Quantico, Virginia. The result was a visit by 22 people from the US to Israel in the summer of 1981 to attend a basic Krav Maga instructor course. The graduates from this course returned to the US and began to establish training facilities in their local areas. Additional students traveled to Israel in 1984 and again in 1986 to become instructors. At the same time, instructors from Israel continued to visit the US. Law Enforcement training in the US began in 1985.International Krav Maga Federation&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Instructor certification courses are offered every year in Netanya, Israel for qualified individuals.www.kravmagaisraeli.com - Welcome to the official Web site of the israeli krav maga association&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Current usageIn 1964, Imi Lichtenfeld finished his military service and adapted Krav Maga to civilian frameworks. In Israel, Krav Maga is taught by Haim Gidon at the Wingate Institute,Wingate Institute which is one of the world's leading physical fitness centers.Krav Maga is the official self defense and unarmed combat system of the Israeli Defense Forces and every Israeli soldier learns Krav Maga as part of their training. Krav Maga is also the official combat system of the Israeli Police and all Israeli Intelligence and security agencieshttp://www.defenseinstitute.com.au&lt;/ref&gt;.Today, Krav Maga is taught in Israel and around the world to civilians, military, law enforcement and security agencies.The International Krav Maga Federation (IKMF) which is based in Israel, founded by several of Imi Lichtenfeld's (the founder of Krav Maga) leading students including Gabi Noah, Avi Moyal, and Eli Ben-Ami, and is headed by Eyal Yanilov.Krav Maga Worldwide, based in the United States, founded by Darren Levin who studied Krav Maga under Imi Lichtenfeld and Eyal Yanilov.http://www.kravmaga.com&lt;/ref&gt;The Israeli Krav Maga Association (IKMA) is Imi Lichtenfeld's original and longest standing krav maga organization founded in 1978. The IKMA based in Israel and headed by Haim Gidon .http://www.israelikrav.com&lt;/ref&gt;Israeli Krav International (IKI) - A modern Krav Maga Association headquartered in Maaleh Adumim, Israel and Founded by Moshe Katz, curriculum presided over by Itay Gil. http://www.your-krav-maga-expert.com&lt;/ref&gt;See alsoImi LichtenfeldMixed martial artsReferencesCategory:Krav Maga Category:Hebrew words and phrases Category:Israeli martial arts Category:Israeli Security Forces Category:Martial artsar:كراف مغا ca:Krav Magà cs:Krav Maga da:Krav Maga de:Krav Maga es:Krav Magá eo:Kravmagao fa:کراو ماگا fr:Krav-maga hr:Krav Maga id:Krav Maga it:Krav Maga he:קרב מגע lt:Krav Maga hu:Krav Maga nl:Krav maga ja:クラヴ・マガ no:Krav Maga pl:Krav maga pt:Krav Magá ro:Krav Maga sr:Крав мага fi:Krav Maga sv:Krav Maga tr:Krav Maga