Antonio Francisco Javier José Soler Ramos, usually known today as Padre Antonio Soler, (baptized December 3, 1729 – died December 20, 1783) was a Spanish composer whose works span the late Baroque and early Classical music eras. He is best known for his keyboard sonatas, an important contribution to the harpsichord, fortepiano and organ repertoire.Early lifeSoler was born in Olot in the Catalan province of Girona. In 1736, when he was six, he entered the choir school of the great Monastery of Montserrat where he studied with the resident maestro Benito Esteve and organist Benito Valls. In 1744 he was appointed organist at the cathedral in La Seu d'Urgell and appointed as a subdeacon there. Later in his life, he held posts as chapel master in Lleida and El Escorial.Ministerial lifestyleSoler took Holy Orders at the age of 23 and his routine with the Jeronymite order near El Escorial, Madrid was a simple one for the next 31 years. His 20-hour days were filled with prayer, contemplation and farming -- a simple and unadorned life. Yet, in these austere surroundings, Soler managed to produce more than 500 musical works. Amongst these were around 150 keyboard sonatas -- many were believed to have been written as sheet music for his pupil, the Infante Don Gabriel, a son of King Carlos III. Other pieces include Christmas villancicosedited as Siete villancicos de navidad Instituto de Musica Religiosa de la Excma. Diputacion Provincial, Cuenca Spain1979 and Latin church music including masses. No portraits of Soler are known to exist.CompositionsPadre Soler's most celebrated works are his keyboard sonatas, which are comparable to those by Domenico Scarlatti (with whom he is rumored to have studied). However, Soler's works are more varied in form than Scarlatti's with some pieces in three or four movements, for example (Scarlatti's are in one or two movements). Fortunately, Soler's sonatas were catalogued in the early twentieth century by Fr. Samuel Rubio and so all have 'R' numbers assigned to them.Soler also wrote concertos, quintets for organ and strings, motetsedited by Ediciones Escurialenses, Editorial Patrimonio Nacional, 1983., masses and pieces for solo organ. He also wrote a treatise, Llave de la modulación ("The Key to Modulation", 1762).Soler's very fine "Six Concertos for Two Organs" are still very much in the repertoire and have been often recorded. A fandango once attributed to Soler, and probably more often performed than any other work by him, is now thought by some to be of doubtful authorship.Selected discographyRecordings of works solely by SolerSoler: 8 Sonatas, Fandango. Played by harpsichordist Nicolau de Figueiredo. Passacaille 943Soler: Fandango, 9 Sonatas. Played by harpsichordist Scott Ross. EratoSoler: Fandango & Sonatas. Played by harpsichordist David Schrader. Cedille 004Soler: Harpsichord Sonatas, vol. II. Played by harpsichordist David Schrader. Cedille 009Soler: Sonatas. Played by pianist Elena Riu. Ensayo 9818Soler: Complete Harpsichord Works. Played by Bob van Asperen (12 disks). AstréeSoler: Sonatas para piano. Played by pianist Alicia de Larrocha. EMI CLASSICSSoler: Los 6 Quintetos para clave y cuerda. Played by harpsichordist Genoveva Gálvez and the string quartet Agrupación Nacional de Música de Cámara. EMI CLASSICSSoler: Sonatas for Harpsichord. Played by Gilbert Rowland. A multi-volume project on Naxos Records.Soler: Six Concertos for Two Keyboard Instruments. Played by Kenneth Gilbert and Trevor Pinnock. Archiv Produktion 453171-2Soler: 19 Sonatas. Played by Anna Malikova. Classical Records CR-049Recordings of works by Soler & other composersFavourite Spanish Encores. Played by pianist Alicia de Larrocha with R. Frühbeck de Burgos conducting the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. London/Decca Legends 467687Grandes Pianistas Españoles. Played by pianist Alicia De Larrocha. Rtve 65235Piano Español. Played by pianist Jorge Federico Osorio. Cedille 075The Emperor's Fanfare. played by Michael Murray on his organ blaster cd.Media   Sources[http://www.kunstderfuge.com/bios/soler.html Soler, Antonio (Father)][http://www.chateaugris.com/Soler/solerpag.htm The Life and Times of Soler (includes audio and sheet music of Soler's keyboard works)]External links[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bXwMv1b1094 Sonata No.10 in b-minor, performed by Ken Iisaka] Category:1729 births Category:1783 deaths Category:Baroque composers Category:Classical era composers Category:Catalan composers Category:Spanish composersca:Antoni Soler i Ramos da:Antonio Soler de:Antonio Soler es:Antonio Soler (compositor) fr:Antonio Soler (compositeur) it:Antonio Soler nl:Padre Antonio Soler ja:アントニオ・ソレール pl:Antonio Soler pt:Padre Antônio Soler ru:Солер, Антонио fi:Antonio Soler tr:Antonio Soler