 A government-owned corporation, state-owned enterprise or government business enterprise is a legal entity created by a government to undertake commercial or business activities on behalf of an owner government. There is no standard definition of a government-owned corporation (GOC) or state-owned enterprise (SOE), although the two terms can be used inter-changeably. The defining characteristics are that they have a distinct legal form and they are established to operate in commercial affairs. While they may also have public policy objectives, SOEs should be differentiated from other forms of government corporation or entity established to pursue purely non-financial objectives that have no need or goal of satisfying the shareholders with return on their investment through price increase or dividends.SOEs can be fully owned or partially owned by Government. As a definitional issue, it is difficult to determine categorically what level of state ownership would qualify an entity to be considered as "state-owned", since governments can also own regular stock, without implying any special interference. As an example, the Chinese Investment Corporation agreed in 2007 to acquire a 9.9% interest in the global investment bank Morgan Stanley, but it is unlikely that this would qualify the latter as a government-owned corporation.By regionEuropeIn Western Europe there was a massive nationalization throughout the 1900s, especially after World War II to ensure Government control over natural monopolies and to some extent industry. Typical sectors included telecommunications, power, petroleum, railways, airports, airlines, public transport, health care, postal services and sometimes banks. Many large industrial corporations were also nationalized or created as Government corporations, including among many British Steel, Statoil and Irish Sugar. Starting in the late 1970s and accelerating through the 1980s and 1990s many of these corporations were privatized, though many still remain wholly or partially owned by the respective governments.A state-run corporation needs to be distinguished from an ordinary limited liability corporation owned by the state. For example, in Finland, state-run corporations (liikelaitos) are governed by a separate act. Even though responsible for their own finances, they cannot be declared bankrupt; the state answers for the liabilities. Conversely, the state can directly fund unprofitable business. Stocks of the corporation are not sold and loans have to be government-approved, as they are government liabilities. In contrast, the state also owns controlling interest in ordinary limited liability corporations.United StatesIn the United States, businesses that are government owned include the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (d/b/a Amtrak), Fannie Mae, Freddy Mac, Tennessee Valley Authority, Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the United States Postal Service. Many states have government owned businesses for operations as well (e.g. North Dakota Mill and Elevator or South Dakota Public Broadcasting). Generally speaking, a statute passed by a legislature specifically sets up a government owned company in order to undertake a specific public purpose with public funds or public property.ChinaIn the People's Republic of China, since 1949, all business entities were created and owned by the government. From the later 1980s, the government began to reform the state-owned enterprise, esp from later 1990s to early 00s, many mid-sized and small sized state-owned enterprises were privatized and went public. There are a number of different corporate forms which result in a mixture of public and private capital. In PRC terminology, a state-owned enterprise refers to a particular corporate form, which is increasingly being replaced by the listed company. State-owned enterprises are governed by the various government level and in the central government level is State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council.CommonwealthIn monarchical Commonwealth countries, particularly Canada, country-wide government corporations often use the style "Crown corporation." Equivalent terms include "state-owned enterprises" and "Crown entities" in New Zealand, and Government Business Enterprise (GBE) in Australia. Examples of Crown corporations include the CBC in Canada and Air Canada before it underwent privatisation. Cabinet ministers (Ministers of the Crown) often control the shares in such public corporations.At the level of local government, territorial or other authorities may set up government corporations such as "Local Authority Trading Enterprises" (LATEs). Many local authorities establish services such as water supply as separate corporations or as a business unit of the authority.India In India, public sector undertaking (PSU) is a term used for a government-owned corporation (company in the public sector). The term is used to refer to companies in which the government (either the Union Government or state or territorial governments, or both) owned a majority (51 percent or more) of the company equity.JapanIn Japan, Japan Post was reorganized into Japan Post Group in 2007 as a material step of the postal privatization. It is currently wholly owned by the government, but is planned to be sold into private ownership. Japan Railways Group (JR), Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) and Japan Tobacco (JT) were formerly owned by the government.OPECIn most OPEC countries, the governments prefer to own the oil companies operating on their soil. A notable example is the Saudi national oil company, Saudi Aramco, which the Saudi government bought in 1988 and changed its name from Arabian American Oil Company to Saudi Arabian Oil Company. The Saudi government also owns and operates Saudi Arabian Airlines, and owns 70% of SABIC, as well as many other companies. They are, however, being privatized gradually.UruguayUruguay had the first welfare state of Latin America under the presidency of José Batlle y Ordoñez in 1904. Government-owned corporations monopolize services such as electricity (UTE), land-line communications (Antel) and water (OSE). Antel competes with private corporations in the cell-phone lines and international telephony markets.  In 1992, under the presidency of Luis Alberto Lacalle, the government attempted to privatize all its companies, following the neoliberal Washington Consensus. However, a referendum won by 75% of the population kept the companies in the hands of the government. By the end of his term, president Lacalle alleged that he had achieved a successful modernisation of the companies, which had made them more efficient.See alsoGovernment-linked companyGovernment sponsored enterpriseCrown corporations of CanadaNationalizationPrivatizationPublic company (public corporation)Public Sector Undertaking (Indian state enterprise)Public ownershipStatsforetak (Norwegian state enterprise)Stock exchangeStock marketState-Owned Enterprises of New ZealandUnitary Enterprise (Russian state enterprise)Volkseigener Betrieb (East German state enterprise)State inside a stateFurther readingThe Public Firm with Managerial Incentives by Elmer G. Wiens.Shadow Government: The Hidden World of Public Authorities by Donald AxelrodCategory:Government-owned companies Category:Types of companiesde:Öffentliches Unternehmen es:Empresa pública fr:Entreprise publique gl:Empresa pública id:Badan Usaha Milik Negara it:Impresa pubblica he:חברה ממשלתית nl:Staatsbedrijf ja:公社 pl:Przedsiębiorstwo państwowe pt:Empresa estatal sq:Ndërmarrja Publike fi:Valtionyhtiö th:รัฐวิสาหกิจ zh:国有企业