This is about Richard Steele, Irish writer and politician; for others, see Richard Steele (disambiguation) page.Sir Richard Steele (bap. 12 March 1672 &ndash; 1 September 1729) was an Irish writer and politician, remembered, along with his friend, Joseph Addison, as co-founder of The Spectator magazine in 1711.Steele was born in Dublin, Ireland to Richard Steele, an attorney, and Elinor Symes (née Sheyles); his sister Katherine was born the previous year. A member of the Protestant gentry, he was educated at Charterhouse School, where he first met Addison. He went on to Merton College, Oxford, then with joined the Life Guards of the Household Cavalry. He disliked British Army life, and his first published work, The Christian Hero (1701), attempted to point out the differences between perceived and actual masculinity. He afterwards became a dramatist, and his comedies, such as The Tender Husband (1703) met with some success. In 1706 he was appointed to a position in the household of Prince George of Denmark, consort of Anne of Great Britain. He also gained the favour of Robert Harley, Earl of Oxford.In 1705, Steele married a widow, Margaret Stretch, who died in the following year. At her funeral he met his second wife, Mary Scurlock, whom he nicknamed "Prue" and married in 1707. In the course of their courtship and marriage, he wrote over 400 letters to her. They were a devoted couple, their correspondence still being regarded as one of the best illustrations of a happy marriage, but their relationship was stormy. Mary died in 1718, at a time when she was considering separation. Their daughter, Elizabeth (Steele's only surviving legitimate child), married John Trevor, 3rd Baron Trevor.In 1709, Steele founded a thrice-weekly satirical magazine, Tatler, which lasted only two years in its first incarnation. Addison was a frequent contributor. Following the demise of the Tatler, the two men founded The Spectator. A member of the Whig Kit-Kat Club, Steele became a Member of Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1713, but was soon expelled for issuing a pamphlet in favour of the Hanoverian succession. When George I of Great Britain came to the throne in the following year, Steele was knighted and given responsibility for the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, London. However, he fell out with Addison and with the administration over the Peerage Bill (1719), and retired to his wife's homeland of Wales, where he spent the remainder of his life.Steele remained in Carmarthen after Mary's death, and was buried there, at St Peter's Church. During restoration of the church in 2000, his skull was discovered in a lead casket, having previously been accidentally disinterred during the 1870s.External linksEssays by Steele at Quotidiana.org      Category:Magazine founders Category:Magazine editors Category:British magazine publishers (people) Category:Irish dramatists and playwrights Category:Members of the Parliament of Great Britain for English constituencies Category:Old Carthusians Category:Alumni of Merton College, Oxford Category:People from County Dublin Category:1672 births Category:1729 deathscy:Richard Steele de:Richard Steele es:Richard Steele fr:Richard Steele it:Richard Steele hu:Richard Steele nl:Richard Steele pl:Richard Steele pt:Richard Steele ru:Стил, Ричард