Flag ratio: 1:2]]The Flag of Ethiopia was adopted on February 6, 1996. The 3 traditional colors- green, yellow, and red- date back to the Emperor Menelik (1889-1913) and were first used in a flag in 1895. The current flag and emblem were adopted after the defeat of the Marxist Mengistu regime, in power from 1974-1991. The emblem is intended to represent both the diversity and unity of the country. Blue represents peace, the star represents diversity and unity, and the sun's rays symbolize prosperity. The green recalls the land and hope for the future, yellow for peace and love, and red symbolic of strength.The colours of African unity - red, green, yellow - are seen here on one of the oldest African flags. These colours were used for the national flag of Ethiopia in 1897, a year after Ethiopia decisively defended itself from colonial Italy at the Battle of Adwa. The flag's tri-colour scheme has existed since the early 19th c. and was previously the official banner of the Ethiopian Empire's Solomonic dynasty. The colors green, yellow, and red have carried special importance since at least the early 17th century.Manoel Barradas, from Manoel Barradas, "Tractatus Tres Historico-Geographici: (1634); A Seventeenth Centry Historical and Geographical Account of Tigray, Ethiopia", Elizabet Filleul, trans., Richard Pankhurst, ed., in iAethiopistische Forschungen 43/i. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz, 1996, p. 59. The royal flag often featured the emblem of a Lion of Judah, a crowned lion carrying a cross centred in the banner's yellow mid-section. The flag is understood to be a link between the Ethiopian church, the peoples, and the nation were united in the one flag. The processional cross carried by the lion was the former "flag" or symbol of Ethiopia, and has been in use since at least the early 17th century, as well.Barradas, pp. 70-71. Whilst red is currently featured at the bottom of the horizontal tricolour this was reversed in the mid 19th century and the emblem was added in 1996. What the colours symbolise varies depending on point of view, but generally: red represents power or African blood spilled in defence of the land; yellow for peace and harmony between Ethiopia's various ethnic and religious groups; green is said to symbolize hope, or the land and its fertility. Other African nations, upon their independence from their colonial rulers so often adopted these three colours that they are known as the Pan-African colours.Ethiopia&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Prior to 1996, and to some extent even today, the 'plain' flag was commonly seen across the nation and the world. Previously, especially during the Derg regime, a number of different emblems were experimented with; however, the basic colour schematic has remained constant. Even the oppressive Derg did not dare to tamper with the colours' layout, but simply removed and changed the imperial emblem after Haile Selassie's overthrow. An alternative coat of arms featuring a five pointed star and rays over a cogwheel surrounded by a wreath of leaves is now the featured emblem.The star, which is a pentagram, is yellow on a blue disc, which overlaps the green and red stripes. The star testifies to Ethiopia's bright future and possibly echoes the connection with the House of King Solomon, while the yellow rays which it emits are equidistant and are said to represent the equality of all Ethiopians regardless of race, creed, or gender.Historical flags Image:Ethiopian Pennants.svg|Before the rectangular flag was created, Ethiopia flew three colored pennants. Note that the red was originally on the top. Image:Flag of Ethiopia (1897).svg|The old flag with the Lion of Judah. It remains popular with the Rastafari movement and people loyal to Haile Selassie. Image:Flag of Ethiopia (1975-1987, 1991-1996).svg|The Original flag, which was used by the Derg from 1975 to 1987 and 1991 to 1996, and is still widely seen today. Image:Flag of Ethiopia (1987-1991).png|Flag of the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia between 1987-1991.    ReferencesExternal linkshttp://www.ethioworld.com/CountryInformation/ethiopianflag.htmhttp://www.worldstatesmen.org/Ethiopia.htmlEthiopia Category:National symbols of Ethiopiaam:የኢትዮጵያ ሰንደቅ ዓላማ ar:علم إثيوبيا ast:Bandera d'Etiopía bs:Zastava Etiopije ca:Bandera d'Etiòpia cs:Etiopská vlajka da:Etiopiens flag de:Flagge Äthiopiens et:Etioopia lipp el:Σημαία της Αιθιοπίας es:Bandera de Etiopía fr:Drapeau de l'Éthiopie ko:에티오피아의 국기 hr:Zastava Etiopije bpy:ইথিওপিয়ার ফিরালহান id:Bendera Ethiopia it:Bandiera etiope he:דגל אתיופיה sw:Bendera ya Ethiopia lt:Etiopijos vėliava hu:Etiópia zászlaja nl:Vlag van Ethiopië ja:エチオピアの国旗 no:Etiopias flagg pl:Flaga Etiopii pt:Bandeira da Etiópia ru:Флаг Эфиопии sk:Vlajka Etiópie sl:Zastava Etiopije sr:Застава Етиопије sh:Zastava Etiopije fi:Etiopian lippu sv:Etiopiens flagga zh:衣索匹亞國旗