  Carloman II (c. 866 &ndash; 12 December 884), king of Western Francia, was the youngest son of King Louis the Stammerer and Ansgarde, and became king, jointly with his brother Louis III of France, on his father's death in 879.Some nobles advocated electing a sole king, but eventually both brothers were elected kings. Although doubts were cast upon their legitimacy, the brothers obtained recognition and in March 880 divided their father's realm at Amiens, Carloman receiving Burgundy and Aquitaine.However, Duke Boso had renounced his allegiance to both brothers and had been elected King of Provence. In the summer of 880 the brothers Carloman and Louis marched against him, took Mâcon and the northern parts of Boso's realm. They united their forces with those of Charles the Fat and unsuccessfully besieged Vienne from August to November. Only in the summer of 882, Vienne was taken after being besieged by Richard, Count of Autun.About the same time, in August 882, Carloman became sole king owing to his brother's death, but the kingdom was in a deplorable condition partly owing to incursions from the Norman raiders, and his power was very circumscribed. There were revolts of the feudal lords even in Burgundy.Carloman met his death while hunting on December 12, 884 and was succeeded in the rule by his cousin, the Emperor Charles the Fat.References     Category:884 deaths Category:Roman Catholic monarchs Category:Carolingian dynasty Category:French monarchs Category:Medieval child rulersbs:Karloman, kralj Francuske br:Karloman II (Bro-C'hall) cs:Karloman II. Francouzský da:Karloman 2. af Frankrig de:Karlmann (Frankreich) es:Carlomán II de Francia eo:Karlomano la 2-a fa:کارلمان فرانسوی fr:Carloman II de France gl:Carlomán II ko:샤를로망 hr:Karloman, kralj Francuske it:Carlomanno II di Francia he:קרלומן השני, מלך צרפת la:Carlomanus (rex Franciae) lt:Karlomanas II hu:II. Karlmann francia király nl:Karloman van Frankrijk ja:カルロマン (西フランク王) pl:Karloman (król zachodniofrankijski) pt:Carlomano II de França ru:Карломан II (король Франции) simple:Carloman II of France sk:Karolman II. (Francúzsko) sr:Карломан Француски sv:Karloman II zh:卡洛曼二世 (西法兰克)