 | place_of_birth = La Grange, North Carolina | date_of_death = | place_of_death = | alias = | charge = Drug Dealing | conviction = 1976; sentenced to 70 years but released in 1981 upon serving 5 years. Convicted again in 1984 getting out in 1991 after he served a term of seven years. | penalty = | status = | occupation = | spouse = | parents = | children =  Frank Lucas (born September 9, 1930) is a former heroin dealer and organized crime boss in Harlem from 1969-1975. He was particularly known for cutting out middlemen in the drug trade and buying heroin directly from his source in the Golden Triangle. Frank Lucas is popularly known for smuggling heroin using the coffins of dead American servicemen,&quot;The Return of Superfly&quot; New York Magazine, August 14, 2000. a claim his Southeast Asian associate Leslie &quot;Ike&quot; Atkinson denies. Early lifeLucas was born in La Grange, North Carolina and raised in Greensboro.&quot;Frank Lucas, Between Issues&quot; Metro Magazine, November 8, 2007Lucas claims that the incident that sparked his motivation into the life of crime was witnessing his 12-year-old cousin's murder at the hands of the Ku Klux Klan for apparently looking at a white woman in Greensboro. He drifted through a life of petty crime until one particular occasion when he engaged in a fight with a former employer and, on the advice of his mother, fled to New York. In Harlem he indulged in petty crime and pool hustling before he was taken under the wing of gangster Ellsworth &quot;Bumpy&quot; Johnson. The details of his connection to Johnson have been called into question: Lucas claimed to have been Johnson's driver for 15 years, but Johnson spent only five years out of prison before his death in 1968; and according to Johnson's widow much of the narrative Lucas cites actually belongs to another young hustler named Drew "Roscoe Jones" Norris.Pg 159, 221.Criminal careerAfter Johnson's death,Frank Lucas traveled around and came to the realization that to be successful he would have to break the monopoly that the Italian mafia held in New York. Traveling to Southeast Asia, he eventually made his way to Jack's American Star Bar, an R&amp;R hangout for black soldiers. It was here that he met former U.S. Army sergeant Leslie &quot;Ike&quot; Atkinson, from Goldsboro, North Carolina, who happened to be married to one of Lucas' cousins, which made him as good as family. Lucas is quoted as saying, "Ike knew everyone over there, every black guy in the Army from the cooks on up".Lucas denies putting the drugs among the corpses of American soldiers. He claims instead to have flown in a North Carolina carpenter to Bangkok and:Atkinson, nicknamed "Sergeant Smack" by the DEA, has said he shipped drugs in furniture, not caskets. Whatever method he used, Lucas smuggled the drugs into the country with this direct link from Asia. Lucas said that he made US$1 million per day selling drugs on 116th Street. Federal judge Sterling Johnson, who was special narcotics prosecutor in New York at the time, called Lucas' operation "one of the most outrageous international dope-smuggling gangs ever, an innovator who got his own connections outside the U.S. and then sold the narcotics himself in the street." He had connections with the Sicilian and Irish mobs, holding an enormous monopoly on the heroin market in Manhattan. In an interview, Lucas said, "I wanted to be rich. I wanted to be Donald Trump rich, and so help me God, I made it."Lucas only trusted relatives and close friends from North Carolina to handle his various heroin operations. His heroin, sold under the street name "Blue Magic", was 100 percent pure when shipped from Thailand. Lucas has been quoted as saying that his worth was "something like $52 million", most of it in Cayman Islands banks. Added to this is "maybe 1,000 keys (kilograms - 2.2046 pounds) of dope on hand" with a potential profit of no less than $300,000 per kilo.This huge profit margin allowed him to buy property all over the country, including office buildings in Detroit and apartments in Los Angeles and Miami. He also bought a ranch of several thousand acres in North Carolina on which he ranged 300 Black Angus cows including a breeding bull worth $125,000.Lucas rubbed shoulders with the elite in entertainment, politics, and crime, meeting Howard Hughes at one of Harlem's best clubs in his day. Though he owned several mink and chinchilla coats and other accessories, Lucas preferred to dress conservatively as to not attract attention to himself. He fathered seven children, including a daughter, Francine Lucas-Sinclair, and a son, Frank Lucas, Jr."BREAKFAST WITH THE REAL 'AMERICAN GANGSTER'," MSNBC When he was arrested in the mid-1970s, all of Lucas' assets were seized.Arrests and releasesIn January 1975, Frank Lucas' house in Teaneck, New Jersey was raided by a joint DEA/New York Police Department task force. In his house authorities found $584,683. He was later convicted of both federal and New Jersey state drug violations. The following year he was sentenced to 70 years in prison. Once convicted, Lucas provided evidence that led to more than 100 further drug-related convictions. For his safety in 1977, Lucas and his family were placed in the witness protection program. In 1981, after five years in prison, his 40-year federal term and 30-year state term were reduced to time served plus lifetime parole. In 1984 he was caught and convicted of trying to exchange one ounce of heroin and $13,000 for one kilogram of cocaine. He was defended by his former prosecutor, Richie Roberts, and received a sentence of seven years. He was released from prison in 1991.FamilyLucas married Julie, a homecoming queen from Puerto Rico. The two often bought expensive gifts for each other including a $125,000 coat and a matching hat for $40,000. Julie was also jailed for her role in her husband's criminal enterprise, spending five years behind bars. After she was released from prison they lived separately for some years, and she eventually moved back to Puerto Rico. They reconciled in 2006, and have been married for over 40 years.Lucas has a total of seven children, although only one daughter, Francine, with Julie. She entered the witness protection program with Lucas in 1977 and has since begun a website, Yellowbrickroads, with resources for the children of incarcerated parents.Lucas' son Frank Lucas Jr is a hip hop artist who, with his father, has launched the Frank Lucas brand.Fictional portrayalsLucas' criminal career was the real basis of Ridley Scott's 2007 film American Gangster, which starred Denzel Washington as Lucas.He was the basis for the main antagonist in Tom Clancy's Without RemorseSee alsoNicky BarnesRichie RobertsAmerican Gangster -ReferencesExternal linksFrank Lucas FoundationDateline NBC Producer describes sitting down for breakfast with Frank Lucas&quot;The real rap on Bumpy&quot;, Philadelphia Daily News, November 5, 2007Susannah Cahalan, &quot;Ganging up on movie's lies&quot;, ''New York Post, November 4, 2007The Raid in Teaneck - prologue to Superfly: The True Untold Story of Frank Lucas, American Gangster by Ron Chepesiuk and Anthony Gonzalez[http://www.americangangster.net/ American Gangster movie site]Frank Lucas Jr. on MyspaceFrank Lucas' Daughter Speaks[http://nymag.com/nymag/features/3649/ New York Magazine article] Category:1930 births Category:African American mobsters Category:Living people Category:People from New York City Category:People from Manhattan Category:American drug lords Category:People from Greensboro, North Carolinade:Frank Lucas (Gangster) es:Frank Lucas fr:Frank Lucas it:Frank Lucas nl:Frank Lucas ja:フランク・ルーカス pl:Frank Lucas pt:Frank Lucas sv:Frank Lucas tr:Frank Lucas