 | birth_place =  London, England, UK | death_date = | death_place = | residence = Concord, Massachusetts | nationality = British | field = Mathematician | work_institution = Wolfram Research | alma_mater = Oxford University, Caltech | doctoral_advisor = | doctoral_students = | known_for = Creator of MathematicaAuthor of A New Kind of Science | author_abbreviation_bot = | author_abbreviation_zoo = | prizes = MacArthur Fellowship | religion = | footnotes = Stephen Wolfram (born August 29, 1959 in London) is a British physicist, mathematician and businessman known for his work in theoretical particle physics, cosmology, cellular automata, complexity theory, and computer algebra, and is the creator of the computer program Mathematica.BiographyStephen Wolfram's parents were Jewish refugees who immigrated to England in 1933.   Wolfram's father, Hugo Wolfram, was a novelist, and his mother, Sybil Wolfram, was a professor of philosophy at the University of Oxford. Wolfram was educated at Eton public school. Often described as a child prodigy, he published an article on particle physics at age 16 Note that the SPIRES date of April 1975 refers to the date the preprint was received, not the date of journal publication. and entered Oxford University (St John's College) at age 17. He wrote a widely cited paper on heavy quark production at age 17. He received his Ph.D. in particle physics from Caltech at age 20 Thesis listing: Some Topics In Theoretical High-Energy Physics and joined the faculty there. He became highly interested in cellular automata at age 21.  His work with Geoffrey Fox on the theory of the strong interaction is still used today in experimental particle physics.See A Model for Parton Showers in QCD and Observables for the Analysis of Event Shapes in e+ e- Annihilation and Other ProcessesStephen Wolfram was in 1987 founding editor of the journal Complex systems.WorkSymbolic Manipulation ProgramWolfram led the development of the computer algebra system SMP (Symbolic Manipulation Program: SMP was essentially Version Zero of Mathematica) in the Caltech physics department during 1979–1981, but a dispute with the administration over the intellectual property rights regarding SMP -- patents/copyrights and faculty involvement in commercial ventures -– eventually caused him to resign from Caltech.Kolata, Gina. "Caltech Torn by Dispute Over Software," Science, 27 May 1983 (Vol. 220, No. 4600) issue, pgs. 932-934. SMP was further developed and marketed commercially by Inference Corp. of Los Angeles during the period 1983–1988.In 1981, Wolfram was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship. In 1983, he left for the School of Natural Sciences of the Institute for Advanced Study, where he studied cellular automata, mainly with computer simulations. In the middle 1980s Wolfram worked on simulations of physical processes (such as turbulent fluid flow) with cellular automata on the Connection Machine alongside Richard Feynman.Mathematica In 1986 Wolfram left the Institute for Advanced Study for the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he founded their Center for Complex Systems Research and started to develop the computer algebra system Mathematica, which was first released in 1988, when he left academia. In 1987 he co-founded a company called Wolfram Research which continues to develop and market the program. Stephen Wolfram is currently the majority shareholder.A New Kind of ScienceFrom 1992 to 2002, Wolfram worked on his controversial book A New Kind of Science (NKS), which presents an empirical study of very simple computational systems. Additionally, it argued that for fundamental reasons these types of systems, rather than traditional mathematics, are needed to model and understand complexity in nature.Since the release of the NKS book in 2002, Wolfram has split his time between developing Mathematica and encouraging people to get involved with NKS by giving talks, holding NKS conferences, and starting an NKS summer school.The simplest universal Turing machineIn the NKS book, Wolfram claimed to have found the simplest known Universal Turing machine, one with 2 states and 5 colors. Afterwards, Wolfram made an empirical investigation of 2,985,984 (= 126) possible 2-state 3-color Turing machines (because it was known that no machine with 2 states and 2 colors can be universal), and from among these candidates he selected one that he had an intuition might indeed be the simplest universal Turing machine.A US$25,000 prize was announced to be awarded to the first person or group who would provide a formal proof that that particular candidate is universal or that it is not. Alex Smith, a 20-year-old undergraduate from Birmingham, UK, claimed to have proven the universality of Wolfram's 2,3 Turing machine and was awarded the prize. The October 24 entry at Wolfram Research's blog announcing the news. Computer scientist Vaughan Pratt later claimed to have found an error in the reasoning of the proof. Wolfram Research and Alex Smith disputed Pratt's claim on the same discussion group.ReferencesFurther reading[http://www.wolframscience.com/nksonline/toc.html Full text of A New Kind of Science] by Stephen Wolfram; MIT video overview[http://www.rudyrucker.com/lifebox/ The Lifebox, the Seashell, and the Soul] by Rudy Rucker, a book that presents NKS ideas[http://www.math.usf.edu/~eclark/ANKOS_reviews.html A collection of reviews of Stephen Wolfram's book, A New Kind of Science]External linksWolfram Research blog to which Stephen Wolfram contributesStephen Wolfram's personal websiteVideo of Wolfram speaking at UCSD H.Paul Rockwood Memorial LectureVideo of Stephen Wolfram speaking at the International Conference on Complex Systems, hosted by the New England Complex Systems Institute (NECSI)God, Stephen Wolfram, and Everything Else - forbes.com articleIT Conversations: Stephen Wolfram - A New Kind of ScienceStephen Wolfram On The Future by David M. Ewalt, Forbes, October 15, 2007.Physicist Awarded 'Genius' Prize Finds Reality in Invisible World by Gladwin Hill, The New York Times, May 24, 1981. (subscription req.)"A Face From Words" by Enrique Zeleny, The Wolfram Demonstrations Project. Category:1959 births Category:20th century mathematicians Category:21st century mathematicians Category:Alumni of St John's College, Oxford Category:American computer scientists Category:American mathematicians Category:English Jews Category:Jewish American scientists Category:California Institute of Technology alumni Category:Cellular automatists Category:Chaos theorists Category:Complex systems scientists Category:Old Dragons Category:Living people Category:MacArthur Fellows Category:Old Etonians Category:Particle physicists Category:Gentleman scientistscs:Stephen Wolfram da:Stephen Wolfram de:Stephen Wolfram es:Stephen Wolfram fr:Stephen Wolfram it:Stephen Wolfram he:סטיבן וולפרם ht:Stephen Wolfram lt:Stefenas Volframas hu:Stephen Wolfram nl:Stephen Wolfram ja:スティーブン・ウルフラム pl:Stephen Wolfram pt:Stephen Wolfram sl:Stephen Wolfram fi:Stephen Wolfram zh:史蒂芬·沃爾夫勒姆