The Church of Ireland (Placenames Database of Ireland - Civil parishes: in Irish and English - "na bparóistí Caitliceacha nua-aimseartha ná pharóistí '''Eaglais na hÉireann'.''" ) is an autonomous province of the Anglican Communion, operating across the island of Ireland. Like other Anglican churches, it considers itself to be both Catholic and Reformed.http://www.ireland.anglican.org/index.php?do=about The Church of Ireland: About us In fact, in the Preamble and Declaration affixed to its constitution, it is identified as "the Ancient Catholic and Apostolic Church of Ireland" and "a reformed and Protestant Church." Church of Ireland - A province of the Anglican Communion&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;When the Church in England broke with the Pope and communion with the Roman Catholic Church, the Church in Ireland followed this decision, with those adhering to the new rules becoming the State Church and holding possession of official Church property, even as doctrine was changed, while the majority of the population remained loyal to the Roman Catholic Church and continue to do so to this day. As the reformed Church of Ireland retained possession of practically all official Church property, it retains a great repository of religious architecture and other items.Despite its numerical minority, however, the Church of Ireland remained the official state church until it was disestablished on 1 January 1871 by the Liberal government under William Gladstone.Today the Church of Ireland is, after the Roman Catholic Church, the second-largest tradition in the island of Ireland (the third-largest in Northern Ireland after Catholicism and Presbyterianism). It is governed by a General Synod of clergy and laity and organized into twelve dioceses. It is led by the Archbishop of Armagh (styled "Primate of All Ireland"), currently the Most Reverend Dr Alan Harper; the church's other archbishop is the Archbishop of Dublin, the Most Reverend Dr. John Neill.HistoryEarly historyThe Church of Ireland traces its origins back to the missions of Saint Patrick. As a monastically-centered institution, the early Celtic Church of Ireland had a unique calendar and usages, but was a full part of the wider Western Church, but with links to the Coptic and Syriac churches.In 1169, as the result of an appeal by the King of Leinster, Dermot MacMurrough, a Norman force under Richard de Clare invaded Ireland and took Dublin and a number of towns on the East coast. In 1171, Henry II of England arrived in Dublin from France and made himself Lord of Ireland.Reformation and beyondIn 1536 during the Reformation, Henry VIII arranged to be declared head of the Church in Ireland through an Act of the Irish Parliament. When the Church of England was re-formed under Edward VI, so too was the Church of Ireland. All but two of the Irish bishops accepted the Elizabethan Settlement, although the vast majority of priests and the church membership remained Roman Catholic. The Church of Ireland claims Apostolic succession because of the continuity in the hierarchy; however, this is disputed by the Roman Catholic Church.The established church in Ireland underwent a period of more radical Calvinist doctrine than occurred in England. James Ussher (later Archbishop of Armagh) authored the Irish Articles, adopted in 1615. In 1634, the Irish Convocation adopted the English Thirty-Nine Articles alongside the Irish Articles. After the Restoration of 1660, it seems that the Thirty-Nine Articles took precedence; they remain the official doctrine of the Church of Ireland even after disestablishment.Creeds of Christendom, with a History and Critical notes. Volume I. The History of Creeds. | Christian Classics Ethereal Library&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;The Church of Ireland undertook the first publication of Scripture in Irish. The first Irish translation of the New Testament was begun by Nicholas Walsh, Bishop of Ossory, who worked on it until his untimely death in 1585. The work was continued by John Kearny, his assistant, and Dr. Nehemiah Donellan, Archbishop of Tuam; it was finally completed by William O'Domhnuill (William Daniell, Archbishop of Tuam in succession to Donellan). Their work was printed in 1602. The work of translating the Old Testament was undertaken by William Bedel (1571-1642), Bishop of Kilmore, who completed his translation within the reign of Charles I, although it was not published until 1680 in a revised version by Narcissus Marsh (1638-1713), Archbishop of Dublin. William Bedell had undertaken a translation of the Book of Common Prayer in 1606. An Irish translation of the revised prayer book of 1662 was effected by John Richardson (1664-1747) and published in 1712.The English-speaking minority mostly adhered to the Church of Ireland or to Presbyterianism, while the Irish-speaking majority remained faithful to the Latin liturgy of Roman Catholicism, which remained the majority denomination in Ireland.Union with Great Britainduring the 18th century.]] As before the Reformation, some clergymen of the Church of Ireland sat as Lords Spiritual in the Irish House of Lords; under the provisions of the Act of Union 1800, one archbishop and three bishops chosen by rotation would be Lords Spiritual in the newly united United Kingdom House of Lords in Westminster, joining the two archbishops (Canterbury and York) and the twenty-four bishops from the Church of England.In 1833, the British Government proposed the Irish Church Measure to reduce the 22 archbishops and bishops who oversaw the Anglican minority in Ireland to a total of 12 by amalgamating sees and using the revenues saved for the use of parishes. This sparked the Oxford Movement, which was to have wide repercussions for the Anglican Communion.As the official established church, the Church of Ireland was funded partially by tithes imposed on all Irish citizens, irrespective of the fact that it counted only a minority of the populace among its adherents; these tithes were a source of much resentment and occasionally boiled over, as in the "Tithe War" of 1831/36. Eventually, the tithes were ended, replaced with a lower levy called the tithe rentcharge. The Irish Church Disestablishment Act 1869 came into effect in 1871 and ended the role of the Church of Ireland as state church. This terminated both state support and parliamentary authority over its governance, but also took into government ownership much church property. Compensation was provided to clergy, but many parishes faced great difficulty in local financing after the loss of rent-generating lands and buildings. The Church of Ireland made provision in 1870 for its own government, led by the General Synod, and financial management by the Representative Church Body. With disestablishment, the last remnants of tithes were abolished and the church's representation in the House of Lords also ceased.Like other Irish churches, the Church of Ireland did not divide when Ireland was partitioned in 1920; it continues to be governed on an all-island basis.The Church todaychurch, a modern replica of an early church with a round tower, is built on the reputed spot of St Patrick's first church in Ireland.]]The contemporary Church of Ireland, despite having a number of High Church (often described as Anglo-Catholic) parishes, is generally on the Low Church end of the spectrum of world Anglicanism. Historically, it had little of the difference in churchmanship between parishes characteristic of other Anglican Provinces, although a number of markedly liberal, High Church or evangelical parishes have developed in recent decades. It was the second province of the Anglican Communion after the Anglican Church of New Zealand (1857) to adopt, on its 1871 disestablishment, synodical government, and was one of the first provinces to ordain women to the priesthood (1991).The Church of Ireland has two cathedrals in Dublin: within the walls of the old city is Christ Church Cathedral, the seat of the Archbishop of Dublin, and just outside the old walls is St. Patrick's Cathedral, which the Church designated as a National Cathedral for Ireland in 1870. Cathedrals also exist in the other dioceses. The Church operates a seminary, the Church of Ireland Theological College in Rathgar, in the south inner suburbs of Dublin. The Church's central offices are in Rathmines, adjacent to the Church of Ireland College of Education.with the Union Flag flying on the left.]] The Church in 1999 voted to prohibit the flying of flags other than the St Patricks FlagFlags of the World: St. Patrick's Flag as flag of Church of Ireland: "The General Synod of the Church of Ireland recognises that from time to time confusion and controversy have attended the flying of flags on church buildings or within the grounds of church buildings. This Synod therefore resolves that the only flags specifically authorised to be flown on church buildings or within the church grounds of the Church of Ireland are the cross of St Patrick or, alternatively, the flag of the Anglican Communion bearing the emblem of the Compassrose. Such flags are authorised to be flown only on Holy Days and during the Octaves of Christmas, Easter, the Ascension of Our Lord, Pentecost, and on any other such day as may be recognised locally as the Dedication Day of the particular church building. Any other flag flown at any other time is not specifically authorised by this Church....". However, the Union Flag continues to fly on many churches in Northern Ireland.MembershipThe Church of Ireland experienced major decline during the 20th century, both in Northern Ireland, where 75% of its members live, and in the Republic of Ireland. However, the Church of Ireland in the Republic has shown substantial growth in the last two national censuses; its membership is now back to the levels of sixty years ago.Church membership increased by 8.7% in the period 2002–2006, during which the population as a whole increased by only 8.2%. Republic of Ireland Central Statistics Office, [http://www.cso.ie/census/Census2006_Principal_Demographic_Results.htm Census 2006: Principal Demographic Results]. There are various reasons for this increase. One is the relaxation of the Ne Temere regulations that stipulated that children of mixed Roman Catholic-Protestant marriages should be brought up as Roman Catholics. It is also partly explained by the number of Anglican immigrants who have moved to Ireland recently. In addition, some parishes, especially in middle-class areas of the larger cities, report significant numbers of Roman Catholics joining the Church of Ireland. Archbishop John Neill, Irish Independent, October 17th, 2007. A number of clergy originally ordained in the Roman Catholic Church have now become Church of Ireland clergy &lt;ref&gt;From Roman Catholic Priest to Church of Ireland Rector, Changing Collars, by Mark Hayden, Columba Press [http://www.columba.ie/news.php?year=2007#1940 and many former Roman Catholics also put themselves forward for ordination after they had become members of the Church of Ireland  Western People newspaper, June 6th 2007 [http://archives.tcm.ie/westernpeople/2007/06/06/story37063.asp&lt;/ref&gt;  Irish Independent, 26th February, 2008 [http://www.independent.ie/national-news/anglican-dean-quit-catholic-church-over-celibacy-rules-1298012.html&lt;/ref&gt;.The 2006 Census in the Republic of Ireland showed that the numbers of people describing themselves as members of the Church of Ireland increased in every county. The highest percentage growth was in the west (Counties Galway, Mayo, and Roscommon) and the largest numerical growth was in the mid-east region (Wicklow, Kildare, and Meath). Co Wicklow is the county with the highest proportion of Church of Ireland members (6.88%); Greystones Co. Wicklow has the highest proportion of any town (9.77%).In 2007, twenty candidates were ordained into the Church of Ireland, compared with nine Roman Catholic priests in the Republic. Irish Times, 10 May 2008StructureThe polity of the Church of Ireland is Episcopalian church governance, which is the same as other Anglican churches. The Church maintains the traditional structure dating to pre-Reformation times, a system of geographical parishes organized into dioceses. There are twelve of these, each headed by a bishop. The leader of the five southern bishops is the Archbishop of Dublin; that of the seven northern bishops is the Archbishop of Armagh; these are styled Primate of Ireland and Primate of All Ireland, respectively, suggesting the ultimate seniority of the latter. Although he has relatively little absolute authority, the Archbishop of Armagh is respected as the Church's general leader and spokesman, and is elected in a process different from those for all other bishops.Canon law and church policy are decided by the Church's General Synod, and changes in policy must be passed by both the House of Bishops and the House of Representatives (Clergy and Laity). Important changes, e.g., the decision to ordain female priests, must be passed by two-thirds majorities. While the House of Representatives always votes publicly, often by orders, the House of Bishops has tended to vote in private, coming to a decision before matters reach the floor of the Synod. This practice has been broken only once, when in 1999 the House of Bishops voted unanimously in public to endorse the efforts of the Archbishop of Armagh, the Diocese of Armagh, and the Standing Committee of the General Synod of the Church of Ireland in their attempts to resolve the crisis at the Church of the Ascension at Drumcree, near Portadown.Worship and liturgyThe Church of Ireland embraces three orders of ministry: deacon, priest (or presbyter), and bishop.Book of Common PrayerThe first translation of the Book of Common Prayer was published in 1606. An Irish translation of the revised prayer book of 1662 was published in 1712.Doctrine and practiceThe center of the Church of Ireland's teaching is the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The basic teachings of the Church include:Jesus Christ is fully human and fully God in one person. He died and was resurrected from the dead.Jesus provides the way of eternal life for those who believe.The Old and New Testaments of the Bible ("God's Word written") were written by people "under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit." The Apocrypha are additional books that are to be read, but not to determine doctrine.The two great and necessary sacraments are Holy Baptism and The Lord's Supper/Holy Communion/ the Eucharist.Those &quot;commonly called Sacraments that are not to be counted for Sacraments of the Gospel&quot; are confirmation, ordination, marriage, reconciliation of a penitent, and unction.Belief in heaven, hell, and Jesus's return in glory.The threefold sources of authority in Anglicanism are scripture, tradition, and reason. These three sources uphold and critique each other in a dynamic way. This balance of scripture, tradition, and reason is traced to the work of Richard Hooker, a sixteenth-century apologist. In Hooker's model, scripture is the primary means of arriving at doctrine; things stated plainly in scripture are accepted as true. Issues that are ambiguous are determined by tradition, which is checked by reason. Anglican Listening Detail on how scripture, tradition, and reason work to "uphold and critique each other in a dynamic way".Ecumenical relationsLike many other Anglican churches, the Church of Ireland is a member of many ecumenical bodies, including the World Council of Churches and the Irish Council of Churches. It is also a member of the Porvoo Communion.See also  List of Church of Ireland diocesesReligion in the United KingdomIrish AnglicansFellowship Of VocationBishops' Selection ConferenceAnglo-IrishReferences See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Footnotes for an explanation of how to generate footnotes using the  and  tags, and the template below. -- Further readingAnglicanism, Neill, Stephen. Harmondsworth, 1965."Ancient and Modern: a short history of the Church of Ireland", MacCarthy, Robert, Four Courts Press Ltd., 1995External linksChurch of Ireland websiteIRISH ANGLE: Church of Ireland news Ireland Category:Christianity in Ireland Category:Christianity in Northern Ireland Category:Church of Ireland Ireland Irelandde:Church of Ireland es:Iglesia de Irlanda fr:Église d'Irlande ga:Eaglais na hÉireann ko:아일랜드 성공회 hr:Irska Crkva it:Chiesa d'Irlanda nl:Church of Ireland ja:アイルランド国教会 pl:Church of Ireland pt:Igreja da Irlanda sco:Kirk o Ireland fi:Irlannin kirkko sv:Irländska kyrkan zh:愛爾蘭聖公會