, RTGS: Thong Trairong), "Tricolour flag" | Morenicks = | Use = 110110 | Symbol = | Proportion = 2:3 | Adoption = 28 September 1917 | Design = Five horizontal stripes of red, white, blue, white and red, the middle stripe twice as wide as the others | Designer = King Vajiravudh (Rama VI)| Image2 = Naval Ensign of Thailand.svg | Nickname2 =  (RTGS: Thong Ratchanawi), "Royal Navy flag" | Morenicks2 = | Use2 = 000001 | Symbol2 = | Proportion2= 2:3 | Adoption2 = 28 September 1917 | Design2 = A red disc containing a white elephant in regalia centred on the national flag | Designer2 = The flag of Thailand shows five horizontal stripes in the colours red, white, blue, white and red, with the middle blue stripe being twice as wide as each of the other four. The three colours red-white-blue stand for nation-religion-king, an unofficial motto of Thailand. The flag was adopted on 28 September 1917, according to the royal decree about the flag in that year. The Thai name for the flag is ธงไตรรงค์ (Thong Trairong), which simply means tricolour flag.The first flag used for Siam was probably a plain red one, first used under King Narai (1656-1688). Naval flags later used different symbols on the red ground&mdash;a white chakra (the weapon of god Vishnu which use as the symbol of the House of Chakri), or a white elephant inside the chakra.Officially the first flag was created in 1855 by King Mongkut (Rama IV), showing a white elephant (a royal symbol) on red ground, as the plain coloured flag was not distinct enough for international relations.In 1916 the flag was changed to the current design, but with the middle colour being the same red as the outer stripe. The story goes that during a flood King Vajiravudh (Rama VI) saw the flag hanging upside-down, and to prevent this from happening again created a new flag which was symmetrical. In 1917 the middle color was changed to dark blue, the auspicious colour for Saturday in Thai astrology, the day King Vajiravudh was born. According to other sources, the blue colour was also chosen to show solidarity with the Allies of World War I, which also had the colours blue-red-white in their flags.The flag resembles the flag of Costa Rica, which was adopted 11 years prior to Thailand's. The main difference is that the blue and red colors are inverted.Maritime flagsThe naval ensign of Royal Thai Navy is similar to the national flag but has the red circle in the middle which reaches as far as the red stripes at the top and bottom. In the circle stands a white elephant, in full caparison, facing the flagpole. Thai Navy jack is the national flag with an additional emblem of Royal Thai Navy in the middle. The design of the regimental colours (th:ธงชัยเฉลิมพล) of RTN is as same as this flag. These two ensigns are adopted in 1917.See alsoList of Thai flagsSourcesExternal linksSiam Flag museum (Thai only)Historical thai flag   Category:Flags of Thailand Category:National symbols of Thailand Thailandaf:Vlag van Thailand bn:থাইল্যান্ডের জাতীয় পতাকা bs:Zastava Tajlanda cs:Thajská vlajka cy:Baner Gwlad Thai da:Thailands flag de:Flagge Thailands et:Tai lipp el:Σημαία της Ταϊλάνδης es:Bandera de Tailandia fr:Drapeau de la Thaïlande ko:타이의 국기 hr:Zastava Tajlanda bpy:থাইল্যান্ডর ফিরালহান id:Bendera Thailand it:Bandiera thailandese he:דגל תאילנד lt:Tailando vėliava hu:Thaiföld zászlaja ms:Bendera Thailand nl:Vlag van Thailand ja:タイの国旗 no:Thailands flagg pl:Flaga Tajlandii pt:Bandeira da Tailândia ru:Флаг Таиланда simple:Flag of Thailand sk:Vlajka Thajska sr:Застава Тајланда sh:Zastava Tajlanda fi:Thaimaan lippu sv:Thailands flagga th:ธงชาติไทย zh:泰国国旗