Maringá is a city in southern Brazil that was founded on May 10, 1947. Maringá is the third largest city in the state of Paraná. The city has a population of 329,800 (estimation IBGE 2007), 570,094 (metropolitan area, estimation IBGE, 2007). It is a regional centre and is made up of commerce, services, agro-industries, and universities, including the State University of Maringá.In 1925 middle the Land Company was established North of the Paraná, current Company Improvements North of the Paraná. It was responsible for the settling of more than 500,000 alqueires in the Region North of the State, where today some of the biggest cities of the Paraná meet.HistoryThe process of settling and populating of the paranaense north was facilitated by the interest of the São Paulo colonists in acquiring new areas for production because of the high productivity of the land in the region. The north of the Paraná encloses an approach area of 100 a thousand kilometers squared. It is bathed by the Rivers Paranapanema, Paraná, Ivaí and Piquiri. The region is divided in three areas, in accordance with the time and the origin of its settling: Old north, New North and Latest North.The beginning of the execution of workmanships foreseen in the urbanistic project requested for the British Company Improvements North of the Paraná(Cia de Melhoramentos) and based in the lines of direction elaborated for the city planner Jorge Macedo Vieira, defined the tracing of the new city that came to be raised to the category of city in 14 of February 1951. The Cia. still if worried about the ambiental question that certainly would suffer great impact with the deforestation proceeding from the occupation foreseen in the urbanistics projects. Thus, three great ecological areas had been reserved inside of the limits of the urban headquarters: the Forest Horto, the Park of the Ingá and Forest II. The sector of services is what more it is distinguished in Maringá with 76,74%, followed of the indústrial with 22,29% and finally is the farming one with 0,97%. In the industry, the sectors of the alimentary, chemical products predominate and textile (source: Paraná City). The productive structure of Maringá, contemplates 6,152 companies in service, 5,553 in commerce and 1,327 in the industry; 8 in farming and the 1 in the mineral extraction. In percentile terms, 47.2% services, 42.6% commerce and 10.2% industry. In transport terms, 15 great companies use 16,878 people; 142 averages 14,746 people; 859 small 19,526 people and the 12,016 microcompanies use 30,868 people. Maringá's Airport (Source: Economic census, 2001) Most of the occupying immigrants of the Region North of the State, proceeds from São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Espirito Santo. Nearly 40% of the local population has Italian origins, mainly from Veneto and the Italian Southern regions Calabria, Napoli, Basilicatta among other regions.]]The peak of the São Paulo migration to Paraná occurred in the decade of 1940 to 1950. With the great expansion of the coffee plantation in the State and the consequent increase of the hardworking classrooms, the demographic density of the region increased of 8,9 for 75,9 hab/km². With the implantation of the coffee plantation in the north of the Paraná, the Japanese immigration began to constitute one of the biggest groups of descendants of immigrants in the region. Beyond these, other ethnic groups had been responsible for the cultural formation of the north in the State, for example, the Portuguese, Italians, Spanish, French, British, Polish, Ukranians, Swiss, Germans and ArabsMaringá holds one of the most important universities of Paraná, the State University of Maringá (UEM) The city has an increasing student community with other institutions CESUMAR, the biggest private University in Maringa, Faculdades Maringa, Faculdades Nobel, Uninga, Uniandrade, South America Technological University and a campus of PUC PR with several Faculties.==Climate== Subtropical (well distributed rainfall).Maringá, located in the southern hemisphere, at the southern end of the funnel Brazilian and cut the line in the Tropic of Capricorn, the region is influenced by several factors causing macro-climatic: - migration of the masses of air from the Atlantic, equatorial and tropical, low depression, in summer months.In the winter there is infiltration of cold air mass from the polar front, in the winter, the thermometers can come close to 22 degrees F (Farenheit) the city is marked by black ice that decimated the agriculture in 1975.The region's climate is subtropical, where the average temperature of the coldest months is below 58°F and average annual temperatures around 68°F.UniversitiesUEM - Universidade Estadual de MaringaUEM the only public university of Maringa (in Portuguese)CESUMAR - Centro de Estudos Superiores de Maringa called Centro Universitario de MaringaCesumar one of the private faculties in Maringá(in Portuguese)PUC - Pontificia Universidade Catolica do Parana - Campus Maringa==Minority Languages== German; English; Japanese; Italian; Russian; Arabic; Polish; French; Chinese; others...See alsoCatedral de MaringáExternal linksOfficial homepage (in Portuguese)Everything about Maringá (in Portuguese and English)some pictures can be found here (in Portuguese)everything about Maringá (in Portuguese)Category:Settlements established in 1947 Category:Cities, towns and villages in Paraná Stateca:Maringá de:Maringá es:Maringá fr:Maringá io:Maringá bpy:মারিনগা id:Maringá it:Maringá nl:Maringá ja:マリンガ no:Maringá oc:Maringá pl:Maringá pt:Maringá ro:Maringá ru:Маринга simple:Maringá fi:Maringá sv:Maringá vo:Maringá