 | place_birth = San Francisco, California | occupation = Test Pilot | rank = Captain, USN | selection = 1962 NASA Group | time = 34d 19h 39m | mission = Gemini 3, Gemini 10, Apollo 10, Apollo 16, STS-1, STS-9 | insignia =   John Watts Young (born September 24, 1930) is a former NASA astronaut who walked on the Moon on April 21, 1972 during the Apollo 16 mission.Young enjoyed one of the longest and busiest careers of any astronaut in the American space program. He twice journeyed to the Moon, was the first person to fly into space six times, and as of 2008, is the only person to have piloted in space four different classes of spacecraft: Gemini spacecraft, Apollo Command/Service Module, Apollo Lunar Module, and Space Shuttle.Early life and Navy careerBorn in San Francisco, California and raised in the College Park neighborhood of Orlando, Florida, Young became a member of the Sigma Chi Fraternity and earned a bachelor of science degree in aeronautical engineering with highest honors from Georgia Institute of Technology in 1952.After graduation Young entered the United States Navy. He served as Fire Control Officer on the destroyer,  until June 1953 and completed a tour in the Korean Seas. He then became a fighter pilot, and in 1959, a test pilot.NASA careerProject GeminiJoining NASA in 1962, Young was the first of Astronaut Group 2 to fly in space. (He replaced Thomas Stafford as pilot of Gemini 3 when Alan Shepard, the original commander, was grounded.) Making the first manned flight of the Gemini spacecraft with Virgil Grissom, Young scored another space "first" by smuggling a corned beef sandwich onto the spacecraft - a feat for which he was reprimanded.http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/history/mission_trans/GT03_TEC.PDF&lt;/ref&gt;Young then trained as backup pilot for Gemini 6, but after the sandwich episode, for a time it seemed that NASA did not know what to do with Young. Other Group 2 astronauts with flight experience were quickly moved to Apollo, while other astronauts such as Scott Carpenter and Gordon Cooper had been sidelined for lesser infractions. The assignment of Ed White, the Gemini 7 backup commander to Apollo created an opening for Young as Commander of Gemini 10. The mission performed the first dual rendezvous with two Agena Target Vehicles, and his pilot, Michael Collins, performed two spacewalks.Project ApolloYoung was assigned to the backup crew on Apollo 7 and later made the second manned flight to the Moon on Apollo 10 with Thomas Stafford and Eugene Cernan. While Stafford and Cernan flew the lunar module in lunar orbit for the first time, Young flew the command module solo - the first person to do so in lunar orbit. Young was backup commander of Apollo 13, the troubled mission in which the moon landing was aborted because of an explosion on the service module. Young had a central role in rescuing the Apollo 13 crew by participating in the team that developed procedures to stretch the LM consumables and reactivate the command module systems prior to re-entry.By rotation, Young became commander of Apollo 16. Young became an enthusiastic student of geology while preparing for the moon mission. Apollo 16's lunar landing was almost aborted at the last moment when a malfunction was detected on the command module. On the surface, Young trod the Descartes Highlands with Charles Duke (making Young the ninth person to walk upon the surface of the moon), while Ken Mattingly flew the command module in lunar orbit. Young set a speed record with the lunar rover but was troubled by the effects of potassium in the orange juice they drank during the moonwalks. He carried with him the badge and flag of the Sigma Chi Fraternity; these are on display at Sigma Chi's headquarters in Evanston, Illinois.His final assignment in Apollo was as the backup commander on Apollo 17. This almost resulted in his second moon landing when Gene Cernan (Eugene Cernan) injured his knee playing softball a few months before the flight. The injury, had it been any more severe, would have resulted in Cernan being medically dropped from the flight and John Young commanding the last two moon landings of Apollo (as a note, fellow Group 2 astronaut Pete Conrad would have done the same if he would have commanded the cancelled Apollo 20 mission, but as he already flew as commander of Apollo 12, he would have been transferred to either Skylab or the Space Shuttle and Apollo 14 CMP Stuart Roosa would have flown on Apollo 20 as commander).Space ShuttleAfter the Apollo program ended, Young stayed on as an astronaut and flew two missions of the Space Shuttle, including commanding the Shuttle's maiden flight, STS-1, and the flight STS-9 which used Spacelab for the first time. Young had been in line to make a record seventh flight to deploy the Hubble Space Telescope, but the Challenger Disaster thwarted NASA's schedule.Young was openly critical of the administration following the disaster, and in April 1987 was taken out of the Astronaut Office and made special assistant of engineering, operations and safety to the center director Aaron Cohen. It was denied that his criticism of NASA triggered the move.Retirement from NASAYoung worked for NASA for 42 years and announced his retirement on December 7, 2004. He retired on December 31, 2004 at the age of 74.Young still attends the Monday Morning Meeting in the Astronaut Office at Johnson Space Center.Fuglesang, Christer, ''Tretton dygn i rymden efter fjorton år på jorden", Albert Bonniers Förlag, Sverige, 200710 (9789185555154).Media portrayals and descriptionIn the 1995 film Apollo 13 Young was played by Ben Marley. In the 1998 TV miniseries From the Earth to the Moon he was played by John Posey.Young is one of the astronauts featured in the documentary and book In the Shadow of the Moon, and the Discovery series When We Left Earth.In his book Moondust, Andrew Smith reports on an interview with Young. He describes him as having several autistic like traits, such as addressing the wall behind SmithObserver review: Moondust by Andrew Smith | Books | The Observer&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, talking at length about technical matters and asteroid impacts, and misunderstanding questions about his own feelings. Smith laments that an individual like Young, who has become a favourite of many Apollo fans, might have trouble making it in today's more superficial world of brand identities.&lt;/ref&gt;Awards and honorsHe was awarded the Congressional Space Medal of Honor in 1981.He was awarded the National Space Trophy in 2000.John Young Parkway, a major highway in Central Florida, was named for him.He is a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity, the Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society, and the Sigma Gamma Tau Aerospace Engineering Honor Society. He is also a member of the Georgia Tech ANAK society (considered the highest distinction a student can receive).ReferencesExternal linksNASA biography of John YoungThe Big Picture: Ways to Mitigate or Prevent Very Bad Planet Earth Events Essay by John YoungConversation With John Young Houston Chronicle (December 17, 2004)U.S. Spaceflight History biography- John Young       Category:1930 births Category:American astronauts Category:Living people Category:United States naval aviators Category:People who have walked on the Moon Category:United States Navy officers Category:Georgia Institute of Technology alumni Young,Johnbg:Джон Йънг cs:John Young da:John Young de:John Watts Young es:John W. Young fr:John Watts Young it:John W. Young he:ג'ון יאנג lv:Džons Jangs hu:John Young nl:John Young no:John Young nn:John W. Young nds:John Watts Young pl:John Young pt:John Young ro:John Watts Young ru:Янг, Джон Уоттс sk:John Watts Young fi:John Young sv:John W. Young zh:约翰·杨