  |states=India |region=Orissa |speakers=31 million (1996) |rank=31 (1996) |familycolor=Indo-European |fam2=Indo-Iranian |fam3=Indo-Aryan |fam4=Eastern Group |fam5=Oriya group |script=Oriya script |nation=India |iso1=or|iso2=ori|iso3=ori |notice=Indic Oriya (ଓଡ଼ିଆ ) is one of the Indian languages mainly spoken in the Indian state of Orissa. The language is also an official language of India.Outside Orissa, there are also significant Oriya-speaking populations in other linguistic regions, such as the Midnapore District of West Bengal, the Seraikela Kharsawan district of Jharkhand the Srikakulam District of Andhra Pradesh and Bastar district of Chhatisgarh province. Due to the increasing migration of labour, the west Indian state of Gujarat also has a significant Oriya speaking population with Surat being the second largest Oriya speaking city in India.The major Oriya dilects are Midnapori Oriya(spoken in the Midnapore District of West Bengal), Balasori Oriya(spoken in Balasore and Bhadrakh district of Orissa), Ganjami Oriya(spoken in Ganjam, Gajapati, Phulbani, Koraput, Raygada, Nowrangpur of Orissa & Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh), Desiya Oriya (spoken in the undivided Koraput District of Orissa and in the hilly regions of Vishakhapatnam, Vizianagaram District of Andhra Pradesh), Halbi (Orissa and Chhattisgarh boarder), Bhatri (Orissa and Chhattisgarh boarder), Sambalpuri Oriya (Spoken in Sambalpur, Sundargarh,Bolangir, Jharsuguda, Subarnapur, Boudh, Bargarh district of Orissa and Raigarh, Sarangarh, Bilaspur,Jashpurnagar district of Chhatisgarh state), Kalahandi Oriya(Spoken in Kalahandi & Nuapada district of Orissa) and Singhbhumi Oriya (Spoken in East Singhbhum,West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan district of Jharkhand). Chatishgarhi of Chhatishgarh, and Nagpuri or Sadri languages are also treated as dialects of Oriya language by some linguists. The Oriya spoken in costal districts of Orissa is known as Mughalbandi Oriya.Oriya is written with the Oriya script.HistoryThe history of the Oriya language is divided into Old Oriya (10th century-1300), Early Middle Oriya (1300-1500), Middle Oriya (1500-1700), Late Middle Oriya (1700-1850) and Modern Oriya (1850 till present day).Oriya is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language belonging to the Indo-Aryan language family. It is thought to be directly descended from the Prakrit known as Purva Magadhi that was spoken in eastern India over 1,500 years ago. It bears a very strong resemblance to the modern languages Bangla (Bengali), Maithili, and Ôxômiya (Assamese). Of all the languages spoken in northern India, Oriya appears to be the least influenced by Persian language.The earliest use of prose can be found in the Madala Panji or the Palm-leaf Chronicles of the Jagannatha temple at Puri, which date back to the 12th century.LiteratureThe first great poet of Orissa is the famous Sarala Dasa who wrote the Chandi Purana and the Vilanka Ramayana, both praising the goddess Durga. Rama-bibaha, written by Arjuna Dasa, is the first long poem in Oriya language.The next era is more commonly called the Panchasakha Age and stretches till the year 1700. The period begins with the writings of Shri Chaitanya whose Vaishnava influence brought in a new evolution in Oriya literature. Balarama Dasa, Jagannatha Dasa, Yasovanta, Ananta and Acyutananda were the main exponents in religious works in Oriya. The composers of this period mainly translated, adapted, or imitated Sanskrit literature. A few prominent works of this period include the Usabhilasa of Sisu Sankara Dasa, the Rahasya-manjari of Deva-durlabha Dasa and the Rukmini-bibha of Kartikka Dasa. A new form of novels in verse evolved during the beginning of the 17th century when Ramachandra Pattanayaka wrote Haravali. Other poets like Madhusudana, Bhima, Dhivara, Sadasiva and Sisu Isvara-dasa composed another form called Kavyas or long poems based on themes from Puranas. The language used by them was plain and simple Oriya.However, from the turn of the 18th century,Bhanja Age or Riti Yuga verbally tricky Oriya became the order of the day. Verbal jugglery, obscenity and eroticism became the trend of the period between 1700-1850, the most notable poet being Upendra Bhanja (1670-1720). Other poets turned up in hordes to imitate him but none could fit into his shoes, with the exceptions of Bhima Bhoi and Arakshita Dasa. Family chronicles in prose and literature relating religious festivals and rituals also covered a large portion of this period.The first Oriya printing typeset was cast in 1836 by the Christian missionaries. The actual Oriya script closely resembled Bengali and Assamese scripts but the one adopted for the printed typesets were completely different, leaning more towards the Tamil script.Oriya has a rich literary heritage dating back to the thirteenth century. Sarala Dasa who lived in the fourteenth century is known as the Vyasa of Orissa. He translated the Mahabharata into Oriya. In fact the language was initially standardised through a process of translation of classical Sanskrit texts like the Mahabharata, the Ramayana and the Srimad Bhagabatam. Jagannatha Das translated the Srimad Bhagabatam into Oriya and his translation standardized the written form of the language. Oriya has had a strong tradition of poetry, especially that of devotional poetry.Some other eminent Oriya Poets include Kabi Samrat Upendra Bhanja and Kabi Surya Bala Dev Ratha.Prose in the language has had a late development. Three great poets and prose writers, Kabibar Radhanath Ray (1849-1908), Fakir Mohan Senapati (1843-1918) and Madhusudana Rao (1853-1912) made Oriya their own. They brought in a modern outlook and spirit into Oriya literature. Around the same time the modern drama took birth in the works of Rama Sankara Ray beginning with Kanci-Kaveri (1880).20th century writers in Oriya include Pallikabi Nanda Kishore Bal(1875-1928), Gangadhara Mehera, Chintamani Mahanti and Kuntala-Kumari Sabat Utkala-bharati, besides Niladri Dasa and Gopabandhu Das (1877-1928). The most notable novelists were Umesa Sarakara, Divyasimha Panigrahi, Gopala Praharaja and Kalindi Charana Panigrahi. Sachi Kanta Rauta Ray is the great introducer of the ultra-modern style in modern Oriya poetry. Others who took up this form were Godabarisa Mohapatra, Dr Mayadhara Manasimha, Nityananda Mahapatra and Kunjabihari Dasa. Prabhasa Chandra Satpati is known for his translations of some western classics apart from Udayanatha Shadangi, Sunanda Kara and Surendranatha Dwivedi. Criticism, essays and history also became major lines of writing in the Oriya language. Esteemed writers in this field were Professor Girija Shankar Ray, Pandit Vinayaka Misra, Professor Gauri Kumara Brahma, Jagabandhu Simha and Hare Krushna Mahatab. Oriya literature mirrors the industrious, peaceful and artistic image of the Oriya people who have offered and gifted much to the Indian civilization in the field of art and literature.Now Writers Manoj Das ' s creations motivated & inspired people towards a possitive lifestyle .Distinguished prose writers of the modern period include Fakir Mohan Senapati,Madhusudan Das, Godabarisha Mohapatra,Kalindi Charan Panigrahi, Surendra Mohanty, Manoj Das, Kishori Charan Das,Gopinath Mohanty, Rabi Patnaik, Chandrasekhar Rath,Binapani Mohanty,Jagadish Mohanty, Sarojini Sahoo, Ramchandra Behera, Padmaja Pal. But it is poetry that makes modern Oriya literature a force to reckon with. Poets like Kabibar Radhanath Ray, Sachidananda Routray, Guruprasad Mohanty, Soubhagya Misra, Ramakanta Rath, Sitakanta Mohapatra , Rajendra Kishore Panda, Pratibha Satpathy have made significant contributions towards Indian poetry.Phoneme inventoryOriya has 28 consonant phonemes and 6 vowel phonemes.+'Vowels'&nbsp;FrontBackHighiuMideoLowa+'Consonants'&nbsp;LabialDentalAlveolarRetroflexPalatalVelarGlottalVoiceless stopspt̪&nbsp;ʈʧk&nbsp;Voiced stopsbd̪&nbsp;ɖʤɡ&nbsp;Voiceless fricatives&nbsp;&nbsp;s&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;hNasalsm&nbsp;nɳ&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Liquids&nbsp;&nbsp;l, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Morpheme InventoryMorpheme rules and structure of Oriya language are peculiar. Morphemes in Oriya have unique characteristics and different from rules of Sanskrit and Hindi.See alsoOriya scriptOriya literatureOriya peopleLanguages of IndiaList of national languages of IndiaList of Indian languages by total speakersBrahmic familyMadala PanjiLaxmi PuranBibliographyNeukom, Lukas and Manideepa Patnaik. 2003. A grammar of Oriya. (Arbeiten des Seminars für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft; 17). Zürich: Seminar für Allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft der Universität Zürich. ISBN 3-9521010-9-5Further readingGhosh, A. (2003). An ethnolinguistic profile of Eastern India: a case of South Orissa. Burdwan: Dept. of Bengali (D.S.A.), University of Burdwan.Masica, Colin (1991). The Indo-Aryan Languages. Cambridge Language Surveys. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0521299442Mohanty, Prasanna Kumar (2007). The History of: History of Oriya Literature (Oriya Sahityara Adya Aitihasika Gana).External linkswww.odia.org Learn oDiA (Oriya). On the way of conservation of oDiA Language and culture. "Lets take a step"www.odisha.com World's first and only 24x7 popular news portal in Oriya.www.LordJagannath.com (Oriya) World's first and only spiritual portal on "Lord Jagannath" in Oriya language.Useful Oriya phrases in English and other Indian languages.Romanised to Unicode Oriya transliteratorUnicode Entity Codes for the Oriya ScriptFree/Open Source Oriya Computing Rebati projectOriya songsOriya Unicode FontsDura Drusti - Oriya eMagazine Published twice a yearJagannath. Category:Eastern Indo-Aryan languages Category:Languages of India Category:Oriya languagebn:ওড়িয়া ভাষা br:Oriyeg ca:Oriya cv:Ори (чĕлхе) da:Oriya de:Oriya es:Idioma oriya eo:Orija lingvo fr:Oriya ko:오리야어 hi:उड़िया भाषा bpy:ওড়িয়া ঠার id:Bahasa Oriya it:Lingua oriya he:אורייה ka:ორია (ენა) ml:ഒറിയ nl:Oriya new:उडिया भाषा ja:オリヤー語 no:Oriya or:ଓଡ଼ିଆ pl:Język orija pt:Oriá ru:Ория (язык) sa:ओडिया sr:Орија језик sh:Oriya fi:Orija sv:Oriya ta:ஒரியா மொழி te:ఒరియా భాష th:ภาษาโอริยา zh:奥利亚语