 Uslar is a municipality in southern Lower Saxony, Germany, located in the south-western part of the district of Northeim in the south of the hills of Solling forest which are part of the Weserbergland.GeographyUslar lies close to the borders of Hesse and North Rhine-Westphalia. Hanover is 110 km to the north, Hesse's biggest city Frankfurt am Main is 240 km to the south, and Berlin is 350 km to northeast.Division of the municipalityThe municipality of Uslar consists of 19 towns and villages: Ahlbershausen, Allershausen, Bollensen, Delliehausen, Dinkelhausen, Eschershausen, Fürstenhagen, Gierswalde, Kammerborn, Offensen, Schlarpe, Schönhagen, Schoningen, Sohlingen, Uslar, Vahle, Verliehausen, Volpriehausen and Wiensen. TransportUslar can be reached by car via the Bundesautobahn (interstate highway) A7 (Ausfahrt (Exit) Nörten-Hardenberg) and A44 (Ausfahrt Warburg) and via Bundesstraße (Route) B241. Nearest international airports are Hanover (IATA-Code: HAJ), Paderborn-Lippstadt (IATA-Code: PAD) and Kassel-Calden. Uslar can be reached by ICE-Trains via Göttingen. From Göttingen, Uslar can be reached by Bus 210 direction Holzminden.HistoryUslar was first mentioned in 1006/1007. In the second half of the 12th century, the Welfen-dynasty started to rule Uslar until the 19th century. In 1599, the castle of Freudenthal was built, which burned down in 1612. In 1819 big parts of the town of Uslar burned down.Economy and businessUslar's industry uses the area's natural resources of wood, sand and water. In the 20th century, Uslar's furniture industry (Ilse-Möbel company, approx. 2000 employees in the 1950s) was world-famous. Nowadays, only tourism plays an important role in the area of Uslar (Uslarer Land). There is also the Privatbrauerei Haffner, which brews the Bergbräu family of beers, bottled in pop-top bottles much like Schleswig-Holstein's Flensburger beer and Holland's Grolsch.Sister citiesUslar's sister cities are: - Kerteminde, Denmark since 1985, - Człuchów, Poland since 1999.External linksOfficial site Uslar County Recreation AreaCategory:Towns in Lower Saxonyda:Uslar de:Uslar es:Uslar eo:Uslar fr:Uslar it:Uslar nl:Uslar no:Uslar nds:Üsseler pl:Uslar pt:Uslar ro:Uslar ru:Услар (город) sv:Uslar vo:Uslar