__NOTOC__ Scandinavian Willow GrouseL. l. scoticus Red GrouseL. l. alascensis Alaskan Willow PtarmiganL. l. variegatus Trondheimsfjord Willow Grouse| synonyms =Tetrao lagopus Linnaeus, 1758The Willow Grouse (Europe) or Willow Ptarmigan (North America), Lagopus lagopus, is a medium-sized gamebird in the grouse family. It is a sedentary species, breeding in birch and other forests and tundra across northern Eurasia, and in Alaska and northern Canada. It is the state bird of Alaska. During the last ice age, the species occurred in continental Europe (Tomek & Bocheński 2005).The spring male is brown above with a reddish neck and white wings and underparts. The female is similar, but lacks the pure white belly. In winter, both sexes' plumages become completely white except that the tail is black. They can be distinguished from the winter Ptarmigan by habitat (not venturing above the tree line), larger size, thicker bill, and lack of black between the eye and bill in the winter male.The distinctive British subspecies, the Red Grouse (Lagopus lagopus scotica) has sometimes been considered a separate species. It is a moorland bird, and is basically reddish brown in all plumages, never going white.The male's song is a loud "go-back go-back".These are hardy vegetarian birds, but insects are also taken by the developing young.The male Willow Grouse is unique in its nesting behaviour. In all other species of grouse, only the female takes responsibility for the young. However, the male Willow Grouse often takes responsibility of the young by staunchly defending his territory and his young. Males have even been documented to have attacked a Grizzly Bear and will attack humans who distract their young.Scientific nameThe Willow Grouse's scientific name, Lagopus lagopus is derived from Ancient Greek lagos (λαγως), meaning "hare", + pous (πους), "foot", in reference to the bird's feathered legs (see also Snowshoe Hare).Gallery  Image:Denali National Park Ptarmigan.jpg|Male Alaskan Willow Ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus alascensis), summer plumage Image:Willow grouse standing.jpg|Bird in intermediary plumage Image:Rype 5163.jpg|Grouse, willow grouse, willow ptarmigan,Lagopus lagopus. Norwegian:Lirype.(Trollheimen, Norway). Photo: Per Harald Olsen Image:Svalbard rock ptarmigan svalbardrype pho w 5266.jpg|Male Svalbard Rock Ptarmigan.Lagopus muta hyperborea. Norwegian: Svalbardrype. Photo: Per Harald Olsen References Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernTomek, Teresa & Bocheński, Zygmunt (2005): Weichselian and Holocene bird remains from Komarowa Cave, Central Poland. Acta zoologica cracoviensia 48A(1-2): 43-65. PDF fulltextExternal linksThe Game Conservancy Trust Red Grouse PageRSPB Red Grouse PageVideo clip of male willow grouse in winterStamps: Willow Ptarmigan (for Belarus, Canada, Finland, Ireland, United States) with worldwide RangeMapWillow Grouse videos on the Internet Bird CollectionWillow Ptarmigan photo gallery VIREOCategory:Lagopus Category:United States state birds Category:Game birds Grouse, Willow Grouse, Willow Grouse, Willow Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of Asiabe:Курапатка белая be-x-old:Курапатка белая cs:Bělokur rousný cy:Grugiar de:Moorschneehuhn et:Rabapüü es:Lagopus lagopus eo:Lagopo eu:Eper zuri fr:Lagopède des saules it:Lagopus lagopus ka:თეთრი გნოლი lt:Žvyrė hu:Sarki hófajd nl:Moerassneeuwhoen ja:カラフトライチョウ no:Lirype nn:Lirype pl:Pardwa mszarna pt:Lagópode-escocês ru:Белая куропатка sah:Куруппааскы se:Rievssat sk:Snehuľa kapcavá fi:Riekko sv:Dalripa uk:Біла куріпка zh:柳雷鸟