  | status = LC | trend = down | status_system = iucn3.1 | status_ref =  Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concern | image = Ocelot.jpg | regnum = Animalia | phylum = Chordata | classis = Mammalia | ordo = Carnivora | familia = Felidae | genus = Leopardus | species = L. pardalis | binomial = Leopardus pardalis | binomial_authority = (Linnaeus, 1758) | range_map = Ocelot range.png | range_map_caption = Ocelot range The Ocelot (Leopardus pardalis), also known as the Painted Leopard, McKenney's Wildcat, Jaguatirica (in Brazil) or Manigordo (in Costa Rica), is a wild cat distributed over South and Central America and Mexico, but has been reported as far north as Texas and in Trinidad, in the Caribbean.The Ocelot's appearance is similar to that of the domestic cat. Its fur resembles that of a Clouded Leopard or Jaguar and was once regarded as particularly valuable. As a result, hundreds of thousands of Ocelots have been killed for their fur. The feline was classified a "vulnerable" endangered species from the 1980s until 1996, but is now generally considered "least concern" by the 2006 IUCN Red List.Taxonomy and nameThe name ocelot comes from the Nahuatl word ōcēlōtl (), which usually refers to the Jaguar (Panthera onca) rather than the Ocelot.SubspeciesThe following are the currently recognized subspecies:Leopardus pardalis pardalis, Amazon RainforestLeopardus pardalis aequatorialis, northern Andes and Central AmericaLeopardus pardalis albescens, Mexico, southwestern TexasLeopardus pardalis melanurus, Venezuela, Guyana, Trinidad, Barbados, GrenadaLeopardus pardalis mitis, Argentina, ParaguayLeopardus pardalis nelsoni, MexicoLeopardus pardalis pseudopardalis, ColombiaLeopardus pardalis puseaus, EcuadorLeopardus pardalis sonoriensis, MexicoLeopardus pardalis steinbachi, BoliviaPhysical characteristicsIt can be up to 1 m (3'2") in length, plus 45 cm (1'6") tail length, and weighs 11.5–16 kg (25–35 pounds), making it the largest of the generally dainty Leopardus wild cat genus. While similar in appearance to the Oncilla and the Margay, which inhabit the same region, the Ocelot is larger. The Ocelot has the lowest resting body temperature of any feline. It has a tawny to reddish brown coat marked with black spots and rosettes. The fur is short, and lighter beneath. There is a single white spot on the back of each of its ears, and there are two black lines on either side of its face. It has a black-banded tail.Behaviorin Seattle, Washington.]] The Ocelot is mostly nocturnal and very territorial. It will fight fiercely, sometimes to the death, in territorial disputes. Like most felines, it is solitary, usually meeting only to mate. However, during the day it rests in trees or other dense foliage, and will occasionally share its spot with another Ocelot of the same sex. When mating, the female will find a den in a cave in a rocky bluff, a hollow tree, or a dense (preferably thorny) thicket. The gestation period is estimated to be 70 days. Generally the female will have 2–4 kittens, born in the autumn with their eyes closed and a thin covering of hair.While the Ocelot is well equipped for an arboreal lifestyle and will sometimes take to the trees, it is mostly terrestrial. Ocelots hunt over a range of , taking mostly small mammals (deer, rabbits and various rodents), reptiles and amphibians (lizards, frogs, and turtles), crabs, birds and fish.The Encyclopedia of World Wildlife, Mike and Peggy Briggs, Pargaon Books. 2006 edition Almost all of the prey that the Ocelot hunts is far smaller than itself. Studies suggest that it follows and finds prey via odor trails, but the Ocelot also has very keen vision, including night vision.Distribution and habitatLima, Peru]] The Ocelot is distributed over South and Central America and Mexico, but has been reported as far north as Texas and in Trinidad, in the Caribbean.The Ocelot once inhabited the chaparral thickets of the Gulf coast in south and eastern Texas, and was found in Arizona. In the United States, it now ranges only in several small areas of dense thicket in South Texas. The Ocelot's continued presence in the U.S. is questionable, due largely to the introduction of dogs, the loss of habitat, and the introduction of highways. Young male Ocelots are frequently killed by cars during their search for a territory. The feline was classified a "vulnerable" endangered species from the 1980s until 1996, but is now generally considered "least concern" by the 2006 IUCN Red List. The Texas Ocelot subspecies, Leopardus pardalis albescens, is still classified as endangered as of the IUCN's 2006 red list. Database entry includes justification for why this species is endangeredOtherLike many wild cats, it is occasionally kept as a pet. Salvador Dalí frequently traveled with his pet Ocelot, even bringing it aboard the luxury cruise liner ''SS France''.Photo of silver optical piece with hand-cut collage of Dali, including picture of him with his Ocelot.Huggler, Justin; &quot;Chic ship too toxic for scrapping&quot; from ssmaritime.comThe Moche people of ancient Peru worshipped animals and often depicted the Ocelot in their art.Berrin, Katherine & Larco Museum. The Spirit of Ancient Peru:Treasures from the Museo Arqueológico Rafael Larco Herrera. New York: Thames and Hudson, 1997.ReferencesExternal links CSG Species Accounts: OcelotOcelots Index, by Ken AndersonCategory:Felines Category:Mammals of Central America Category:Mammals of South America Category:Nahuatl words and phrasesbr:Oselo bg:Оцелот cs:Ocelot velký da:Ozelot de:Ozelot es:Leopardus pardalis eo:Oceloto fr:Ocelot hr:Ozelot io:Oceloto it:Leopardus pardalis he:אוצלוט ka:ოცელოტი ku:Ozelot la:Pardalis lt:Ocelotas hu:Ocelot nah:Ocēlōtl nl:Ocelot ja:オセロット no:Ozelot nn:Ozelot pl:Ocelot pt:Jaguatirica ro:Ocelot qu:Chinchay ru:Оцелот fi:Oselotti sv:Ozelot tr:Oselo zh:虎貓