   Plzeň (; ) is a city in western Bohemia in the Czech Republic. It is the capital of the Plzeň Region and the fourth most populous city in the Czech Republic. It is located about 90&nbsp;km west of Prague at the confluence of four rivers (Radbuza, Mže, Úhlava, and Úslava) which form the Berounka River.Plzeň is also the seat of the Municipality with Extended Competence and Municipality with Commissioned Local Authority. The city is known world wide for the Pilsener beer.HistoryPlzeň was first mentioned as a castle in 976, as the scene of a battle between Duke Boleslaus II of Bohemia and Emperor Otto II. It became a town in 1295 when King Wenceslaus II granted Plzeň its civic charter and established a new town site, located some 10 km away from the original settlement, which is the current town of Starý Plzenec. It quickly became an important town on trade routes leading to Nuremberg and Regensburg; in the 14th century, it was the third-largest town in Bohemia after Prague and Kutná Hora. During the Hussite Wars, it was the centre of Catholic resistance to the Hussites: Prokop the Great unsuccessfully besieged it three times, and it joined the league of Romanist nobles against King George of Podebrady. In 1468, the town acquired a printing press; the Troyan Chronicle, the first book published in Bohemia, was printed on it.Emperor Rudolf II made Plzeň his seat from 1599-1600. During the Thirty Years' War the town was taken by Mansfeld in 1618 after the Siege of Plzeň and it was not recaptured by the Imperial troops until 1621. Wallenstein made it his winter-quarters in 1633. The town was unsuccessfully besieged by the Swedes in 1637 and 1648.At the end of the 17th century, the architecture of Plzeň began to be influenced by the Baroque style. The historic city center has been under historic preservation since 1989.On May 6, 1945, at the very end of World War II, Plzeň was liberated from Nazi Germany by the 16th Armored Division of General Patton's 3rd Army. Also participating in the liberation of the city were elements of the 97th and 2nd Infantry Divisions. Other Third Army units liberated major portions of Western Bohemia. The rest of Czechoslovakia was liberated from German control by the Soviet Red Army. Elements of Third Army remained in Plzen until late November 1945 assisting the Czechs with re-building from the war. After seizing power in 1948, the Communists undertook a systematic campaign to suppress all acknowledgement of the U.S. Army's role in liberating the city and Western Bohemia. This effort continued until 1989 when the Communists were removed from power. Since 1990, the city of Plzen has organized annual Liberation Festival taking place in May, which has already become a local tradition, and has been attended by many American and Allied veterans.After the Communist takeover of February 1948, the totalitarian, Soviet-oriented Czechoslovak government launched a currency reform in 1953. This decision caused a wave of discontent throughout the society, while the events in Plzeň were more intense.Education and economyPlzeň is a centre of academic, business, and cultural life for the western part of the Czech Republic. The University of West Bohemia in Plzeň is well known for its School of Law, School of Mechanical Engineering and School of Applied Science in particular.Since the second half of the 1990s the city has experienced high growth in foreign investments.Plzeň produces approximately two-thirds of the Plzeň Region GDP, even though it contains only 29.8% of its population. http://www.kr-plzensky.cz/article.asp?sec=245 Based on these figures, the city of Plzeň has a total GDP of approximately $7.2 billion, and a per-capita GDP of $44,000. While part of this is explained by commuters (people who work in the city, but live elsewhere) it is one of the most prosperous cities in the Czech Republic.The Škoda company, established in Plzeň in 1859, has been an important part of the Austro-Hungarian, Czechoslovak and Czech engineering. The company's production had been directed to the needs of the Eastern Bloc, and after the Velvet Revolution, it consequently ran into selling problems and debts. After huge restructuring process it has just two principal subsidiaries: Škoda Transportation (locomotives, tube-trains or trams, since sold to Portland, Tacoma, Seattle and Sardinia) and Škoda Power (turbines).Many foreign companies now own manufacturing bases in Plzeň including Daikin and Panasonic. There has been much discussion of redeveloping those large areas of the Škoda plant which the company no longer uses.Plzeň also has the biggest brewery (Pilsner Urquell) and the biggest distillery (Stock) in the Czech Republic.TourismThe most prominent sights of Plzeň are the Gothic St. Bartholomew's Cathedral, founded in the late 13th century, the tower of which (102.26 m / 335 ft) is the highest in the Czech Republic, the Renaissance Town Hall, and the Moorish Revival Great Synagogue in Pilsen, the second largest synagogue in Europe, after the Dohány Street Synagogue in Budapest. There is also a 20km historic underground tunnel/cellar network, among the longest in Central Europe. Part of this network is open to the public for tours of approximately 750 metres in length and up to a depth of 12 metres.Plzeň is also well-known for the Pilsner Urquell (since 1842) and Gambrinus (since 1869) breweries, currently owned by South African Breweries. A popular tourist attraction is the Plzeňský Prazdroj brewery tour where visitors can discover the history of beer. The pilsener style of beer was developed in Plzeň in the 19th century.Transport Image:Skoda03T_Plzen.jpg|One of the modern trams operating in Plzeň. Image:Skoda05T_Plzen.jpg|One of Škoda's prototype trams is tested on the tram network in Plzeň. Image:T14 1.JPG|Another Škoda prototype being tested. The Plzeň metropolitan area is largely served by a network of trams and buses. Like other continental European cities, tickets bought from vending machines or small shops are valid for any transportation ran by the city of Plzeň. For residents of the city, a Plzeň Card can be purchased and through a system of "topping up" be used on any public transport with no limitations, as long as it is paid up and valid.SportFC Viktoria Plzeň and HC Lasselsberger PlzeňFamous peoplePetr Čech (born 1982), football goalkeeperKateřina Emmons (born 1983) Olympic sports shooterJosef Finger (1841-1925), physicists and mathematician (de:Josef Finger)Gertrud Fussenegger (born 1912), writer (de:Gertrud Fussenegger)Karel Gott (born 1939), singerPeter Grünberg (born 1939), German physicist and 2007 Nobel prize winnerMiroslav Holub (1923-1998), poetRudolf Karel (1880-1945), composerFrantišek Křižík (1847-1941), inventorEmil Lederer (1882-1939), economist and sociologistOta Šik (1919-2004), economistJosef Skupa (1892-1957), puppeteerBedřich Smetana (1824-1884), composerEmil Škoda (1839-1900), engineer and industrialistRůžena Šlemrová (1886-1962), actressTomáš Šmíd (born 1956), tennis playerAnna Steimarová (1889-1962), actressMartin Straka (born 1972), ice hockey playerPetr Sykora (born 1976), ice hockey playerJiří Trnka (1912-1969), artistTwin citiesPlzeň is twinned with the following cities: Santo André, Brazil Takasaki, Japan Yekaterinburg, Russia Izmir, Turkey Birmingham, United States Regensburg, Germany Winterthur, Switzerland Liège, Belgium Hengelo, The NetherlandsNotesExternal linksInformation Server of the Municipality of the City of PlzeňPlzeň at the official website of the Czech RepublicDescription of PlzeňUniversity of West BohemiaPilsner Pubs - restaurant and gastronomy guide to the cityPlzenska.com - articles about PlzeňWebCams from PlzeňCategory:Plzeň Category:Cities and towns in the Czech Republic Category:Plzeň-City District Category:Military history of Czechoslovakia during World War IIar:بيلزن be-x-old:Пльзень bg:Пилзен cs:Plzeň da:Plzeň de:Plzeň et:Plzeň el:Πίλζεν es:Pilsen eo:Plzeň fr:Pilsen ko:플젠 hsb:Plzeň hr:Plzeň id:Plzeň is:Plzeň it:Plzeň he:פילזן jv:Pilzno pam:Plzeň la:Pilsna lv:Plzeņa lb:Plzeň lt:Pilzenas hu:Plzeň nl:Pilsen ja:プルゼニ no:Plzeň nn:Plzeň pl:Pilzno pt:Plzeň ro:Plzeň ru:Пльзень sk:Plzeň sr:Плзењ fi:Plzeň sv:Plzeň vi:Pilsen tg:Плзен tr:Pilsen uk:Пльзень vo:Plzeň zh:比尔森