Tiberios III or Tiberius III (Greek: Τιβέριος Γ'), (d. 705), was Byzantine emperor from 698 to 705.Tiberius was a Germanic navy officer originally named Apsimarus (Αψίμαρος), who rose to the position of droungarios of the Cibyrrhaeotic Theme. He participated in the failed campaign to regain Carthage in 698. As admiral John the Patrician retreated from Carthage to Crete, the fleet rebelled, deposed their commander, and chose Apsimaros as his replacement. Apsimaros sailed on Constantinople and besieged it. His revolution attracted detachments from the field army and the imperial guard, and officers loyal to him opened the gates of the city and proclaimed him emperor. He ordered the nose of deposed Emperor Leontius cut off; ironically, Leontios had visited this same punishment on his predecessor Justinian II.As emperor, Tiberius III ignored Africa, where Carthage was now definitively lost, but attacked the Umayyad Caliphate under Abd al-Malik in the east, winning minor victories while raiding into Syria in 701. Arab reprisals in 703 and 704 were repelled from Cilicia. Meanwhile, in 704, Justinian II escaped from exile in Cherson, fleeing to the court of the khagan of the Khazars, Busir Glavan. Tiberius paid a bounty to Busir to have Justinian killed, but Justinian, who had married the khagan's sister and been warned by her, made his way back to Constantinople with the help of Tervel of Bulgaria in 705. Managing to enter Constantinople with some of his supporters, Justinian easily regained control, and had Tiberius arrested and executed in the Hippodrome together with Leontios. A little later the same punishment was inflicted upon Tiberius' brother Heraclius, whom he had appointed strategos of the Anatolic theme.ReferencesThe Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium, Oxford University Press, 1991.External links     Category:7th century Byzantine people Category:8th century Byzantine people Category:Byzantine admirals Category:Byzantine emperors Category:Heraclian Dynasty Category:7th century births Category:705 deathsbg:Тиберий III Апсимар cs:Tiberios III. de:Tiberios II. el:Τιβέριος Γ' es:Tiberio III eu:Tiberio III.a fr:Tibère III gl:Tiberio III ko:티베리우스 3세 hr:Tiberije III. Apsimar it:Tiberio III di Bisanzio la:Tiberius III (Apsimar) hu:III. Tiberiosz nl:Tiberios II ja:ティベリオス3世 pl:Tyberiusz III (cesarz bizantyjski) pt:Tibério III ro:Tiberiu al II-lea ru:Тиверий III sk:Tiberios III. sr:Тиберије III Апсимар fi:Tiberius III sv:Tiberios III