 Einsteinium () is a metallic synthetic element. On the periodic table, it is represented by the symbol Es and atomic number 99. It is the seventh transuranic element, and seventh in the series of Actinides. It was named in honor of Albert Einstein.PropertiesIts position on the periodic table indicates that its chemical and physical properties are similar to other metals. Though only small amounts have ever been made, it has been determined to be silver-colored. According to tracer studies conducted at Los Alamos National Laboratory using the isotope 253Es, this element has chemical properties typical of a heavy trivalent, actinide element.Like all synthetic elements, isotopes of einsteinium are radioactive.ProductionEinsteinium does not occur naturally in any measurable quantities. The modern process of creating the element starts with the irradiation of plutonium-239 in a nuclear reactor for several years. The resulting plutonium-242 isotope (in the form of the compound plutonium(IV) oxide) is mixed with aluminium and formed into pellets. The pellets are then further irradiated for approximately one year in a nuclear reactor. Another four months of irradiation is required in a different reactor. The result is a mixture of californium and einsteinium, which can then be separated.Einsteinium - Los Alamos National Laboratory. Retrieved 2 December 2007.UsesAside from being the byproduct of creating other elements, or a step in the production of other elements, einsteinium has no known uses.It's Elemental - The Element Einsteinium. Retrieved 2 December 2007.HistoryEinsteinium was first identified in December 1952 by Albert Ghiorso and co-workers at the University of California, Berkeley. He was examining debris from the first hydrogen bomb test of November 1952 (see Operation Ivy).Einsteinium - National Research Council Canada. Retrieved 2 December 2007. date = 2003 He discovered the isotope 253Es (half-life 20.5 days) that was made by the neutron capture of 15 neutrons with 238U (which then went through seven beta decays). These findings were kept secret until 1955 due to Cold War tensions.Isotopes of einsteinium were produced shortly afterward at the University of California Radiation Laboratory in a nuclear fusion reaction between 14N and 238U and later by intense neutron irradiation of plutonium in the Materials Testing Reactor.In 1961, enough einsteinium was synthesized to prepare a microscopic amount of 253Es. This sample weighed about 0.01 mg and was measured using a special balance. The material produced was used to produce mendelevium. Further einsteinium has been produced at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory's High Flux Isotope Reactor in Tennessee by bombarding 239Pu with neutrons. Around 3 milligrams were created over a four year program of irradiation and then chemical separation from a starting 1 kg of plutonium isotope.IsotopesNineteen radioisotopes of einsteinium have been characterized,Table of Isotopes decay data - LBNL Isotopes Project - LUNDS Universitet. Retrieved 25 November 2007. with the most stable being 252Es with a half-life of 471.7 days, 254Es with a half-life of 275.7 days, 255Es with a half-life of 39.8 days, and 253Es with a half-life of 20.47 days. All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 40 hours, and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 30 minutes. This element also has three meta states, with the most stable being 254mEs (t½ 39.3 hours). The isotopes of einsteinium range in atomic mass from 240.069 u (240Es) to 258.100 u (258Es). The longest-lived isotope is 252Es.Known compoundsThe following is a list of all known compounds of einsteinium:Chemistry : Periodic Table : einsteinium : compounds information - WebElements. Retrieved 2 December 2007. EsBr2 einsteinium(II) bromideEsBr3 einsteinium(III) bromideEsCl2 einsteinium(II) chlorideEsCl3 einsteinium(III) chlorideEsF3 einsteinium(III) fluorideEsI2 einsteinium(II) iodideEsI3 einsteinium(III) iodideEs2O3 einsteinium(III) oxideReferencesGuide to the Elements - Revised Edition, Albert Stwertka, (Oxford University Press; 1998) ISBN 0-19-508083-1External links Los Alamos National Laboratory - EinsteiniumIt's Elemental - The Element EinsteiniumWebElements.com - EinsteiniumAlbert Ghiorso about the discoveryEinsteinium - Los Alamos National Laboratory Category:Chemical elements Category:Actinides Category:Albert Einstein Category:Synthetic elementsar:أينشتاينيوم az:Eynşteynium bn:আইনস্টাইনিয়াম be:Эйнштэйній bs:Ajnštajnijum ca:Einsteini cs:Einsteinium co:Einsteiniu da:Einsteinium de:Einsteinium et:Einsteinium el:Αϊνσταΐνιο es:Einstenio eo:Ejnŝtejnio eu:Einstenio fa:اینشتینیوم fr:Einsteinium fur:Einsteini gv:Einsteinium gl:Einstenio ko:아인슈타이늄 hy:Էյնշտեյնիում hr:Einsteinij io:Einsteinio id:Einsteinium it:Einsteinio he:איינשטייניום jv:Einsteinium kn:ಐನ್‌ಸ್ಟೈನಿಯಮ್ ka:აინშტაინიუმი ht:Achtaynyòm la:Einsteinium lv:Einšteinijs lb:Einsteinium lt:Einšteinis jbo:jinmrtainctaini hu:Einsteinium ml:ഐന്‍സ്റ്റീനിയം ms:Einsteinium nl:Einsteinium ja:アインスタイニウム no:Einsteinium nn:Einsteinium pl:Einstein (pierwiastek) pt:Einstênio ro:Einsteiniu ru:Эйнштейний stq:Einsteinium scn:Einsteiniu simple:Einsteinium sk:Einsteinium sl:Ajnštajnij sr:Ајнштајнијум sh:Ajnštajnijum fi:Einsteinium sv:Einsteinium th:ไอน์สไตเนียม tr:Aynştaynyum uk:Ейнштейній zh:锿