 |birth_place = Brooklyn, New York, U.S. |residence = Ithaca, New York, U.S. |nationality = American |death_date =  |death_place = Seattle, Washington, U.S. |field = Astronomy and planetary science |work_institutions = Cornell UniversityHarvard University |alma_mater = University of Chicago |known_for = Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI)Cosmos: A Personal VoyageVoyager Golden RecordPioneer plaque''Contact'' |prizes = Oersted Medal (1990)NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal (twice)Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction (1978)National Academy of Sciences Public Welfare Medal (1994)  Carl Edward Sagan (November 9 1934 &ndash; December 20 1996) was an American astronomer, astrochemist, author, and highly successful popularizer of astronomy, astrophysics and other natural sciences. He pioneered exobiology and promoted the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI).He is world-famous for writing popular science books and for co-writing and presenting the award-winning 1980 television series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage, which has been seen by more than 600 million people in over 60 countries, making it the most widely watched PBS program in history. A book to accompany the program was also published. He also wrote the novel ''Contact'', the basis for the 1997 Robert Zemeckis film of the same name starring Jodie Foster. During his lifetime, Sagan published more than 600 scientific papers and popular articles and was author, co-author, or editor of more than 20 books. In his works, he frequently advocated skeptical inquiry, secular humanism, and the scientific method.Education and scientific careerCarl Sagan was born in Brooklyn, New York to a Jewish family. His father, Sam Sagan, was a garment worker; his mother, Rachel Molly Gruber, was a housewife. Carl was named in honor of Rachel's biological mother, Chaiya Clara, "the mother she never knew", in Sagan's words. Sagan graduated from Rahway High School in Rahway, New Jersey in 1951. He attended the University of Chicago, where he received a A.B. with general and special honors (1954), a S.B. (1955) and a S.M. (1956) in physics, before earning a Ph.D. degree (1960) in astronomy and astrophysics.Graduate students receive first Sagan teaching awards During his time as an undergraduate, Sagan spent some time working in the laboratory of the geneticist H. J. Muller. From 1960 to 1962 he was a Miller Fellow at the University of California, Berkeley. From 1962 to 1968, he worked at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Massachusetts.Sagan lectured annually at Harvard University until 1968, when he moved to Cornell University. He became a full Professor at Cornell in 1971 and directed the Laboratory for Planetary Studies there. From 1972 to 1981 he was Associate Director of the Center for Radio Physics and Space Research at Cornell.Sagan was a leader in the U.S. space program since its inception. From the 1950s onward, he worked as an adviser to NASA. One of his many duties during his tenure at the space agency included briefing the Apollo astronauts before their flights to the Moon. Sagan contributed to most of the robotic spacecraft missions that explored the solar system, arranging experiments on many of the expeditions. He conceived the idea of adding an unalterable and universal message on spacecraft destined to leave the solar system that could be understood by any extraterrestrial intelligence that might find it. Sagan assembled the first physical message that was sent into space: a gold-anodized plaque, attached to the space probe Pioneer 10, launched in 1972. Pioneer 11, also carrying the plaque, was launched the following year. He continued to refine his designs throughout his lifetime; the most elaborate message he helped to develop and assemble was the Voyager Golden Record that was sent out with the Voyager space probes in 1977.At Cornell, Sagan taught a course on critical thinking until his death in 1996 from a rare bone marrow disease. The course had only a limited number of seats. Although hundreds of students applied each year, only about 20 were chosen to attend each semester. The course was discontinued immediately after Sagan's death, but was later resumed by Professor Yervant Terzian in 2000.Scientific achievementsCarl Sagan's contributions were central to the discovery of the high surface temperatures of the planet Venus. In the early 1960s no one knew for certain the basic conditions of that planet's surface and Sagan listed the possibilities in a report later depicted for popularization in a Time-Life book, Planets. His own view was that Venus was dry and very hot as opposed to the balmy paradise others had imagined. He had investigated radio emissions from Venus and concluded that there was a surface temperature of 500&nbsp;°C (932&nbsp;°F). As a visiting scientist to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, he contributed to the first Mariner missions to Venus, working on the design and management of the project. Mariner 2 confirmed his conclusions on the surface conditions of Venus in 1962.Sagan was among the first to hypothesize that Saturn's moon Titan might possess oceans of liquid compounds on its surface and that Jupiter's moon Europa might possess subsurface oceans of water. This made Europa potentially habitable for life.Much of Sagan's research in the field of planetary science is outlined by William Poundstone. Poundstone's biography of Sagan includes an 8-page list of Sagan's scientific articles published from 1957 to 1998. Detailed information about Sagan's scientific work comes from the primary research articles. Example: Sagan, C., Thompson, W. R., and Khare, B. N. Titan: A Laboratory for Prebiological Organic Chemistry, Accounts of Chemical Research, volume 25, page 286 (1992). There is commentary on this research article about Titan at The Encyclopedia of Astrobiology, Astronomy, and Spaceflight. Europa's subsurface ocean of water was later indirectly confirmed by the spacecraft Galileo. Sagan also helped solve the mystery of the reddish haze seen on Titan, revealing that it is composed of complex organic molecules constantly raining down onto the moon's surface.He further contributed insights regarding the atmospheres of Venus and Jupiter as well as seasonal changes on Mars. Sagan established that the atmosphere of Venus is extremely hot and dense with pressures increasing steadily all the way down to the surface. He also perceived global warming as a growing, man-made danger and likened it to the natural development of Venus into a hot, life-hostile planet through a kind of runaway greenhouse effect. Sagan and his Cornell colleague Edwin Ernest Salpeter speculated about life in Jupiter's clouds, given the planet's dense atmospheric composition rich in organic molecules. He studied the observed color variations on Mars’ surface and concluded that they were not seasonal or vegetational changes as most believed but shifts in surface dust caused by windstorms.Sagan is best known, however, for his research on the possibilities of extraterrestrial life, including experimental demonstration of the production of amino acids from basic chemicals by radiation.He is also the 1994 recipient of the Public Welfare Medal, the highest award of the National Academy of Sciences for "distinguished contributions in the application of science to the public welfare."Scientific advocacySagan was a proponent of the search for extraterrestrial life. He urged the scientific community to listen with radio telescopes for signals from intelligent extraterrestrial lifeforms. So persuasive was he that by 1982 he was able to get a petition advocating SETI published in the journal Science and signed by 70 scientists including seven Nobel Prize winners. This was a tremendous turnaround in the respectability of this controversial field. Sagan also helped Dr. Frank Drake write the Arecibo message, a radio message beamed into space from the Arecibo radio telescope on November 16, 1974, aimed at informing extraterrestrials about Earth.Sagan was chief technology officer of the professional planetary research journal Icarus for twelve years. He co-founded the Planetary Society, the largest space-interest group in the world, with over 1,000,000 members in more than 149 countries, and was a member of the SETI Institute Board of Trustees. Sagan served as Chairman of the Division for Planetary Science of the American Astronomical Society, as President of the Planetology Section of the American Geophysical Union, and as Chairman of the Astronomy Section of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.At the height of the Cold War, Sagan became involved in public awareness efforts for the effects of nuclear war when a mathematical climate model suggested that a substantial nuclear exchange could upset the delicate balance of life on Earth. He was the last of five authors — the "S" of the &quot;TTAPS&quot; report as the research paper came to be known. He eventually co-authored the scientific paper hypothesizing a global nuclear winter following nuclear war.Turco RP, Toon OB, Ackerman TP, Pollack JB, Sagan C. Climate and smoke: an appraisal of nuclear winter, Science, volume 247, pages 166-176 (1990). PubMed abstract JSTOR link to full text article. Carl Sagan discussed his involvement in the political nuclear winter debates and his erroneous global cooling prediction for the Gulf War fires in his book, The Demon-Haunted World. He also co-authored the book A Path Where No Man Thought: Nuclear Winter and the End of the Arms Race, a comprehensive examination of the phenomenon of nuclear winter.Sagan erroneously predicted in January 1991 that so much smoke from the Kuwaiti oil fires "might get so high as to disrupt agriculture in much of South Asia...." He acknowledged the error in The Demon-Haunted World: "as events transpired, it was pitch black at noon and temperatures dropped 4-6 C over the Persian Gulf, but not much smoke reached stratospheric altitudes and Asia was spared."Sagan, Carl. The Demon-Haunted World. p. 257.In his later years Sagan advocated the creation of an organized search for near Earth objects that would impact the Earth. (  ) When others suggested creating large nuclear bombs that could be used to alter the orbit of an NEO that was predicted to hit the Earth, Sagan proposed the Deflection Dilemma: If we create the ability to deflect an asteroid away from the Earth, then we also create the ability to deflect an asteroid towards the Earth - providing an evil power with a true doomsday bomb. ( ) ()Social concernsSagan believed that the Drake equation suggested that a large number of extraterrestrial civilizations would form, but that the lack of evidence of such civilizations pointed out by the Fermi paradox suggests technological civilizations tend to destroy themselves rather quickly. This stimulated his interest in identifying and publicizing ways that humanity could destroy itself, with the hope of avoiding such a cataclysm and eventually becoming a spacefaring species. Sagan's deep concern regarding the potential destruction of human civilization in a nuclear holocaust was conveyed in a memorable cinematic sequence in the final episode of ''Cosmos'', called "Who Speaks for Earth?". Following his marriage to his third wife (novelist Ann Druyan) in June 1981, Sagan became more politically active — particularly in regard to the escalation of the nuclear arms race under President Ronald Reagan.In March 1983, hoping to blunt the momentum of the nuclear freeze movement, Reagan announced the Strategic Defense Initiative — a multi-billion dollar project to develop a comprehensive defense against attack by nuclear missiles, which was quickly dubbed the "Star Wars" program. Sagan spoke out against the project, arguing that it was technically impossible to develop a system with the level of perfection required, and far more expensive to build than for an enemy to defeat through decoys and other means — and that its construction would seriously destabilize the nuclear balance between the United States and the Soviet Union, making further progress toward nuclear disarmament impossible.When Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev declared a unilateral moratorium on the testing of nuclear weapons, which would begin on August 6, 1985 — the 40th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima — the Reagan administration dismissed the dramatic move as nothing more than propaganda, and refused to follow suit. In response, American anti-nuclear and peace activists staged a series of protest actions at the Nevada Test Site, beginning on Easter Sunday of 1986 and continuing through 1987. Hundreds of people, including Sagan, who had previously been arrested for participating in an anti-war protest during the Vietnam War, were arrested on two separate occasions as he climbed over a chain-link fence at the Test Site.Popularization of scienceSagan's capability to convey his ideas allowed many people to better understand the Cosmos &mdash; simultaneously emphasizing the value and worthiness of the human race, and the relative insignificance of the earth in comparison to the universe. He delivered the 1977/1978 Christmas Lectures for Young People at the Royal Institution. He hosted and, with Ann Druyan, co-wrote and co-produced the highly popular thirteen-part PBS television series ''Cosmos: A Personal Voyage'' modeled on Jacob Bronowski's The Ascent of Man.  probes which would land on Mars. Sagan examined possible landing sites for Viking along with Mike Carr and Hal Masursky.]] Cosmos covered a wide range of scientific subjects including the origin of life and a perspective of our place in the universe. The series was first broadcast by the Public Broadcasting Service in 1980, winning an Emmy and a Peabody Award. According to the NASA Office of Space Science, it has been since broadcast in more than 60 countries and seen by over 500 million people.www.mnsu.edu/emuseum/information/biography/pqrst/sagan_carl.htmlSagan also wrote books to popularize science, such as Cosmos, which reflected and expanded upon some of the themes of A Personal Voyage, and became the best-selling science book ever published in English; The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence, which won a Pulitzer Prize; and Broca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science. Sagan also wrote the best-selling science fiction novel ''Contact'', but did not live to see the book's 1997 motion picture adaptation, which starred Jodie Foster and won the 1998 Hugo Award.From Cosmos and his frequent appearances on The Tonight Show, Sagan became associated with the catch phrase "billions and billions." Sagan never actually used the phrase in the Cosmos series, however his frequent use of term billions, and distinctive delivery with emphasis on the “b”, made him a favorite target of performers and comedy routines of Johnny Carson, Gary Kroeger, Mike Myers,Myers portrayed Sagan in "SNL: Carl Sagan's Global Warming Christmas Special VIDEO" starts at 00:39:29 Sagan also wrote an introduction for the bestselling book by Stephen Hawking, A Brief History of Time.Sagan caused mixed reactions among other professional scientists. On the one hand, there was general support for his popularization of science, his efforts to increase scientific understanding among the general public, and his positions in favor of scientific skepticism and against pseudoscience. Most notable perhaps was his ironically more emotional than scientific debunking of the book Worlds in Collision by Immanuel Velikovsky. As popular as this condescending assault was with science writers and the public the flaws in its reasoning were ultimately brought to light by astronomer Robert Jastrow and Sagan's student, astronomer David Morrison.Jastrow, Robert (1979). Velikovsky, a Star-Crossed Theoretician of the Cosmos. New York Times, December 2, 1979, p. E22 Morrison, David (2001). Velikovsky at Fifty: Cultures in Collision on the Fringes of Science. Skeptic, 9''' (1), 62-76; reprinted in Shermer, Michael (editor) (2002). The Skeptic Encyclopedia of Pseudoscience, Santa Barbara, Calif. ISBN 1576076539. pp. 473-488. Concerning Sagan's great odds against a collision of 1 in 30,000 per 1000 years, using his statistical approach and Velikovsky's actual scenario, e.g., no grazing encounters, S. F. Kogan (Velikovsky's older daughter)Ellenberger, Leroy (1999). Sagan and Velikovsky (letter submitted to Skeptical Inquirer). Kogan, S. F. (1980). Sagan versus Velikovsky (letter). Physics Today, Sept., pp. 97-98. Furthermore, Sagan's Appendix 3 on the cooling of Venus has nothing to do with cooling, but instead is a trivial identity that merely equates the heat radiated to Venus by the Sun in one hour at 6000K to the heat radiated from Venus in 3500 years at 79K.Talbott, George R. (1978). Kronos, '''4 (2), 3-25; reported by C.L. Ellenberger (letter) in Physics Today, April 1981, p. 72, and (letter) in Skeptical Inquirer, March/April 2000, pp. 67-68. In 1994, Apple Computer began developing the Power Macintosh 7100. They chose the internal code name "Carl Sagan", the reference being that the mid-range PowerMac 7100 should make Apple "billions and billions." Though the internal project name was never used in public marketing, it did come up in usenet postings and news of the name grew from there. When Sagan learned of this he sued Apple Computer to force the use of a different project name. Other models released conjointly had code names such as "Cold fusion" and "Piltdown Man", and Sagan was displeased at being associated with what he considered pseudoscience. (He was at the time writing a book discrediting pseudoscience.) Though Sagan lost the suit Apple engineers complied with his demands anyway and renamed the project "BHA" (for Butt-Head Astronomer). Sagan promptly sued Apple for libel over the new name, claiming that it subjected him to contempt and ridicule, but he lost this lawsuit as well. Still, the 7100 saw another name change: it was finally referred to internally as "LAW" (Lawyers Are Wimps).Carl Sagan, Plaintiff, v. Apple Computer, Inc., Defendant CV 94-2180 LGB (BRx) United States District Court for the Central District of California 874 F. Supp. 1072; 1994 U.S. Dist. Lexis 20154 June 27, 1994, Decided June 27, 1994, FiledSagan wrote frequently about religion and the relationship between religion and science, expressing his skepticism about many conventional conceptualizations of God. Sagan once stated, for instance, that "The idea that God is an oversized white male with a flowing beard, who sits in the sky and tallies the fall of every sparrow is ludicrous. But if by 'God' one means the set of physical laws that govern the universe, then clearly there is such a God. This God is emotionally unsatisfying... it does not make much sense to pray to the law of gravity."A similar quote can be found in Chapter 23 of Sagan's book Broca's Brain. "Some people think God is an outsized, light-skinned male with a long white beard, sitting on a throne somewhere up there in the sky, busily tallying the fall of every sparrow. Others — for example Baruch Spinoza and Albert Einstein — considered God to be essentially the sum total of the physical laws which describe the universe. I do not know of any compelling evidence for anthropomorphic patriarchs controlling human destiny from some hidden celestial vantage point, but it would be madness to deny the existence of physical laws." Sagan is also widely regarded as a freethinker or skeptic; one of his most famous quotations as seen in Cosmos, was "Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence." (This was actually based on a nearly identical earlier quote by fellow CSICOP founder Marcello Truzzi, "Extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof.") The quote is also known, under different wording, as the principle of Laplace — attributed to Pierre-Simon Marquis de Laplace (1749-1827), a French mathematician and astronomer: "The weight of evidence for an extraordinary claim must be proportioned to its strangeness."Sagan married three times: to biologist Lynn Margulis, mother of Dorion Sagan and Jeremy Sagan, in 1957; to artist Linda Salzman, mother of Nick Sagan, in 1968; and to author Ann Druyan, mother of Alexandra Rachel (Sasha) and Samuel Democritus (Sam), in 1981. His marriage to Druyan continued until his death in 1996.Isaac Asimov described Sagan as one of only two people he ever met who were smarter than Asimov himself. The other was computer scientist and expert on artificial intelligence, Marvin Minsky.Sagan was a user of marijuana. Under the pseudonym "Mr. X", he wrote an essay concerning cannabis smoking in the 1971 book Marihuana Reconsidered, written by Sagan's close friend Lester Grinspoon. In his essay, Sagan wrote how marijuana use had helped to inspire some of his works and enhance sensual and intellectual experiences. After Sagan's death, Grinspoon disclosed this to Sagan's biographer, Keay Davidson. The publishing of this biography, Carl Sagan: A Life, in 1999, brought much media attention to the issue of the use and legalization of marijuana.a. b. c. Sagan warned against our tendency for anthropocentrism, and was the faculty adviser for the Cornell Students for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. In the COSMOS chapter "Blues For a Red Planet" Sagan states "If there is life on Mars, then I believe we should do nothing to disturb that life. Mars then, belongs to the Martians, even if they are microbes."Sagan and UFOsSagan had some interest in UFO reports from at least 1964, when he had several conversations on the subject with Jacques Vallee. Though quite skeptical of any extraordinary answer to the UFO question, Sagan thought scientists should study the phenomenon, at least because there was widespread public interest in UFO reports.Stuart Appelle notes that Sagan "wrote frequently on what he perceived as the logical and empirical fallacies regarding UFOs and the abduction experience. Sagan rejected an extraterrestrial explanation for the phenomenon but felt there were both empirical and pedagogical benefits for examining UFO reports and that the subject was, therefore, a legitimate topic of study."In 1966, Sagan was a member of the Ad Hoc Committee to Review Project Blue Book, the U.S. Air Force's UFO investigation project. The committee concluded Blue Book had been lacking as a scientific study, and recommended a university-based project to give the UFO phenomenon closer scientific scrutiny. The result was the Condon Committee (1966-1968), led by physicist Edward Condon, and in their final report they formally concluded that UFOs, regardless of what any of them actually were, did not behave in a manner consistent with a threat to national security.Ron Westrum writes that "The high point of Sagan's treatment of the UFO question was the AAAS's symposium in 1969. A wide range of educated opinions on the subject were offered by participants, including not only proponents such as James McDonald and J. Allen Hynek but also skeptics like astronomers William Hartmann and Donald Menzel. The roster of speakers was balanced, and it is to Sagan's credit that this event was presented in spite of pressure from Edward Condon". With physicist Thornton Page, Sagan edited the lectures and discussions given at the symposium; these were published in 1972 as UFO's: A Scientific Debate. Jerome Clark writes that Sagan's perspective on UFO's irked Condon: "...&nbsp;though a skeptic, Sagan was too soft on UFOs for Condon's taste. In 1971, Condon considered blackballing Sagan from the prestigious Cosmos Club".Some of Sagan's many books examine UFOs (as did one episode of Cosmos) and he recognized a religious undercurrent to the phenomenon. However, Westrum writes that "Sagan spent very little time researching UFOs ... he thought that little evidence existed to show that the UFO phenomenon represented alien spacecraft and that the motivation for interpreting UFO observations as spacecraft was emotional".Sagan again revealed his views on interstellar travel in his 1980 Cosmos series. In one of his last written works, Sagan argued that the chances of extraterrestrial spacecraft visiting Earth are vanishingly small. However, Sagan did think it plausible that Cold War concerns contributed to governments misleading their citizens about UFOs, and that "some UFO reports and analyses, and perhaps voluminous files, have been made inaccessible to the public which pays the bills ... It's time for the files to be declassified and made generally available." He cautioned against jumping to conclusions about suppressed UFO data and stressed that there was no clear evidence that aliens were visiting the Earth either in the past or present.Sagan, 1996: 81-96, 99-104Death and legacyAfter a long and difficult fight with myelodysplasia, which included three bone marrow transplants, Sagan died of pneumonia at the age of 62 at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington on December 20, 1996. Surviving him were his wife and five children. Sagan was a significant figure, and his supporters credit his importance to his popularization of the natural sciences, opposing both restraints on science and reactionary applications of science, defending democratic traditions, resisting nationalism, defending humanism, and arguing against geocentric and anthropocentric views.After landing, the unmanned Mars Pathfinder spacecraft was renamed the Carl Sagan Memorial Station on July 5 1997. Asteroid 2709 Sagan is also named in his honor.The 1997 movie Contact, based on Sagan's novel of the same name and finished after his death, ends with the dedication "For Carl".On November 9, 2001, on what would have been Sagan’s 67th birthday, the NASA Ames Research Center dedicated the site for the Carl Sagan Center for the Study of Life in the Cosmos. "Carl was an incredible visionary, and now his legacy can be preserved and advanced by a 21st century research and education laboratory committed to enhancing our understanding of life in the universe and furthering the cause of space exploration for all time", said NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin. Ann Druyan was at the Center as it opened its doors on October 22, 2006.Sagan's son, Nick Sagan, wrote several episodes in the Star Trek franchise. In an episode of Star Trek: Enterprise entitled "Terra Prime", a quick shot is shown of the relic rover Sojourner, part of the Mars Pathfinder mission, placed by a historical marker at Carl Sagan Memorial Station on the Martian surface. The marker displays a quote from Sagan: "Whatever the reason you're on Mars, I'm glad you're there, and I wish I was with you."Sagan has at least three awards named in his honor: the Carl Sagan Memorial Award presented jointly since 1997 by the American Astronautical Society (AAS) and the Planetary Society; the Carl Sagan Medal for Excellence in Public Communication in Planetary Science presented since 1998 by the American Astronomical Society's Division for Planetary Sciences (AAS/DPS) for outstanding communication by an active planetary scientist to the general public. Carl Sagan was one of the original organizing committee members of the DPS; and the Carl Sagan Award for Public Understanding of Science presented by Council of Scientific Society Presidents (CSSP). Sagan himself was the first recipient of the CSSP award in 1993. In 2006, the Carl Sagan Medal was awarded to astrobiologist and author David Grinspoon, the son of Sagan's friend Lester Grinspoon.Sagan's student Steve Squyres led the team that landed the Spirit Rover and Opportunity Rover successfully on Mars in 2004.On December 20, 2006, the tenth anniversary of Sagan's death, a blogger, Joel Schlosberg, organized a Carl Sagan "blog-a-thon" to commemorate Sagan's death, and the idea was supported by Nick Sagan.Joel's humanistic blog: Announcing the Carl Sagan memorial blog-a-thon&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Many members of the blogging community participated.Awards and honorsAnnual Award for Television Excellence - 1981 - Ohio State University - PBS series CosmosApollo Achievement Award - National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationNASA Distinguished Public Service Medal - National Aeronautics and Space Administration (twice)Emmy - Outstanding Individual Achievement - 1981 - PBS series CosmosEmmy - Outstanding Informational Series - 1981 - PBS series CosmosExceptional Scientific Achievement Medal - National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationHelen Caldicott Leadership Award - Women's Action for Nuclear DisarmamentHomer Award - 1997 - ContactHugo Award - 1981 - CosmosHumanist of the Year - 1981 - Awarded by the American Humanist AssociationIn Praise of Reason Award - 1987 - Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the ParanormalIsaac Asimov Award - 1994 - Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the ParanormalJohn F. Kennedy Astronautics Award - American Astronautical SocietyJohn W. Campbell Memorial Award - 1974 - Cosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial PerspectiveJoseph Priestley Award - "For distinguished contributions to the welfare of mankind"Klumpke-Roberts Award of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific - 1974Konstantin Tsiolkovsky Medal - Awarded by the Soviet Cosmonauts FederationLocus Award 1986 - ContactLowell Thomas Award - Explorers Club - 75th AnniversaryMasursky Award - American Astronomical SocietyMiller Research Fellowship - Miller Institute (1960-1962)Oersted Medal - 1990 - American Association of Physics TeachersPeabody Award - 1980 - PBS series CosmosPrix Galbert - The international prize of AstronauticsPublic Welfare Medal - 1994 - National Academy of SciencesPulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction - 1978 - The Dragons of EdenSF Chronicle Award - 1998 - ContactNamed the “99th Greatest American” on the June 5 2005 Greatest American show on the Discovery Channel.BibliographyBy SaganPlanets (LIFE Science Library), Sagan, Carl, Jonathon Norton Leonard and editors of Life, Time, Inc., 1966Intelligent Life in the Universe, I.S. Shklovskii coauthor, Random House, 1966, 509 pgsUFO's: A Scientific Debate, Thornton Page coauthor, Cornell University Press, 1972, 310 pgsCommunication with Extraterrestrial Intelligence. MIT Press, 1973, 428 pgsMars and the Mind of Man, Sagan, Carl, et al., Harper & Row, 1973, 143 pgsCosmic Connection: An Extraterrestrial Perspective, Jerome Agel coauthor, Anchor Press, 1973, ISBN 0-521-78303-8, 301 pgsOther Worlds. Bantam Books, 1975Murmurs of Earth: The Voyager Interstellar Record, Sagan, Carl, et al., Random House, ISBN 0-394-41047-5, 1978The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence. Ballantine Books, 1978, ISBN 0-345-34629-7, 288 pgsBroca's Brain: Reflections on the Romance of Science. Ballantine Books, 1979, ISBN 0-345-33689-5, 416 pgsCosmos. Random house, 1980. Random House New Edition, May 7, 2002, ISBN 0-375-50832-5, 384 pgsThe Nuclear Winter: The World After Nuclear War, Sagan, Carl et al., Sidgwick & Jackson, 1985Comet, Ann Druyan coauthor, Ballantine Books, 1985, ISBN 0-345-41222-2, 496 pgsContact. Simon and Schuster, 1985; Reissued August 1997 by Doubleday Books, ISBN 1-56865-424-3, 352 pgsThe Varieties of Scientific Experience: A Personal View of the Search for God, Ann Druyan editor, 1985 Gifford lectures, Penguin Press, 2006, ISBN 1-59420-107-2, 304 pgsA Path Where No Man Thought: Nuclear Winter and the End of the Arms Race, Richard Turco coauthor, Random House, 1990, ISBN 0-394-58307-8, 499 pgsShadows of Forgotten Ancestors: A Search for Who We Are, Ann Druyan Coauthor, Ballantine Books, October 1993, ISBN 0-345-38472-5, 528 pgsPale Blue Dot: A Vision of the Human Future in Space. Random House, November 1994, ISBN 0-679-43841-6, 429 pgsThe Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark. Ballantine Books, March 1996, ISBN 0-345-40946-9, 480 pgsBillions and Billions: Thoughts on Life and Death at the Brink of the Millennium, Ann Druyan coauthor, Ballantine Books, June 1997, ISBN 0-345-37918-7, 320 pgsThe Varieties of Scientific Experience: A Personal View of the Search for God, Carl Sagan (writer) & Ann Druyan (editor), Penguin Press HC, November 2006, ISBN 1594201072, 304 pgsAbout SaganMorrison, David (2006). Carl Sagan: The People's Astronomer. AmeriQuests, vol. 3. no. 2: External links The Carl Sagan Portal[http://www.stephenjaygould.org/ctrl/sagan_science.html Can We Know the Universe?] &ndash; 1979 essay by Carl Sagan, taken from his book Broca's Brain[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=1011828 Talk of the Nation] &ndash; Ira Flatow interviews Sagan on his book The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark (May 3, 1996)[http://www.csicop.org/si/2007-01/sagan.html Skeptical Inquirer: Carl Sagan's Life & Legacy] (Jan./Feb. 2007)[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2pfwY2TNehw We Are Here: The Pale Blue Dot] &ndash; A short film narrated by Carl Sagan (40 min extended version)Carl Sagan Charlie Rose interviewsCarl Sagan Prize for Science PopularizationCarl Sagan Medal for Excellence in Public Communication in Planetary Science, presented by the American Astronomical Society's Division for Planetary Sciences (AAS/DPS)Cosmos Magazine, an Australian popular science magazine inspired by Carl Sagan and launched in June 2005 |PLACE OF BIRTH= Brooklyn, New York |DATE OF DEATH=  |PLACE OF DEATH= Seattle, Washington  Category:American agnostics Category:American astronomers Category:American humanists Category:American science fiction writers Category:American science writers Category:American skeptics Category:Cornell University faculty Category:Deaths from pneumonia Category:Jewish American scientists Category:Jewish skeptics Category:Jewish agnostics Category:People from Brooklyn Category:Planetary scientists Category:Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction winners Category:Rahway High School alumni Category:SETI Category:Interstellar messages Category:Space advocates Category:University of Chicago alumni Category:American anti-nuclear weapons activists Category:Infectious disease deaths in Washingtonar:كارل ساغان bn:কার্ল সেগান bs:Carl Sagan bg:Карл Сейгън ca:Carl Sagan cs:Carl Sagan da:Carl Sagan de:Carl Sagan et:Carl Sagan el:Καρλ Σαγκάν es:Carl Sagan eo:Carl Sagan eu:Carl Sagan fr:Carl Sagan gl:Carl Sagan ko:칼 세이건 hi:कार्ल सेगन hr:Carl Sagan id:Carl Sagan is:Carl Sagan it:Carl Sagan he:קרל סייגן lv:Karls Sagans lt:Karlas Saganas hu:Carl Sagan mr:कार्ल सेगन nah:Carl Sagan nl:Carl Sagan ja:カール・セーガン no:Carl Sagan pl:Carl Sagan pt:Carl Sagan ro:Carl Sagan qu:Carl Sagan ru:Саган, Карл simple:Carl Sagan sd:ڪارل سيگن sk:Carl Sagan sl:Carl Sagan fi:Carl Sagan sv:Carl Sagan th:คาร์ล เซแกน tr:Carl Sagan uk:Саган Карл Едвард zh:卡尔·萨根