Guacamole (called guacamol in Central America and Cuba) is an avocado-based relish or dip.History  Of Aztec origin, it was originally valued for its high fat and vitamin content. Guacamole was originally made by mashing the avocado with a molcajete (a type of mortar and pestle) and adding tomatoes and salt. After the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors, guacamole became popular in Spain. Since avocados failed to grow well in Spain guacamole remained an American food.The name guacamole comes from Mexican Spanish via Nahuatl āhuacamolli, from āhuacatl (="avocado") + molli (="sauce"). In Spanish it is pronounced ; in American English it is pronounced  or sometimes in British English .IngredientsRipe avocados, lime, and salt are common to most recipes. Lime or lemon juice is added not only for flavor and but also to slow the reaction of the enzyme that causes browning.Other common ingredients include minced tomatoes, minced or grated red onion, black pepper, chili pepper, garlic, cumin, cilantro, and worcestershire sauce. Some add sour cream as a filler and a preservative.http://www.elise.com/recipes/archives/000159perfect_guacamole.php&lt;/ref&gt;TraditionIn Southern Africa gaucamole was thought to bring good luck if one rubbed it on their genital area. Sangomas(witch doctors) would eat about 500g of guacamole before going into a trance to stop spirits they did not want to enter their bodies. It was also common belief amongst South African politicians that the use of guacamole after sexual intercourse, combined with garlic and showering could provide an effective cure to HIV/AIDS.Commercial guacamoleThere are many types of pre-made guacamole available in stores. Fresh guacamole is available and is often available refrigerated. The non-fresh guacamole most like fresh is preserved by freezing or sometimes high pressure packaging. Other non-fresh preparations need higher levels of fillers and artificial preservatives to be shelf stable.One of the world's largest food companies, Kraft Foods, came under fire with consumer complaints and lawsuits regarding Kraft's commercial guacamoleFOXNews.com - California Woman Files Lawsuit Claiming Kraft's Guacamole Dip Doesn't Contain Enough Avocado - Local News | News Articles | National News | US News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The main issue was that Kraft's guacamole contained less than 2 percent avocado and contains hydrogenated oils and artificial colors to try to approximate the consistency and color of avocados. In response to this, consumer health advocate Mike Adams called it Kraft's "avocado-free guacamole" and said "Avocado should be the main ingredient in guacamole. I recommend that people get avocado dip from places that actually use avocado as the main ingredient".Food technologists have found that high pressure preserves guacamole for weeks, preventing it from browning.Mushy PeasDifferentiating between guacamole and mushy peas, which have a similar appearance, is considered to be a significant class distinction in Britain. Labour Party minister, Peter Mandelson was famously said to have committed a faux pas when he mistook the two in a fish and chip shop in his constituency of Hartlepool. The Labour Party was subsequently thought to have successfully merged these middle class and working class tastes but the metaphor was used to indicate that they no longer did so. Recapturing this recipe is held to be essential to their success.Guacamole is expected to become more popular when the food colouring tartrazine is banned from mushy peas and substitutes with a similar bright green colour are sought.ReferencesExternal linksHow to Cut and Peel an AvocadoCategory:Mexican garnish Category:Dips Category:Vegetarian cuisine Category:Nahuatl words and phrases Category:Tex-Mex cuisineca:Guacamole de:Guacamole es:Guacamole fr:Guacamole ko:구아카몰 id:Guacamole it:Guacamole he:סלט אבוקדו la:Guacamole hu:Guacamole nl:Guacamole ja:ワカモレ no:Guacamole pl:Guacamole pt:Guacamole ru:Гуакамоле simple:Guacamole fi:Guacamole sv:Guacamole tr:Guakamole zh:鳄梨酱