The Mercalli intensity scale is a scale used for measuring the intensity of an earthquake. The scale quantifies the effects of an earthquake on the Earth's surface, humans, objects of nature, and man-made structures on a scale of I through XII, with I denoting a weak earthquake and XII one that causes almost complete destruction.Evolution of the Mercalli scaleThe Mercalli scale originated with the widely used simple ten-degree Rossi-Forel scale, which was revised by Italian volcanologist Giuseppe Mercalli in 1883 and 1902. The terms or Mercalli scale should not be used unless one really means the original ten-degree scale of 1902.In 1902 the ten-degree Mercalli scale was expanded to twelve degrees by Italian physicist Adolfo Cancani. It was later completely re-written by German geophysicist August Heinrich Sieberg and became known as the Mercalli-Cancani-Sieberg (MCS) scale. The Mercalli-Cancani-Sieberg scale was later modified and published in English by Harry O. Wood and Frank Neumann in 1931 as the Mercalli-Wood-Neuman (MWN) scale. It was later improved by Charles Richter, the father of the Richter magnitude scale. The scale is known today as the Modified Mercalli Scale and commonly abbreviated MM or Io.Modified Mercalli scaleThe lower degrees of the MM scale generally deal with the manner in which the earthquake is felt by people. The higher numbers of the scale are based on observed structural damage. The table below is a rough guide to the degrees of the Modified Mercalli Scale. The colors and descriptive names shown here differ from those used on certain shake maps in other articles.I. InstrumentalNot felt by many people unless in favorable conditions.II. FeebleFelt only by a few people at best, especially on the upper floors of buildings. Delicately suspended objects may swing.III. SlightFelt quite noticeably by people indoors, especially on the upper floors of buildings. Many do not recognize it as an earthquake. Standing motor cars may rock slightly. Vibration similar to the passing of a truck. Duration estimated.IV. ModerateFelt indoors by many people, outdoors by few people during the day. At night, some awakened. Dishes, windows, doors disturbed; walls make cracking sound. Sensation like heavy truck striking building. Standing motor cars rocked noticeably. Dishes and windows rattle alarmingly.V. Rather StrongVI. StrongFelt by all; many frightened and run outdoors, walk unsteadily. Windows, dishes, glassware broken; books off shelves; some heavy furniture moved or overturned; a few instances of fallen plaster. Damage slight.VII. Very StrongDifficult to stand; furniture broken; damage negligible in building of good design and construction; slight to moderate in well-built ordinary structures; considerable damage in poorly built or badly designed structures; some chimneys broken. Noticed by people driving motor cars.VIII. DestructiveDamage slight in specially designed structures; considerable in ordinary substantial buildings with partial collapse. Damage great in poorly built structures. Fall of chimneys, factory stacks, columns, monuments, walls. Heavy furniture moved.IX. RuinousGeneral panic; damage considerable in specially designed structures, well designed frame structures thrown out of plumb. Damage great in substantial buildings, with partial collapse. Buildings shifted off foundations.X. DisastrousSome well built wooden structures destroyed; most masonry and frame structures destroyed with foundation. Rails bent.XI. Very DisastrousFew, if any masonry structures remain standing. Bridges destroyed. Rails bent greatly.XII. CatastrophicTotal damage - Almost everything is destroyed. Lines of sight and level distorted. Objects thrown into the air. The ground moves in waves or ripples. Large amounts of rock may move position.Correlations with Physical QuantitiesThe Mercalli scale is not defined in terms of more rigorous, objectively quantifiable measurements such as shake amplitude, peak velocity, acceleration, or period. Information on these has been provided by the USGS Shakemap site. Note that perceived shaking (the basis for the Calligraph scale) is best correlated with acceleration for low-intensity events, and with velocity for high-intensity events.See alsoOther seismic scalesHayward Fault Zone for seismic shake maps using the Mercalli scaleBibliographyThe Severity of an earthquake pamphlet of the United States Geological SurveyU.S. National Earthquake Information CenterJohn N. Louie, Associate Professor of Seismology at the University of NevadaCategory:Seismic scalesar:مقياس ميركالي المعدل bg:Скала на Меркали-Канкани-Зиберг ca:Escala de Mercalli de:Mercalliskala et:Mercalli skaala el:Κλίμακα Μερκάλι es:Escala sismológica de Mercalli eu:Mercalli eskala fa:مقیاس مرکالی fr:Échelle de Mercalli hr:Mercallijeva ljestvica id:Skala Mercalli it:Scala Mercalli hu:Mercalli-skála mk:Меркалиевата сеизмичка скала ms:Skala Mercalli nl:Schaal van Mercalli ja:メルカリ震度階級 no:Mercalliskalaen nn:Mercalliskalaen pl:Skala Mercallego pt:Escala de Mercalli ro:Scara Mercalli scn:Scala Mercalli simple:Mercalli intensity scale sr:Меркалијева скала sh:Mercallijeva ljestvica su:Skala Mercalli fi:Mercallin asteikko sv:Mercalliskalan th:มาตราเมร์กัลลี vi:Thang đo Mercalli wa:Schåle di Mercalli zh:麥加利地震烈度