  |map_custom=yes | length = CBC Digital Archives - Trans-Canada Highway: Bridging the Distance-South route -Yellowhead | direction = West–East | starting_terminus = Victoria | ending_terminus = St. John's | cities = Victoria, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton, Regina, Saskatoon, Winnipeg, Ottawa, Montreal, Quebec City, Charlottetown, Fredericton, Moncton, St. John's | established = 1962  The Trans-Canada Highway is a federal-provincial highway system that joins all ten provinces of Canada. It is, after the Trans-Siberian Highway and Australia's Highway 1, the world's third longest national highway, with the main route spanning 7,821&nbsp;km. The system was approved by the Trans-Canada Highway Act of 1948Department of Justice Canada—Trans-Canada Highway Act—R.S.C. 1970, c. T-12, construction commenced in 1950Transport Canada—The Trans-Canada Highway, officially opened in 1962, and was completed in 1971. The highway system is recognizable by its distinctive white-on-green maple leaf route markers.Throughout much of Canada, there are at least two routes designated as part of the Trans-Canada Highway. For example, in the western provinces, both the main Trans-Canada route and the Yellowhead Highway are part of the Trans-Canada system.Canada does not have a comprehensive national highway system, as decisions about highway and freeway construction are entirely under the jurisdiction of the individual provinces. In 2000 and 2001, the government of Jean Chrétien considered funding an infrastructure project to have the full Trans-Canada system converted to freeway. Although freeway construction funding was made available to some provinces for portions of the system, the government ultimately decided not to pursue a comprehensive highway conversion. Opposition to funding the freeway upgrade was due to low traffic levels in parts of the Trans-Canada; provinces preferred the money going towards improving vital trade routes (often not inter-provincial).There have also been discussions of upgrading the Trans-Labrador Highway (Quebec Route 389/Newfoundland and Labrador Route 500 to Trans-Canada Highway standards (fully-paved, two lanes with shoulders, 90 km/h speed limit).Route numbering on the Trans-Canada Highway is also handled by the provinces. The Western provinces have coordinated their highway numbers so that the main Trans-Canada route is designated Highway 1 and the Yellowhead route is designated Highway 16 throughout; however, from the Manitoba–Ontario border eastwards, the highway numbers change at each provincial boundary. As the Trans-Canada route was composed of sections from pre-existing provincial highways, it is unlikely that the Trans-Canada Highway will ever have a uniform designation across the whole country.Route detailsVictoria–WinnipegWestbound towards Vancouver]]  with wildlife overpass, eastbound in the Banff National Park]] ]]  Westbound through south-western Manitoba]] The Trans-Canada Highway, uniformly designated as Highway 1 in the four western provinces, begins in Victoria, British Columbia at the intersection of Douglas Street and Dallas Road (where the "Mile&nbsp;0" plaque stands) and passes northward along the east coast of Vancouver Island for  to Nanaimo. From here, a -long ferry route (see BC Ferries) connects the highway to West Vancouver, whence it passes through the Vancouver metropolitan area, heading  east to Hope. The TCH then turns north for  toward Cache Creek, then east for  through to Kamloops,  east to Banff,  east to Calgary (where it is known as 16th Avenue N, a road with heavy traffic and many traffic lights),  east to Medicine Hat,  east to Moose Jaw,  east to Regina,  east to Brandon,  east to Portage La Prairie, and finally  east to Winnipeg. Winnipeg's Perimeter Highway (the southern half of which, Highway 100, is officially part of the Trans-Canada) gives highway drivers a way of bypassing the city completely.Throughout the western provinces, the speed limit is generally 100 km/h (62&nbsp;mph) on the Trans-Canada, though limited-access portions in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba may have higher limits of 110 km/h (68&nbsp;mph). As in all national parks in Canada, when the highway passes through national parks, the speed limit is 90 km/h.It is in the B.C.-to-Manitoba part of Canada that the Yellowhead Highway, an ancillary branch of the TCH, runs its course along Highways 16 and 5.There is also a route which runs between British Columbia and Alberta known as the Crowsnest Highway (Highway 3 in both provinces); while not officially part of the Trans-Canada Highway, it connects with the main branch of the highway in both Hope and Medicine Hat (the western and eastern termini of the Crowsnest Highway, respectively).For more information, see also:Trans Canada (Main) RouteBritish Columbia Highway 1 (Trans Canada Highway/Island Highway/Upper Levels Highway)Alberta Highway 1Saskatchewan Highway 1Manitoba Highway 1Manitoba Highway 100 (Winnipeg Perimeter Highway)Yellowhead RouteBritish Columbia Highway 16 (Yellowhead Highway)British Columbia Highway 5 (Yellowhead Highway South/Coquihalla Highway)Alberta Highway 16 (Yellowhead Highway)Saskatchewan Highway 16 (Yellowhead Highway)Manitoba Highway 16 (Yellowhead Highway)Winnipeg–Ottawain Mattawa, Ontario.]] , which marks the spot where Fox stopped his run]]  near Echo Bay, Ontario]]  on Highway 417]] The highway continues east from Winnipeg for another  to Kenora. At Kenora, the Trans-Canada designation includes both the main route through the city's urban core and the  Highway 17A bypass route. The existing branch from Kenora continues east for  to Dryden. A second branch extends southward along Highway 71 from Kenora to Chapple, a routing of , and then eastward along Highway 11 for  to Shabaqua, where it reunites with the main Highway 17 route.The united highway proceeds southeast for  to Thunder Bay. The highway proceeds northeast for  to Nipigon, where it once again splits into two routes. The northern route is designated as Highway 11, and the southern branch is designated as Highway 17. From Nipigon, Highway 11 extends through Northern Ontario for  east to Hearst and another  east through Cochrane. The highway proceeds southeast for  to New Liskeard, then south for  to North Bay, where it meets Highway 17. Near Kirkland Lake, a northern spur route of the Trans-Canada extends eastward from Highway 11, following Ontario's Highway 66 (), then Quebec's Route 117 () and Autoroute 15 () into Montreal.A section of the Trans-Canada between Thunder Bay and Nipigon is named the Terry Fox Courage Highway. The  section marks the spot where Fox was forced to end his cross-Canada Marathon of Hope run (which was raising money for cancer research). A bronze statue marks the spot where he stopped his run.From Nipigon, Highway 17 proceeds east along the coast of Lake Superior for  through to Sault Ste. Marie and another  east to Sudbury, where the Trans-Canada Highway splits again. The resulting southern branch follows Highways 69 and 400 south for , then follows Highway 12 southeast for  to Orillia, then follows Highway 12 south for  along the shore of Lake Simcoe, then follows Highway 7 east for  to Peterborough. The existing northern branch goes east for  to North Bay, where it meets the Highway 11 route. The highway then goes east for  before arriving at Pembroke. The two branches converge at Ottawa,  east of Peterborough and  east of Pembroke.Through most of Ontario, the speed limit is generally 90&nbsp;km/h (55 mph) on the Trans-Canada, though freeway portions, such as the freeway segment in Sudbury and the section from Arnprior through Ottawa to the Ontario/Quebec border, have a higher limit of 100&nbsp;km/h (62 mph).It is notable that the Trans-Canada does not go through Canada's most heavily populated region, southern Ontario, which includes Toronto, Ontario's provincial capital and the country's largest city.Highway 17Highway 11Highway 69Highway 12Highway 7Highway 115Highway 71Highway 400Highway 417Ottawa–Monctonnorthbound]]  through Montreal]] From Ottawa, the Trans-Canada Highway proceeds  east to Montreal. Known as Highway 417 in Ontario and Autoroute 40 in Quebec, the Trans-Canada also assumes the name "Autoroute Métropolitaine" (also known as "The Met" or "Metropolitan Boulevard") as it traverses Montreal as an elevated highway. At the Decarie Interchange in Montreal, the Abitibi route (Highway 66/Route 117/A-15) rejoins the main TCH line. The TCH then follows Autoroute 25 southbound, crossing the St. Lawrence River through the Louis Hippolyte Lafontaine Bridge-Tunnel, and proceeds northeast on Autoroute 20 for  to Lévis (across from Quebec City).East of Lévis, the Trans-Canada highway continues on Autoroute 20 following the south bank of the Saint Lawrence River to a junction just south of Rivière-du-Loup,  northeast of Lévis. At that junction, the highway turns southeast and changes designation to Autoroute 85 for , and then downgrades to Route 185 until the New Brunswick border. The portion from Autoroute 20 to Edmundston, New Brunswick is  long.Following the designation of Route 2, from Edmundston, the highway follows the St. John River Valley, running south for  to Woodstock (parallelling the International Boundary) and then east for another  to pass through Fredericton.  east of Fredericton, the St. John River turns south whereby the highway crosses the river at Jemseg and continues heading east to Moncton another  later. On 1 November 2007, New Brunswick completed a 20-year effort to convert its 516&nbsp;km section of the Trans-Canada highway into a four-lane freeway. The highway has a speed limit of 110&nbsp;km/h.Moncton–North SydneyFrom Moncton, the highway continues southeast for  to a junction at Aulac on the New Brunswick–Nova Scotia border (near Sackville) where the Trans-Canada Highway splits into the main route continuing to the nearby border with Nova Scotia as Route 2, and a  route designated as Route 16 which runs east to the Confederation Bridge at Cape Jourimain.Prince Edward Island]] After crossing the Northumberland Strait on the -long Confederation Bridge to Borden-Carleton, the Trans-Canada Highway follows a -long route across southern Prince Edward Island, designated as Route 1. After passing through Charlottetown it ends at Wood Islands where a -long ferry route (see Northumberland Ferries Ltd.) crosses the Northumberland Strait to Caribou, Nova Scotia (near Pictou). From the ferry terminal at Caribou, the highway continues south for another  as Highway 106 to a junction with the direct Trans-Canada Highway route (Highway 104) at Westville (near New Glasgow).Nova Scotiain Nova Scotia near Westville]] From the New Brunswick border, the main Trans-Canada Highway route continues east into Nova Scotia at Amherst, where it follows the designation of provincial Highway 104. The highway then passes by Truro, where it links with provincial Highway 102 to Halifax,  east of the New Brunswick border. Halifax, like Toronto, is a provincial capital not serviced by a Trans-Canada Highway. There is a  stretch of highway with a toll of $4 per automobile (different rates for other vehicles).From Truro, the highway continues east for  to New Glasgow (where it links with provincial Highway 106—that portion of the Trans-Canada running to the ferry terminal at Caribou), and then northeast for another  to the Canso Causeway which crosses the Strait of Canso to Cape Breton Island near Port Hawkesbury. From the Canso Causeway, the highway continues east for 144&nbsp;km (89&nbsp;mi) using the designation of Highway 105 on Cape Breton Island, until reaching the Marine Atlantic ferry terminal at North Sydney.Port aux Basques–St. John'sin Newfoundland near Corner Brook]] From North Sydney, a -long ferry route, operated by the Crown corporation Marine Atlantic, continues the highway to Newfoundland, arriving at Channel–Port aux Basques, whereby the Trans-Canada Highway assumes the designation of Highway 1 and runs northeast for  through Corner Brook, east for another  through Gander and finally ends at St. John's, another  southeast. The majority of the Trans-Canada Highway in Newfoundland is undivided, though sections in Corner Brook, Grand Falls-Windsor, Glovertown and a 100km section from Whitbourne to St. John's is divided.The &quot;mile zero&quot; concept.]]  Although there does not appear to be any nationally-sanctioned "starting point" for the entire Trans-Canada Highway system, St. John's appears to have adopted this designation for the section of highway running in the city by using the term "Mile One" for its sports stadium and convention centre complex, Mile One Centre.The Victoria terminus of the Trans-Canada Highway lies at the foot of Douglas Street and Dallas Road at Beacon Hill Park, and is marked by a "mile zero" monument. This is the official western end of the Trans-Canada Highway, although Tofino claims to be the "Pacific Terminus".Although Highway 4 was commissioned in 1953 and is technically not part of the Trans-Canada Highway system, there is also a sign marking the Pacific terminus of the Trans-Canada Highway at Tofino, British Columbia, where Highway 4 terminates in the west, but it was most likely erected before 1953. Tofino was a strong proponent of a Trans-Canada Highway since the 1920s, when the only roads in the area were gravel, recognizing the need for tourism. The community was bypassed by the official Trans-Canada Highway in the 1950s, when government prioritized the connection of major communities in its budgets, choosing instead to connect Nanaimo with Victoria.&quot;Highway 1&quot; and other ReferencesAll the highways designated 1'' in the western provinces are designated as ''Trans-Canada Highway 1 on road maps.Only Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick lack Highway 1 designations for their sections of the Trans-Canada Highway.Quebec and Ontario use standard provincial highway markers to number the highway within their boundaries, but post numberless Trans-Canada Highway shields alongside the provincial markers to identify it.People across Canada (less so in Ontario and Quebec) generally refer to the highway as "The Trans-Canada Highway" ("Trans-Canada", "T-Can", or "TCH") rather than by its number(s)". In Quebec it is "la Transcanadienne" (to Francophones)/"The Trans-Can" (to Anglophones) west of the Decarie Interchange or "Metropolitan Boulevard" on the Island of Montreal east of the Decarie Interchange. In downtown Ottawa it is "the Queensway". Residents of the Vancouver area often refer to it as simply "The Highway", "The Freeway", or "Highway One". In Calgary, it is 16 Avenue North, or "Sixteenth". In the majority of the Saskatchewan towns along the highways length it is more commonly referred to as "the Number One.", although in Regina, it is known as Victoria Avenue or "Vic Ave."References  External linksTrans-canada highway.com - Detailed province by province descriptionNFB documentary &quot;The Longest Road&quot;Category:Trans-Canada Highwayde:Trans-Canada Highway es:Carretera transcanadiense eo:Trans-Kanada Ŝoseo fr:Route transcanadienne ko:캐나다 횡단도로 nl:Trans-Canada Highway ja:トランスカナダハイウェイ pl:Autostrada transkanadyjska fi:Trans-Canada Highway zh:加拿大橫貫公路