 | Section2 = Benzoapyrene, C20H12, is a five-ring polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon that is mutagenic and highly carcinogenic. It is a crystalline yellow solid. Benzoapyrene is a product of incomplete combustion at temperatures between 300 and 600 °C. Benzoapyrene was determined in 1933 to be the component of coal tar responsible for the first recognized occupation-associated cancers, the sooty warts (cancers of the scrotum) suffered by chimney sweeps in 18th century England. In the 19th century, high incidences of skin cancers were noted among fuel industry workers. By the early 20th century, the toxicity of benzoapyrene was demonstrated when malignant skin tumors were produced in laboratory animals by repeatedly painting them with coal tar.Sources of Benzo[a]pyreneBenzoapyrene is found in coal tar, in automobile exhaust fumes (especially from diesel engines), tobacco smoke, marijuana smoke, incense smoke, wood smoke, and in charbroiled food. Recent studies have revealed that levels of benzoapyrene in burnt toast are significantly higher than once thought, although it is unproven whether burnt toast is itself carcinogenic.Toxicity of Benzo[a]pyreneA vast number of studies over the previous three decades have documented links between benzoapyrene and cancers. It has been more difficult to link cancers to specific benzoapyrene sources, especially in humans, and difficult to quantify risks posed by various methods of exposure (inhalation or ingestion). Researchers at Kansas State University recently discovered a link between vitamin A and emphysema in smokers. Benzoapyrene was found to be the link to the deficiency, since it induces vitamin A deficiency in rats.In 1996, a study was published that provided the clear molecular evidence conclusively linking components in tobacco smoke to lung cancer. Denissenko MF, Pao A, Tang M, Pfeifer GP. Preferential formation of benzoapyrene adducts at lung cancer mutational hotspots in P53. Science. 1996 October 18;274(5286):430-2. Benzoapyrene, found in tobacco smoke, was shown to cause genetic damage in lung cells that was identical to the damage observed in the DNA of most malignant lung tumours.A 2001 National Cancer Institute study found levels of benzoapyrene to be significantly higher in foods that were cooked well-done on the barbecue, particularly steaks, chicken with skin, and hamburgers.  Japanese scientists showed that cooked beef contains mutagens, chemicals that are capable of altering the chemical structure of DNA . However, the foods themselves are not necessarily carcinogenic, even if they contain trace amounts of carcinogens, because the gastrointestinal tract protects itself against carcinomas by shedding its outer layer continuously. Furthermore, detoxification enzymes, such as cytochromes P450 have increased activities in the gut due to the normal requirement for protection from food-borne toxins. Thus in most cases small amounts of benzoapyrene are metabolized by gut enzymes prior to being passed on to the blood. The lungs are not protected in either of these manners.A recent study has found that cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) and cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1) are both protective and, confusingly, necessary for benzoapyrene toxicity. Experiments with strains of mice engineered to remove (knockout) CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 reveal that CYP1A1 primarily acts to protect mammals from low doses of benzoapyrene, and that removing this protection causes the biological accumulation of large concentrations of benzoapyrene. Unless CYP1B1 is also knocked out, benzoapyrene toxicity results from the bioactivation of benzoapyrene to the ultimate toxic compound, benzoapyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (see below).Data presented by Daniel W. Nebert in research seminars 2007Interaction with DNA, in an adduct to DNA.Created from PDB 1JDG]] Properly speaking, benzoapyrene is a procarcinogen, meaning that the mechanism of carcinogensis of benzoapyrene depends on enzymatic metabolism of benzoapyrene to the ultimate mutagen, benzoapyrene diol epoxide, pictured at right. This molecule intercalates in DNA, covalently bonding to the nucleophilic guanine nucleobases at the N2 position. X-ray crystallographic and nuclear magnetic resonance structure studies show that this binding distorts the DNA,Volk DE, Thiviyanathan V, Rice JS, Luxon BA, Shah JH, Yagi H, Sayer JM, Yeh HJ, Jerina DM, Gorenstein DG. Solution structure of a cis-opened (10R)-N6-deoxyadenosine adduct of (9S,10R)-9,10-epoxy-7,8,9,10-tetrahydrobenzoapyrene in a DNA duplex. Biochemistry. 2003 February 18;42(6):1410-20. inducing mutations by perturbing the double-helical DNA structure. This disrupts the normal process of copying DNA and induces mutations, which explains the occurrence of cancer after exposure. This mechanism of action is similar to that of aflatoxin which binds to the N7 position of guanine.Eaton DL, Gallagher EP. Mechanisms of aflatoxin carcinogenesis. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 1994;34:135-72.There are indications that benzoapyrene diol epoxide specifically targets the protective p53 gene.Pfeifer GP, Denissenko MF, Olivier M, Tretyakova N, Hecht SS, Hainaut P. Tobacco smoke carcinogens, DNA damage and p53 mutations in smoking-associated cancers. Oncogene. 2002 October 21;21(48):7435-51. This gene is a transcription factor that regulates the cell cycle and hence functions as a tumor suppressor. By inducing G (guanine) to T (thymidine) transversions in transversion hotspots within p53, there is a probability that benzoapyrene diol epoxide inactivates the tumor suppression ability in certain cells, leading to cancer.Benzoapyrene diol epoxide is the carcinogenic product of three enzymatic reactions:(1) Benzoapyrene is first oxidized by cytochrome P4501A1 to form a variety of products, including (+)benzoapyrene 7,8 epoxide.Shou M, Gonzalez FJ, Gelboin HV. Stereoselective epoxidation and hydration at the K-region of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons by cDNA-expressed cytochromes P450 1A1, 1A2, and epoxide hydrolase. Biochemistry. 1996 December 10;35(49):15807-13(2) This product is metabolized by epoxide hydrolase, opening up the epoxide ring to yield (-)benzoapyrene 7,8,dihydrodiol.(3)The ultimate carcinogen is formed after another reaction with cytochrome P4501A1 to yield the (+)benzoapyrene-7,8 dihydrodiol-9,10 epoxide. It is this diol epoxide that covalently binds to DNA.Benzoapyrene induces cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) by binding to the AHR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor) in the cytosol.Whitlock JP Jr. Induction of cytochrome P4501A1. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 1999;39:103-25. Upon binding the transformed receptor translocates to the nucleus where it dimerises with ARNT (aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator) and then binds xenobiotic response elements (XREs) in DNA located upstream of certain genes. This process increases transcription of certain genes, notably CYP1A1, followed by increased CYP1A1 protein production.Whitlock JP Jr. Induction of cytochrome P4501A1. Annu Rev Pharmacol Toxicol. 1999;39:103-25. This process is similar to induction of CYP1A1 by certain polychlorinated biphenyls and dioxins.Recently, Benzoapyrene has been found to activate a transposon, LINE1, in humans.Vilius Stribinskis and Kenneth S. Ramos (2006). Activation of Human Long Interspersed Nuclear Element 1 Retrotransposition by Benzo(a)pyrene, a Ubiquitous Environmental Carcinogen. Cancer Res 2006; 66: (5).ReferencesSee alsoCigaretteBarbecueBenzenePyrene, a four-ring analogueToxificationExternal linksNational Pollutant Inventory - Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbon Fact SheetCategory:Carcinogens Category:Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbonsde:Benzo(a)pyren es:Benzopireno fr:Benzopyrène it:Benzopirene lv:Benzpirēns nl:Benzopyreen ja:ベンゾピレン pl:Benzopireny ru:Бензпирен sv:Bensopyren uk:Бензопірен zh:苯並芘