  | birth_place = Bel Air, Maryland, U.S.A. | death_date =  | death_place = Port Royal, Virginia, U.S. | occupation = Actor | parents = Junius Brutus Boothand Mary Ann Holmes | religion = Protestant Episcopal | known_for = Abraham Lincoln assassination  John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838 – April 26, 1865) was an American stage actor who assassinated Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States, at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C. on April 14, 1865. Lincoln died the next day from a single gunshot wound to the back of the head, becoming the first American president to be assassinated.Booth was a member of the prominent 19th century Booth family of actors from Maryland and by the 1860s was a popular, nationally-ranked actor. He was also a Confederate sympathizer and expressed vehement dissatisfaction with the South's defeat in the American Civil War. He opposed Lincoln's proposal to extend voting rights to recently emancipated slaves.Booth, and a group of co-conspirators led by him, planned to kill Abraham Lincoln, Vice President Andrew Johnson, Secretary of State William Seward, and Secretary of War Edwin Stanton in a desperate bid to help the tottering Confederacy's cause. Although Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia had surrendered four days earlier, Booth believed the war was not yet over since Confederate General Joseph Johnston's army was still fighting the Union Army under General William Tecumseh Sherman. Of the conspirators, only Booth was successful in carrying out his part of the plot.Following the shooting, Booth fled by horseback to southern Maryland and eventually to a farm in rural northern Virginia, where he was tracked down and killed by Union soldiers twelve days later. Several of the other conspirators were tried and hanged shortly thereafter. In later years, some have suggested that Booth escaped his pursuers and subsequently died many years later under a pseudonym.Background and early lifeHis parents, the noted British Shakespearean actor Junius Brutus Booth and his actress wife Mary Ann Holmes, immigrated to the United States from England in 1821. They purchased a farm near Bel Air, Maryland, where John Wilkes Booth was born on May 10, 1838, named after the English radical politician John Wilkes, who the family claimed was a distant relative.Booth's uncle Algernon Sydney Booth was the great-great-great-grandfather of Cherie Blair (née Booth), wife of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair.–– Booth's boyhood home, "Tudor Hall", was built there in 1847.John Wilkes Booth's boyhood home, "Tudor Hall", still stands today on Maryland Route 22 near Bel Air. It was acquired by Harford County in 2006, to be eventually opened to the public as a historic site and museum (reference: "Harford expected to OK renovation of Booth home." The Baltimore Sun. September 8, 2008, p. 4).  As a boy, John Wilkes Booth attended the Bel Air Academy, where the headmaster described him as "Not deficient in intelligence, but disinclined to take advantage of the educational opportunities offered him. Each day he rode back and forth from farm to school, taking more interest in what happened along the way than in reaching his classes on time".Kimmel, Stanley. The Mad Booths of Maryland. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill, 1940, p. 70.The Bel Air Academy, originally the Harford Academy founded in 1814, is the forerunner of today's Bel Air High School. In 1850–1851, he attended the Quaker-run Milton Boarding School for Boys located in Sparks, Maryland and later St. Timothy's Hall, an Episcopal school in Catonsville, Maryland, beginning when he was 13&nbsp;years old.The Milton Boarding School building in Sparks, Md., which John Wilkes Booth once attended, still stands and is now the Milton Inn restaurant. As recounted by Booth's sister, Asia Booth Clarke, in her memoirs written in 1874, no one church was preeminent in the Booth household. Booth's mother was Episcopalian and his father was described as a "free spirit", preferring a Sunday walk along the Baltimore waterfront with his children to attending church. On January 23, 1853, the 14-year old Booth was finally baptized at St. Timothy's Episcopal Church.While attending the Milton Boarding School, the youth met a Gypsy fortune-teller who read his palm and pronounced a grim destiny, telling Booth that he would have a grand but short life, doomed to die young, meeting "a bad end". According to his sister, Booth wrote down the palm-reader's prediction and showed it to his family, often discussing its portents in moments of melancholy in later years.By the age of 16, Booth was interested in the theatre and in politics, becoming a delegate from Bel Air to a rally by the anti-immigrant Know Nothing Party for Henry Winter Davis, their candidate for Congress in the 1854 elections. Booth also began practicing elocution daily in the woods around Tudor Hall and studying the works of Shakespeare. At age 17, he had his first stage role as the Earl of Richmond in Richard III at Baltimore's Charles Street Theatre on August 14, 1855.Theatrical careerFollowing in the footsteps of his father (who had died in 1852) and his brothers, Edwin and Junius Brutus, Jr., John Wilkes Booth began performing extensively on stage in the late 1850s.Booth is sometimes connected to historical assassin Marcus Junius Brutus, for whom Booth's father was named. On November 25, 1864, Booth acted in a version of Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, where he played Mark Antony. His brother Edwin played the larger role of Brutus.– &lt;/ref&gt; ’s Julius Caesar in 1864]] In 1857, Booth joined the stock company of the Arch Street Theatre in Philadelphia. At his request he was billed as "J.B. Wilkes", a pseudonym meant to divert attention away from his famous thespian family. In 1858, he was accepted as a member of the Richmond Theatre, Virginia, stock company, and became increasingly popular with audiences. Called "the handsomest man in America" by some reviewers, other critics were mixed in their estimation of his acting. He stood  tall, had jet-black hair, and was lean and athletic. He was also an excellent swordsman. His performances were often characterized by his contemporaries as acrobatic and intensely physical.Townsend, George Alfred. The Life, Crime and Capture of John Wilkes Booth. New York: Dick & Fitzgerald, 1865. ISBN 978-0976480532. A fellow actress once recalled that he occasionally cut himself with his own sword. As the 1850s drew to a close, Booth was becoming wealthy as an actor, earning $20,000 a year.On December 2, 1859, Booth attended the hanging of militant abolitionist John Brown, who was executed for leading a raid on the Federal armory at Harpers Ferry (in present-day West Virginia). Booth bought a uniform from a member of the Richmond Grays militia unit, which was heading for Charles Town, and he joined the Grays, who stood guard for Brown's trial. When Brown was hanged, Booth stood at the foot of the scaffold.The Civil War yearsAbraham Lincoln was elected president on November 6, 1860, and the following month Booth wrote a long speech that decried Northern abolitionism and made clear his strong support of the South and the institution of slavery. On April 12, 1861, the Civil War erupted, and eventually eleven Southern states seceded from the Union. Booth's family was from Maryland, a border state which remained in the Union during the war despite a slaveholding portion of the population that favored the Confederacy. Because Maryland shared a border with Washington, D.C., Lincoln declared martial law in Maryland and ordered the imprisonment of pro-secession Maryland political leaders at Ft. McHenry to prevent the state's secession, a move that many, including Booth, viewed as unconstitutional.Kauffman, Michael W. American Brutus: John Wilkes Booth and the Lincoln Conspiracies. Random House, 2004. ISBN 037550785X. pp. 104–114.Although Booth was pro-Confederate, his family, like many Marylanders, was divided, and to preserve harmony among his brothers, Booth promised his mother that he would not enlist in the Confederate Army. As a popular actor in the 1860s, he travelled extensively to perform in both North and South, and as far west as New Orleans, Louisiana. He further enriched himself by investments in land and oil wells. According to his sister Asia, Booth confided to her that he also used his position to smuggle quinine to the South during his travels there, helping the Confederacy obtain the needed drug despite the Northern blockade.Booth was outspoken in his love for the South, and equally outspoken in his hatred for Lincoln. As the Civil War went on, Booth increasingly quarreled with his brother Edwin, who declined to make any stage appearances in the South and refused to listen to John Wilkes' fiercely partisan denunciations of the North and President Lincoln. In early 1862, Booth was arrested by a provost marshal in St. Louis for making anti-government remarks.Booth and Lincoln crossed paths on several occasions. Lincoln was an avid theater-goer and especially loved Shakespeare. On November 9, 1863, Lincoln saw Booth in Charles Selby's The Marble Heart at Ford's Theatre in Washington. At one point during the performance, Booth was said to have shaken his finger in Lincoln's direction as he delivered a line of dialogue. Lincoln sat in the same "presidential box" in which he would later be assassinated.Booth made a final appearance at Ford's on March 18, 1865, when he played Duke Pescara in The Apostate, in what was the last appearance of his career. However, Booth's family were long time friends with John T. Ford, the theater's owner, and Booth was in and out of the theater so often during the war that he even had his mail sent there. This granted Booth complete access to Ford's Theatre, day and night.Plotting to kidnap LincolnBy 1864, the tide of the war had shifted in the North's favor. The North halted prisoner exchange in an attempt to diminish the size of the Confederate Army, and because the Confederates refused to exchange captured African-American soldiers. Booth began devising a plan to kidnap Lincoln from his summer residence at the Old Soldiers Home three miles (5 km) from the White House and smuggle him across the Potomac and into Richmond. He would be exchanged for the release of around 10,000&nbsp;Southern soldiers held captive in Northern prisons. He successfully recruited his old friends Samuel Arnold and Michael O'Laughlin as accomplices.Thomas, Benjamin P. Abraham Lincoln, a Biography. New York: Random House, 1952.In the summer of 1864, Booth met with several well-known Confederate sympathizers at The Parker House in Boston, Massachusetts. In October 1864, he made an unexplained trip to Montreal. At the time, Montreal was a well-known center of clandestine Confederate activities. He spent ten days in the city and stayed for a time at St. Lawrence Hall, a meeting place for the Confederate Secret Service, and met at least one blockade runner there. It is possible that it was here that he also met Confederate Secret Service director James D. Bulloch, as well as George Nicholas Sanders, a one-time U.S. ambassador to Britain. Booth is believed to have been active in the "Knights of the Golden Circle", described as a "nest of 'Secesh' spies" (that is, pro-secessionist).There has been much scholarly attention devoted to why Booth was in Montreal at this time, and what he was doing there. No solid evidence has ever linked Booth's kidnapping or assassination plots to a conspiracy involving any elements of the Confederate government, although this possibility had been explored at some length in two books; Nathan Miller's Spying For America and William Tidwell's Come Retribution: the Confederate Secret Service and the Assassination of Lincoln.Booth began to devote more and more of his energy and money to his plot to kidnap Lincoln after his re-election in early November 1864. He assembled a loose-knit band of Southern sympathizers, including David Herold, George Atzerodt, John Surratt, and Lewis Powell (also known as Lewis Payne). They began to meet routinely at the boarding-house of Surratt's mother, Mrs. Mary Surratt.On November 25, 1864, he performed for the first and only time with his two brothers, Edwin and Junius, in a single engagement production of Julius Caesar at the Winter Garden Theater in New York. The proceeds went towards a statue of Shakespeare for Central Park which still stands today. The performance was interrupted by a failed attempt by clandestine Confederate agents to burn down several hotels, and by extension the city of New York, with Greek fire. One of the hotels was next door to the theater, but the fire was quickly extinguished. The following morning, Booth argued bitterly with his brother, Edwin, about Lincoln and the war.Booth also railed against Lincoln in conversations with his sister Asia, saying, "That man's appearance, his pedigree, his coarse low jokes and anecdotes, his vulgar similes, and his policy are a disgrace to the seat he holds. He is made the tool of the North, to crush out slavery." As the Confederacy's imminent defeat became more certain in 1865, Booth decried the end of slavery and Lincoln's election to a second term, "making himself a king", the disgruntled actor fumed, in "wild tirades", his sister recalled.Booth attended Lincoln's second inauguration, on March 4, 1865, as the invited guest of his secret fiancée, Lucy Hale. (Lucy's father, John P. Hale, was Lincoln's minister to Spain.) In the crowd below were Powell, Atzerodt, and Herold. There seems to have been no attempt to kidnap or assassinate Lincoln during the inauguration. Later, however, Booth remarked about "what a wonderful chance" he had to shoot Lincoln, if he had so chosen.On March 17, Booth learned at the last minute that Lincoln would be attending a performance of the play Still Waters Run Deep at a hospital near the Soldier's Home. Booth assembled his team on a stretch of road near the Soldier's Home in the attempt to kidnap Lincoln en route to the hospital, but the president never showed up. Booth later learned that the President had changed his plans at the last moment to attend a reception at the National Hotel in Washington, where Booth was staying at the time.The assassinationdepiction of Lincoln's assassination. L-to-r: Maj. Rathbone, Clara Harris, Mary Todd Lincoln, Pres. Lincoln, and Booth]] On April 12, after hearing the news that Robert E. Lee had surrendered at Appomattox Court House, Booth told Louis J. Weichmann, a friend of John Surratt, and a boarder at Mary Surratt's house, that he was done with the stage and that the only play he wanted to present henceforth was Venice Preserv'd. Although Weichmann did not understand the reference, Venice Preserv'd is about an assassination plot.The previous day, Booth was in the crowd outside the White House when Lincoln gave an impromptu speech from his window. When Lincoln stated that he was in favor of granting suffrage to the former slaves, Booth declared that it would be the last speech Lincoln would ever make. "Our cause being almost lost", Booth wrote in his journal, "something decisive and great must be done."Donald, David Herbert. Lincoln. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1995. ISBN 0-684-80846-3.On the morning of Good Friday, April 14, 1865, Booth learned that the President and Mrs. Lincoln would be attending the play Our American Cousin at Ford's Theatre. He immediately set about making plans for the assassination, which included a getaway horse waiting outside, and an escape route. Booth informed Powell, Herold and Atzerodt of his intention to kill Lincoln. He assigned Powell to assassinate Secretary of State William H. Seward and Atzerodt to assassinate Vice President Andrew Johnson. Herold would assist in their escape into Virginia.for Booth, Surratt, and Herold]] By targeting Lincoln and his two immediate successors to the office, Booth seems to have intended to decapitate the Union government and throw it into a state of panic and confusion. Booth also planned to assassinate the Union commanding general, Ulysses S. Grant; however, Grant's wife had promised to visit family and so they were heading to New Jersey. Booth had hoped that the assassinations would create sufficient chaos within the Union that the Confederate government could reorganize and continue the war.As a famous and popular actor, Booth was a friend of the owner of Ford's Theatre, John T. Ford, and had free access to all parts of the theater. Boring a spyhole into the presidential box earlier that day, the assassin could see if his intended victim had made it to the play. That evening, at around 10 p.m., as the play progressed, John Wilkes Booth slipped into Lincoln's box and shot him in the back of the head with a .44&nbsp;caliber Derringer. Booth's escape was almost thwarted by Major Henry Rathbone, who was present in the Presidential box with Mrs. Mary Todd Lincoln.Booth then jumped from the President's box and fell to the stage, injuring his leg when it snagged on a U.S. Treasury Guard flag used for decoration.One historian, Michael W. Kauffman, in his book American Brutus: John Wilkes Booth and the Lincoln Conspiracies (ISBN 0-375-75974-3) written in 2004, contends that Booth actually broke his leg when his horse fell on him later in the escape, and that Booth's diary entry claiming it occurred jumping to the stage is a typical Booth dramatization. Witnesses said he shouted "Sic semper tyrannis" (Latin for "Thus always to tyrants", attributed to Brutus at Caesar's assassination and the Virginia state motto) from the stage, while others said he added, "The South is avenged." Aftermath &amp;mdash; pursuit and deathIn the ensuing pandemonium inside Ford's Theatre, Booth fled by a stage door to the alley, where he had a horse waiting, and galloped into southern Maryland, arriving before dawn on April 15 at the home of Dr. Samuel Mudd, who treated the injured leg.Mudd was convicted of conspiracy by a military court and sentenced to life in prison at Fort Jefferson in the Dry Tortugas islands, west of Key West, Florida. He was pardoned in 1869. Booth and Herold remained in hiding as they continued to travel through southern Maryland before secretly crossing the Potomac into Virginia in April 21.A detachment of 25 Union soldiers from the 16th New York Cavalry Regiment, led by Lieutenant Edward P. Doherty, and accompanied by Lieutenant Colonel Everton Conger, pursued Booth through Southern Maryland and across the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers to Richard H. Garrett's farm, just south of Port Royal, Caroline County, Virginia. Booth and his companion, David E. Herold, had been led to the farm by William S. Jett, formerly a private in the 9th Virginia Cavalry, whom they had met before crossing the Rappahannock.Booth was surprised when he found little sympathy for his action, and wrote of his dismay in a journal entry on April 21, just before crossing the Potomac River into Virginia (see map, left), "With every man's hand against me, I am here in despair. And why; For doing what Brutus was honored for&nbsp;... And yet I for striking down a greater tyrant than they ever knew am looked upon as a common cutthroat".Conger tracked down Jett and interrogated him, learning of Booth's location at the Garrett farm. Early in the morning of April 26, 1865, the soldiers caught up with Booth there. Trapped in a tobacco barn, David Herold surrendered. Booth refused to surrender and the soldiers then set the barn ablaze.Sergeant Boston Corbett fired at Booth &mdash; whether orders to shoot were given is uncertain &mdash; fatally wounding him in the neck. Booth was dragged from the barn and died three hours later, at age 26, on the porch of the Garrett farmhouse. The bullet had severed his spinal cord, paralyzing him. In his last dying moments, he reportedly whispered "tell my mother I died for my country". Asking that his hands be raised to his face so he could see them, Booth uttered his final words, "Useless, useless," and died as dawn was breaking.Swanson, James L. Manhunt: The 12-day chase for Abraham Lincoln's Killer. Piatkus Books, 2006. ISBN 0-7499-5134-6.Shortly after Booth's death, his brother Edwin wrote to his sister Asia, "Think no more of him as your brother; he is dead to us now, as he soon must be to all the world, but imagine the boy you loved to be in that better part of his spirit, in another world." John Wilkes Booth's body was taken aboard the ironclad [[USS Montauk (1862)|USS Montauk]] and brought to the Washington Navy Yard for identification and an autopsy. The body was then buried in a storage room at the Old Penitentiary at the Washington Arsenal. When the prison was razed in 1867, the body was moved to a warehouse on the Arsenal grounds. In 1869, the remains were once again identified before being released to the Booth family, where they were buried in the family plot at Green Mount Cemetery in Baltimore, after a burial ceremony conducted by James Fleming, minister of Christ Episcopal Church.Kauffman, Michael W. "Fort Lesley McNair and the Lincoln Conspirators." Lincoln Herald. 80 (1978):176–188."On the 18th of February, 1869, Booth's remains were deposited in Weaver's private vault at Green Mount Cemetery awaiting warmer weather for digging a grave. Burial occurred in Green Mount Cemetery on June 22, 1869. Booth was an Episcopalian, and the ceremony was conducted by the Reverend Minister Fleming, James of Christ Episcopal Church, where Weaver was a sexton." (T. 5/25/95 at p. 117; Ex. 22H). Gorman &amp; Williams Attorneys at Law: Sources on the Wilkes Booth case. THE COURT OF SPECIAL APPEALS OF MARYLAND (September 1995), No. 1531; &quot;Booth escaped&quot; theorieson Route 301, near Port Royal]] Some individuals and writers have advanced theories that Booth escaped his pursuers and died years later under a pseudonym. An early popularizer of these "Booth Escape" theories was Finis L. Bates, who claimed to have met Booth in Granbury, Texas in the 1870s and later to have taken possession of Booth's body after his suicide in Enid, Oklahoma in 1903. He toured the mummified body in carnival sideshows and wrote The Escape and Suicide of John Wilkes Booth (1907) in order to authenticate the mummy.''The Lincoln Conspiracy''Balsiger, David W. and Sllier Balsiger. The Lincoln Conspiracy. Buccaneer Books, 1994 ISBN 1-56849-531-5. details the assassination, the Boyd plot, and Booth's escape to the swamps. The Curse of Cain: The Untold Story of John Wilkes Booth.Nottingham, Theodore J. The Curse of Cain: The Untold Story of John Wilkes Booth. Sovereign Publications, 1998. ISBN 1-58006-021-8. continues with the claim that Booth escaped, sought refuge in Japan and eventually returned to the United States where he died in Enid, Oklahoma in 1903. Another is that a man claiming to be Booth lived into the 1900s in Missouri. In the mid-1990s, an attempt was mounted to force the exhumation of Booth's presumed remains in order to conduct a photo-superimposition study.Kauffman, M. "Historians Oppose Opening of Booth Grave." Civil War Times. May-June 1995. This was blocked by Baltimore Circuit Court Judge Joseph H. H. Kaplan, who cited, among other things, "the unreliability of petitioners' less-than-convincing escape/cover-up theory" as a major factor in his decision. The Maryland Court of Special Appeals upheld the ruling. Records made public by the FBI give no information to support the escape theory.&lt;/ref&gt;See alsoMarcus Junius BrutusNotes and referencesExternal linksA History of John Wilkes Booth, (National Park Service, Ford's Theatre).Trial of the Lincoln Conspirators – University of Missouri–Kansas City Law School.First Edition Report on the Lincoln Assassination, and Biography of John Wilkes Booth.Lieut. Doherty's report to the War Department recounting Booth's capture, dated April 29, 1865.Lincoln Assassination Papers.&quot;The Death of John Wilkes Booth, 1865&quot;, EyeWitness to History (1997). (unmarked)John Wilkes Booth's Autopsy. - Oklahoma Historical Society page that describes the legend that Booth died in Oklahoma.&quot;The Murderer of Mr. Lincoln&quot;, The New York Times, April 21, 1865 &mdash; purportedly a letter by Booth describing his reasons for the assassination.Eyewitness to History: A Cavalryman's Account of the Chase and Capture of John Wilkes BoothGravesite pictures and informationJohn Wilkes Booth; escape and wanderings until final ending of the trail by suicide at Enid, Oklahoma, January 12, 1903 (1922) Digitized by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library.The escape and suicide of John Wilkes Booth : or, The first true account of Lincoln's assassination, containing a complete confession by Booth (1907?) Digitized by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library.Abraham Lincoln and Boston Corbett, with personal recollections of each; John Wilkes Booth and Jefferson Davis, a true story of their capture (1914) Digitized by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library.The life, crime, and capture of John Wilkes Booth, with a full sketch of the conspiracy of which he was the leader, and the pursuit, trial and execution of his accomplices (1865) Digitized by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Library.A Map and Timeline of the escape route of John Wilkes Boothsamuelmudd.com |PLACE OF BIRTH= Bel Air, Maryland, USA |DATE OF DEATH=  |PLACE OF DEATH= Port Royal, Virginia, USA   Category:American assassins Category:American stage actors Category:Lincoln conspirators Category:Abraham Lincoln Category:Maryland actors Category:People of Maryland in the American Civil War Category:Burials at Green Mount Cemetery Category:American Episcopalians Category:People from Harford County, Maryland Category:1838 births Category:1865 deaths Category:English Americans Category:Shakespearean actors Category:Deaths by firearm in Virginiabn:জন উইল্‌ক্‌স বুথ ca:John Wilkes Booth da:John Wilkes Booth de:John Wilkes Booth et:John Wilkes Booth es:John Wilkes Booth eo:John Wilkes Booth fr:John Wilkes Booth ga:John Wilkes Booth ko:존 윌크스 부스 io:John Wilkes Booth id:John Wilkes Booth it:John Wilkes Booth he:ג'ון וילקס בות' nl:John Wilkes Booth ja:ジョン・ウィルクス・ブース no:John Wilkes Booth nn:John Wilkes Booth pl:John Wilkes Booth pt:John Wilkes Booth ru:Бут, Джон Уилкс simple:John Wilkes Booth fi:John Wilkes Booth sv:John Wilkes Booth vi:John Wilkes Booth zh:约翰·威尔克斯·布斯.