  |place of birth=Poissy, France |date of death= |place of death=Tunis, North Africa |place of burial=Saint Denis Basilica |  Louis IX (25 April 1214 – 25 August 1270), commonly Saint Louis, was King of France from 1226 to his death. He was also Count of Artois (as Louis II) from 1226 to 1237. Born at Poissy, near Paris, he was a member of the House of Capet and the son of King Louis VIII and Blanche of Castile. He is the only canonized King of France and consequently there are many places named after him, most notably St. Louis, Missouri in the United States. He established the Parlement of Paris. St. Louis was also a tertiary of the Order of the Holy Trinity and Captives (the Trinitarians). The General Chapter of the Trinitarian Order formally affiliated St. Louis IX to the Order in Cerfroid on June 11, 1256.SourcesMuch of what is known of Louis's life comes from Jean de Joinville's famous biography of Louis, Life of Saint Louis. Joinville was a close friend, confidant, and counsellor to the king, and also participated as a witness in the papal inquest into Louis' life that ended with his canonization in 1297 by Pope Boniface VIII. . &ndash; The Latin inscription reads LVDOVICVS ''(i.e. "Louis") DEI GRACIA (i.e. "by the Grace of God", where Latin ''gratia was spelt gracia)'' FRANCOR REX (i.e. "King of the Franks", where ''Francor. is the abbrevation of Francorum).]] Two other important biographies were written by the king's confessor, Geoffrey of Beaulieu, and his chaplain, William of Chartres. The fourth important source of information is William of Saint-Pathus' biography, which he wrote using the papal inquest mentioned above. While several individuals wrote biographies in the decades following the king's death, only Jean of Joinville, Geoffrey of Beaulieu, and William of Chartres wrote from personal knowledge of the king.Early lifeLouis was born in 1214 at Poissy, near Paris, the son of King Louis VIII and Blanche of Castile. A member of the House of Capet, Louis was twelve years old when his father died on November 8, 1226. He was crowned king within the month at the Reims cathedral. Because of Louis's youth, his mother ruled France as regent during his minority.His younger brother Charles I of Sicily (1227–85) was created count of Anjou, thus founding the second Angevin dynasty. The horrific fate of that dynasty in Sicily as a result of the Sicilian Vespers evidently did not tarnish Louis's credentials for sainthood.No date is given for the beginning of Louis's personal rule. His contemporaries viewed his reign as co-rule between the king and his mother, though historians generally view the year 1234 as the year in which Louis began ruling personally, with his mother assuming a more advisory role. She continued as an important counselor to the king until her death in 1252.On May 27, 1234 Louis married Marguerite of Provence (1221 – December 21, 1295), whose sister Eleanor was the wife of Henry III of England.CrusadingAt the age of 15, Louis brought an end to the Albigensian Crusade in 1229 after signing an agreement with Count Raymond VII of Toulouse that cleared his father of wrong-doing. Raymond VI of Toulouse had been suspected of murdering a preacher on a mission to convert the Cathars.Louis's piety and kindness towards the poor was much celebrated. He went on two crusades, in his mid-30s in 1248 (Seventh Crusade) and then again in his mid-50s in 1270 (Eighth Crusade). Both were complete disasters; after initial success in his first attempt, Louis's army of 15,000 men was met by overwhelming resistance from the Egyptian army and peoplecite.He had begun with the rapid capture of the port of Damietta in June 1249,Tyerman, p. 787 an attack which did cause some disruption in the Muslim Ayyubid empire, especially as the current sultan was on his deathbed. But the march from Damietta towards Cairo through the Nile River Delta went slowly. During this time, the Ayyubid sultan died, and a sudden power shift took place, as the sultan's slave wife Shajar al-Durr set events in motion which were to make her Queen, and eventually place the Egyptians' slave army of the Mamluks in power. On April 6, 1250 Louis lost his army at the Battle of Fariskur and was captured by the Egyptians. His release was eventually negotiated, in return for a ransom of 400,000 livres tournois (at the time France's annual revenue was only about 250,000 livres tournois, so it was necessary to obtain a loan from the Templars), and the surrender of the city of Damietta.Tyerman, pp. 789-798Following his release from Egyptian captivity, Louis spent four years in the crusader Kingdoms of Acre, Caesarea, and Jaffe. Louis used his wealth to assist the crusaders in rebuilding their defenses and conducting diplomacy with the Islamic powers of Syria and Egypt. Upon his departure from the Middle East, Louis left a significant garrison in the city of Acre for its defense against Islamic attacks. The historic presence of this French garrison in the Middle East was later used as a justification for the French Mandate following the end of the First World War.Louis exchanged multiple letters and emissaries with Mongol rulers of the period. During his first crusade in 1248, Louis was approached by envoys from Eljigidei, the Mongol ruler of Armenia and Persia.&lt;/ref&gt; Eljigidei suggested that King Louis should land in Egypt, while Eljigidei attacked Baghdad, in order to prevent the Saracens of Egypt and those of Syria from joining forces. Louis sent André de Longjumeau, a Dominican priest, as an emissary to the Great Khan Güyük Khan in Mongolia. However, Güyük died before the emissary arrived at his court, and nothing concrete occurred. Louis dispatched another envoy to the Mongol court, the Franciscan William of Rubruck, who went to visit the Great Khan Möngke Khan in Mongolia.Patron of arts and arbiter of EuropeLouis' patronage of the arts drove much innovation in Gothic art and architecture, and the style of his court radiated throughout Europe by both the purchase of art objects from Parisian masters for export and by the marriage of the king's daughters and female relatives to foreign husbands and their subsequent introduction of Parisian models elsewhere. Louis' personal chapel, the Sainte-Chapelle in Paris, was copied more than once by his descendants elsewhere. Louis most likely ordered the production of the Morgan Bible, a masterpiece of medieval painting.Saint Louis ruled during the so-called "golden century of Saint Louis", when the kingdom of France was at its height in Europe, both politically and economically. The king of France was regarded as a primus inter pares among the kings and rulers of the continent. He commanded the largest army, and ruled the largest and most wealthy kingdom of Europe, a kingdom which was the European center of arts and intellectual thought (La Sorbonne) at the time. The prestige and respect felt in Europe for King Louis IX was due more to the attraction that his benevolent personality created rather than to military domination. For his contemporaries, he was the quintessential example of the Christian prince, and embodied the whole of Christendom in his person. His reputation of saintliness and fairness was already well established while he was alive, and on many occasions he was chosen as an arbiter in the quarrels opposing the rulers of Europe.Religious zealof Jesus Christ was bought by Louis IX from Baldwin II of Constantinople. It is preserved today in a 19th century reliquary, in Notre Dame de Paris.]]The perception of Louis IX as the exemplary Christian prince was reinforced by his religious zeal. Louis was a devout Catholic, and he built the Sainte-Chapelle ("Holy Chapel"), located within the royal palace complex (now the Paris Hall of Justice), on the Île de la Cité in the centre of Paris. The Sainte Chapelle, a perfect example of the Rayonnant style of Gothic architecture, was erected as a shrine for the Crown of Thorns and a fragment of the True Cross, precious relics of the Passion of Jesus. Louis purchased these in 1239–41 from Emperor Baldwin II of the Latin Empire of Constantinople, for the exorbitant sum of 135,000 livres (the chapel, on the other hand, cost only 60,000 livres to build). This purchase should be understood in the context of the extreme religious fervor that existed in Europe in the 13th century. The purchase contributed greatly to reinforcing the central position of the king of France in western Christendom, as well as to increasing the renown of Paris, then the largest city of western Europe. During a time when cities and rulers vied for relics, trying to increase their reputation and fame, Louis IX had succeeded in securing the most prized of all relics in his capital. The purchase was thus not only an act of devotion, but also a political gesture: the French monarchy was trying to establish the kingdom of France as the "new Jerusalem."Louis IX took very seriously his mission as "lieutenant of God on Earth," with which he had been invested when he was crowned in Rheims. Thus, in order to fulfill his duty, he conducted two crusades, and even though they were unsuccessful, they contributed to his prestige. Contemporaries would not have understood if the king of France did not lead a crusade to the Holy Land. In order to finance his first crusade Louis ordered the expulsion of all Jews engaged in usury and the confiscation of their property, for use in his crusade. However, he did not cancel the debts owed by Christians. One-third of the debts was forgiven, but the other two-thirds was to be remitted to the royal treasury. Louis also ordered, at the urging of Pope Gregory IX, the burning in Paris in 1243 of some 12,000 manuscript copies of the Talmud and other Jewish books. Such legislation against the Talmud, not uncommon in the history of Christendom, was due to medieval courts' concerns that its production and circulation might weaken the faith of Christian individuals and threaten the Christian basis of society, the protection of which was the duty of any Christian monarch.  of Louis IX. Treasure of Notre-Dame de Paris.]] In addition to Louis's legislation against Jews and usury, he expanded the scope of the Inquisition in France. The area most affected by this expansion was southern France where the Cathar heresy had been strongest. The rate of these confiscations reached its highest levels in the years prior to his first crusade, and slowed upon his return to France in 1254.In all these deeds, Louis IX tried to fulfill the duty of France, which was seen as "the eldest daughter of the Church" (la fille aînée de l'Église), a tradition of protector of the Church going back to the Franks and Charlemagne, who had been crowned by the Pope in Rome in 800. Indeed, the official Latin title of the kings of France was Rex Francorum, i.e. "king of the Franks," and the kings of France were also known by the title "most Christian king" (Rex Christianissimus). The relationship between France and the papacy was at its peak in the 12th and 13th centuries, and most of the crusades were actually called by the popes from French soil. Eventually, in 1309, Pope Clement V even left Rome and relocated to the French city of Avignon, beginning the era known as the Avignon Papacy (or, more disparagingly, the &quot;Babylonian captivity&quot;).Antecedents: LineageChildrenBlanche (1240 – April 29, 1243)Isabelle (March 2, 1241 – January 28, 1271), married Theobald V of ChampagneLouis (February 25, 1244 – January 1260)Philippe III (May 1, 1245 – October 5, 1285)Jean (1248 - 1248)Jean Tristan (1250 – August 3, 1270), married Yolande of BurgundyPierre (1251–84), Count of Perche and Alençon; Count of Blois and Chartres in right of his wife, Joanne of ChâtillonBlanche (1253–1323), married Ferdinand de la Cerda, Infante of CastilleMarguerite (1254–71), married John I, Duke of BrabantRobert, Count of Clermont (1256 – February 7, 1317). He was the ancestor of King Henry IV of France.Agnes of France (ca 1260 – December 19, 1327), married Robert II, Duke of BurgundyDeath and legacy |death_date= |feast_day=25 August |venerated_in=Roman Catholic Church |image=louis-ix.jpg |imagesize=200px |caption=Louis IX of France was revered as a saint and painted in portraiture well after his death (such portraits may not accurately reflect his appearance). This portrait was painted by El Greco ca 1592–95. |birth_place=Poissy, France |death_place=Tunis in what is now Tunisia |titles=King of France, Confessor |beatified_date= |beatified_place= |beatified_by= |canonized_date=1297 |canonized_place= |canonized_by=Pope Boniface VIII |attributes=Depicted as King of France, generally with a crown, holding a sceptre with a fleur-de-lys on the end, possibly with blue clothing with a spread of white fleur-de-lys (coat of arms of the French monarchy) |patronage=Secular Franciscan Order, France, French monarchy; hairdressers; passementiers (lacemakers) |major_shrine= |suppressed_date= |issues=   of Saint Louis (end 13th c.) Basilica of Saint Dominic, Bologna, Italy ]] During his second crusade, Louis died at Tunis, August 25, 1270, and was succeeded by his son, Philip III. Louis was traditionally believed to have died from bubonic plague but is thought by modern scholars to be dysentery. The Bubonic Plague didn't hit Europe until 1348, so the likelihood of him contracting and ultimately dying from the Bubonic Plague was very slim.Christian tradition states that some of his entrails were buried directly on the spot in Tunisia, where a Tomb of Saint-Louis can still be visited today, whereas other parts of his entrails were sealed in an urn and placed in the Basilica of Monreale, Palermo, where they still remain. His corpse was taken, after a short stay at the Basilica of Saint Dominic in Bologna, to the French royal necropolis at Saint-Denis, resting in Lyon on the way. His tomb at Saint-Denis was a magnificent gilt brass monument designed in the late 14th century. It was melted down during the French Wars of Religion, at which time the body of the king disappeared. Only one finger was rescued and is kept at Saint-Denis.Veneration as a saintPope Boniface VIII proclaimed the canonization of Louis in 1297; he is one of the few royals in French history to have been declared a saint.Louis IX is often considered the model of the ideal Christian monarch. Because of the aura of holiness attached to his memory, many Kings of France were called Louis, especially in the Bourbon dynasty, who directly descended from one of his younger sons.The Congregation of the Sisters of Saint Louis is a Roman Catholic religious order founded in 1842 and named in his honour.Places named after Saint LouisThe cities of San Luis Potosí in Mexico, Saint Louis, Missouri, Saint-Louis du Sénégal in Senegal, Saint-Louis in Alsace, as well as Lake Saint-Louis in Quebec, and the Mission San Luis Rey de Francia in California are among the many places named after the king.The Cathedral Saint-Louis in Versailles, Basilica of St. Louis, King of France in St. Louis, Missouri, the Cathedral-Basilica of St. Louis in St. Louis, Missouri, and the French royal Order of Saint Louis (1693–1790 and 1814–30) were also created after the king. The Saint Louis Cathedral in New Orleans is named after him.Many places in Brazil called São Luís in Portuguese are named after Saint Louis.Famous portraitsA portrait of St. Louis hangs in the chamber of the United States House of Representatives.Saint Louis is also portrayed on a frieze depicting a timeline of important lawgivers throughout world history in the Courtroom at the Supreme Court of the United States.ReferencesBibliographyJoinville, Jean de, The History of St. Louis (Trans. Joan Evans).External links  John de Joinville. Memoirs of Louis IX, King of France. Chronicle, 1309.Site about The Saintonge War between Louis IX of France and Henry III of England.Account of the first Crusade of Saint Louis from the perspective of the Arabs..A letter from Guy, a knight, concerning the capture of Damietta on the sixth Crusade with a speech delivered by Saint Louis to his men.Etext full version of the Memoirs of the Lord of Joinville, a biography of Saint Louis written by one of his knightsBiography of Saint Louis on the Patron Saints Index  |-    |-    |PLACE OF BIRTH=Poissy, France |DATE OF DEATH= |PLACE OF DEATH=Tunis, North Africa   Category:French monarchs Category:French saints Category:House of Capet Category:Roman Catholic monarchs Category:Counts of Artois Category:People of the Albigensian Crusade Category:People of the Seventh Crusade (Christians) Category:People of the Eighth Crusade (Christians) Category:Medieval child rulers Category:1214 births Category:1270 deaths Category:13th century Christian saints af:Lodewyk IX ar:لويس التاسع bs:Luj IX Francuski br:Loeiz IX (Bro-C'hall) bg:Луи IX (Франция) ca:Lluís IX de França cs:Ludvík IX. Svatý cy:Louis IX, brenin Ffrainc da:Ludvig den Hellige de:Ludwig IX. (Frankreich) et:Louis IX el:Λουδοβίκος Θ' της Γαλλίας es:Luis IX de Francia eo:Ludoviko la 9-a (Francio) fa:لویی نهم fr:Louis IX de France ko:프랑스의 루이 9세 hr:Luj IX., kralj Francuske io:Louis 9ma la Santa it:Luigi IX di Francia he:לואי התשיעי, מלך צרפת ka:ლუი IX (საფრანგეთი) la:Ludovicus IX (rex Franciae) hu:IX. Lajos francia király nl:Lodewijk IX van Frankrijk ja:ルイ9世 (フランス王) no:Ludvig IX av Frankrike oc:Loís IX de França pl:Ludwik IX Święty pt:Luís IX de França ro:Ludovic al IX-lea al Franţei ru:Людовик IX (король Франции) simple:Saint Louis IX of France sk:Ľudovít IX. (Francúzsko) sr:Луј IX fi:Ludvig IX (Ranska) sv:Ludvig IX av Frankrike tl:Louis IX ng Pransya vi:Louis IX của Pháp uk:Людовик IX (король Франції) zh:路易九世 (法兰西)