 |engineer = |architect = André Waterkeyn |contractor = |developer = |owner =  The Atomium is a monument built for Expo '58, the 1958 Brussels World's Fair. Designed by André Waterkeyn, it is 102-metres (335 ft) tall, with nine steel spheres connected so that the whole forms the shape of a unit cell of an iron crystal magnified 165 billion times.Tubes which connect the spheres along the 12 edges of the cube and all eight vertices to the centre enclose escalators connecting the spheres which contain exhibit halls and other public spaces. The top sphere provides a panoramic view of Brussels. Each sphere is 18 metres in diameter. Three spheres are currently (2008) closed to the visitors, others are easily reachable with escalator. The vertical vertex contains a lift which was considered very fast and advanced at the time of building (the speed is 5 m/s)http://www.atomium.be/Article.aspx?lang=en&amp;id=14&amp;noback=1 Technical Features of the Atomium..HistoryOne of the original ideas for Expo '58 was to build an upside-down version of the Eiffel tower; however, Waterkeyn felt that an atomic structure would be more symbolic of the era. The monument was originally planned to remain standing only six months. However, it soon became a symbol not only of the World's Fair, but of modern architecture and Brussels. The monument stayed the same for almost 50 years.RenovationRenovation on the Atomium began in March 2004; it was closed to the public in October, and remained closed until 18 February 2006. The renovations included replacing the faded aluminium sheets on the spheres with stainless steel. To help pay for renovations, the old aluminium has been sold to the public as souvenirs. A triangular piece about 2 m long sold for €1,000.The renovation includes revamped exhibition spaces, a restaurant, and a dormitory for visiting schoolchildren called "Kids Sphere Hotel" which features suspended plastic sphere towers. A €2 commemorative coin depicting the sculpture was issued in March 2006 to celebrate the renovation.Post RenovationThe Atomium is one of the most visited attractions in Brussels today. In 2008, the Atomium will celebrate its 50th Birthday, with activities planned all year, including free admission for those turning 50 between April and October.LocationThe Atomium is located at , beside the King Baudouin Stadium in Heysel Park. Just next to it lies the Mini-Europe park and the Heysel/Heizel metro station.Safety FeaturesThe three uppermost spheres lack vertical support and hence are not open to the public for safety reasons. The original design called for no supports, the structure was simply to rest on the spheres. Wind tunnel tests proved that the structure would have toppled in a 80 km/h wind (140 km/h winds have been recorded in Belgium). Support columns were added to achieve enough resistance against overturning.http://en.structurae.de/structures/data/index.cfm?ID=s0000887Worldwide copyright claimsThe Belgian collecting society, SABAM, via the United States Artists Rights Society (ARS), has claimed worldwide intellectual property rights on all reproductions of the Atomium image.chillingeffects.org July 14, 2003, "Such unlicensed reproduction and use of artwork on any Internet site with public access is considered a violation of the worldwide intellectual property rights of the rights holders, including without limitation, copyright, trademark rights and moral rights." For example SABAM issued a demand that a United States website remove all images of the Atomium from its pages. The website responded by replacing all such images with a warning not to take photographs of the Atomium, and that Asbl Atomium will sue you if you show them to anyone.Atomium, The :: Boulevard du Centenaire, Brussels, Belgium :: Glass Steel and Stone "Even if you are an American and think you are protected by U.S. copyright law Title 17, Chapter 1, Section 120, you will still be sued." Sabam confirmed that permission is required.100 &quot;photoshoppers&quot; wanted to erase copyright building Simon Aughton, MacUser News, 21 April 2008, '"Since its creation, the Atomium is a copyrighted monument and any reproduction of its image in a publication or on a website must be accompanied by a prior authorisation request to the right holders or to Sabam,"a spokeswoman said.'Ralf Ziegermann remarkedThe Cartoonist, Ralf Ziegermann, 2008 May 1 on the complicated copyright instructions on Atomium's website specific to "private pictures".Copyright photo, Official blog of the Atomium & Expo 58, 2008, "In the precise and exclusive case of information articles related to the festivities of the fiftieth birthday of the Atomium and of Expo 58, private pictures intended for non-commercial and non-promotional purposes, published in low resolution (max. 600 pixels wide / 72 dpi), are free from copyrights. However, the copyright © Sabam 2008 - www.atomium.be must be mentioned." The organisers of Belgian heritage, Anno Expo (www.expo58.eu, planning the 50th anniversary celebrations of Expo '58), in the city of Mechelen announced a "cultural guerrilla strike" by asking people to send in their old photographs of the Atomium and requested 100 photoshoppers to paint over the balls.the balls of Brussels, embe, 2008-04-10 (English)Anno-Expo, (Dutch) SABAM responded that they would make an exception for 2008 and that people could publish private photographs for one year only on condition they were for non-commercial purposes.Anno Expo later announced they had censored part of their own report due to "complications" and referred to a meeting they had with SABAM.Belangrijk bericht aan de bezoekers / inzenders / photoshoppers / lezers (Dutch) Mechelen's Mayor, Bart Somers, called the Atomium copyright rules absurd.Sabam in het nauw, Christophe Callewaert, 2008 April 9 (Dutch)ReferencesExternal linksAtomium official siteAtomium: virtual visitFree Pictures AtomiumBrussels DiscoveryCategory:1958 architecture Category:Buildings and structures in Brussels Category:Visitor attractions in Brusselsar:أتوميوم ca:Atomium cs:Atomium da:Atomium de:Atomium el:Ατόμιουμ es:Atomium eo:Atomium eu:Atomium fr:Atomium hr:Atomium id:Atomium it:Atomium he:אטומיום lb:Atomium lmo:Atomium hu:Atomium mt:Atomium nl:Atomium ja:アトミウム no:Atomium pl:Atomium pt:Atomium ru:Атомиум sk:Atomium fi:Atomium sv:Atomium vi:Atomium tr:Atomium uk:Атоміум