 (For Honor! For Country! For the Tricolore! (the army motto)) | Designer2 = The national flag of Moldova is a vertical tricolor of blue, yellow, and red, charged with the coat of arms of Moldova (an eagle holding a shield charged with an aurochs) on the center bar on the obverse side only. The flag ratio is 1:2 flags.net, Flag of Republic of Moldova. The blue, red, and yellow tricolor of Moldova is almost identical to the flag of Romania, reflecting the two countries' cultural affinity. On Moldova's flag the yellow stripe is charged with the national arms. Like the Romanian coat of arms, the Moldovan arms, adopted in 1990, features a golden eagle holding an Orthodox Chrisitian cross in its beak. Instead of a sword, the eagle is holding an olive branch, symbolizing peace. The blue and red shield on the eagle's breast is also different- on it are an aurochs head, a star, a rose, and a crescent, all traditional symbols of Moldova.Along with the flag of Paraguay and the flag of Saudi Arabia, the flag of Moldova is one of the few national flags with differing obverse and reverse sides.http://www.presedinte.md/simb.php?lang=rom&amp;page=702 Although the reverse of the flag is officially stated as not containing any coat of arms, Moldovan flags with a backwards version of the coat of arms printed on the reverse are also used (see photo). image:Drapel fata.gif|The obverse of the Flag of Moldova image:Drapel verso.gif|The reverse of the Flag of Moldova   __toc__ Military flagThe Flag of the Moldovan National Army represents a unique military vexilologic insignia.The cloth of the flag has the same chromatics as the State Flag of the Republic of Moldova.The partition reminds of the old Moldavian military flags. The red central cross reminds of Saint George, the protector of the medieval Moldavian army.The motto "Pentru Onoare! Pentru Patrie! Pentru Tricolor!" represents the belief of the Moldovan soldiers.The Flag of the National Army of the Republic Moldova is the symbol of the military glory, of the tradition and continuity, honor and loyalty of the soldiers and officers to the country.coat of arms History Image:R D Moldova.png|Flag of the first independent Democratic Moldavian Republic, 1917. Image:Sfatul Tarii.png|Flag of the Moldavian Congress (Sfatul Ţării, 1917) Transylvania, Wallachia and Moldova have, in the past, been partially united and culturally similar, as such the flags of Romania and Republic of Moldova are also similar. The flag of Moldova was created in 1990, and is based on the Romanian colours. Indeed, the reverse side differs from Romania's in proportion, and by a lighter blue. See alsoList of flags of MoldovaFlag of Moldavian SSRCoat of Arms of MoldovaFlags whose reverse differs from the obverseExternal linksTHE DECISION OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA about the approbation of the Regulation regarding the State Flag of the Republic of Moldova (Moldovan Presidential website)ReferencesMinistry of DefencePresident of Moldova   Category:Flags of Moldova Moldova Category:National symbols of Moldovabs:Zastava Moldavije bg:Национално знаме на Молдова cv:Молдави ялавě cs:Moldavská vlajka cy:Baner Moldofa da:Moldovas flag de:Flagge Moldawiens el:Σημαία της Μολδαβίας es:Bandera de Moldavia eu:Moldaviako bandera fr:Drapeau de la Moldavie hr:Zastava Moldavije bpy:মোলদোভার ফিরালহান id:Bendera Moldova it:Bandiera moldava he:דגל מולדובה lt:Moldavijos vėliava hu:Moldova zászlaja nl:Vlag van Moldavië ja:モルドバの国旗 no:Moldovas flagg pl:Flaga Mołdawii pt:Bandeira da Moldávia ro:Drapelul Republicii Moldova ru:Флаг Молдавии sk:Vlajka Moldavska sr:Застава Молдавије sh:Zastava Moldavije fi:Moldovan lippu sv:Moldaviens flagga uk:Прапор Молдови zh:摩爾多瓦國旗