   Hammersmith, London, England | Origin = | Instrument = Vocals, guitar&quot;Guest List: Lily Allen&quot;. Pitchfork Media. 25 April 2007. Retrieved 27 June 2007. | Genre = Pop, skahttp://www.dooyoo.co.uk/music-records/allright-still-lily-allen/1042304/&lt;/ref&gt; | Occupation = Singer-songwriter, talk show host | Years_active = 2005–present | Label = Regal RecordsCapitol Records (USA) | URL = LilyAllenMusic.comMySpace  Lily Rose Beatrice Allen (born 2 May 1985) is an English singer-songwriter and television presenter. Best known for her songs "Smile" and "LDN" and their Mockney style, Allen is the daughter of actor/musician Keith Allen and film producer Alison Owen. Allen also hosts her own BBC Three talk show Lily Allen and Friends.BBC - Lily Allen and Friends&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Her single "Smile" reached number one on the UK Singles Chart in July 2006. In December 2006, her debut album Alright, Still was voted the third best album of the year by Mixmag.Mixmag, December 2006 In 2007, it was nominated for the award of Best British Album at the BRIT Awards and for Best New Artist at the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards. The album was nominated for a 2008 Grammy Award in the category of "Best Alternative Music Album".The Envelope Please Los Angeles Times 6 December 2007 Alright, Still has sold over 2,500,000 copies worldwide.A second album entitled It's Not Me, It's You will be released 9 February 2009.The year 2008 has seen Allen becoming an activist for several causes. She has lobbied for legislation that subsidises environmentally-friendly housing, and is working on a benefit concert to deal with London's knife crime issue. Additionally, a song called Guess Who Batman?, which will be released on her new album, condemns homophobia and hatred.Allen's non career activities have been the subject of extensive press coverage in both in the tabloid and mainstream media. In 2006 and 2007 Allen made comments critical of other musicians. 2008 has seen public incidents that were described as rude, embarrassing or alcohol-fuelled. Allen used her MySpace blog to criticise press coverage and defend and criticise her own behaviour.Childhood and discoveryAllen was born in Hammersmith, west London, daughter of Welsh-born comedian Keith Allen and English film producer Alison Owen.Barratt, Nick. &quot;Family detective&quot;. The Daily Telegraph. 19 May 2007. Retrieved 23 June 2007. She and her family eventually settled in the North London borough of Islington. She has an older sister, Sarah; a younger brother, Alfie Owen-Allen (who was the subject of her song "Alfie"); and a younger sister Rebecca. She also has a number of half-siblings. Lily Allen lived for a while with comedian Harry Enfield while her mother dated him. She is the god-daughter of Wild Colonials vocalist Angela McCluskey and is also the god-daughter of late Clash singer and guitarist, Joe Strummer. Allen had been to 13 different schools from the age of 8-15 since Allen never could have long lasting friendships instead she wrote music and listened to jazz and hip-hop.In 1988, Allen appeared on The Comic Strip Presents... episode "The Yob", which her father had co-written.&quot;'The Comic Strip Presents...' The Yob (1988)&quot;. Internet Movie Database. Retrieved 25 June 2007. When Allen was four years old, her father left the family.Walker, Andrew. &quot;Faces of the week&quot;. BBC News. 21 July 2006. Retrieved 23 June 2007. Allen claims to have grown up with her mother in a working class environment, living in a council house environment for most of her childhood.&quot;Flowered up&quot;. The Guardian. 23 June 2007. Retrieved 25 June 2007. This seems at odds with the fact that she attended some of the UK's costliest public schools; Allen attended 13 schools in all, including Prince Charles's junior alma mater, Hill House School, Millfield and Bedales School, and was expelled from several of them for drinking, and smoking.&quot;Lily Allen Admits to getting Expelled for giving blow jobs. We Love Her!&quot;. Rolling Stone. 24 May 2007. Retrieved 25 June 2007.Allen told Loveline that at age 11 she was singing an Oasis tune in the schoolyard when a teacher overheard her and told her she had talent and suggested she do something with it. She took singing lessons with the teacher. She sang at a school play and claimed that the audience was brought to tears at the sight of a troubled young girl doing something good. At that point Allen said she knew that music was something she needed to do either as a lifelong vocation or to get it out of her system. She became a member of the Groucho Club at the age of 17 and in her free time, she listened to artists such as The Specials, T.Rex, and Happy Mondays.Phares, Heather. &quot;Lily Allen &gt; Biography&quot;. Allmusic. 2007. Retrieved 27 June 2007Lily Allen on [[Loveline]]]Allen made an appearance as a lady-in-waiting in the 1998 film Elizabeth, co-produced by her mother, Alison Owen.&quot;Elizabeth (1998) - Full cast and crew&quot;. Internet Movie Database. Retrieved 25 June 2007. She dropped out of school at age fifteen, not wanting to "spend a third of her life preparing to work for the next third of her life, to set herself up with a pension for the next third of her life." After her family went to Ibiza on holiday Allen told her mother that she was staying with friends but remained in Sant Antoni de Portmany instead. She earned money by working at a Plastic Fantastic record store and dealing in ecstasy.Sawyer, Miranda. &quot;Pictures of lily&quot;. The Observer. 21 May 2006. Retrieved from Guardian Unlimited 23 June 2007.Music careerRecord label interestAllen met her first manager, George Lamb, in Ibiza when he saved her from several assailants and sent her home.Swift, Jacqui. &quot;Lily: I'm a gobby bitch&quot;. The Sun. Retrieved 23 June 2007. Allen was rejected by several labels, which she attributed to her drinking and being the daughter of Keith Allen. Lily eventually used her father's connections to get signed to Warner Music in 2002.Salmon, Chris. &quot;Me, my dad and Dumbo&quot;. The Guardian. 22 September 2006. Retrieved 23 June 2007. When the executive who had signed her left, the label lost interest and she left without releasing the folk songs they had presented her.Sisson, Patrick. &quot;Lily Allen: Mighty Aphrodite&quot;. URB, issue 143. 29 March 2007. Retrieved 23 June 2007.Allen studied horticulture with the intent of becoming a florist, but changed her mind and returned to music. She began writing songs, and her manager introduced her to production duo Future Cut in 2004. They worked in a small studio in the basement of an office building. In 2005 Allen was signed to Regal Records; they gave her £25,000 to produce an album, though they were unable to provide much support for it due to their preoccupation with other releases such as Coldplay's X&amp;Y and Gorillaz' Demon Days.Plagenhoef, Scott. &quot;Interview: Lily Allen&quot;. Pitchfork Media. 6 November 2006. Retrieved 24 June 2007.Popularity on MySpaceAllen created an account on MySpace and began posting demos in November 2005. The demos attracted thousands of listeners, and 500 limited edition 7&quot; vinyl singles of "LDN" were rush-released, reselling for as much as £40. Allen also produced two mixtapes — My First Mixtape and My Second Mixtape — to promote her work: they included tracks by Creedence Clearwater Revival, Dizzee Rascal, and Ludacris. As she accumulated tens of thousands of MySpace friends, The Observer Music Monthly (OMM), a magazine published in The Observer, took interest. Few people outside of her label's A&amp;R department knew who she was, so the label was slow in responding to publications wanting to report about her.In March 2006, OMM included an article about Allen's success through MySpace, and she received her first major mainstream coverage appearing in the magazine's cover story two months later. The success of her songs convinced her label to allow her more creative control over the album and to use some of the songs that she had written instead of attempts to work with mainstream producers. Allen decided to work with producers Greg Kurstin and Mark Ronson, finishing the rest of the album in two weeks.The social networking site was the primary hub for messages of support and condolence following her January 2008 miscarriage.Lily Allen fans offer condolences after miscarriage NME 18 January 2008Web fans' love for brave Lil Nadine Linge Daily Star 19 January, 2008 Allen received a 2008 NME Award nomination for the category of "Best Band Blog"Record seven NME nominations for Arctic Monkeys The Times 29 January, 2008 As of 25 April, 2008 Allen's songs have been downloaded from her MySpace page 19 million times.Click to download The Guardian Unlimited 25 April,2008 She currently has 474863 friends on her MySpace page.''[[Alright, Still]]''    Allen's debut album, Alright, Still, was released as a limited-edition 12" vinyl in the UK on 3 July 2006; the full CD release followed in the UK and the rest of Europe on 17 July 2006. The album features between 11 and 14 tracks (depending on the copy of the CD), most of which were previewed on her MySpace page,Lilymusic - Lily Allen MySpace page including the single "Smile" (the first song she ever wrote with Future Cut), "LDN", "Knock 'Em Out", and "Alfie". "Friday Night", co-written with Jonny Bull, is also included, alongside "Littlest Things", produced by Mark Ronson which among other works earned Ronson a "Producer of the Year - Non Classical" 2008 Grammy Award.Grammy Scorecard The Envelope Los Angeles Times The album was released on 30 January 2007 in the United States, selling 34,000 copies to land #20 on the Billboard Album Charts.Norah Jones Breaks McPheever, Beats 'Idol' Runner-Up To #1 - Madonna, Lily Allen also generate impressive first-week sales. Allen won a 2008 BMI songwriting award for “Smile”.In September 2006, "Smile" was made available on the United States version of Apple Inc.'s iTunes Store. As of December 2006, her music video for "Smile" has been played on various music channels as well as the song getting a little airplay. She has also done several promotional ads for MTV as their Discover and Download artist of the month for January.On the week ending on 28 January 2007, British artists made chart history taking all Top 10 places in the Official UK Albums chart for the first time since the chart was established in 1956, according to British record labels trade association the BPI, the album Alright, Still was number nine that week.BPI Official Website, UK talent celebrates first all-British Top 10 in UK chart historyEntertainment Weekly named Alright, Still as one of the top 10 albums of 2006 despite the fact that it had not yet been released in the U.S. The album was released in the United States on 30 January 2007, with "Smile" serviced to radio in January as the first single. The U.S. version contains three additional tracks: "Nan, You're A Window Shopper", "Blank Expression" (on the iTunes version) and a new remix of "Smile" by Mark Ronson.In 2007, she played the newly launched Park Stage at the Glastonbury Festival, replacing M.I.A who had cancelled. Saying "it's big shoes to fill, and we're doing it acoustically so it might sound a bit funny" she ended her set singing a cover of Blondie's "Heart of Glass."&quot;Lily Allen plays surprise set at Glastonbury&quot;. NME. 22 June 2007. Retrieved 18 July 2008. In concert, Allen performed a parody of 50 Cent's "Window Shopper", called "Nan, You're a Window Shopper", which was commercially released as a B-side to "LDN", because approval was not given in time for the Alright, Still release. Nonetheless, the song appears on the U.S. version of Alright, Still.''[[It's Not Me, It's You]]''In April 2008 Allen said she was heading in a "new direction". She posted two new song demos on her MySpace page and plans to release a mixtape shortly to give her fans an idea of what the new direction is.[http://www.myspace.com/lilymusic Lily Allen MySpace Page blog Yagga Yo 17 April, 2008]http://nymag.com/daily/entertainment/2008/04/lily_allen_expresses_profound.html Lily Allen Expresses Profound Disappointment in Self New York Magazine]Allen gets dark in new album Indo Asian News Service 19 April, 2008New Lily Guardian Unlimited 18 April, 2008Lily Allen Leaks Her Own Songs on the Internet People 18 April 2008Allen has posted on her MySpace page a partial clip of a new song entitled Guess Who Batman? which is expected to be on her new album. Allen said that the song "is not a direct attack at anyone, it was originally written about the BNP in the UK but then I felt this issue has become relevant pretty much everywhere."Lily Allen writes song about the BNP NME 23 June, 2008 In addition she wrote that she was inspired to try and write a song about the last few hours of late American comedian John Belushi's life by her overnight stay at the hotel where he died.Lily Allen Jets to America People 10 June, 2008A single entitled "Everyone's at It" will be released in the United Kingdom.New UK Single Releases, New Music Releases, UK CD Single Releases&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;As of 19 August there has been between 250,000 and one million downloads for each song from the album that she has made publicly available on her MySpace page.Lily Allen Confused Over New Album Delay Billboard 19 August, 2008On 15 September 2008 Allen on her MySpace blog announced that her second album will be released on 9 February 2009. She wrote that there will be "bits and blobs floating around before then". A viral video was also in the works. She wrote that "I am trying really hard to do this album with integrity and I want you all to know that it has been thought about by me, not just some thrown together last minute industry bullshizz". On 8 October she was quoted as saying the name of the album will be It's Not Me, It's You.Lily Allen Granted U.S. Visa Lily Allen Granted U.S. Visa People Magazine 8 October, 2008 On Earlier in her My Space blog that she wrote she was in Los Angeles to record songs for the album which is produced by Greg Kurstin. Allen co-wrote the songs for the album with Kurstin at who played piano on it. This is a change from her earlier work in which she just wrote lyrics for finished tracks.Grl Gone Wild Lily Allen, Reflects, Owns up and Moves On Papermag Magazine 20 August, 2008The sound is described as moving in a more electronic direction from her last album and lyrically confident.Songs on the album include "He Wasn't There", a letter to her father; "CCR", in which Allen suggests that God was in the world prior to 11th September 2001 and that "his favourite band is Creedence Clearwater Revival"; "Not Fair", a humorous song about guy who is performing poorly sexually despite Allen's having "spent ages giving him head"; "Everyone's at It", which includes the lyrics "When will we tire of putting shit up our noses? / It's meant to be fun but it just doesn't feel right"; and "I Don't Know", her ambivalent take on celebrity.Collaborations) - June 2007.]] Allen provided backing vocals on the Basement Jaxx song "Lights Go Down" (from Crazy Itch Radio) and appears on tracks on Robbie Williams's latest album, Rudebox on the Manu Chao-cover "Bongo Bong and Je Ne T'Aime Plus" (produced by Mark Ronson) and also on "Keep On". She also provides vocals on "Rawhide" by Jamie T and "Wanna Be" by Dizzee Rascal. She had a duet with rapper Dizzee Rascal on the song "Wanna Be" that appeared on Rascal's May 2007 Maths + English album. New Recordings Philadelphia Inquirer 27 April, 2008 Rapper Common has also collaborated with Allen.The guide to the week's concerts Indy Weeek 1 October, 2008On 30 June 2008 Allen and Klaxons singer Jamie Reynolds announced they were working on a new song and had completed a cover of Joe Jackson's "Steppin Out".Lily Allen completes second album BBC Newsbeat 30 June, 2008Allen and New Young Pony Club will provide backing vocals to the song "Never Miss a Beat" that will appear on the Kaiser Chiefs' album Off With Their Heads. The song was released as a single on 6 October. Allen's voice on the song was described as unrecognisable due to Mark Ronson's production.Kaiser Cheifs UK Tour 2008 ilikemusic.comOff With Thier Heads NME review 10 October, 2008 The album's release is scheduled for 13 October. Allen will also provide vocals for the track "Always Happens like That".Kaiser Chiefs name Mark Ronson produced new album NME 5 August, 2008Recent activityOn 5 March 2007 "Alfie" was released. It reached #15 in the UK Singles-Chart. Upon hearing this song, her brother Alfie threw her laptop out of a window in revenge. She sang on the Mark Ronson-produced Kaiser Chiefs song "Oh My God".Mark Is Kaiser's Chief Daily Record 1 May, 2008Allen performed to positive reviews Tom Breihan Village VoiceNew York Post April 13 2007 when Irving Plaza was rechristened as The Fillmore New York at Irving Plaza on 11 April 2007. Her style of cocktail dresses and athletic shoes gained popularity, resulting in the May 2007 premiere of Lily Loves, a line of dresses, shoes, and accessories sold through New Look.Croft, Claudia. &quot;Lily's new look&quot;. The Sunday Times. 22 April 2007. Retrieved 24 June 2007. Fashion gurus Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine were quick to praise her New Look range for being designed more for the "curvy" women, rather than the clothing lines of Kate Moss and Madonna which they argue are only limited to the women with the slimmest figures.Editors at Daily Express. &quot;Lilly’s All Smiles&quot;. Daily Express. 14 August 2007. Retrieved 27 September 2007.In June 2007, she hosted The Friday Night Project, in which she showed her co-hosts and the audience her third nipple.Cummins, Fiona. "LILY NIPPLE TUBE HIT", The Daily Mirror, published 19 July 2007, accessed 7 August 2007.On 5 August 2007 Allen was detained at Los Angeles international airport for five hours and questioned over an alleged assault on a photographer in London in March of that year. At that time her U.S. visa was revoked. On 8 October, 2008 her visa was reinstated.Allen turned down an offer to launch her own range of maternity wear because she felt her early pregnancy is a bad example that would send the wrong message to young girls.Lily Allen &quot;I'm not the best example&quot; New Musial Express 29 December, 2007Allen canceled a scheduled appearance at this years Isle of Wight Festival telling festival promoter John Giddings the reason for the cancellation is because her album is behind schedule. Giddings said that the reason given is not acceptable and possibly a lie. Giddings has decided not to sue her.Allen snub angers festival boss BBC 5 March 2008Allen was appointed to be a judge for the prestigious Orange Prize for Fiction but had to be quietly removed from her position. According to Kirsty Lang the chairperson for the 2008 awards Allen had missed many meetings but contributed to the longlist by phone. Lang explained that the Allen's loss of her baby, boyfriend and launching of her new television show in addition to “the pressure of judging a major book prize” was “too much”. Lang insisted that Allen had been a good choice for the position and said that critics of the awarding of Allen for the judgeship were “being snobby and elitist”.Orange judges come clean on Lily Allen The Times 15 April, 2008Allen wrote a song for the 2008 Shockwaves Awards entitled "From Barry to Billericay" about comedian James Corden.Lily Allen writes song for BAFTA-winning Shockwaves NME Awards host NME 22 April, 2008On 29 June 2008 Allen performed at the Glastonbury Festival alongside producer Mark Ronson. An emotional Allen dedicated her performance of "Littlest Things" to her grandmother who died the night before.Lily Allen - Show goes on for grieving Allen contactmusic.com 30 June, 2008 On 3 July in a surprise appearance with Ronson at the Wireless Festival Allen again appeared with Ronson to perform "Littlest Things" and "Oh My God". She forgot some song lyrics.Gigwise Lily Allen Makes Surprise Appearance With Mark Ronson At Wireless 4 July, 2008In July 2008 Allen released a "sunny" new song "Who'd of Known" that will not appear on ''Not Me, It's You." '' because according to her MySpace blog she ripped off the chorus from Take That and does not want to deal with the paperwork.Lily Allen Acts Civilized for Once New York Magazine 14 July, 2008Allen has contributed the song "She's So Lovely and Naive" for the soundtrack of the 2008 British comedy film Angus, Thongs and Perfect Snogging.Albums Glasgow Daily Record 25 July, 2008On her 15 September 2008 MySpace blog Allen bemoaned the practice of websites demanding exclusive material ahead of an album release. She wrote "I always thought an album was a body of work in itself. you take it or leave it"Future plansAllen says that if people do not like her next album, she plans to quit the scene, and would like to do A&amp;R at a record company because she likes going to concerts.In the Studio Lily Allen makes &quot;Naughty&quot; follow-up Rolling Stone Rock and Roll Daily 1 July, 2008In a later interview she said that if the new record pans she would like to go back to school and possibly study architecture.Current and possible future film / TV rolesThe singer has been cast as Lydia Bennett in a spoof film version of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. The singer said "I really want to explore the acting route more, but nothing which involves me taking my clothes off. I don't want to go down that route like a lot of aspiring young actresses do. I just want to do proper cool stuff. I definitely feel the time is right to explore acting."Lily Allen's strip vow monstersandcritics. Retrieved 26 October 2007In 2007 the singer signed a one series contract to present her own BBC Three TV show entitled Lily Allen and Friends based on the social networking phenomenon that helped to launch her music career. According to Allen the show will feature "good celebrity guests, not rubbish ones, and brilliant bands playing brilliant music". The singer asked her MySpace friends to suggest the name for the show. Her MySpace friends will also have the chance to suggest questions for her guests, be part of the audience, and perform live music.Lily Allen discovers heart murmur. BBC News. Retrieved 27 November 2007.Lily Allen asks web fans to name her show The Guardian Unlimited 9 January, 2008Lily Allen's TV show to feature Reverend And The Makers NME 30 January, 2008. The guests on the first show were Cuba Gooding Junior and David Mitchell, and later guests included Mark Ronson, Joanna Page, James Corden, Lauren Laverne, Roisin Murphy, Louis Walsh, and Danny Dyer. Audience walks out in 'sick' Lily Allen BBC chat show debut Daily Mail 9 February, 2008Lily Allen claims fans did not leave her show because of boredom NME 12 February, 2008. The show received a 2% share of the total multi-channel audience share despite a high-profile nationwide marketing campaign.http://www.thehollywoodnews.com/artman2/publish/celeb_news/Lily_Allen_s_new_show_fails_to_grab_big_audience_16140208.php Lily Allen's new show fails to grab big audience The Hollywood News 14 February 14, 2008 Her third show received a 2.7% share.TV Ratings The Guardian Unlimited 26 February, 2008On 1 April citing Allen's rapid development as a TV host and her popularity among its target audience BBC Three announced it was renewing Lily Allen and Friends for a second season.Bianca barrells back on to EastEnders The Times 2 April, 2008The BBC was criticised by several teacher unions for a video shown on “Lily Allen and Friends” that apparently showed a student running up from behind and pulling down his teachers trousers. The unions said broadcasting this clip was irresponsible and greatly added to the teacher's embarrassment. While introducing the clip Allen called it kegging and said “It's very childish, but very funny”.BBC criticised over Lily Allen 'kegging' clipPersonal lifeAt age 15, Allen spent four weeks at The Priory clinic under 24 hour watch after the singer, distraught over a breakup with a boyfriend, took an overdose and tried to cut her wrists. Allen told The Sunday Times that "In my teens I did experiment with drugs” and “I don’t know anyone now who isn’t a drug-taker, in recovery from drugs, or on prescription drugs".Lily Allen took an overdose at 15, says mum Showbizspy 11 December, 2007In November 2007, the singer revealed that she has been diagnosed with a heart murmur. The singer sparked concern when she shed 19lbs (8.6kg) and dropped from a UK size 12 to a size eight in just six weeks. Allen explained the weight loss on cutting back on the "crap" she eats and going to the gym three times a week to do a "hardcore routine" as a reaction to the diagnosis.Lily Allen discovers heart murmur BBC 27 November, 2007Allen suffered a miscarriage on 16 January 2008 after returning from holiday with Ed Simons of The Chemical Brothers. The child would have been the first for both parties. The couple met in September 2007. The pregnancy was said to have changed Allen’s entire outlook on life.Lily Allen has lost her baby The Sun 17 January, 2008[http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/7195477.stm Lily Allen suffers a miscarriage] BBC News retrieved 18 January 2008 Allen returned to work on six days after her miscarriage because she did not want to let her fans down. Lily Allen and web friends let loose on BBC3. The Times 20 January, 2008Lily's Back To Work Sky Showbiz 21 January, 2008 Allen attended therapy sessions to deal with her miscarriage. Part of her therapy involved having to sit in her room on her hands doing nothing to combat what her therapist diagnosed as Allen's coping mechanism of always thinking her way out. According to Allen's father, her relationship with Ed Simons has ended.Father hails 'fighter' Lily after 'very tough time Ireland Online 4 April, 2008Allen was a smoker before she gave up the habit during her pregnancy.Pregnant Lily Allen Vows To Quit The Fags - Entertainment News, Movie Reviews, Competitions - Entertainmentwise&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In an interview for Glamour magazine, Allen said she stopped drinking during her failed pregnancy and has been staying at home during the evenings to avoid temptation making her "sad and lonely". Allen revealed she took ecstasy at age 14.Lily Allen's miscarriage epiphany Boston Globe 4 March 2008In her blog, Allen blamed the paparazzi for smashing the windows of her car. She wrote that her friend was cut when she sat in the car and that she was angered and upset by what she called a scary situation.Allen's bedroom is decorated with paintings by Damien Hirst and Paul Simonon who was a member of the iconic punk rock group The Clash.Lily Allen seeking solace in retail therapy Telegraph 17 April, 2008On 23 May in her MySpace blog Allen responded to press reporting about her personal life. She denied specific reports about her relationships and behaviour as well as negative characterizations of her personality. She confirmed she likes to swim topless and drink saying this is not embarrassing behaviour for a 23 year old. She said the reporting was sexist and that sometimes she wonders if the journalists are still living in the 1950s.Lily Allen My Space blog &quot;boring post&quot; 23 May, 2008In August 2008 Allen said "I'm not gonna say I'm never gonna do drugs again. I just know I'm not a good person on drugs".A male friend of Allen's and another male were allegedly kidnapped for extortion and held for a week before being rescued by Metropolitan Police. Five men have been charged in the incident. Allen thanked the police and gave details of the plot at the 2008 GQ Awards. Former Scotland Yard chief John O'Connor called Allen's releasing the details of the alleged plot "outrageous" saying it may jeopardise the case. The friend involved is also alleged to be upset with Allen's revelations Lily Allen thanks police over friend's &quot;kidnap&quot; Reuters 3 September, 2008Pal Furious At Allen's 'Irresponsible' Kidnap Comments 4 September, 2008Public personaAllen has been the subject of many controversies mainly because of her expressed opinions of other musicians and public behaviour. She went to private school with Luke Pritchard of The Kooks, made some disparaging comments about them, and then covered their song "Naïve" on Jo Whiley's Live Lounge to show there were "no hard feelings". She has also called Bob Geldof a "cunt" and a "sanctimonious prat", and has claimed that Kylie Minogue performing at the Glastonbury Festival would be the ultimate insult to the event. Her 2007 performance on the pyramid stage included negative lyrics directed towards Girls Aloud singer Cheryl Cole.She also said that everyone who bought Paris Hilton's debut album should be killed off.When asked by the NME how she would celebrate if her début single, "Smile", got to Number 1 in the UK charts, she responded "gak" (a slang term for cocaine). She immediately said that she was joking, but the remark was widely quoted in the tabloid press. Allen has since apologised for the remark. She admitted in an NME interview that she worked as an ecstasy drug dealer at the age of 15 whilst living in Sant Antoni de Portmany, though she wasn't very good at it.During her August 2007 V Festival appearances she called President Bush "a fucking cunt" and made fun of the well publicised troubles of fellow British singer Amy Winehouse saying "It's the end of the weekend, you have got to have a drink. Here's to Amy Winehouse... ha!". She also took digs at Winehouse's heroin addiction and eating disorders.Lily Allen takes pop at Amy Winehouse, President Bush New Zealand Herald August 21, 2007Allen criticised Radiohead's decision to market their new album In Rainbows for free claiming that it will make it more difficult for bands to break into the industry. "It's arrogant for them to give their music away for free—they've got millions of pounds. It sends a weird message to younger bands who haven't done as well.”Lily Allen: 'Radiohead Are Arrogant Gigwise 14 November, 2007The singer accused the British Tabloids of being sexist and having a double standard in the way they treat male and female musicians. She was quoted as saying "I don't think they like young women doing well, or having fun. I mean, James Blunt goes out and gets on it and no one cares. We do that and it's all over the papers. It's sad. Those people who write for those gossip magazines, they're not even writers. They can't even punctuate." Allen: Tabloids Hate Women PR Insider 12 December, 2007 She expressed that she was "really irritated" at British Prime Minister Gordon Brown's decision to clamp down on celebrities' public drunkenness and said a better solution would be to restrict the paparazzi.Lily Allen wants Gordon Brown to ban the Paparazzi Holy Moly 14 January, 2008Also in that month the singer has said that her earlier comments making fun of other pop stars were a result of lack of confidence saying "I felt like 'Oh God, I'm short, fat, ugly and I hate all these people who flaunt their beauty'." She also proclaimed "I feel great at the moment. I actually don't have one bad thing to say about anything."Lily Allen calls herself 'short, fat and ugly' New Musical Express December 4, 2007On her television show she accused models who were appearing on her show of smelling of vomit and said she saw that the skin on the models backs was discoloured and was pushing up against their spines. She said "It's really sick. It's horrible". Several veterans of fashion shows including F!D luxe editor Tracy Achor Hayes in reaction to her remarks claimed they had never smelled vomit while sitting at fashion shows.Lily Allen says models &quot;smelled of vomit.&quot; Dallas Morning News 28 February, 20082008 has seen Allen changing her hair colour from its original brunette to blond to pink and back to brunette.Lily Allen jokes about topless photos at the Cannes film festival 16 May, 2008Lily Allen ditches pink hair and returns to her roots The Telegraph 7 July, 2008 Allen said the change back to brunette in July was done in respect to her recently deceased grandmother who would have disapproved of her showing up at her funeral with pink hair.Lily Allen ditches pink hair after grandmother's death Glasgow Daily Record 9 July, 2008Allen is reported to enjoy a "special relationship" with Chanel fashion house that is said to include borrowing clothes and jewelry from them and being flown in to sit in the front row of their shows.Age and youthful beauty combine to cast their enduring spell at Chanel The Times 4 October, 2008Allen has been nominated for a Highstreet Fashion Award in the category of "Best Dressed Celebrity".Alexa Chung and Lily Allen Battle for Top Celeb Fashion Award Female First 1 May, 2008Allen's behaviour and appearance at the 2008 Glamour Awards of the Year overshadowed her winning The Editors Special Prize for her multi-dimensional career. She wore a dress with what appeared to be Bambi figures that had been decapitated with blood rushing out.Oh, deer! Lily Allen's no Bambi fan New York Daily News 4 June, 2008 It was then reported she later became intoxicated. In a blog in her MySpace page she expressed remorse over her public drunkenness and published a photo of herself being carried out remarking “Kids, drink responsibly or you'll end up looking like this - not pretty".Lily Allen Calls Drunken Behaviour 'Embarrassing' People Magazine On 2 September 2008 Allen while co-hosting an awards ceremony with Elton John started slurring her words and got into expletive filled exchange of words with her co host. After John noted that award winner Tony Bennett was 82 years old Allen remarked "I'd still fuck him" and announced that her brother was engaged.Elton John and Lily Allen in war of words at GQ awards The Times 3 September, 2008 On her MySpace blog she defended her drunkenness while criticizing the press for misinterpreting a friendly exchange as rudeness and wrote that the remark about her brother was a joke. John was quoted as saying "I was thinking about asking her to tour with me and maybe even do a duet. Obviously that won’t be happening now."Sir Elton John: Lily Allen won't be touring with me now Now Online 9 September, 2008On 11 June 2008 celebrity blogger Perez Hilton wrote that Allen's career is slipping because she is known for being a trainwreck more than a musician, and is jealous of singer Katy Perry due to Katy Perry's recent widespread fame. Katy Perry is signed to Capitol Records and Capitol also distributes Allen's albums in America. He concluded that only a great second album will save her career but has heard that it is anything but great. A series of personal attacks and accusations of lying between the two followed. Allen did agree with Hilton's assertion that it hurts her to know that she is currently known for being a trainwreck more than as a musician.Lily Bites Back Perez Hilton Blog 12 June, 2008 Dear Lily Perez Hilton blog 12 June, 2008  In that regard Allen was listed as the number three trainwreck of the summer of 2008 by Us Weekly.Amy Winehouse, Lily Allen &amp; Courtney Love Lead Summer Trainwrecks Poll National Ledger 13 July, 2008On 8 August in her MySpace blog Allen remarked that while she enjoys public praise and attention for her music false tabloid accusations sometimes "gets to me".Allen was criticised by anti-violence groups after she was spotted wearing a necklace with a machine gun pendant. A spokesperson from the the group Mothers against Murder and AgressionMothers Against Murder and Agression Website was quoted as saying "She is glamorising the use of guns. It's totally irresponsible”.Allen blassted over gun necklace contactmusic 27 September, 2008Social activismEnvironmental activismAllen was credited with helping inspire one of the biggest parliamentary rebellions against Prime Minister Gordon Brown when she wrote to all members of Parliament asking them to back an amendment to an energy bill that would copy a system in Germany that pays homeowners, farmers, small businesses and owners of public buildings a fixed amount for every unit of renewable energy they generate (a 'Feed-in Tariff'). The government was forced to call back energy bill supporters from their campaigns and the move was defeated by a vote of 250 to 210.Lily Allen inspires Labour energy rebellion Ross Lydall Political Editor The Scotsmen Evening News 2 May, 2008 She records at Studio A which is the only solar powered studio in Europe.Singer Lily Allen backs renewables campaign Green Building Magazine 29 April, 2008Allen has been nominated with nine others for the title of Greenest Star in Playhouse for Disney Playhouse's inaugural Playing for the Planet Awards. The winner will be decided by a vote of UK preschoolers and their families.Top ten green celebs up for awards UK Parents LoungeAllen is one of several pop stars who performed benefit concert for War Child an international child protection agency that works with children affected by war. Backed up by Keane Allen sang Smile and Everybody’s Changing. A DVD of the benefit has been released.British pop stars sing from the heart The Guardian (Prince Edward Island) 11 October, 2008Proposed Knife Aid concert Allen spokesperson has confirmed that she is working with London Mayor Boris Johnson in efforts to stage a Live Aid style concert in reaction to the sharp rise in knife crime in that city. Johnson is reported to working to obtain a venue and Allen is reportedly is engaged in recruitment efforts. The proposed concert is slated to raise cash to help the families of stab victims and to provide schemes to take blades off the streets. On 17 July Allen had a 45 minute discussion with Johnson at London's City Hall about the knife-crime issue.When Boris met Lily.. ITN 17 July, 2008Allen proposed the idea in her MySpace blog. The Daily Star reported that after Allen approached the tabloid for help they got her in touch with Johnson.Lily: We gotta have Knife Aid Daily Star 12 July, 2008 ReceptionAllen feels she has "got away with something" because she feels she is "not a genius songwriter".Allen was included on the NME Cool List for 2006. The editor of NME, Conor McNicholas, said of the five women on the "Cool List": "This year's Cool List is a testament to the raft of hugely talented women who have taken hold of the music scene in 2006...From Beth to Lily to Karen, they've brought new energy to a scene dominated by men. They're also living proof that you can still rock a crowd when you're wearing stilettos".She was voted the third coolest person of the year in NME Magazine. She ranked "Number One Reason to Love '07" and "Hottest Woman of Pop/R&B." in ''Blender'' magazine. On the other hand, she was also rated number 10 on BBC Three's list of Most Annoying People of 2006. In a readers poll done for the weekly British style magazine Look Allen was named the ninth best style role model. Coleen named style role model AFP 27 March, 2008Rapper Example has recorded a new version of "Smile" called "Vile", which is an answer song written from the perspective of the ex-boyfriend (although he was never actually Allen's boyfriend). Both songs were then parodied by Chris Moyles on his Radio 1 breakfast show in a song called "Piles". "LDN" has spawned an answer song by rapper Sway DaSafo and a remix by UK grime artist JME.According to a report by the Children's Society in Great Britain the "antics" of Allen and other British pop stars are causing bad behaviour and promoting materialism thus eroding moral values for this generation of British Children.Children's Society: Behaviour of Pop Stars Erodes Children's Values The Daily Telegraph Reprinted by the New York Sun 7 July, 2008Discography2006: Alright, Still2009: It's Not Me, It's YouReferencesExternal linksOfficial websiteLily Allen's My Space PageLily Allen on MTV.comArticle discussing Allen's influence on the fashion industry Sydney Morning Herald 7 August, 2008Lilly Allen at NPR Music Category:1985 births Category:Living people Category:Old Bedalians Category:English female singers Category:English songwriters Category:People from London Category:English singer-songwriters Category:English pop singersbe-x-old:Лiлi Ален bg:Лили Алън cs:Lily Allen de:Lily Allen es:Lily Allen fr:Lily Allen id:Lily Allen it:Lily Allen hu:Lily Allen nl:Lily Allen ja:リリー・アレン no:Lily Allen pl:Lily Allen pt:Lily Allen ru:Аллен, Лили sc:Lily Allen simple:Lily Allen sk:Lily Allen fi:Lily Allen sv:Lily Allen th:ลิลี่ อัลเลน vi:Lily Allen tr:Lily Allen zh:莉莉·艾倫