  | birth_place = Aradan, Iran | party = Islamic Society of Engineers part of the Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran coalition. | religion = Islam (Shi'a)  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (, ; born October 28, 1956)His name can also be transliterated into English as Mahmud or Mahmood; Ahmadinezhad, Ahmadi-Nejad, Ahmadi Nejad, or Ahmady Nejad.&quot;Mahmoud Ahmadinejad&quot; Accessed 27-01-2008. is the sixth and current President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He became president on August 6, 2005 after winning the 2005 presidential election by popular vote.&quot;Iran hardliner hails poll victory&quot; BBC News. Accessed 06-12-2006. Prior to becoming president, Ahmadinejad served as mayor of Tehran, the governor general of Ardabil Province, and served in the Iran–Iraq War as a member of Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution. He is the highest directly elected official in the country; however, according to Article 113&quot;IRI's Constitution, Article 113&quot;. Accessed 27-01-2008. of Constitution of Iran, he has much less power than the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who is the commander-in-chief of the armed forces of Iran and has the final word in all aspects of foreign and domestic policies.&quot;IRI's Constitution&quot; Accessed 27-01-2008.Chomsky, Noam. &quot;A Predator Becomes More Dangerous When Wounded&quot;, &quot;Archived here&quot;. The Guardian. Accessed 28-03-2007.Due to the theocratic nature of the Iranian government, most presidents after the revolution are clerics, including Mohammad Khatami, his reformist predecessor. Ahmadinejad, however, was not a member of the clergy, and is the first non-cleric president of Iran in 24 years.http://www.democracynow.org/2005/6/27/conservative_tehran_mayor_wins_upset_victoryAhmadinejad is a critic of the George W. Bush Administration and supports strengthened relations with Russia, Venezuela, Syria, and the Persian Gulf states.Deghanpisheh, Babak. &quot;Bear Hugs.&quot; World Press Review. Accessed 03-05-2007.&quot;Oiling the Axis - Iran and Venezuela develop closer ties.&quot; Jane's Information Group. Accessed 29-07-2007.&quot;Broader ties among Persian Gulf states in region's interest - Ahmadinejad.&quot; IRNA. Accessed 29-07-2007. He has said Iran's nuclear program is for peaceful purposes and has refused to end enrichment despite United Nations Security Council resolutions.&quot;Iran president 'ready for talks.'&quot; BBC News. Accessed 12-02-2007.He has called for the dissolution of the state of Israel and its government, which he does not regard as legitimate or representative of the population, &quot;Iran president says U.N. sanctions unlikely&quot;, CNN. Accessed 24-04-2007.&quot;Iran president: Israel flies Satan's flag&quot; USA Today. Accessed 18-08-2007. and for free elections in the region. He believes that the Palestinians need a stronger voice in the region's future.Fathi, Naila. &quot;U.N. Scrutiny Won't Make Iran Quit Nuclear Effort, President Says&quot; New York Times. Accessed 15-01-2006.&quot;Iran denies Israel attack threat&quot;. New York Times. Accessed 29-10-2005. One of his most controversial statements was one in which, according to the initial Islamic Republic News Agency translation, he called for Israel to be "wiped off the map," though the interpretation of this quote is disputed.&quot;Holocaust comments spark outrage&quot;, BBC News, Accessed 14-12-2005.&quot;Iran leader's comments attacked&quot;, BBC News, Accessed 27-01-2008.Esfandiari, Golnaz. &quot;Iran: President's Latest Comments About Israel Spark Further Condemnation&quot;. Radio Free Europe. Accessed 28-01-2008.Vick, Karl and Mary Jordan. &quot;World Leaders Condemn Iranian's Call to Wipe Israel 'Off the Map'&quot;. Washington Post. Accessed 28-10-2005.&quot;NCC Condemns Ahmadinejad’s Holocaust Statement&quot;. National Council of Churches. Accessed 16-12-2007.Slackman, Michael. &quot;In Tehran, a riposte to the Danish cartoons&quot;. The New York Times, Accessed 24-09-2007.&quot;Germans Protest Against Ahmadinejad, Racism As Cup Opens&quot;. Deutsche Welle, Accessed 11-06-2006.&quot;Annan: 'Dismay' over Iranian comments on Israel&quot;. CNN. Accessed 27-09-2007.Fathi, Nazila. &quot;Text of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Speech&quot;. New York Times. Accessed 17-10-2006.&quot;Iran vote seen as referendum on Ahmadinejad&quot;. The Boston Globe. Accessed 27-12-2006.Bronner, Ethan. &quot;Just How Far Did They Go, Those Words Against Israel?&quot; The New York Times. Accessed 11-06-2006.&quot;Ahmadinejad misunderstood, says Iran&quot;. The Daily Times of Pakistan. Acccessed 22-02-2006.&quot;Iranian Leader Opens Up:Ahmadinejad Speaks Candidly With Mike Wallace About Israel, Nukes, Bush&quot;, 60 Minutes, CBS News. CBS News. Accessed 2006-10-18 He has also been condemned for describing the Holocaust as a myth,&quot;Iranian leader: Holocaust a 'myth'&quot;. CNN. 14-12-2006. which has led to accusations of anti-semitism.&quot;Iran team face mass protest&quot;, The Guardian, Accessed 11-06-2007.&quot;Eurovision may ban Israeli entry due to lyrics on nuclear war&quot;, Haaretz, Accessed 03-02-2007.&quot;Iran's Rhetoric on Holocaust Anger German Muslims&quot;, Deutsche Welle, Accessed 18-02-2007.Stephens, Bret. &quot;Anti-Anti-Semitism defended&quot;, The New Republic, Accessed 12-02-2007.&quot;We won't be fooled again&quot;. The News Leader. 15-02-2007.Namazi, Ghassem. &quot;We should be sorry&quot;. Iranian.com. Accessed 01-02-2006..Sayyed, Tashbih. The Bane Of Jihad. Muslim World Today. Accessed 26-01-2007.Ivins, Molly. &quot;Ivins: Wow! Some real diplomacy!&quot;, CNN, Accessed 08-06-2006.&quot;Iran: Nuclear talks still possible&quot;. CNN. Accessed 05-02-2006.Smith-Spark, Laura. &quot;Racism fears dog World Cup build-up&quot;. BBC News. Accessed 26-05-2006.&quot;Annan condemns Holocaust denial&quot;. BBC News. Accessed 27-01-2006."He was defeated by the even more hard-line and anti-Semitic Mahmoud Ahmadinejad...". Joel C. Rosenberg. Epicenter: Why the Current Rumblings in the Middle East Will Change Your Future, Tyndale House Publishers, Inc., 2006, p. 109, ISBN 1414311354&quot;Israel Wants West to Deal More Urgently With Iran&quot; The New York Times. Accessed 28-03-2008.&quot;NCC Condemns Ahmadinejad’s Holocaust Statement&quot;, National Council of Churches, Accessed 16-12-2005. In response to these criticisms, Ahmadinejad said “No, I am not anti-Jew, I respect them very much.” During his presidency, Ahmadinejad launched a gas rationing plan to reduce the country's fuel consumption and cut the interest rate for private and public banking facilities.&quot;Iran interest rate cut sparks panic selling&quot; Guardian Unlimited.Accessed 29-07-2007.مدیریت و&quot; برنامه ریزی منحل ش&quot; BBC Persian. Accessed 29-07-2007. | url = http://www.tehrantimes.com/index_View.asp?code=175959 | title = Assembly of Experts to study economic reform plan: Rafsanjani | accessdate = 2008-08-23 | date = August 23, 2008 | publisher = Tehran Times | pages = | language = | archiveurl = | archivedate =  BackgroundEducation and early careerMahmoud Saborjhian&quot;A Humble Beginning Helped to Form Iran's New Hard Man&quot;. The Guardian. Accessed 27-01-2008. the son of a blacksmith, was born near Garmsar in the village of Aradan&quot;Bio: Ahmadinejad&quot;. Jerusalem Post. Accessed 27-01-2008. on October 28, 1956. In the 1950s, Ahmadinejad and his family moved from Aradan to Tehran in search of more economic prosperity; It was during this time period that the Saborjhian family changed its name to Ahmadinejad.Hassan, Hussein. &quot;Iran: Profile and Statements of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad&quot;. CRS Report for Congress. Accessed 27-01-2008.In 1976, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad took Iran's national university entrance exams (). He has claimed that he ranked 132nd out of 400,000 participants that year,&quot;Iran's president launches weblog.&quot; BBC News. Accessed on 31-08-2006. and soon enrolled in the Iran University of Science and Technology (IUST) as an undergraduate student of civil engineering. He was accepted to a Master of Science program at the same school in 1986, and eventually received his doctorate in 1997 in civil engineering and traffic transportation planning.&quot;President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad&quot; Global Security. Accessed 27-01-2008. During his doctoral studies at Tehran, he was the governor general of Ardabil Province (1993-1997). Ahmadinejad was a lecturer and member of the faculty at the university since 1989.&quot;Biography of H.E. Dr. Ahmadi Nejad, Honourable President of Islamic Republic of Iran.&quot; Accessed 27-01-2008.After the Islamic Revolution, he became a member of the Office for Strengthening Unity,&quot;Historic Personalities of Iran: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad&quot; Iran Chamber. Accessed 28-01-2008. an organization developed to prevent students from sympathizing or allying with the budding Mojahedin-e Khalq. It has been widely reported that after Saddam Hussein invaded Iran, Ahmadinejad joined the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution and served in their intelligence and security apparatus, but his advisor Mojtaba Samareh Hashemi says "He has never been a member or an official member of the Revolutionary Guards", having been a Basiji-like volunteer instead.Ahmadinejad is married and has two sons and a daughter.http://www.jpost.com/servlet/Satellite?cid=1145961353570&amp;pagename=JPost/JPArticle/ShowFull "Bio: Ahmadinejad."] Jerusalem Post. Accessed 27-01-2008. One of his sons formerly studied at the Amirkabir University of Technology (Tehran Polytechnic).&quot;Iran's Ahmadinejad Heckled at University.&quot; Newsmax. Accessed 27-01-2008.Early political careerAhmadinejad began his political career as governor to both Maku and Khoy in West Azarbaijan Province during the 1980s. He eventually became an advisor to the governor general of Kurdistan Province for two years and was appointed as the governor general of Ardabil Province in 1993. In 1997, Mohammad Khatami removed Ahmadinejad from his position in Ardabil, and Ahmadinejad returned to teaching. In 2003, however, Ahmadinejad returned to the political scene after the City Council of Tehran appointed him to the position of mayor, after a 12 percent turnout led to the election of Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran's conservative candidates in Tehran.During his mayorship, he reversed many of the changes put into effect by previous moderate and reformist mayors, putting religious emphasis on the activities of the cultural centers founded by previous mayors, going on the record with the separation of elevators for men and women in the municipality offices,&quot;Ahamd Bozorgian (MP): 'The Separation of men and women's elevators is an advantageous policy. It would help to grow.'&quot; Entekhab News. Accessed 31-08-2006. and suggesting that the bodies of those killed in the Iran–Iraq War be buried in major city squares of Tehran. Such actions were coupled with an emphasis on charity, such as distributing free soup to the poor.After two years as mayor, Ahmadinejad was shortlisted in a list of 65 finalists for World Mayor in 2005.&quot;The 2005 World Mayor finalists&quot; Accessed 27-01-2008. Out of the 550 nominated mayors, nine were from Asia.He was not widely known when he entered the presidential election campaign, although he had already made his mark for rolling back earlier reforms. After his election to the presidency, Ahmadinejad resigned from his post as the mayor of Tehran. His resignation was accepted on June 28, 2005.He is a member of the Central Council of the Islamic Society of Engineers, but his key support is inside the Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran (Abadgaran).Aneja, Atul (2006). &quot;New Dynamics.&quot; Frontline. Accessed 28-07-2007.PresidencyPresidential campaignAhmadinejad generally sent mixed signals about his plans for his presidency, which some US-based analysts considered to have been designed to attract both religious conservatives and the lower economic classes.&quot;Hard Line Figure in Iran Runoff.&quot; The Washington Post. Accessed 26-01-2008. His campaign motto was, "It's doable and we can do it."In his presidential campaign, Ahmadinejad took a populist approach, with emphasis on his own modest life, and compared himself with Mohammad Ali Rajai, the second president of Iran. Ahmadinejad said he had plans to create an "exemplary government for the people of the world" in Iran. He is a self-described "principlist"; that is, acting politically based on Islamic and revolutionary principles. One of his goals has been "putting the petroleum income on people's tables", referring to Iran's oil profits being distributed among the poor.&quot;Iran and the art of crisis management.&quot; Asia Times. Accessed 26-01-2008.Ahmadinejad was the only presidential candidate who spoke out against future relations with the United States. In an interview with Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting a few days before the elections, Ahmadinejad accused the United Nations of being "one-sided, stacked against the world of Islam."Brea, Jennifer. &quot;Profile: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President of Iran.&quot; Accessed 31-08-2006. He has openly opposed the veto power given to the five permanent members of the UN Security Council. In the same interview, he stated, "It is not just for a few states to sit and veto global approvals. Should such a privilege continue to exist, the Muslim world with a population of nearly 1.5 billion should be extended the same privilege." He has defended Iran's nuclear program and has accused "a few arrogant powers" of attempting to limit Iran's industrial and technological development in this and other fields.During his campaign for the second round, he said, "We didn't participate in the revolution for turn-by-turn government.…This revolution tries to reach a world-wide government." Also he has mentioned that he has an extended program on fighting terrorism in order to improve foreign relations and has called for greater ties with Iran's neighbours and ending visa requirements between states in the region, saying that "people should visit anywhere they wish freely. People should have freedom in their pilgrimages and tours."&quot;Profile of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. Friend or foe?&quot; Persian Mirror. Acessed 26-01-2008.As confirmed by Ahmadinejad, his ideological and spiritual mentor is Ayatollah Mohammad Taghi Mesbah Yazdi, a senior cleric from Qom. Mesbah is the founder of Haghani School of thought in Iran. He and his team strongly supported Ahmadinejad's campaign during presidential election in 2005.&quot;Iran Symposium: 'Divide and empower&quot; Prospect Magazine. Accessed 27-01-2008.Election and Term Ahmadinejad became the sixth president of Iran on August 6, 2005, after winning 62 percent of the vote in the run-off poll, nearly twice that of former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani considering the fact that the population of voters had risen threefold during Mr Rafsanjani's period in office. He received the presidential authorization from Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei on August 3, 2005.   During the authorization ceremony he kissed Khamenei's hand in demonstration of his loyalty to him.  http://tofoiran.packdeal.com/clips/DrIman/20060906-DrIman-CNN-225.asx&lt;/ref&gt; Ahmadinejad's current term will end in August 2009, but he will be eligible to run for one more term in office in the 2009 presidential elections.CabinetAhmadinejad was required to introduce his suggested ministers to Majlis for a vote of approval in 15 days, after which Majlis would have one week to decide about the ministers. Masoud Zaribafan, Ahmadinejad's campaign manager, mentioned that Ahmadinejad would probably introduce his cabinet on the same day of his vow, but that did not happen. The list was finally sent to the Majlis on August 14, 2005.The parliament had held a private meeting on August 5, when Ahmadinejad presented a shortlist of three or four candidates for each ministry, to know the opinion of Majlis about his candidates. The final list was officially sent to the Majlis on August 14. After a few days of heavy discussions in Majlis, which started on August 21, 2005, Ahmadinejad's cabinet was voted for on August 24.&quot;Ahmadinejad’s cabinet declared.&quot; Presidency of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Accessed 18-10-2006.The new board of ministers held its first meeting on August 25 in Mashhad, promising to keep frequent meetings to cities other than Tehran.MinistryCandidate ministerAgriculturalMohammadreza EskandariCommerceMasoud MirkazemiCommunication and Information TechnologyBabak RasekhCooperativesMohammad AbbasiCulture and Islamic GuidanceMohammad Hossein Saffar-HarandiDefense and LogisticsMostafa NajjarEconomy and Financial AffairsHossein Samsami (pending approval from parliament)EducationAlireza AliahmadiEnergyParviz FattahForeign Affairs]]Manouchehr MottakiHealth and Medical EducationKamran Bagheri LankaraniHousing and Urban DevelopmentMohammad SaeedikiaIndustries and MinesAliakbar MehrabianIntelligence]]Gholam Hossein Mohseni-EjeheiInteriorkordanJusticeGholam Hossein ElhamLabour and Social AffairsMohammad JahromiPetroleumGholamhossein NozariRoads and TransportationBehbahaniScience, Research, and TechnologyMohammad Mehdi ZahediWelfare and Social SecurityAbdolreza Mesri2006 Councils and Assembly of Experts electionAhmadinejad’s team lost the 2006 city council elections, and his spiritual mentor, Mohammad Taghi Mesbah Yazdi, was ranked sixth on the country's Assembly of Experts.&quot;Khamenei calls for moderating national stance on nukes&quot; Israeli Insider. Accessed 27-01-2008. In the first nationwide election since Ahmadinejad took office, allies of the Iranian President failed to dominate election returns for the Assembly of Experts and local councils. Turnout of about 60 percent was reported, and the results suggested a voter shift toward more moderate policies. An editorial in the Kargozaran, an independent daily newspaper, remarked "The results show that voters have learned from the past and concluded that we need to support.. moderate figures." An Iranian political analyst said that "this is a blow for Ahmadinejad and Mesbah Yazdi's list."Blair, Edmund. &quot;Results in Iranian Vote Seen as Setback for Ahmadinejad&quot; Reuters. Accessed 18-12-2006.Domestic policyEconomic policyIn Ahmadinejad's first two years as president, Iran's real GDP growth fell short of the 7.5 percent growth that was expected by the central bank, despite a highly educated and young labor force and a growing middle class. Inflation and unemployment have both increased and the government has continued a cycle of unsustainable spending and poor economic management.&quot;Tentative steps: Ahmadinejad's economic reform.&quot; The Entrepreneur. Accessed 01-02-2008. Ahmadinejad has increased spending by 25 percent and has supported subsidies for food and gasoline. He also initially refused a gradual increase of petrol prices, saying that after making necessary preparations, such as a development of public transportation system, the government will free up petrol prices after five years.Bakhtiar, Abbas. &quot;Ahmadinejad's Achilles Heel.&quot; Payvand. Accessed 25-01-2007. Interest rates were cut by presidential decree to below the inflation rate. The Management and Planning Organisation, a state body charged with mapping out long-term economic and budget strategy, was broken up and its experienced managers sacked.“Economics is for donkeys” Robert Tait, Published 11 September 2008In June 2006, 50 Iranian economists wrote a letter to Ahmadinejad that criticized his price interventions to stabilize prices of goods, cement, government services, and his decree issued by the High Labor Council and the Ministry of Labor that proposed an increase of workers' salaries by 40 percent. Ahmadinejad publicly responded harshly to the letter and denounced the accusations.&quot;Iranian economists lash out at Ahmadinejad's policies.&quot; Daily Star. Accessed 26-01-2008.&quot;Geopolitics casts pall on hobbled Iranian economy.&quot; USA Today. Accessed 26-01-2008. Ahmadinejad has called for "middle-of-the-road" compromises with respect to Western-oriented capitalism and the socialist character of the Iranian Revolution. Current political conflicts with the United States have caused the central bank to fear increased capital flight due to global isolation. These factors have prevented an improvement of infrastructure and capital influx, despite high economic potential. Among those that did not vote for him in the first election, only 3.5 percent said they would consider voting for him in the next election.Sanati, Kimia. &quot;Ahmadinejad held to election promises&quot;. Asia Times. Accessed 01-02-2008. Mohammad Khoshchehreh, a member of Iranian parliament that campaigned for Ahmadinejad, said that his government "has been strong on populist slogans, but weak on achievement."Dareini, Ali Akbar. &quot;Iran's Discontent With Ahmadinejad Grows.&quot; The Washington Post. Accessed 28-08-2007. President Ahmadinejad has changed almost all of his economic ministers, including oil, industry and economy, since coming to power in 2005. On April 2008, Davoud Danesh Jaafari who acted as minister of economy in President Ahmadinejad’s cabinet, harshly criticized Ahmadinejad’s economic policy: “During my time, there was no positive attitude towards previous experiences or experienced people and there was no plan for the future. Peripheral issues which were not of dire importance to the nation were given priority. Most of the scientific economic concepts like the effect of liquidity on inflation were put in question.", the minister said in an interview with Fars News Agency. AFP: Ahmadinejad slammed by outgoing economy minister&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In response to these criticisms, Ahmadinejad accused his minister of not being "a man of justice" and declared that the solution to Iran’s economic problem is "the culture of martyrdom".AFP: Martyrdom would solve Iran's economic woes: Ahmadinejad&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; In May 2008, the Petroleum minister of Iran admitted that the government illegally invested 2 billion dollars to import petrol in 2007. At Iranian parliament, he also mentioned that he simply followed the president's order. الف - واردات غیرقانونی بنزین را به دستور رئیس‏جمهور انجام داده‏ایم&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;:: پايگاه اطلاع رساني نوروز :: www.norooznews.ir :: تخلف دو ميليارد دلاري احمدي‌نژاد در وارادات غيرقانوني بنزين ::&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Family planning and population policyIn October 2006, Ahmadinejad opposed encouraging families to limit themselves to just two children, stating that Iran could cope with 50 million more people than the current 70 million. In remarks that have drawn criticism, he told MPs he wanted to scrap existing birth control policies which discouraged Iranian couples from having more than two children. Critics said his call was ill-judged at a time when Iran was struggling with surging inflation and rising unemployment, estimated at around 11 percent. Ahmadinejad’s call for an increased birth rate is reminiscent of a call Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini made in 1979. The policy was effective in increasing population growth, but was eventually reversed in response to the resultant economic strain.&quot;Ahmadinejad urges Iranian baby boom to challenge West&quot; The Guardian Accessed 03-05-2007.In 2008, the government sent the "Family Protection Bill" to the Iranian parliament. Women's rights activists criticized the bill for removing protections from women, such as the requirement that a husband obtain his wife's consent before bringing another wife into the family. http://www.hindustantimes.com/StoryPage/StoryPage.aspx?sectionName=&amp;id=d2936dca-6f92-4333-bba3-a0e61c07edab&amp;MatchID1=4737&amp;TeamID1=8&amp;TeamID2=6&amp;MatchType1=1&amp;SeriesID1=1194&amp;MatchID2=4728&amp;TeamID3=2&amp;TeamID4=3&amp;MatchType2=1&amp;SeriesID2=1191&amp;PrimaryID=4737&amp;Headline=Ebadi+protests+against+Iran%e2%80%99s+polygamy+bill&amp;strParent=strParentIDHousingThe first legislation to emerge from his newly formed government was a 12 trillion Rial (US$1.3 billion) fund called "Reza's Compassion Fund"   which was named after Shi'a Imam Ali al-Rida. By tapping into Iran's oil revenues, Ahmadinejad's government says that this fund will be used to help young people to get jobs and to afford marriage, as well to assist in purchasing their own homes. &quot;Video of Imam Reza Love Fund.&quot; IranNegah. Accessed 18-05-2008.The fund also sought charitable donations, and includes a boards of trustees in each of Iran's 30 provinces. The new plan is subject to the approval of the conservative-held Majlis, but is seen as unlikely to encounter strong opposition, given that deputies in the Majles have also shown an eagerness to focus on resolving economic problems. The legislation was in response to the costly housing in urban centres which is pushing up the national average marital age (currently around 25 years for women and 28 years for men). In 2006 the Iranian parliament rejected the fund. However, Ahmadinejad ordered the administrative council to execute the plan.  Human rightsSeveral human rights organizations and many Western governments have criticized Ahmadinejad's human rights record.According to a report by the group Human Rights Watch, "Since President Ahmadinejad came to power, treatment of detainees has worsened in Evin Prison as well as in detention centers operated clandestinely by the Judiciary, the Ministry of Information, and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps."&quot;World Report 2007&quot; Human Rights Watch. Accessed 26-01-2008. Again according to Human Rights Watch, "Respect for basic human rights in Iran, especially freedom of expression and assembly, deteriorated in 2006. The government routinely tortures and mistreats detained dissidents, including through prolonged solitary confinement." Human Rights Watch described the source of human rights violations in contemporary Iran as coming from the Judiciary, accountable to Ali Khamenei, and from members directly appointed by Ahmadinejad.Responses to dissent have varied. Human Rights Watch writes that "the Ahmadinejad government, in a pronounced shift from the policy under former president Mohammed Khatami, has shown no tolerance for peaceful protests and gatherings." In December 2006, Ahmadinejad advised officials not to disturb students who engaged in a protest during a speech of his at the Amirkabir University of Technology in Tehran,&quot;&quot; Rajanews. Accessed 26-01-2008.&quot;&quot; Rajanews. Accessed 26-01-2008. although speakers at other protests have included among their complaints that there had been a crackdown on dissent at universities since Ahmadinejad was elected.Fathi, Nazila. &quot;Students disrupt speech by Iran chief&quot; New York Times. Accessed 12-12-2006.In April 2007, the Tehran police, which is under Khamenei's supervision, began a crackdown on women with "improper hijab." This led to criticism from associates of Ahmadinejad.&quot;Ahmadinejad's adviser criticizes hijab enforcement issue.&quot; Baztab. Accessed 23-4-2007.UniversitiesIn 2006, the Ahmadinejad government reportedly forced numerous Iranian scientists and university professors to resign or to retire. It has been referred to as "second cultural revolution".&quot;Protest against the second cultural revolution.&quot; Rooz. Accessed 18-10-2006.Irani, Hamid. &quot;Cleansing in the Name of Retirement&quot; Accessed 18-10-2006. The policy has been said to replace old professors with younger ones.&quot;Khoshchehreh (MP) protests against the unwanted retirement of university professors.&quot; Aftab News. Accessed on 18-10-2006. Some university professors received letters indicating their early retirement unexpectedly.&quot;Different aspects of the unwanted retirement of university professors.&quot; Aftab News. Accessed 18-10-2006. In November 2006, 53 university professors had to retire from Iran University of Science and Technology.&quot;صدور حکم بازنشستگی برای ۵۳ استاد دانشگاه علم و صنعت، ادوار نيوز&quot; Gooya. Accessed 26-01-2008.In 2006, Ahmadinejad's government applied a 50 percent quota for male students and 50 percent for female students in the university entrance exam for medicine, dentistry and pharmacy. The plan was supposed to stop the growing presence of female students in the universities. In a response to critics, Iranian minister of health and medical education, Kamran Bagheri Lankarani argued that there are not enough facilities such as dormitories for female students. Masoud Salehi, president of Zahedan University said that presence of women generates some problems with transportation. Also, Ebrahim Mekaniki, president of Babol University of Medical Sciences, stated that an increase in the presence of women will make it difficult to distribute facilities in a suitable manner. Bagher Larijani, the president of Tehran University of Medical Sciences made similar remarks. According to Rooz Online, the quotas lack a legal foundation and are justified as support for "family" and "religion."http://www.roozonline.com/archives/2007/01/001911.php Rooz Online. Accessed 26-01-2008.Nuclear program Ahmadinejad has been a vocal supporter of Iran's nuclear program, and has insisted that it is for peaceful purposes. He has repeatedly emphasized that building a nuclear bomb is not the policy of his government. He has said that such a policy is "illegal and against our religion."&quot;Ahamadinejad: &quot;We will reach the nuclear energy in near future.&quot; BBC News. Accessed 29-10-2006.&quot;Ahmadinejad Claims Iran Has 3,000 Centrifuges&quot; Missile Defense Advocacy. Accessed 04-09-2007. He also added at a January 2006 conference in Tehran that a nation with "culture, logic and civilization" would not need nuclear weapons, and that countries that seek nuclear weapons are those which want to solve all problems by the use of force.&quot;Excerpts: Ahmadinejad conference.&quot; BBC News. Accessed 29-10-2006. In a 2008 interview Ahmadinejad elaborated that countries striving to obtain nuclear weapons are politically backward nations and those who posess them and continually make new generations of such bombs are "even more backward".In April 2006, Ahmadinejad announced that Iran had successfully refined uranium to a stage suitable for the nuclear fuel cycle. In a speech to students and academics in Mashhad, he was quoted as saying that Iran's conditions had changed completely as it had become a nuclear state and could talk to other states from that stand.&quot;Ahmadinejad: Iran can now talk to world from vantage point of a nuclear state.&quot; Arabic News. Accessed 29-10-2006. On April 13, 2006, Iranian news agency, IRNA, quoted Ahmadinejad as saying that the peaceful Iranian nuclear technology would not pose a threat to any party because "we want peace and stability and we will not cause injustice to anyone and at the same time we will not submit to injustice."&quot;Ahmadinejad: Iran nuke right non-negotiable.&quot; UPI. Accessed 12-06-2006Despite Ahmadinejad's vocal support for the program, the office of the Iranian president is not responsible for nuclear policy. It is instead set by the Supreme National Security Council. The council includes two representatives appointed by the Supreme Leader, military officials and members of the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of government. It reports directly to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, who issued a fatwa against nuclear weapons in 2005.Recknagel, Charles. &quot;Iran: Election Of Ahmadinejad Unlikely To Affect Nuclear Negotiations.&quot; Radio Free Europe. Accessed 29-102006.Khamenei usually refrains from speaking in public, but has criticized Ahmadinejad's "personalization" of the nuclear issue.&quot;Iran rebukes its prez over N-policy.&quot; The Times of India. Accessed 26-01-2008. However, sources close to the president have said the article comes from Rafsanjani.http://www.rajanews.com/News/?5625 Raja News. Accessed 26-01-2008. Ahmadinejad vowed on February 23, 2008, that Iran will not be held back from developing its peaceful nuclear program, and said the "nuclear technology is ... the sort of technology that has been monopolized by a few countries".&quot;Ahmadinejad: Nations jealous of nuclear progress&quot; Accessed 24-02-2008. Ahmadinejad has stated that at least 16 different peaceful uses for nuclear technology has so far been identified.Domestic criticismAccusations of corruptionAhmadinejad has been criticized for attacking private “plunderers” and “corrupt officials,” while engaging in "cronyism and political favouritism". Many of his close associates have been appointed to positions for which they have no obvious qualifications, and "billion dollar no-bid contracts" have been awarded to the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC), an organization that he is strongly associated with.International Crisis Group, Iran: Ahmadi-Nejad’s Tumultuous Presidency, 6 February 2007 Criticisms of statements and social issuesIn 2005, Khamenei responded to Ahmadinejad's alleged remark that Israel should be "wiped off the map" by saying that "the Islamic Republic has never threatened and will never threaten any country."Edalat, Abbas. &quot;The US can learn from this example of mutual respect&quot;. The Guardian. Accessed 05-04-2007. Moreover, Khamenei's main adviser in foreign policy, Ali Akbar Velayati, refused to take part in Ahmadinejad's Holocaust conference. In contrast to Ahmadinejad's remarks, Velayati said that the Holocaust was a genocide and a historical reality.&quot;Ali Akbar Velayati, Adviser To The Leader: 'Everything is negotiable'&quot;. Iran Press Service. Accessed 27-01-2008.In June 2007, Ahmadinejad was criticized by some Iranian parliament members over his remark about Christianity and Judaism. According to Aftab News Agency, Ahmadinejad stated: "In the world, there are deviations from the right path: Christianity and Judaism. Dollars have been devoted to the propagation of these deviations. There are also false claims that these religions will save mankind. But Islam is the only religion that can save mankind." Some members of Iranian parliament criticized these remarks as being fuels to religious war.&quot;Iran’s President Threatens Crackdown on Christianity&quot; CBN News. Accessed 27-01-2008.news.gooya.eu Gooya. Accessed 27-01-2008.Conservative MP Rafat Bayat has blamed Ahmadinejad for a decline in observance of the required hijab for women, calling him "not that strict on this issue".Harrison, Frances. &quot;Iran police move into fashion business&quot; Accessed 16-04-2007. Ahmadinejad has been also accused of indecency by people close to Rafsanjani,&quot;روزنامه هاشمي&quot;: بوسه‌ احمدی‌نژاد بر دست معلم سالخورده‌اش، اشكال شرعي دارد!&quot; Ansar News. Accessed 27-01-2008. after he publicly kissed the hand of a woman who used to be his school teacher.&quot;Ahmadinejad accused of indecency&quot; BBC News. Accessed 28-01-2008.His criticism of the West has been controversial among some members of Iranian Parliament, leading to attempts to compel him to go to the parliament to answer questions.&quot;Growing pressure on Ahmadinejad&quot; BBC News, Accessed16-01-2007.Criticisms from other political partiesMany reformist and independent political parties, including some of those that boycotted the first round of the presidential election, have called for an alliance against Ahmadinejad, calling it "a national alliance against fascism." Critics, including some independent ones, have mentioned that while there are some similarities between the actions and rising of supporters of Ahmadinejad with those of fascism, the movement differs because it is neither nationalistic nor racist and lacks corporatism.Some dissident groups also accused him of being a ruthless interrogator and torturer in the 1980s.Iran Focus-Iran’s new President has a past mired in controversy - Iran (General) - News&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;December 2006 student protestOn December 11, 2006, some students disrupted a speech by Ahmadinejad at the Amirkabir University of Technology (Tehran Polytechnic) in Tehran. According to the Iranian Student News Agency, students set fire to photographs of Ahmadinejad and threw firecrackers. The protesters also chanted "death to the dictator." It was the first major public protest against Ahmadinejad since his election. In a statement carried on the students' Web site, they announced that they had been protesting the growing political pressure under Ahmadinejad, also accusing him of corruption, mismanagement, and discrimination. The statement added that "the students showed that despite vast propaganda, the president has not been able to deceive academia." It was also reported that some students were angry about the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust.Theodoulou, Michael. &quot;Protesters condemn Holocaust conference.&quot; The Scotsman. Accessed 06-05-2007.In response to the students' slogans, the president said: "We have been standing up to dictatorship so that no one will dare to establish dictatorship in a millennium even in the name of freedom. Given the scars inflicted on the Iranian nation by agents of the US and British dictatorship, no one will ever dare to initiate the rise of a dictator."President: Students are pioneers of revolutionary movements - Irna&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; It was reported that even though the protesters broke the TV cameras and threw hand-made bombs at Ahmadinejad,Films of yesterday protest in Iran are leaking out « Connections پیوست&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; the president asked the officials not to question or disturb the protesters.http://www.rajanews.com/News/?3739 http://www.rajanews.com/News/?3737 In his blog, Ahmadinejad described his reaction to the incident as "a feeling of joy" because of the freedom that people enjoyed after the revolution.[http://www.ahmadinejad.ir/en/freedom/ Freedom and Liberty] - Ahmadinejad's English BlogOne thousand students also protested the day before to denounce the increased pressure on the reformist groups at the university. One week prior, more than two thousand students protested at Tehran University on the country's annual student day, with speakers saying that there had been a crackdown on dissent at universities since Ahmadinejad was elected.Ahmadinejad–Haddad Adel conflict over Iranian constitutionIn 2008, a serious conflict emerged between Iranian President and the head of parliament over three laws approved by Iranian parliament: "the agreement for civil and criminal legal cooperation between Iran and Kyrgyzstan", "the agreement to support mutual investment between Iran and Kuwait", and "the law for registration of industrial designs and trademarks". The conflict was so serious that the Iranian leader stepped in to resolve the conflict. Ahmadinejad wrote a letter to parliament speaker Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, furiously denouncing him for an "inexplicable act" in bypassing the presidency by giving the order to implement legislation in an official newspaper.Iran President Ahmadinejad In Rows With 3 Leading Officials - AFP&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; President Ahmadinejad accused the head of parliament of violating Iranian constitutional law. He called for legal action against the Parliament speaker. Ahmadinejad Attacks Haddad Adel (Iran Press Service)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Press TV - Haddad-Adel: Constitution not violated&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Haddad-Adel responded to Ahmadinejad accusing him of using inappropriate language in his remarks and letters. الف - پاسخ رئیس‏مجلس به رئیس‏جمهور&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;Ali Kordan's fabricated doctoral degree and moral charges In August 2008, Dr Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, appointed Ali Kordan as Iran's interior minister. Kordan's appointment has been criticized by Iranian parliamentarians, media and analysts after it came to light that a doctoral degree allegedly awarded to Ali Kordan was fabricated, and that the putative issuer of the degree, Oxford University, had no record of Ali Kordan receiving any degree from the University. It was also revealed that he had been jailed in 1978 for moral charges. Fabrication of legal documents is punishable in Iranian law with one to three years of imprisonment and in the case of government officials, the maximum sentence (three years) is demanded. Pres. Ahmadinejad has not yet dismissed Kordan or explained or appologized for the appointment.Foreign relationsand gaining support from many Kurds.]]Relations with the United StatesDuring Ahmadinejad's presidency, Iran and the US have had the most high-profile contact in almost 30 years. Iran and the US froze diplomatic relations in 1980 and had no direct diplomatic contact until May 2007.Gollust, David. &quot;US Ready For Another Meeting With Iran.&quot; Voice of America. Accessed 26-01-2008.While the U.S has linked its support for a Palestinian state to acceptance of Israel's "right to exist," Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has retorted that Israel be moved to Europe instead.&quot;Iran's Ahmadinajad says Israel should be moved to Europe.&quot; Accessed 29-09-2007. The U.S. has sent clear signals to Iran that its posturing against Israel's right to exist is unacceptable, leading to increased speculation of a U.S. led attack on Iran's nuclear facilities. Even though Iran has denied involvement in Iraq, President Bush has warned of "consequences," sending a clear message to Iran that the U.S may take military action against it.Ibid. The Bush administration considers Iran to be the world's leading state supporter of terrorism. Iran has been on the U.S. list of state sponsors of international terrorism since 1984,Armitage, Richard. &quot;U.S. Policy and Iran. Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.&quot; U.S. Department of State. Accessed 01-12-2006.Burns, R. Nicholas. &quot;U.S. Policy and Iran. Johns Hopkins University Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies.&quot; U.S. Department of State. Accessed 01-12-2006.&quot;State Sponsors of Terrorism.&quot; U.S. Department of State. Accessed 05-02-2007. a claim that Iran and Ahmadinejad have denied.On May 8, 2006, Ahmadinejad sent a personal letter to President Bush to propose "new ways" to end Iran's nuclear dispute.&quot;Timeline: US-Iran ties.&quot; BBC News. Accessed 29-10-2006. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley both reviewed the letter and dismissed it as a negotiating ploy and publicity stunt that did not address U.S. concerns about Iran's nuclear program.Vick, Karl. &quot;No Proposals in Iranian's Letter to Bush, U.S. Says.&quot; The Washington Post. Accessed 29-10-2006. A few days later at a meeting in Jakarta, Ahmadinejad said, "the letter was an invitation to monotheism and justice, which are common to all divine prophets."&quot;President says his letter to President Bush was invitation to Islam.&quot; Islamic Republic News Agency. Accessed 29-10-2006.Ahmadinejad invited President George W. Bush to a debate at the United Nation General Assembly, which was to take place on September 19, 2006. The debate was to be about Iran's right to enrich uranium. The invitation was promptly rejected by White House spokesman Tony Snow, who said "There's not going to be a steel-cage grudge match between the President and Ahmadinejad."&quot;No 'steel-cage, grudge match' between Bush, Ahmadinejad.&quot; CNN. Accessed 10-01-2007.  on September 23, 2008, when both Ahmadinejad and George W. Bush addressed the governing body.]] On November 2006, Ahmadinejad wrote an open letter to the American people,&quot;Ahmadinejad's letter to Americans.&quot; CNN. Accessed 26-01-2008. representing some of his anxieties and concerns. He stated that there is an urgency to have a dialog because of the activities of the US administration in the Middle East, and that the US is concealing the truth about current realities.&quot;Message of H.E. Dr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad President of the Republic of Iran to the American People.&quot; Fox News. Accessed 29-11-2006.The United States Senate passed a resolution warning Iran about attacks in Iraq. On September 26, 2007, the United States Senate passed a resolution 76-22 and labeled an arm of the Iranian military as a terrorist organization.In September 2007 Ahmadinejad visited New York to address the General Assembly of the United Nations. Prior to this he gave a speech at the Columbia University, where the university president Lee Bollinger — clearly stung by criticism for hosting Ahmadinejad — used his introduction to excoriate the Iranian leader as everything from a "cruel and petty dictator" to "astonishingly uneducated." Taking questions from Columbia faculty and students who attended his address, Ahmadinejad answered a query about the treatment of gays in Iran by saying: "We don't have homosexuals like in your country. We don't have that in our country. We don't have this phenomenon; I don't know who's told you we have it." An aide later claimed that he was misrepresented and was actually saying that "compared to American society, we don't have many homosexuals". President misquoted over gays in Iran: aide | International | Reuters&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In a speech given in April 2008, Ahmadinejad described the September 11, 2001 attacks as a "suspect event." He minimized the attacks by saying all that had happened was, "a building collapsed." He claimed that the death toll was never published, that the victims' names were never published, and that the attacks were used subsequently as pretext for the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq.  Ahmadinejad: 9/11 'suspect event'Relations with Israel  On October 26, 2005 Ahmadinejad gave a speech at a conference in Tehran entitled "World Without Zionism". According to widely published translations, he agreed with a statement he attributed to Ayatollah Khomeini that the "occupying regime" had to be removed, and referred to it as a "disgraceful stain on the Islamic world", that needed to be "wiped from the map."*&quot;Annan: 'Dismay' over Iranian comments on Israel&quot;. CNN. Accessed 27-09-2007.Fathi, Nazila. &quot;Text of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Speech&quot;. New York Times. Accessed 17-10-2006.&quot;Iran vote seen as referendum on Ahmadinejad&quot;. The Boston Globe. Accessed 27-12-2006.Ahmadinejad's comments were condemned by major Western governments, the European Union, Russia, the United Nations Security Council and UN Secretary General Kofi Annan.  Egyptian, Turkish and Palestinian leaders also expressed displeasure over Ahmadinejad's remark.  Canada's then Prime Minister Paul Martin said, “this threat to Israel's existence, this call for genocide coupled with Iran's obvious nuclear ambitions is a matter that the world cannot ignore.”   --The translation of his statement has been disputed. Iran's foreign minister stated that Ahmadinejad had been "misunderstood": "He is talking about the regime. We do not recognise legally this regime." Some experts state that the phrase in question (بايد از صفحه روزگار محو شود) is more accurately translated as "eliminated" or "wiped off" or "wiped away" from "the page of time" or "the pages of history", rather than "wiped off the map". Reviewing the controversy over the translation, New York Times deputy foreign editor Ethan Bronner observed that "all official translations" of the comments, including the foreign ministry and president's office, "refer to wiping Israel away". Dr. Joshua Teitelbaum, in a paper for the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, examined the language that President Ahmadinejad has used when discussing Israel. Using Farsi translations from Dr. Denis MacEoin, a former lecturer in Islamic studies in the United Kingdom, Teitelbaum wrote that "the Iranian president was not just calling for “regime change” in Jerusalem, but rather the actual physical destruction of the State of Israel," and asserted that Ahmadinejad was advocating the genocide of its residents as well. Teitelbaum said that in a speech given on October 26, 2005, Ahmadinejad said the following about Israel: "Soon this stain of disgrace will be cleaned from the garment of the world of Islam, and this is attainable." Teitelbaum argued that this type of dehumanizing rhetoric is a documented prelude to genocide incitement. Dr. Juan Cole, a professor of modern Middle Eastern and South Asian history at the University of Michigan, has argued that Ahmadinejad was not calling for the destruction of Israel, “Ahmadinejad did not say he was going to wipe Israel off the map because no such idiom exists in Persian.” Dr. Stephen Walt, a professor of international affairs at Harvard University has said “I don’t think he is inciting to genocide.""What Iranian Leaders Really Say About Doing Away with Israel." Joshua Teitelbaum. (Jerusalem: Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, 2008). http://www.jcpa.org/text/ahmadinejad2-words.pdf According to Gawdat Bahgat, Director of Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Indiana University of Pennsylvania, "the fiery calls to destroy Israel are meant to mobilize domestic and regional constituencies" and that "Rhetoric aside, most analysts agree that the Islamic Republic and the Jewish state are not likely to engage in a military confrontation against each other." Nuclear Proliferation: The Islamic. Republic of Iran. G. AWDAT. B. AHGAT, Iranian Studies, volume 39, number 3, September 2006 Since then Ahmadinejad has continued to make incendiary statements regarding Israel. He compared Israel's actions in the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict to Adolf Hitler's actions during World War II saying that "Just like Hitler, the Zionist regime is just looking for a pretext for launching military attacks" and "is now acting just like him." On August 8, 2006, he gave a television interview to Mike Wallace, a correspondent for 60 Minutes, in which he questioned American support of Israel's "murderous regime" and the moral grounds for Israel's invasion of Lebanon. On December 2, 2006, Ahmadinejad met with Palestinian Prime Minister Ismail Haniyah in Doha, Qatar. At that meeting, he said that Israel "was created to establish dominion of arrogant states over the region and to enable the enemy to penetrate the heart Muslim land." He called Israel a "threat" and said it was created to create tensions in and impose US and UK policies upon the region. On December 12, 2006, Ahmadinejad addressed the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust, and made comments about the future of Israel. He said, "Israel is about to crash. This is God's promise and the wish of all the world's nations."Relations with Russia Ahmadinejad has moved to strengthen relations with Russia, setting up an office expressly dedicated to the purpose in October 2005. He has worked with Vladimir Putin on the nuclear issue, and both Putin and Ahmadinejad have expressed a desire for more mutual cooperation on issues involving the Caspian Sea. More recently, Iran has been increasingly pushed into an alliance with Moscow due to the controversy over Iran's nuclear program. By late December 2007, Russia began to deliver enriched batches of nuclear fuel to Iran as a way of persuading Iran to end self-enrichment.Relations with Venezuela Ahmadinejad has sought to develop ties with other world leaders that are also opposed to U.S. foreign policy and influence like Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.Prada, Leandro. &quot;Ahmadinejad Visits Anti-US Allies in Latin America.&quot; CNS News. Accessed 26-01-2008. Venezuela voted in favor of Iran's nuclear program before the United Nations,&quot;Ahmadinejad hails Venezuela's vote in IAEA.&quot; Global Security. Accessed 26-01-2008 and both regimes have sought to develop more bilateral trade.&quot;Venezuela's Chavez, Iran's Ahmadinejad Pledge Mutual Support.&quot; Fox News. Accessed 26-01-2008. As of 2006, the ties between the two countries are strategic rather than economic; Venezuela is still not one of Iran's major trading partners.&quot;CIA - The World Factbook - Iran.&quot; CIA. Accessed 26-01-2008.Regional relationsImmediately after the Islamic Revolution, Iran's relations with most of its neighbors, particularly those with large Shiite minorities, were severely strained.Abdel-Mageed, Dina &quot;Has the Revolution Affected Iran's Relations With Its Neighbors?&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008. Ahmadinejad's priority in the region has been to improve ties with most of Iran's neighbors in order to strengthen Iran's status and influence in both the Middle East and Greater Muslim World.&quot;Iran leader tries to pry Arabs out of US alliance.&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008&quot;Saudi-Iran Meeting Yields Little Substance.&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008Turkey has always been an important ally in the region due to its ties to the West through NATO, Israel,Vest, Jason &quot;Turkey, Israel and the US.&quot; The Nation. Accessed 26-01-2006. and its potential entry into the European Union. Ahmadinejad made a visit to Ankara in order to reinforce relations with Turkey immediately after the 2007 NIE report was released.&quot;Ahmadinejad seeks to improve Iran image with Ankara visit.&quot; Turkish Daily News. Accessed 26-01-2008. Relations were briefly strained after President Abdullah Gul had stated that he wants the atomic threat to be eliminated from the region, perhaps a hint to Iran;&quot;Israel, Turkey patch up relations.&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008. however, business has remained cordial between the two countries.&quot;Turkey's Botas says Iran is important gas partner.&quot; Reuters. Accessed 26-01-2008. Despite US disapproval, Turkey recently signed a multibillion dollar gas line deal with Tehran in late 2007.&quot;Turkey to fund $3.5 bln Iran gas deal alone.&quot; Reuters. Accessed 26-01-2008Iran's relations with the Arab states have been complex, partly due to the Islamic Revolution of decades ago, as well as more recent efforts by the United States to establish a united front against Iran over the nuclear issue and War on Terror.&quot;Bush Urges Unity Against Iran.&quot; New York Times. Accessed 26-01-2008. Ahmadinejad has sought reconciliation with the Arab states by encouraging bilateral trade and posturing for Iranian entry into the Gulf Cooperation Council.&quot;Ahmadi-Nejad message to Gulf states on relations with Iran.&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008. Outside of the Persian Gulf, Ahmadinejad has sought to reestablish relations with other major Arab states, most notably Egypt.&quot;Iran anxious to reopen embassy in Cairo.&quot; Accessed 26-01-2008. As of 2007, Iran did not have an open embassy there.Iran's ties to Syria have been most notable in the West. Both nations have had to deal with international and regional isolation.&quot;Ahmadinejad visits Syria.&quot; Guardian Unlimited. Accessed 26-01-2008. Further, they both have cordial ties to the militant group, Hezbollah,&quot;Iran, Syria Praise Hezbollah, Mock US.&quot; Associated Press. Accessed 26-01-2008. and concerns over Iran-Syria relations were further exacerbated following the 2006 Lebanon War,&quot;Speaking with the enemy.&quot; Asia Times. Accessed 26-01-2008. which both Ahmadinejad and President Assad claimed as a victory over Israel.Ahmadinejad has also attempted to develop stronger, more intimate ties with both Afghanistan and Pakistan to the East in order to ensure "regional stability."&quot;Iran-Pakistan- Afghanistan friendly ties to ensure regional security.&quot; IRNA. Accessed 26-01-2008. In particular, Ahmadinejad is interested in more bilateral talks between Iran and both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Moreover, Ahmadinejad's administration has taken part in establishing the "peace pipeline"; a pipeline from Iran that will eventually fuel both Pakistan and India. In theory, the plan will help to integrate South Asian economies, and, by consequence, calm tensions between Pakistan and India.Shahid, Sohaib. &quot;Iran-Pak-India gas pipeline: implications and prospects.&quot; Business and Finance Review. Accessed 26-01-2008Ahmadinejad met foreign minister Elmar Mammadyarov of Azerbaijan in order to discuss increased cooperation between the two nations.&quot;Ahmadinejad meets Azeri FM.&quot; Fars. Accessed 26-01-2008 Mammadyarov also expressed desire to expand the North-South corridor between Iran and Azerbaijan and to launch cooperative projects regarding power plant construction. Iran has also redoubled efforts to forge ties with Armenia; during Ahmadinejad's visit in October 2007 the discussions were focused on developing energy ties between the two countries.Whitemore, Brian. &quot;Energy to dominate Ahmadinejad's Armenia visit.&quot; Energy Publisher. Accessed 26-01-2008.In 2008, Ahmadinejad met with the Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen in Clara, Co. Offaly, Ireland.IraqAhmadinejad is the first Iranian president to visit Iraq.of Ahmadinejad's Visit to Iraq.&quot; IranNegah. Accessed 26-05-2008.  Ahmadinejad, in Baghdad March 2 2008 for the start of a historic two-day trip, said "visiting Iraq without the dictator (Saddam Hussein) is a good thing."&quot;Iran president on landmark Iraq visit&quot; CNN. Accessed 03-02-2008. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, heading home after a two-day visit to Iraq, again touted his country's closer relations with Iraq and reiterated his criticism of the United States.&quot;Iran's president: No one likes Americans&quot; CNN. Accessed 03-03-2008.Holocaust denial and accusations of antisemitismOn 14 December 2005, Ahmadinejad made several controversial statements about the Holocaust, calling it "a myth" and criticizing European laws against Holocaust denial.&quot;Iranian leader: Holocaust a 'myth'&quot; CNN. Accessed 26-01-2008. In an interview with Der Spiegel, Ahmadinejad again questioned the Holocaust several times, insisting there were "two opinions" on it. When asked if the Holocaust was a myth, he responded "I will only accept something as truth if I am actually convinced of it."[http://www.spiegel.de/international/0,1518,418660,00.html "We Are Determined: Spiegel interview with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad"] Accessed 26-01-2008. In an appearance at Columbia University, he stated that the Holocaust should be left open to debate and research like any other historical event.&quot;President Ahmadinejad Delivers Remarks at Columbia University&quot; The Washington Post. Accessed 26-01-2008.In response to these statements and actions, a variety of sources, including the U.S. Senate,&quot;Condemning antisemitic Statements of the President of Iran&quot; have accused Ahmadinejad of antisemitism. On December 11, 2006 the "International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust" opened with widespread condemnation.&quot;Iran hosts Holocaust conference&quot;. CNN. Accessed 27-12-2006. The conference, called for by and held at the behest of Ahmadinejad,"Iran: Holocaust Conference Soon in Tehran". Adnkronos International (AKI). Accessed 27-12-2006. was described in Western media as a "Holocaust denial conference" or a "meeting of Holocaust deniers",*&quot;Across Europe, outrage over meeting of Holocaust deniers in Iran&quot;. International Herald Tribune. Accessed 11-12-2006.&quot;Holocaust deniers gather in Iran for 'scientific' conference&quot;. The Guardian. Accessed 11-12-2006.&quot;Holocaust Deniers and Skeptics Gather in Iran&quot;, The New York Times. Accessed 11-12-2006.&quot;Iran students rebel over Holocaust denial.&quot; United Press International. Accessed 12-12-2006.&quot;Iran Further Isolates Itself with 'Holocaust Denial'&quot; Weekend Edition, National Public Radio. Accessed 17-12-2006.&quot;Statement on Holocaust Denial Conference Sponsored by Iranian Regime&quot;, The White House, Office of the Press Secretary, December 12, 2006. though Iran maintained that it was not a Holocaust denial conference.&quot;Berlin Counters Holocaust Conference&quot; Spiegel Online. Accessed 27-12-2006.See alsoPolitics of IranHaghani CircleAyatollah Mohammad Taghi Mesbah YazdiAdvisors to the president:Hamid MowlanaMohammad-Ali RaminAli Akbar JavanfekrOthers:2006 Iranian sumptuary law controversyMahmoud Ahmadinejad and the 1979 Hostage CrisisReferences Preview of this interview: [http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3032619/#25882303 NBC] (7 min 17 sec). An overview: [http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3032619/#25885541 NBC] (7 min 59 sec).         Category:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Category:Presidents of Iran Category:Current national leaders Category:Mayors of Tehran Category:Iranian governors Category:Civil engineers Category:Iranian engineers Category:1956 births Category:Living people Category:Shi'a politicians Category:Iranian Shi'a Muslims Category:Anti-Zionism  af:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ar:محمود أحمدي نجاد az:Mahmud Əhmədinecad bs:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad bg:Махмуд Ахмадинеджад ca:Mahmud Ahmadinejad ceb:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad cs:Mahmúd Ahmadínedžád cy:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad da:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad de:Mahmud Ahmadinedschad et:Maḩmūd Aḩmadīnezhād el:Μαχμούτ Αχμεντινετζάντ es:Mahmud Ahmadineyad eo:Mahmud Ahmadineĵad eu:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad fa:محمود احمدی‌نژاد fr:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ga:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad gl:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ko:마흐무드 아흐마디네자드 hy:Մահմուդ Ահմադինեժադ hi:महमूद अहमदीनेज़ाद hr:Mahmud Ahmedinedžad io:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad id:Mahmud Ahmadinejad is:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad it:Mahmud Ahmadinejad he:מחמוד אחמדינז'אד ka:მაჰმუდ აჰმადინეჟადი ku:Mehmûdê Ehmedînejad la:Machometus Ahmadinejad lb:Mahmud Ahmadinedschad lt:Mahmudas Ahmadinedžadas mk:Махмуд Ахмадинеџад ml:മഹ്‌മൂദ്‌ അഹ്‌മദീനെജാദ് mr:महमूद अहमदिनेजाद ms:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad nl:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ja:マフムード・アフマディーネジャード no:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad uz:Mahmud Ahmadinajod pl:Mahmud Ahmadineżad pt:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ru:Ахмадинежад, Махмуд sq:Mahmud Ahmedinezhad simple:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad sk:Mahmúd Ahmadí-Nežád sr:Махмуд Ахмадинежад sh:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad fi:Mahmud Ahmadinejad sv:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ta:மஹ்மூத் அஹ்மதிநெஜாத் vi:Mahmoud Ahmadinejad tg:Маҳмуд Аҳмадинижод tr:Mahmud Ahmedinejad uk:Ахмадінежад Махмуд ur:محمود احمدی نژاد yi:מאכמוד אכמעדיניזשאד zh-yue:艾哈邁迪內賈德 zh:马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪内贾德