/214 | place of birth =Syrmia / Dardania (Sremska Mitrovica, Serbia) | date of death =January 270 | place of death =Rome | place of burial = |Marcus Aurelius Claudius (May 10, 213/214 - January, 270), often referred to as Claudius Gothicus or Claudius II, was a Roman Emperor. He ruled the Roman Empire for less than two years (268 - 270), but during that brief time he managed to obtain some successes. He was later given divine status.LifeOrigin and rise to powerClaudius' origin is uncertain. He was either from Sirmium (Syrmia; in Pannonia Inferior) or from Naissus Dardania (in Moesia Superior); both areas are located in Kosovo.Claudius was the commander of the Roman army that decisively defeated the Goths at the Battle of Naissus in September 268; in the same month, he attained the throne, amid charges, never proven, that he murdered his predecessor Gallienus. However, he soon proved to be less than bloodthirsty, as he asked the Roman Senate to spare the lives of Gallienus' family and supporters. He was less magnanimous toward Rome's enemies, however, and it was to this that he owed his popularity.Claudius, like Maximinus Thrax before him, was of barbarian birth. After an interlude of failed aristocratic Roman emperors since Maximinus's death, Claudius was the first in a series of tough soldier-emperors who would eventually restore the Empire from the Crisis of the third century.Claudius as emperorAt the time of his accession, the Roman Empire was in serious danger from several incursions, both within and outside its borders. The most pressing of these was an invasion of Illyricum and Pannonia by the Goths. Not long after being named emperor (or just prior to Gallienus' death, depending on the source), he won his greatest victory, and one of the greatest in the history of Roman arms.At the Battle of Naissus, Claudius and his legions routed a huge Gothic army. Together with his cavalry commander, the future Emperor Aurelian, the Romans took thousands of prisoners, destroyed the Gothic cavalry as a force and stormed their laager (a circular alignment of wagons long favored by the Goths). The victory earned Claudius his surname of "Gothicus" (conqueror of the Goths), and that is how he is known to this day. More importantly, the Goths were soon driven back across the Danube River, and a century passed before they again posed a serious threat to the empire.While this was going on, the Germanic tribe known as the Alamanni had crossed the Alps and attacked the empire. Claudius responded quickly, routing the Alamanni at the Battle of Lake Benacus in the late fall of 268, a few months after the battle of Naissus. He then turned on the Gallic Empire, ruled by a pretender for the past fifteen years and encompassing Britain, Gaul, and the Iberian Peninsula. He won several victories and soon regained control of Spain and the Rhone river valley of Gaul. This set the stage for the ultimate destruction of the Gallic Empire under Aurelian.However, Claudius did not live long enough to fulfill his goal of reuniting all the lost territories of the empire. Late in 269 he was preparing to go to war against the Vandals, who were raiding in Pannonia. However, he fell victim to the Plague of Cyprian (possibly smallpox), and died early in January 270. Before his death, he is thought to have named Aurelian as his successor, although Claudius' brother Quintillus briefly seized power.The Senate immediately deified Claudius as "Divus Claudius Gothicus".Links to Constantinian dynastyThe Historia Augusta reports Claudius and Quintillus having another brother named Crispus and through him a niece. Said niece Claudia reportedly married Eutropius and was mother to Constantius Chlorus. Historians however suspect this account to be a genealogical fabrication intended to link Constantine I's family to that of a well-respected emperor.ReferencesPrimary SourcesAurelius Victor, Epitome de CaesaribusEutropius, Breviarium ab urbe conditaHistoria Augusta, Life of ClaudiusJoannes Zonaras, Compendium of History extract: Zonaras: Alexander Severus to Diocletian: 222-284Zosimus, Historia NovaSee alsoRoman Empire    Category:Roman emperors Category:3rd century Romans Category:Crisis of the Third Century Category:210s births Category:270 deathsbg:Клавдий II Готски ca:Claudi II el Gòtic cs:Claudius II. cy:Claudius II da:Claudius II de:Claudius Gothicus et:Claudius II Gothicus es:Claudio II eo:Klaŭdio la Gota eu:Klaudio Gotiko fr:Claude II le Gothique fy:Klaudius Goatikus gl:Claudio II o Gótico hr:Klaudije Gotski it:Claudio il Gotico he:קלאודיוס השני גותיקוס sw:Kaizari Claudius II la:Claudius Gothicus hu:II. Claudius nl:Claudius Gothicus ja:クラウディウス・ゴティクス no:Claudius II pl:Klaudiusz II Gocki pt:Cláudio II ro:Claudius II ru:Клавдий II sq:Klaudi II sk:Claudius II. sr:Клаудије II Готски fi:Claudius Gothicus sv:Claudius II Gothicus tl:Claudius II vi:Claudius II tr:II. Claudius zh:克劳狄二世