 |language = English |budget = AUD$8,800,000 (estimated) |followed_by = &quot;Crocodile&quot; Dundee II  Crocodile Dundee is a 1986 Australian comedy film set in the Australian Outback and in New York City. It stars Paul Hogan as the weathered Mick Dundee and Linda Kozlowski as Sue Charlton.Inspired by the true life exploits of Rodney Ansell, the film was made on a budget of under $10 million as a deliberate attempt to make a commercial Australian film that would appeal to a mainstream American audience, but proved to be a worldwide phenomenon. Released on 30 April 1986 in Australia, and on 26 September 1986 in the United States, it was the second highest grossing film in the USA in that year and went on to become the number one film worldwide at the box office.There are two versions of the film: The Australian version, and the American/International version, with much of the Australian slang replaced with more commonly understood terms, and also being slightly shorter, lacking several scenes. The international version also changes the title to "Crocodile" Dundee.The film was followed by two sequels: 1988's Crocodile Dundee II and 2001's Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles.PlotSue Charlton, one of the protagonists, is a feature writer for Newsday, who is romantically involved with her editor, Richard. She travels to Australia to write some feature articles and hears about a man who survived a crocodile attack and the vicious damages done to his leg by the croc. She travels to meet this local, Michael J. "Crocodile" Dundee, at an outback settlement, along with the owner of Never Never Outback Tours, Dundee's employer, Walter. Sue is startled to find that "Crocodile" Dundee is not a typical hero and that he is frequently involved in fights. She also learns that the story of his fight with the crocodile is exaggerated, in that his leg is still intact, although with a massive bite scar.Sue, Mick, and Walter travel into the wilderness, where Mick demonstrates his skills by estimating the time by looking at the sun (seconds after glancing at Walter's watch), hypnotizing a buffalo, and killing a crocodile that attacks Sue. One evening, Mick introduces Sue to Neville Bill, the son of a tribal elder. Mick and "Nev" go to an Aboriginal tribal dance ceremony, to pay respect to Neville's father and to the land. Sue, as a woman, is forbidden to take part in the ritual but she follows and hides in the bushes to observe it. While hiding in the bushes she uses her camera's zoom lens to find Dundee in the crowd of men. She sees him look straight at her, letting her know that he is aware of her presence, enforcing her idea that he is somehow supernaturally in touch with the world around him.They travel the same route that Mick took when he was injured, ending up in a freshwater lagoon. Sue and Mick share a kiss, but they are interrupted by Walter, returning to fetch them from the bush. Sue invites Mick to accompany her to New York, because he says he has never been to a big city. In New York, he is met with contempt and some jealousy by Richard. He also has a number of awkward moments where he displays an equal amount of unfamiliarity with his surroundings, as by trying to dodge the bottom of an escalator; asking the African-American limo driver his tribal background ("Harlem Warlords"); trying by trial and error to ascertain the use of a bidet; touching the genitals of a cross-dresser to verify his gender; washing his clothes in the bath; and mixing a drug addict's cocaine with steaming water and instructing him to inhale the vapors that way. He also demonstrates his canny sense of justice when he beats a pimp who has used profane language in front of the prostitutes he is working with, and later when he witnesses a purse-snatching and knocks the running thief insensate with a thrown can of food.The most famous scene in the movie occurs when Mick and Sue are menaced by a trio of punks. One of whom brandishes a switchblade. Sue advises Mick to give the thief his wallet, because the thief has a knife. Mick merely chuckles at the switchblade. "That's not a knife," he scoffs, drawing his much larger outback Bowie knife and slashing up the would-be mugger's nylon jacket with the words: "That's a knife!" When the thieves run away, he smiles merrily and shrugs the incident off, saying "Just kids having fun".As they spend time together for the story, Mick and Sue become closer, which leads to further jealousy on Richard's part. Richard tries to undermine Mick and his influence over Sue and secures Sam Charlton's approval to ask Sue to marry him. When Richard finally proposes marriage to Sue at a dinner party, Mick is upset and decides to go on a 'walkabout' (which can last around 18 months) to reconcile himself to his situation. Sue tracks him to Grand Central Station, where they talk back and forth through the subway by having members of the crowd transmit their words. She insists to him that she has refused to marry Richard, on grounds of loving Mick instead; at this, Mick walks over the heads and raised hands of the jubilant crowd and embraces her.Main castPaul Hogan: Michael J. 'Crocodile' DundeeLinda Kozlowski: Sue CharltonJohn Meillon: Walter ReillyDavid Gulpilil: Neville BellSteve Rackman: DonkGerry Skilton: NuggetTerry Gill: DuffyPeter Turnbull: TrevorChristine Totos: RositaGraham 'Grace' Walker: AngeloMark Blum: Richard MasonMichael Lombard: Sam CharltonCaitlin Clarke: SimoneAwardsAward wins:Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Motion Picture Musical or Comedy &ndash; Paul HoganAward nominations:Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture - Musical or ComedyAcademy Award for Writing Original Screenplay &ndash; Paul Hogan, Ken Shadie, John CornellBAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay &ndash; Paul Hogan, Ken Shadie, John CornellBAFTA Award for Best Actor &ndash; Paul HoganGolden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress &ndash; Linda KozlowskiExternal linksLocation of Walkabout Creek, which is a creek; there is no town by that name.Crocodile Dundee at the National Film and Sound Archive  Category:1986 films Category:Australian comedy films Category:Adventure comedy films Category:Paramount films Category:English-language films Category:Films set in Australia Category:Films set in New York City Category:Films shot anamorphically Category:Australia in fictionde:Crocodile Dundee – Ein Krokodil zum Küssen es:Cocodrilo Dundee fr:Crocodile Dundee id:Crocodile Dundee it:Mr. Crocodile Dundee nl:Crocodile Dundee ja:クロコダイル・ダンディー pl:Krokodyl Dundee ru:Крокодил Данди (фильм) fi:Crocodile Dundee – Krokotiilimies