 Blue Cheer is a San Francisco-based rock group that initially performed and recorded in the late 1960s and early 1970s, and again from the mid-1980s to the present. They are credited as being pioneers of heavy metal music. According to Tim Hills in his book, The Many Lives of the Crystal Ballroom, "Blue Cheer was the epitome of San Francisco psychedelia. The band was rumored to have been named for a brand of LSD and promoted by renowned LSD chemist and former Grateful Dead patron, Owsley Stanley. Profile of Blue Cheer by William Ruhlmann; www.allmusic.com.HistoryThe band's sound was something of a departure from the music that had been coming out of the Bay Area: Blue Cheer's three musicians played heavy blues-rock, and played it very loud.The group came together in 1966. Original personnel were singer/bassist Dickie Peterson, guitarist Leigh Stephens, drummer Paul Whaley and three others: Dickie's brother Jerry Peterson (guitar), Val Hamanaka (keyboards) and Jerry Whiting (vocals, harmonica). Very early on, it was decided that the lineup should be trimmed down. Hamanaka & Whiting were asked to leave. And Jerry Peterson didn't want to remain in the group without them. So he departed as well, leaving Dickie, Leigh and Paul as a trio. Their first hit was a cover version of Eddie Cochran's "Summertime Blues" from their debut album Vincebus Eruptum (1968). The single peaked at #14 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, their only such hit, and the album peaked at #11 on the Billboard 200 chart.The group's sound was hard to categorise, but was definitely blues-based, psychedelic, and loud.The "Summertime Blues" single was backed with Dickie Petersen's original song "Out Of Focus". Petersen also contributed to the album the eight-minute "Doctor Please" and "Second Time Around", which features Paul Whaley's frantic drum solo. Filling out the record, the band cranks out blues covers "Rock Me Baby" and Mose Allison's "Parchment Farm".The group underwent several personnel changes, the first occurring after the 1968 release of Outsideinside after Leigh Stephens left the band due to musical differences or, as some report, deafness,Blue Cheer Biography, Rockdetector.  . He was replaced by Randy Holden, formerly of Los Angeles garage rock band The Other Half . On 1969's New! Improved! Blue Cheer there were different guitarists on side 1 and 2, Holden & Bruce Stephens. More new members came on board for this album; Guitarist Bruce Stephens.Bruce Stephens had previously played with Leigh Stephens (no relation) in Pilot (not the &quot;It's Magic&quot; Pilot), one of Leigh's post-Blue Cheer projects.  and Ralph Burns Kellogg on keyboards. Blue Cheer's style now changed to a more commercial hard rock sound à la Steppenwolf or Iron Butterfly. For the fourth album Blue Cheer, Bruce Stephens left and was succeeded by Gary Lee Yoder who helped complete the album.The new line-up of Peterson, Ralph Burns Kellogg, Norman Mayell(drums) and Yoder in 1970 saw the release of The Original Human Being and then 1971's Oh! Pleasant Hope. When Oh! Pleasant Hope failed to dent the sales charts, Blue Cheer temporarily split up by 1972.There was a temporary resumption in 1974 with Dickie Peterson being joined by brother Jerry, Ruben de Fuentes(guitar) and Terry Rae(drums) for some tour dates. This grouping continued on briefly in 1975 with former Steppenwolf bassist Nick St. Nicholas replacing Dickie.Dickie returned in 1978-79 with a fresh line-up(Tony Rainier on guitar and Mike Fleck on drums) but this version of the group never got out of rehearsal studios.In 1984, Peterson had better luck when he returned with Whaley and Rainier as Blue Cheer and a brand new album The Beast is Back, which was released on the European label Megaforce Records . Whaley left again in 1985 as drummer Bret Heartman took over, only to be succeeded by Billy Carmassi in 1987. That same year Dickie led yet another new lineup of the Cheer that had Ruben de Fuentes back on guitar and Eric Davis on drums. And in 1988 the trio was composed of Dickie Peterson, Andrew &quot;Duck&quot; McDonald (guitar) and Dave Salce(drums)From 1988 to 1993, Blue Cheer toured mainly in Europe. During this time, they played with classic rock acts as well as then-up-and-coming bands: Mountain, Outlaws, Thunder, The Groundhogs, Ten Years After, The Yardbirds, Danzig, Mucky Pup and others. 1989 saw the release of Blue Cheer's first official live album, Blitzkrieg over Nüremberg. This album was recorded during Blue Cheer's first European tour in decades.1990 saw the release of the Highlights &amp; Lowlives studio album, composed of blues-based heavy metal and one ballad. The album was produced by notable grunge producer Jack Endino. The line-up was Peterson, Whaley on drums and McDonald on guitars.Blue Cheer followed up "Highlights" with the much heavier Dining with the Sharks. McDonald was replaced by German ex-Monsters guitar player Dieter Saller. Peterson was on bass and vocals again, and Paul Whaley was again on drums. Also featured is a special guest appearance by Groundhogs guitarist Tony McPhee. The album was produced by Roland Hofmann.Gary Holland (ex-Dokken) replaced Whaley on drums in 1993.In the early 1990s, Peterson and Whaley re-located to Germany. Whaley still lives there while Peterson moved back to California in 1994. After Peterson came back to the U.S., Blue Cheer was dormant for a time.In 1999, Peterson & Whaley got together with guitarist McDonald to resume touring as Blue Cheer.In 2000, Blue Cheer was the subject of a tribute album, Blue Explosion - A Tribute to Blue Cheer, featuring such bands as Pentagram, Internal Void, Hogwash and Thumlock.Peterson and Leigh Stephens were together once again in Blue Cheer with drummer Prairie Prince at the Chet Helms Memorial Tribal Stomp in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park on October 29th, 2005, and their lively performance drew old rockers like Paul Kantner and others from backstage to observe. They did some recordings in Virginia in Winter 2005 with Joe Hasselvander of Raven and Pentagram on drums, due to Paul Whaley choosing to remain in Germany.Hasselvander's connection to the band was principally Duck MacDonald. Both had been members of the Kim Simmonds Band, prior to Savoy Brown founder Kim Simmonds deciding to reform Savoy Brown. While Hasselvander played on the entire album, his contribution was reduced to drums on five songs, with Paul Whaley re-recording the drum parts on the balance of the album. This was because Whaley was set to rejoin the band and it was felt that he should contribute to the album, prior to touring. The resulting CD, What Doesn't Kill You...,, released in 2007, features contributions from both Whaley and Hasselvander as a consequence.Interview with Joe Hasselvander by Metal Mark, March, 2008; "Heavy Metal Time Machine". See also Duck MacDonald Autobiography at www.bluecheer.us.Blue Cheer's video for Summertime Blues made an appearance in 2005 documentary Metal: A Headbanger's Journey, where Geddy Lee of Rush referred to the group as one of the first heavy metal bands.The band is also regarded as the godfathers of stoner rock. Bands like Kyuss, Fu Manchu, Nebula and Monster Magnet have cited their "heavy-fuzz rock" as a massive influence on them.DiscographyVincebus Eruptum (1968) Polygram RecordsOutsideinside (1968) Polygram RecordsNew! Improved! Blue Cheer (1969) Philips RecordsBlue Cheer (1969) Philips RecordsThe Original Human Being (1970) Philips Records[http://www.allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&amp;sql=10:gifexqq5ldhe Oh! Pleasant Hope] (1971) Philips Records[http://www.metalkingdom.net/album/2243_blue_cheer_the_beast_is_back The Beast Is Back] (1985) Megaforce Records[http://www.metalkingdom.net/album/2244_blue_cheer_blitzkrieg_over_nuremberg Blitzkrieg Over Nuremberg] (1989) Magnum Records[http://www.metalkingdom.net/album/2245_blue_cheer_highlights_and_lowlives Highlights & Low Lives] (1990) Thunderbolt Records[http://www.metalkingdom.net/album/2246_blue_cheer_dining_with_the_sharks Dining With the Sharks] (1992) Nibelung Records[http://www.musicemissions.com/artists/albums/index.php?album_id=3614 Hello Tokyo, Bye Bye Osaka - Live In Japan 1999] (2003) Track Records[http://www.allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&amp;sql=10:wnfqxqysldse Bootleg: Live - Hamburg - London] (2005) Rockview Records[http://www.rainmanrecords.com/cgi-bin/rain/rmcd136.html What Doesn't Kill You...] (2007) Rainman RecordsTribute AlbumBlue Explosion - A Tribute to Blue Cheer (2000) Black Widow RecordsExternal linksBand's Website2007 Concert VideoLeigh Stephens Official WebsiteReferencesCategory:California heavy metal musical groups Category:1960s music groups Category:1970s music groups Category:Rock trios Category:Pre-punk groups Category:Psychedelic musical groups Category:San Francisco musical groupscs:Blue Cheer de:Blue Cheer es:Blue Cheer fr:Blue Cheer it:Blue Cheer he:בלו צ'יר nl:Blue Cheer pl:Blue Cheer pt:Blue Cheer ru:Blue Cheer sk:Blue Cheer fi:Blue Cheer sv:Blue Cheer