The coat of arms of South Africa first in use in 1910 was replaced with a new design on Freedom Day 2000-04-27About Government - Coat of Arms&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;. The motto ǃke e: ǀxarra ǁke is written in the Khoisan language of the ǀXam people and translates literally to "diverse people unite".The design process was initiated when, in 1999, the Department of Arts, Culture, Science and Technology requested ideas for the new coat-of-arms from the public. A brief was then prepared based on the ideas received, along with input from the Cabinet. The Government Communication and Information System then approached Design South Africa to brief ten of the top designers. Three designers were chosen to present their concepts to the Cabinet. Iaan Bekker's design was chosen., and the Deputy Herald, Marcel van Rossum, donned a tabard with the arms of the republic at the XXVIIth International Congress of Genealogical and Heraldic Sciences in St Andrews, Scotland.]]The motto's green is extended by pairs of elephant tusks. Within it are two ears of wheat and a golden shield with Khoisan rock art of two greeting human figures from the Linton stone. Above the shield is a crossed knobkierie and spear, protea, secretary bird, and a rising sun.1910 versionThe first coat of arms was a combination of symbols taken from the arms of the four former states. The first quarter is the figure of Hope, taken from the arms of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope. The two wildebeests of the second quarter come from the arms of the Colony of Natal. The orange tree in the third quarter was used as the symbol of the Orange Free State Republic. The wagon in the fourth quarter is derived from the Republic of Transvaal. The supporters are taken from the arms of the Orange River Colony and the Cape Colony. The lion holds four rods, bound together, symbolizing the unification of the four former states.The slogan, Ex Unitate Vires, is in Latin and can be roughly translated as "Power Through Unity".ReferencesExternal linksPast and presentSouth Africa Category:National symbols of South Africa ast:Escudu de la República Surafricana bs:Grb Južnoafričke Republike da:Sydafrikas nationalvåben de:Wappen Südafrikas el:Εθνόσημο της Νότιας Αφρικής es:Escudo de Sudáfrica fr:Armoiries de l'Afrique du Sud bpy:খা আফ্রিকার চিনত্হান he:סמל דרום אפריקה lt:Pietų Afrikos Respublikos herbas hu:A Dél-afrikai Köztársaság címere nl:Wapen van Zuid-Afrika no:Sør-Afrikas riksvåpen pl:Godło Republiki Południowej Afryki pt:Brasão de armas da África do Sul ru:Герб ЮАР sh:Grb Južnoafričke Republike sv:Sydafrikas statsvapen zh:南非国徽