 There Will Be Blood is a 2007 film directed, written and produced by Paul Thomas Anderson. The film is loosely based on the Upton Sinclair novel Oil! (1927). It tells the story of a silver-miner-turned-oil-man on a ruthless quest for wealth during Southern California's oil boom of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It stars Daniel Day-Lewis and Paul Dano. Shooting began in mid-May 2006 in New Mexico and Marfa, Texas, with principal photography wrapping August 24, 2006. The first public screening was on September 29, 2007, at Fantastic Fest in Austin, Texas. The film was released on December 26, 2007, in New York and Los Angeles, and then opened in a limited number of theaters in selected markets. It opened in wide release January 25, 2008.The film received significant critical praise and numerous award nominations and victories. It appeared on many critics' "top ten" lists for the year, notably the National Society of Film Critics and the Los Angeles Film Critics Association. Day-Lewis won Oscar, BAFTA, Golden Globe, Screen Actors' Guild, NYFCC, and IFTA Best Actor awards for his performance. The film was nominated for eight Academy Awards, winning Best Actor for Day-Lewis, and Best Cinematography for Robert Elswit.PlotThe story opens in 1898 with silver prospector Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) toiling in a wilderness mine. After falling into the shaft and breaking his leg, Plainview literally drags himself and a fragment of ore back to town for assay. Four years later, Plainview leads a team of men working on a primitive oil well. One of his workers is killed in an accident, and Plainview takes the man's orphaned child as his own. His initial successes allow him to expand his enterprise by 1911, and he negotiates for new leases with a sales pitch which plays up sympathy for his adopted son, H.W. (Dillon Freasier).Plainview is approached by young Paul Sunday (Paul Dano) who tells him of the presence of oil on the Sunday family's property in Little Boston, California. Plainview and H.W. travel there under the guise of hunting quail and discover oil seeping to the surface. Plainview offers to buy the land from Paul's father Abel (David Willis) for next to nothing, but Paul's twin brother Eli (also played by Dano) suspects the true reason for Plainview's interest and raises the cost. Plainview agrees to $5,000, conditional on the success of the drilling.Plainview begins to lease the surrounding ranches, and makes an offer to an old man named William Bandy (Hans Howes). When Bandy requests that they meet personally to settle on a lease, Plainview brushes him off. Expecting the $5,000, Eli, a charismatic preacher, plans an expansion of his Church of the Third Revelation, where he styles himself as a faith healer. Plainview constructs a large oil derrick, and Eli asks to bless the rig before drilling begins. At a public ceremony, Plainview blatantly snubs Eli and says the blessing himself.Not long thereafter, a worker is killed by a falling drill bit at the derrick, and an explosion erupts from the derrick the next day. The blast causes nearby H.W. to lose his hearing. Eli irks Plainview by insisting that these disasters would not have happened had he given the blessing. When Eli demands the money owed to him, Plainview violently attacks him, beating him for being unable to heal his son. Humiliated, Eli returns home, where he in turn beats his father for selling the land at a greatly undervalued price.A stranger turns up claiming to be Daniel's half-brother Henry (Kevin J. O'Connor). Taking Henry into his confidence, Plainview confesses his general hatred of people and compulsive need to win out over all other competition. That night, H.W., having read Henry's diary, attempts to burn the bed in which Henry is sleeping. As a result of this, Plainview has H.W. sent away to a boarding school for the deaf. He and Henry later set out to survey and map a potential route for an oil pipeline, and later close a deal with Union Oil. Plainview eventually becomes suspicious that Henry is not who he says he is, and at gunpoint Henry admits to being an impostor: Plainview's real brother was Henry's friend, who died of tuberculosis. Plainview coldly murders and buries Henry.The next morning Plainview is awakened by Mr. Bandy, who agrees to lease his property (for a pipeline), on the condition that Plainview be baptized into Eli's church. Plainview, who has no interest in religion, is reluctant; however Bandy's leverage is his knowledge of the murder. Plainview agrees to Bandy's terms and suffers a humiliating initiation in the church at the hands of Eli - although he departs from the ceremony with an unheard comment to Eli that leaves the preaching boy seemingly shaken. Plainview sends for H.W., but is still unable to communicate with the boy, who is now learning sign language. Eli leaves Little Boston on missionary work.The story jumps to 1927. An older H.W. (Russel Harvard) has now married Eli's sister, Mary. H.W. (through an interpreter) asks his father to be released from their partnership so that he and Mary can move to Mexico, where he intends to start his own oil company. Feeling betrayed, Plainview disowns H.W., telling him that he is an orphan and that he merely used the boy as an asset. Plainview says, "You have none of me in you; you're just a bastard from a basket." H.W. responds, "I thank God I have none of you in me," and leaves.The final scene features Eli visiting Plainview in his stately, empty mansion. Eli has made poor investments and offers to partner with him to drill on the Bandy Ranch, upon which Daniel has never placed an oil derrick. Plainview agrees on the condition that Eli renounce his faith; when Eli does, Plainview tells him that he has already drained the oil from Bandy's land with his surrounding wells. Likely drunk, Plainview gets violently worked up and physically attacks Eli. The confrontation escalates until Plainview savagely beats Eli to death, crushing his skull with a bowling pin. Plainview's butler enters the room and calls out to him. Plainview answers, "I'm finished."CastDaniel Day-Lewis as Daniel PlainviewPaul Dano as Paul Sunday / Eli SundayDillon Freasier as H.W. PlainviewCiarán Hinds as Fletcher HamiltonKevin J. O'Connor as Henry BrandsDavid Willis as Abel SundayRussell Harvard as H.W. Plainview (older)ProductionOriginally, Paul Thomas Anderson had been working on a screenplay about two fighting families. He struggled with the script and soon realized it just was not working. Homesick, he purchased a copy of Upton Sinclair's Oil! in London and was immediately drawn to the cover illustration of a California oilfield.&lt;/ref&gt; As he read, Anderson became even more fascinated with the novel and adapted the first 150 pages to a screenplay. He began to get a real sense of where his script was going after making many trips to museums dedicated to early oilmen in [[Bakersfield, California|Bakersfield]].&lt;ref name= &quot;hirschberg&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; He changed the title from ''Oil!'' to ''There Will Be Blood'' because, &quot;there's not enough of the book... to feel like it's a proper adaptation.&quot;&lt;ref name= &quot;stern&quot;/&gt; He didn't want to impose any kind of accent on whoever was going to play Plainview as he wanted to keep things simple.&lt;ref name= &quot;stern&quot;/&gt; He wrote the original screenplay with Daniel Day-Lewis in mind and approached the actor when the script was nearly complete. Anderson had heard that Daniel Day-Lewis liked his earlier film ''[[Punch-Drunk Love]]'', which gave him the confidence to hand Day-Lewis a copy of the incomplete script.&lt;ref name=&quot;LaTimesLewis&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; According to Day-Lewis, simply being asked to do the film was enough to convince him.&lt;ref name= &quot;freydkin&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; In an interview with the ''[[The New York Observer]]'', the actor elaborated on what drew him to the project. It was &quot;the understanding that [Anderson] had already entered into that world. [He] wasn't observing it - [he'd] entered into it - and indeed [he'd] populated it with characters who [he] felt had lives of their own.&quot;&lt;ref name= &quot;vilkomerson&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; The line in the final scene, &quot;I drink your [[milkshake]]!&quot;, is paraphrased from a quote by [[New Mexico Senate|New Mexico Senator]] [[Albert Fall]] speaking before a Congressional investigation into the 1920s oil-related [[Teapot Dome scandal]]. Anderson was enamored of the use of the term &quot;milkshake&quot; to explain the complicated technical process of oil drainage to senators.&lt;ref&gt; &lt;/ref&gt;According to JoAnne Sellar, one of the film's producers, it was a hard film to finance because, "the studios didn't think it had the scope of a major picture." It took two years to acquire financing for the film.For the role of Plainview's son, Anderson looked at people in Los Angeles and New York City, but he realized that they needed someone from Texas who knew how to shoot shotguns and "live in that world." The filmmakers asked around at a school and the principal recommended Dillon Freasier. They did not have him read any scenes and instead talked to him, realizing that he was the perfect person for the role.To start building his character, Day-Lewis started with the voice. Anderson sent him recordings from the late 19th century to 1927 and a copy of 1948 film, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, including documentaries on its director, John Huston, an important influence on Anderson's film. According to Anderson, he was inspired by the fact that Sierra Madre is "about greed and ambition and paranoia and looking at the worst parts of yourself." While writing the script, he would put the film on before he went to bed at night. To research for the role, Day-Lewis read letters from laborers and studied photographs from the time period. He also read up on oil tycoon Edward Doheny upon whom Sinclair's book is loosely based.&lt;/ref&gt;Filming started in June 2006 on a ranch in Marfa, Texas and took three months to shoot. Other location shooting took place in Los Angeles. Anderson tried to shoot the script in sequence with most of the sets on the ranch. Two weeks into the 60-day shoot, Anderson replaced the actor playing Eli Sunday with Paul Dano, who had originally only been cast in the much smaller role of Paul Sunday, the brother who tipped off Plainview about the oil on the Sunday ranch. A profile of Day-Lewis in The New York Times Magazine suggested that the original actor (Kel O'Neill) had been intimidated by Day-Lewis's intensity and habit of staying in character on and off the set. Both Anderson and Day-Lewis deny this claim, and Day-Lewis stated, "I absolutely don't believe that it was because he was intimidated by me. I happen to believe that &mdash; and I hope I'm right." Anderson first saw Dano in The Ballad of Jack and Rose and thought that he would be perfect to play Paul Sunday, a role he originally envisioned to be a 12 or 13-year-old boy. Dano only had four days to prepare for the much larger role of Eli Sunday, but he researched the time period that the film is set in as well as evangelical preachers. Three weeks of scenes with Sunday and Plainview had to be re-shot with Dano instead of Kel O'Neill. The interior mansion scenes were filmed at the Greystone Mansion in Beverly Hills, the former real-life home of Edward Doheny Jr., a gift from his father Edward Doheny. Scenes filmed at Greystone involved the careful renovation of the basement's two lane bowling alley.Anderson dedicated the film to Robert Altman, who died while Anderson was editing it.This film was the second co-production of Paramount Vantage and Miramax Films to be released in as many months, after No Country for Old Men (which won the Academy Award for Best Picture).There Will Be Blood was shot using Panavision XL 35 mm cameras outfitted primarily with Panavision C series and high-speed anamorphic lenses.Critical receptionThe first public screening of There Will Be Blood was on September 29, 2007, at Fantastic Fest in Austin, Texas. The film was released on December 26, 2007, in New York and Los Angeles where it grossed US$190,739 on its opening weekend. The film then opened in 885 theaters in selected markets on January 25, 2008, grossing $4.8 million on its opening weekend. The film went on to make $40.1 million in North America and $32.7 million in the rest of the world, with a worldwide total of $72.9 million, well above its $25 million budget.The film received very positive reviews from critics. As of May 12, 2008, on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 92% of critics gave the film positive reviews, based on 191 reviews. On Metacritic, the film has an average score of 92 out of 100, based on 39 reviews.Andrew Sarris called the film "an impressive achievement in its confident expertness in rendering the simulated realities of a bygone time and place, largely with an inspired use of regional amateur actors and extras with all the right moves and sounds." In Premiere magazine, Glenn Kenny praised Day-Lewis's performance: "Once his Plainview takes wing, the relentless focus of the performance makes the character unique."&lt;/ref&gt; [[Manohla Dargis]] wrote, in her review for the ''[[New York Times]]'', &quot;the film is above all a consummate work of art, one that transcends the historically fraught context of its making, and its pleasures are unapologetically aesthetic.&quot;&lt;ref name= &quot;dargis&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; ''[[Esquire (magazine)|Esquire]]'' magazine also praised Day-Lewis's performance: &quot;what’s most fun, albeit in a frightening way, is watching this greedmeister become more and more unhinged as he locks horns with Eli Sunday...both Anderson and Day-Lewis go for broke. But it’s a pleasure to be reminded, if only once every four years, that subtlety can be overrated.&quot;&lt;ref name= &quot;dangelo&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; [[Richard Schickel]] in ''[[Time (magazine)|Time]]'' magazine praised ''There Will Be Blood'' as &quot;one of the most wholly original American movies ever made.&quot;&lt;ref name= &quot;schickel&quot;&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; Critic Tom Charity, writing about [[CNN]]'s ten-best films list, calls the film the only &quot;flat-out masterpiece&quot; of 2007.&lt;ref name=charity&gt;&lt;/ref&gt; Schickel also named the film one of the Top 10 Movies of 2007, ranking it at #9, calling Daniel Day Lewis’ performance “astonishing”, and calling the film “a mesmerizing meditation on the American spirit in all its maddening ambiguities: mean and noble, angry and secretive, hypocritical and more than a little insane in its aspirations.”[[Schickel, Richard]; “The 10 Best Movies”; time.com]The Times chief film critic, James Christopher, in a list of the Top 100 films of all time released in April 2008, listed the film #2, behind Casablanca. However some critics were more negative. Armond White of the New York Press expressed that the "musical wit disguises the story’s incoherence—its meaningless siblings, silences and opportunistic sadism", feeling that the film's finale was "confusing and slapdash" and "comes across as just secular-progressive prejudice and loopy, unconvincing drama".&lt;/ref&gt; Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle shot out at the films praises by saying "there should be no need to pretend 'There Will Be Blood' is a masterpiece just because Anderson sincerely tried to make it one."&lt;/ref&gt; Although Carla Meyer, of the Sacramento Bee, gave the film three and a half out of four stars, calling it a "masterpiece", she said that the final confrontation between Daniel and Eli marked when There Will Be Blood "stops being a masterpiece and becomes a really good movie. What was grand becomes petty, then overwrought."&lt;/ref&gt;Top ten listsThe film appeared on many critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2007. 1st – Ethar Alter, Giant Magazine1st – Marjorie Baumgarten, The Austin Chronicle1st – Tom Charity, CNN1st – Manohla Dargis, The New York Times1st – David Fear, Time Out New York1st – Scott Foundas, LA Weekly1st – Stephen Holden, The New York Times1st – Tod Hill, Staten Island Advance1st – Glenn Kenny, Premiere1st – Craig Outhier, Orange County Register1st – Keith Phipps, The A.V. Club1st – Ray Pride, Salon.com1st – Mike Russell, The Oregonian1st – Hank Sartin, Chicago Reader1st – Marc Savlov, The Austin Chronicle1st – Mark Slutsky, Montreal Mirror1st – Nick Schager, Slant Magazine1st – Lisa Schwarzbaum, Entertainment Weekly1st – Jan Stuart, Newsday1st – Ella Taylor, LA Weekly2nd – David Ansen, Newsweek2nd – Nathan Rabin, The A.V. Club2nd – Rene Rodriguez, The Miami Herald2nd – Scott Tobias, The A.V. Club3rd – A.O. Scott, The New York Times (tied with Sweeney Todd)3rd – Charlie Lyons, The Purcellville Gazette3rd – Ann Hornaday, The Washington Post3rd – Joe Morgenstern, The Wall Street Journal4th – Desson Thomson, The Washington Post4th – Ty Burr, The Boston Globe5th – J. Hoberman, The Village Voice5th – Shawn Levy, The Oregonian6th – Christy Lemire, Associated Press6th – Philip Martin, Arkansas Democrat-Gazette7th – Peter Travers, Rolling Stone9th – Claudia Puig, USA Today9th – Richard Schickel, ''TIME'' magazine10th – Lou Lumenick, New York PostTop 10 (listed alphabetically, not ranked) – Dana Stevens, SlateScore and soundtrack Anderson had been a fan of Radiohead's music and was impressed with Jonny Greenwood's scoring of the film Bodysong. While writing the script for There Will Be Blood, Anderson heard Greenwood's orchestral piece Popcorn Superhet Receiver, which prompted him to ask Greenwood to work with him. After initially agreeing to score the film, Greenwood had doubts and thought about backing out, but Anderson's reassurance and enthusiasm for the film convinced the musician to stick with the project. Anderson gave Greenwood a copy of the film and three weeks later he came back with two hours of music recorded at Abbey Road Studios in London. Concerning his approach to composing the soundtrack, Greenwood said to Entertainment Weekly:  I think it was about not necessarily just making period music, which very traditionally you would do. But because they were traditional orchestral sounds, I suppose that's what we hoped was a little unsettling, even though you know all the sounds you're hearing are coming from very old technology. You can just do things with the classical orchestra that do unsettle you, that are sort of slightly wrong, that have some kind of undercurrent that's slightly sinister.    The film also contains the cello and piano transcription of Fratres by Arvo Pärt, and the third movement from Brahms's Violin Concerto. The recording is by violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter with the Berlin Philharmonic directed by Herbert von Karajan.DVD releaseThe movie was released on DVD on April 8, 2008. It was released with one and two disc editions, both are packaged in a cardboard case. It has been said that Anderson has refused to record a commentary for the film. A HD DVD release was confirmed, but later canceled due to the death of the format. A Blu-Ray edition was released on June 3, 2008.Awards and nominations80th Academy Awards8 nominations including:Best Picture (Daniel Lupi, JoAnne Sellar, & P.T. Anderson)Best Director (Paul Thomas Anderson)Best Actor (Daniel Day-Lewis) - WinnerBest Adapted Screenplay (Paul Thomas Anderson)Best Art Direction (Jack Fisk and Jim Erickson)Best Cinematography (Robert Elswit) - WinnerBest Film Editing (Dylan Tichenor)Best Sound Editing (Matthew Wood)61st British Academy Film Awards9 nominations  including:Best Leading Actor (Daniel Day-Lewis) - WinnerBest Film (Daniel Lupi, JoAnne Sellar, & P.T. Anderson)Best Director (Paul Thomas Anderson)Best Supporting Actor (Paul Dano)Best Music (Jonny Greenwood)Best Screenplay - Adapted (Paul Thomas Anderson)Best Production Design (Jack Fisk and Jim Erickson)Best Cinematography (Robert Elswit)Best Sound (Matthew Wood)65th Golden Globe Awards2 nominations including:Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Drama (Daniel Day-Lewis) - winnerBest Motion Picture - Drama (Daniel Lupi, JoAnne Sellar, & P.T. Anderson)Critics associationsAustin Film Critics Association5 wins including:Best PictureBest ActorBest DirectorBest CinematographyBest Original ScoreNational Society of Film Critics4 wins including:Best PictureBest DirectorBest ActorBest CinematographyLos Angeles Film Critics Association4 wins including:Best PictureBest DirectorBest ActorBest Production DesignBroadcast Film Critics Association2 wins including:Best ActorBest ComposerGuild awardsDirectors Guild of AmericaThe Directors Guild of America nominated PT Anderson for the DGA Award.Screen Actors GuildDaniel Day-Lewis won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role at the 14th Screen Actors Guild Awards held in 2008.Writers Guild of AmericaAnderson was also nominated by the Writers Guild of America for "Best Adapted Screenplay".Producers Guild of AmericaThe film also garnered a "Producer of the Year Award" nomination from the Producers Guild of America.American Society of CinematographersDirector of photography Robert Elswit won the American Society of Cinematographers' award for Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography.The American Film Institute's Top 10The American Film Institute listed it as an AFI Movie of the Year for 2007.ReferencesExternal linksOfficial WebsiteOfficial UK Website[http://www.alternatetakes.co.uk/?2008,4,206 Essay on There Will Be Blood at Alternate Takes][http://madeinatlantis.com/movies_central/2007/there_will_be_blood_production_details.htm There Will Be Blood Production Notes]     Category:2007 films Category:American films Category:English-language films Category:2000s drama films Category:Films set in the 1890s Category:Films set in the 1900s Category:Films set in the 1910s Category:Films set in the 1920s Category:Films based on novels Category:Films featuring a Best Actor Academy Award winning performance Category:Films whose cinematographer won the Best Cinematography Academy Award Category:Paramount Vantage films Category:Miramax films Category:Films shot anamorphically Category:Films directed by Paul Thomas Anderson Category:Films featuring a Best Drama Actor Golden Globe winning performancede:There Will Be Blood es:There Will Be Blood fa:خون به پا خواهد شد fr:There Will Be Blood hr:Bit će krvi it:Il petroliere he:זה יגמר בדם hu:Vérző olaj mk:Ќе има крв nl:There Will Be Blood ja:ゼア・ウィル・ビー・ブラッド no:There Will Be Blood pl:Aż poleje się krew pt:There Will Be Blood ru:Нефть (фильм) fi:There Will Be Blood sv:There Will Be Blood tr:Kan Dökülecek uk:Нафта (фільм) wuu:血色将至 zh:黑金企業