 | location = Houston, Texas | occupation = Film Director, screenwriter, producer & actor | spouse = Christina Harrison | residence = Austin, Texas | yearsactive = 1989-Present | influenced = Kevin SmithEthan Hawke | website = http://www.detourfilm.com/ | academyawards = Nominated: Best Adapted Screenplay  2004 Before Sunset Richard Stuart Linklater (born July 30, 1960)According to the State of Texas. Texas Birth Index, 1903-1997. At Ancestry.com is an Academy Award-nominated American film director and screenwriter.BiographyEarly lifeLinklater was born in Houston, Texas. He studied at Sam Houston State University and left midway through his stint in college to work on an off-shore oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico. While working on the rig he read a lot of literature, but on land he developed a love of film through repeated visits to a repertory theater in Houston. It was at this point that Linklater realized he wanted to be a filmmaker. After his job on the oil rig, Linklater used the money he had saved to buy a Super-8 camera, a projector, and some editing equipment, and moved to Austin. It was there that the aspiring cineaste founded the Austin Film Society and grew to appreciate such stylized auteurs like Robert Bresson, Yasujiro Ozu, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Nagisa Oshima, and Josef Von Sternberg.CareerLinklater founded the Austin Film Society in 1985 together with his frequent collaborator Lee Daniel, and is lauded for launching and solidifying the city of Austin as a hub for independent filmmaking.For several years, Linklater made many short films that were, more than anything, exercises and experiments in film techniques. He finally completed his first feature, the rarely seen It's Impossible to Learn to Plow by Reading Books (which is now available in the Criterion Collection edition of Slacker), a Super-8 feature that took a year to shoot and another year to edit. The film is significant in the sense that it establishes most of Linklater's preoccupations. The film has his trademark style of minimal camera movements and lack of narrative, while it examines the theme of traveling with no real particular direction in mind. These idiosyncrasies would be explored in greater detail in future projects.To this end Linklater created Detour Filmproduction (an homage to the 1945 low budget film noir by Edgar G. Ulmer), and subsequently made Slacker for only $23,000. The film is an aimless day in the life of the city of Austin, Texas showcasing its more eccentric characters.While gaining a cult following for his independent films, such as Dazed and Confused, Waking Life and A Scanner Darkly, his mainstream comedies, School of Rock and the remake of Bad News Bears, have gained him wider recognition. In 2003, he wrote and directed a pilot for HBO with Rodney Rothman called $5.15/hr, about several minimum wage restaurant workers. The pilot deals with themes later examined in Fast Food Nation. In 2004, the British television network Channel 4 produced a major documentary about Linklater, in which the filmmaker frankly discussed the personal and philosophical ideas behind his films. "St Richard of Austin" was presented by Ben Lewis and directed by Irshad Ashraf and broadcast on Channel 4 in December 2004 in the UK. In 2005, Linklater was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay for his film Before Sunset.Many of Linklater's films take place in one day, a technique that has gained popularity in recent years. Slacker, Dazed and Confused, Tape, Before Sunrise, and Before Sunset are examples of this method. Two of his recent films (A Scanner Darkly and Waking Life) both display a similar animated style. To create this effect, Linklater shot and edited both movies into a completed live-action state, then employed a team of artists to 'trace over' individual frames (a technique known as rotoscoping). The result is a distinctive 'semi-real' quality, praised by such critics as Roger Ebert (in the case of Waking Life) as being original and well-suited to the aims of the film.His latest film, Fast Food Nation, is an adaptation of the best selling book that examines the local and global influence of the United States fast food industry. The film was released in North America on 17th November 2006 and in Europe on 23rd March 2007.Despite his popularity and ability to direct high paying Hollywood productions, Linklater remains in Texas and refuses to live or work in Hollywood for any extended period of time.FilmographyWoodshock (1985)It's Impossible to Learn to Plow by Reading Books (1989)Slacker (1991)Heads I Win/Tails You Lose (1991)Dazed and Confused (1993)Before Sunrise (1995)subUrbia (1996)The Newton Boys (1998)Waking Life (2001)Tape (2001)Live from Shiva's Dance Floor (2003)School of Rock (2003)$5.15/hour (2004)Before Sunset (2004)Bad News Bears (2005)A Scanner Darkly (2006)Fast Food Nation (2006)Inning By Inning: A Portrait Of A Coach (2008)Me and Orson Welles (2009)Boyhood (~2013)ReferencesExternal linksSenses of Cinema: Great Directors Critical Database[http://www.reverseshot.com/legacy/summer04/index.html Reverse Shot online interview with Linklater and career overview]Mindjack interview with LinklaterChannel 4 - The Art Show, documentary film by Irshad Ashraf'A Scanner Darkly': Reality Bites Interview with Richard Linklater, MTV Overdrive.Richard Linklater interview with The A.V. Club[http://www.filmlinc.com/fcm/ja06/richardlinklater2.htm Film Comment interview with Linklater]Radio Interview with Richard Linklater from FBi 94.5 Sydney AustraliaRichard Linklater, Directing 'Darkly'Catching up with Richard Linklater at Premiere.comRetrospective on Richard Linklater at the Austrian Film Museum[http://www.austinchronicle.com/gyrobase/Issue/story?oid=oid%3A629432 Linklater directing Inning by Inning: A Portrait of a Coach] Category:1960 births Category:American film directors Category:American screenwriters Category:American vegetarians Category:Living people Category:People from Austin, Texas Category:University of Texas at Austin alumni Category:Graduates of Houston ISDde:Richard Linklater es:Richard Linklater fa:ریچارد لینکلیتر fr:Richard Linklater it:Richard Linklater he:ריצ'רד לינקלטר lt:Richard Linklater nl:Richard Linklater ja:リチャード・リンクレイター no:Richard Linklater pl:Richard Linklater pt:Richard Linklater ru:Линклейтер, Ричард fi:Richard Linklater sv:Richard Linklater tr:Richard Linklater