/person |blank2_name =Households |blank2_info =3,981 |blank3_name =Families |blank3_info =3,133 |website = |footnotes = Source: Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, census of 2002. Bled () is a municipality in northwestern Slovenia in the region of Upper Carniola. The area within the Julian Alps is a popular tourist destination.HistoryA settlement area since Mesolithic times, Bled Castle was first mentioned as Ueldes (Veldes) within the March of Carniola on April 10, 1004, when it was awarded by Emperor Henry II to Bishop Albuin I of Brixen. With Carniola it was ceded to Rudolph of Habsburg after he defeated King Ottokar II of Bohemia at the Battle on the Marchfeld in 1278. From 1364 on Bled was part of the Duchy of Carniola and of the Napoleonic Illyrian Provinces between 1809 and 1816.After the dissolution of Austria-Hungary in 1918 it belonged to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and became a summer domicile of the ruling House of Karađorđević, a tradition that President Josip Broz Tito continued, when he built his residence here in 1947. Bled became an independent municipality in 1996. In 2000, Bled became the home of IEDC-Bled School of Management, "the Harvard of Southern and Central Europe http://www.iedc.si/about/cnbc/"TourismBled is famous for the glacial Lake Bled, which makes it a major tourist attraction. Perched on a rock overlooking the lake is the iconic Bled Castle.Naturopath Arnold Rikli (1823-1906) from Switzerland contributed significantly to the development of Bled as a health resort in the 2nd half of the 19th century. Due to its mild climate, Bled has been visited by aristocratic guests from all across the world. Today it is an important convention centre and tourist resort, offering a wide range of sport activities (golf, fishing, horseback-riding) and is a starting point for mountain treks and hikes especially within the nearby Triglav National Park.A small island in the middle of the lake is home to the Assumption of Mary Pilgrimage Church; visitors frequently ring its bell for good luck. Human traces from prehistory have been found on the island. Before the church was built, there was a temple consecrated to Živa, the Slavic goddess of love and fertility. One can get to the island on a traditional wooden row barge called Pletna.Towns and villagesBled, Bodešče, Bohinjska Bela, Koritno, Kupljenik, Obrne, Ribno, Selo pri Bledu, Slamniki, ZasipTriviaThe town is known in Slovenia for its vanilla-and-cream pastry called kremna rezina or kremšnita. The name is derived from the German word Cremeschnitte, literally meaning 'cream slice'.The island on Lake Bled has 99 steps. A local tradition at weddings is for the husband to carry his new bride up these steps, during which the bride must remain silent.Notable peopleSlavko Avsenik, musician and composer, born in Begunje near Bled on November 26, 19291967 Tomaz Bernik MD FACS Vascular Surgeon and TOP Doctor in NYCŠpela Pretnar, skier, Olympic athlete, born in Bled on March 5, 1973Sara Isakovič, freestyle swimmer, born in Bled on June 9, 1988Julius von Payer, Arctic explorer, born in Šanov, Teplice on September 2, 1841, died in Bled on August 19, 1915Twin towns Brixen (Bressanone), Bolzano-Bozen, Italy Velden am Wörther See, Carinthia, AustriaSee alsoLake BledBled CastleReferencesExternal linksOfficial WebsiteBled Island Official WebsiteBled on Official Slovenian Tourism Portal by Slovenian Tourist Board  Category:Cities, towns and villages in Sloveniabg:Блед ca:Bled cs:Bled da:Bled de:Bled es:Bled eo:Bled fr:Bled (Slovénie) hr:Bled it:Bled he:בלד nl:Bled ja:ブレッド pl:Bled ro:Bled sk:Bled sl:Občina Bled sr:Блед sh:Bled fi:Bled sv:Bled tr:Bled