Park and ride (or incentive parking) facilities are public transport stations that allow commuters and other people wishing to travel into city centres to leave their personal vehicles in a car park and transfer to a bus, rail system (rapid transit, light rail or commuter rail) or carpool for the rest of their trip. The vehicle is stored in the car park during the day and retrieved when the commuter returns. Park and rides are generally located in the suburbs of metropolitan areas or on the outer edges of large cities.BenefitsPark and ride schemes are often marketed as a way to avoid the difficulties and cost of parking within the city centre. Park and ride lots allow commuters to avoid the stress of driving a congested part their journey and/or facing scarce, expensive city centre parking. It is hoped that the lots will reduce both of these problems by making it easier for people to take the bus or train into town. Sometimes, even these lots become too busy, and people sometimes organise to carpool to the station to combat crowding.Bus park and rides, England]] Park and Ride facilities, with dedicated car parks and bus services, started in the 1960s. Oxford operated the first such scheme in the UK, initially with an experimental service operating part-time from a motel on the A34 in the 1960s and then on a full-time basis from 1973. Oxford now operates Park and Ride from 5 dedicated car parks around the cityOxford Bus Company history. As of 2005, Norwich has the biggest Park & Ride in the UK, operating from six separate sites around the city.&lt;/ref&gt;In Sweden, a tax has been introduced on the benefit of free or cheap parking paid by an employer. This tax has reduced the number of workers driving into the inner city, and increased the usage of park and ride areas, especially in Stockholm.Park and rides are ideally suited for alternative fuel vehicles, which often have reduced range. In addition, some transit operators use park and ride facilities to encourage more efficient driving practices by reserving parking spaces for low emission designs, high occupancy vehicles, or carsharing.Railway park and ridesSome railway stations are promoted as a park and ride facility for a distant town, for instance Liskeard railway station for Looe, and Lelant Saltings railway station for St Ives, both in Cornwall, England. These train services are generally less frequent than would be expected of a park and ride bus service. Train stations in the UK that are situated outside of the main urban area are often suffixed with "parkway", such as Bristol Parkway, Tiverton Parkway, and Didcot Parkway. At Luton Airport Parkway and Southampton Airport Parkway, the stations are located to serve air as well as road passengers.In the United States, it is common for outlying rail stations to include automobile parking, often hundreds of spaces. Boston, for example, has built several large parking facilities at its commuter rail and metro stations near major highways and large arterial surface roads around the periphery of the city: Alewife, Braintree, Forest Hills, Hyde Park, Quincy Adams, Riverside, Route 128, Wellington, Woburn. The local transit operator, the MBTA, has almost 46,000 park and ride spaces.Kiss and ridestation]]  near Boston.]] Many train stations and airports feature an area in which cars can discharge and pick up passengers. These "kiss and ride" facilities allow drivers to stop and park temporarily, instead of the longer-term parking associated with "park and ride" facilities.Some high-speed railway stations in Taiwan have signs outside stations reading Kiss and Ride in English, with Chinese characters above the words that read "temporary pick up and drop off zone". Most people in Taiwan have no idea what the colloquialism means.&lt;/ref&gt;The term first appeared in a January 20, 1956, Associated Press report published in the Los Angeles Times. Car-share park and ridesPark and ride schemes do not necessarily involve public transport. They can be provided as a means of promoting car sharing. Partly because of the concentration of risers, and thus a reduced number of vehicles, these park and ride terminals often have express transit services into the urban area, such as a high-occupancy vehicle lane. The service may only take passengers in one direction in the morning (typically toward a central business district) and in the opposite direction in the evening, with no or a limited number of trips available in the middle of the day. It is often not allowed to park at these locations overnight. Overall, these attributes vary from region to region.See alsoList of Agence métropolitaine de transport park and ride lotsPark and ride bus services in the United KingdomReferencesExternal linksPark and Ride directory - UKCategory:Parking Category:Stations, terminals and stops Category:Parking facilities Category:Sustainable transport Category:Commutingcs:P+R de:Park-and-Ride es:Park and Ride fr:Parc relais id:Parkir dan menumpang it:Parcheggio di interscambio he:חנה וסע lt:Park and ride hu:Park and ride nl:P+R no:Innfartsparkering ja:パークアンドライド pl:Park&amp;Ride ru:Перехватывающая парковка fi:Liityntäpysäköinti sv:Pendelparkering