 | birthplace = Nelsonville, Ohio, USA | spouse = Matthew Broderick (1997-) | yearsactive = 1974 - present | occupation = actress, producer | emmyawards = Outstanding Comedy Series2001 Sex and the City  Outstanding Lead Actress - Comedy Series2004 Sex and the City | goldenglobeawards = Best Actress - Musical or Comedy Series2000 Sex and the City2001 Sex and the City2002 Sex and the City2004 Sex and the City | sagawards = Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series2000 Sex and the City  Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series2001 Sex and the City2003 Sex and the City | awards = NBR Award for Best Cast1996 The First Wives Club2000 State and Main2007 ''Maxim Magazine Awards for Ugliest Woman in Show Business Sarah Jessica Parker (born March 25, 1965) is an American actress and producer, with a portfolio of television, film, and theater performances. She is best known for her role as Carrie Bradshaw, a columnist, on the HBO television series Sex and the City, for which she won four Golden Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards and two Emmy Awards. She played the same role in the feature film version of the show, which was released on May 30, 2008. She also has three fragrances out, Lovely, Covet and Covet Full Bloom.BiographyEarly lifeParker was born in Nelsonville, Ohio, the daughter of Barbara, a nursery school operator and teacher, and Steven Parker, an entrepreneur and journalist.Sarah Jessica Parker Biography (1965-)&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Her father, a native of Brooklyn, was Jewish, the original family surname being "Bar-Kahn" ("son of Kohen"); Parker has said of herself, "I always just considered myself a Jew".&lt;/ref&gt; Parker's parents divorced early on in Parker's life and her mother remarried Paul Forste. Parker grew up with her mother, stepfather, and seven siblings (three from her parents' marriage, and four from her mother's second marriage).As a young girl, she trained in singing and ballet, soon being cast in the Broadway production of The Innocents. Her family moved to Cincinnati, Ohio, and then to Dobbs Ferry, New York, near New York City, where Parker was developing her career as a child actress. In 1977, the family moved to the newly opened planned community on Roosevelt Island, in the East River between Manhattan and Queens, and later to Manhattan proper; her parents later moved to Englewood, New Jersey where she attended Dwight Morrow High School.Klein, Alvin. &quot;ACTRESS, 18, HAS SOME REGRETS&quot;, The New York Times, October 30, 1983. Accessed December 27, 2007. "Before attending Hollywood High School, she was a student at Dwight Morrow High School in Englewood... After living for a while on Roosevelt Island, between Manhattan and Queens, Mr. and Mrs. Forste bought a house in Englewood."Parker attended the School for Creative and Performing Arts in Cincinnati, the School of American Ballet and the Professional Children's School, Hollywood High School in Los Angeles, California, and later Dwight Morrow High School.Acting careerShe and four siblings appeared in a revival of The Sound of Music, and Parker went on to the new 1977-81 Broadway musical Annie — first in the small role of "July," and then succeeding Andrea McArdle and Shelley Bruce in the lead role of the plucky Depression-era orphan, beginning March 6, 1979. Parker held the role for a year.In 1982, Parker was cast as the co-lead of the CBS-TV sitcom Square Pegs. The show lasted only one season before being cancelled by the network, but Parker's performance, as a shy, misfit teen who showed hidden depths, was critically well-received. In the three years that followed, she was cast in four films — the most significant of those being Footloose in 1984 and Girls Just Wanna Have Fun, co-starring Helen Hunt, in 1985.In 1986, Parker appeared in the cult classic Flight of the Navigator, a Disney science fiction film about a boy, David, who is relativistically transported in time by an alien spacecraft eight years into the future without aging.By the early 1990s, Parker's career was gaining momentum. In 1991, she appeared in a supporting role in the romantic comedy, L.A. Story; both the movie and her performance garnered positive reviews. The following year she landed an important starring role in the well-received film Honeymoon in Vegas, co-starring Nicolas Cage. Her 1993 role in the film Hocus Pocus was a higher grosser at the box office but received negative reviews. The following year, she appeared opposite Johnny Depp in the critically acclaimed movie Ed Wood.The film Miami Rhapsody, in 1995, saw her back on familiar territory with more romantic comedy material and a leading role. She appeared in another Tim Burton-directed movie, Mars Attacks!, as well as The First Wives Club and The Substance of Fire, in which she reprised her 1991 stage role, in 1996. In 1997, she appeared as Francesca Lanfield, a washed-up former child actress, in the comedy Til There Was You.Sex and the CityLater that year, the script for an HBO drama/comedy series titled Sex and the City was sent to Parker; the show's creator, Darren Star, was determined that she be cast in his project. Despite some early doubts about being cast in a long-term television series, Parker agreed to star.The show proved to be an instant success, raising Parker's profile considerably. Despite the show's increasingly risqué storylines, Parker retained the strict no-nudity clause in her contract throughout the show's six-season run. Parker became a producer for the show starting with its third season. In 2004, Parker won an Emmy award for her lead role (after five consecutive losses). Many gambling and betting establishments stopped taking bets on her Emmy victory, because it was so widely predicted that she would win. Parker stated in 2006 that she "will never do a television show again", available at the Internet Archive although she will co-executive produce a new HBO series based on Washingtonienne, but will not star in it.After Sex and the City ended in 2004, rumors of a film version circulated and it was revealed that a script had been completed for such a project. However, Parker commented that it would likely never be made. Two years later, however, preparations were resumed, and the film was released throughout the world on May 30, 2008. A sequel is also in early talks for 2009.Later theater, film work and reality productionIn addition to work in movies and television, Parker is also a respected stage actor, having appeared in well-reviewed lead roles in the off-Broadway play Sylvia, alongside husband Matthew Broderick in How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying, and the Tony Award-nominated Once Upon A Mattress, as Princess Winifred the Woebegone.In December 2005, Parker appeared in her first theatrical film in several years, The Family Stone; she received a Golden Globe nomination as Best Actress - Comedy for the role. Her next film, the romantic comedy Failure to Launch, co-starring Matthew McConaughey, was released on March 10, 2006 and opened at #1 in the North American box office, grossing slightly over $24 million in its opening weekend, despite mediocre reviews. Parker's work as a producer continues with the independent film Spinning Into Butter, based on the Rebecca Gilman play, which she will also star in. Parker was initially set to star in Vacancy, along with her co-star from The Family Stone, Luke Wilson, but she dropped out in favor of other projects. Kate Beckinsale later won the role.On July 20, Bravo announced it had picked up a reality show produced by Parker under the working title "American Artist." Fashion industryParker is a fashion icon and has become very influential in the world of fashion. In 2000, she hosted the MTV Movie Awards and appeared in no fewer than 15 different costumes throughout the show.She has also become the face of many of the world's biggest fashion brands through her work in a variety of advertising campaigns. In August 2003, Parker signed a highly lucrative deal with Garnier to appear in television and print advertising promoting their Nutrisse hair products. In 2004, she fronted an international campaign by Gap, but her contract with the clothing giant was abruptly terminated in spring 2005 in favor of British soul singer Joss Stone. A friend of Parker's commented to the press that, "Sarah's spring campaign for Gap has only just started, and she feels the announcement of her replacement in the same week that the new ads are appearing is a bit of a snub".In addition to her advertising work, Parker released her own fragrance in 2005 called "Lovely". In March 2007, Parker announced the launch of her own fashion line, Bitten, bittensjp.com in partnership with discount clothing chain Steve &amp; Barry's.Actress Sarah Jessica Parker is launching her own fashion line EnjoyFashion, March 14, 2007 The line, which features hundreds of clothing items and accessories under $20, launched on June 7, 2007, exclusively at Steve and Barry's.Bitten Revealed! Fashion Week Daily, March 13,2007 In July 2007, following the enormous success of "Lovely," Parker released her second fragrance "Covet." In 2007 Parker was a guest on Project Runway for the second challenge.caseofthecovetedbottle.comPersonal lifeParker was romantically involved with actor Robert Downey Jr. from 1984 until 1991. They met on the set of Firstborn. Downey had a drug problem and this had a significant effect on their relationship; referring to that time in her life, Parker has said: "I believed I was the person holding him together". As her career continued to blossom into the 1990s, she met journalist John Kennedy Jr. and dated him for several months. She was also romantically linked to singer-songwriter Joshua Kadison in the early 1990s, who described their tumultuous relationship and their cat Moses in the song "Jessie" on the album Painted Desert Serenade.On May 19, 1997, she married actor Matthew Broderick, to whom she was introduced by her brother at the Naked Angels theater company where they both performed.For Naked Angels, the Party's Over. Time to Get Serious Again. The New York Times, May 14, 2006 The couple married in a civil ceremony in a historic synagogue on the Lower East Side of Manhattan that is no longer used as a house of worship; both Parker and Broderick (who each have one Jewish parent) consider themselves to be "culturally Jewish." Parker has also defended the state of Israel. "I feel defensive when people say, 'How can Israel go in with tanks?'," she says, "What are they supposed to do? Children are being killed by people willing to strap bombs to their bodies and walk into the public market. So Israel's response to this is to protect its people." The couple's first child, son James Wilkie Broderick, was born on October 28, 2002. He was named after Broderick's father, the actor James Broderick. His middle name is that of author Wilkie Collins, an author Broderick and Parker greatly admire.Parker and Broderick live in New York City and frequent the arts. Parker and Broderick also spend a considerable amount of time at their holiday home in County Donegal, Ireland where Broderick spent his summers as a child. Parker is a prominent member of the Hollywood's Women's Political Committee and is UNICEF's Representative for the Performing Arts; in 2006, she traveled to Liberia as a UNICEF celebrity ambassador, and has commented that, "It's a place that gets little or no attention, so we're going to try and bring some attention to it." She is currently a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador for the United States.As of 2008, she lives in New York City with her husband and son.E! News confirms that prior to her appearance at the 2008 Major League Baseball All-Star game, she had her signature mole removed.Sarah Jessica Parker's Celebrity Mole Yahoo! News, July 16, 2008 Despite photographic evidence, she denies it had been removed.AwardsGolden Globes2005: Nominee: Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture: Musical or Comedy - The Family Stone2005: Nominee: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City2004: Winner: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City2003: Nominee: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City2002: Winner: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City2001: Winner: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City2000: Winner: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the City1999: Nominee: Best Performance by an Actress in a TV Series: Musical or Comedy - Sex and the CityEmmy Awards2004:' Winner: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - ''Sex and the City'''2004: Nominee: Outstanding Comedy Series - Sex and the City2003: Nominee: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2003: Nominee: Outstanding Comedy Series - Sex and the City2002: Nominee: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2002: Nominee: Outstanding Comedy Series - Sex and the City2001: Nominee: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2001: Winner: Outstanding Comedy Series - Sex and the City2000: Nominee: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City1999: Nominee: Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series - Sex and the CityScreen Actors Guild Awards2005: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2005: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2004: Winner: Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2003: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2002: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2002: Winner: Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2001: Winner: Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2001: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series - Sex and the City2000: Nominee: Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Comedy Series - Sex and the CityMaxim Magazine Awards2007: Winner: Ugliest Woman in Show business award (as voted by readers)FilmographyYearTitleRoleOther notes1974]]The Little Match GirlThe Little Match Girl1982]]Square PegsPatty Greeneseason 1 (1982-1983)1983]]Somewhere TomorrowLori Anderson1984]]FootlooseRusty1985]]Girls Just Want to Have Fun]]''Janey Glenn1986A Year in the LifeKay Erickson (The "Free Spirited" girl)A miniseries in 1986. Aired for one season 1987-1988.''Flight of the Navigator ''Carolyn McAdams1991]]L.A. StorySanDeE*1992]]In the Best Interest of the ChildrenCallie Cain1992]]Honeymoon in VegasBetsy/Donna1993Striking DistanceJo Christman/Det. Emily HarperHocus Pocus]]''Sarah Sanderson1994]]Ed Wood]]''Dolores Fuller1995]]Miami RhapsodyGwyn Marcus1996Mars Attacks!Nathalie LakeIf Lucy FellLucy AckermanThe First Wives ClubShelly StewartExtreme MeasuresJodie Trammel1997]]'Til There Was YouFrancesca Lanfield1998]]Sex and the CityCarrie Bradshaw6 seasons (1998-2004)1999]]Dudley Do-Right]]''Nell Fenwick2000]]State and MainClaire Wellesley2001]]Life Without DickColleen Gibsondirect-to-video2005]]The Family StoneMeredith Morton2006Strangers with Candy]]''Peggy CallasFailure to LaunchPaula2007Spinning Into Butter]]''Sarah Daniels2008Smart PeopleJanet HartiganSex and the City: The MovieCarrie BradshawReferences External linksBiography at Inside the Actors StudioMaxim naming her as one &quot;The Five Unsexiest Women Alive&quot; at MaximAnother article in regard to the Maxim award- to prove the validity.Biography at Playbill[http://www.hbo.com/city/cast/actor/sarah_jessica_parker.shtml Biography at Sex and the City's website][http://www.observer.com/2007/sex-and-city Archive of the original Sex and the City newspaper columns]Food Bank For New York City public service announcementSarah Jessica Parker Sending Son to Public SchoolSarah Jessica Parker high on 'Ivy'Interviewshttp://www.thecinemasource.com/celebrity/interviews/Sarah-Jessica-Parker-Sex-Appeal-interview-667-0.html&quot;Life After Tomorrow&quot; 2006[http://www.newsday.com/entertainment/printedition/ny-etlede4653433mar08,0,6761935.story New York Newsday interview, March 8, 2006]BBC interview (December, 2005)FemaleFirst.uk interview (December 13, 2005)Dark Horizons interview (December 8, 2005)Sarah Jessica Parker Interview     Category:1965 births Category:American film actors Category:American Jews Category:American musical theatre actors Category:American stage actors Category:American television actors Category:Emmy Award winners Category:Jewish actors Category:Jews and Judaism in Cincinnati Category:Living people Category:New York actors Category:Ohio actors Category:People from Athens County, Ohio Category:People from Englewood, New Jersey Category:People from New York City Category:People from Teaneck, New Jersey Category:People from Westchester County, New York Category:University of Cincinnati alumniar:سارة جيسيكا باركر bs:Sarah Jessica Parker bg:Сара Джесика Паркър ca:Sarah Jessica Parker cs:Sarah Jessica Parker cy:Sarah Jessica Parker da:Sarah Jessica Parker de:Sarah Jessica Parker et:Sarah Jessica Parker es:Sarah Jessica Parker eu:Sarah Jessica Parker fr:Sarah Jessica Parker hr:Sarah Jessica Parker id:Sarah Jessica Parker it:Sarah Jessica Parker he:שרה ג'סיקה פרקר ka:სარა ჯესიკა პარკერი hu:Sarah Jessica Parker mk:Сара Џесика Паркер nl:Sarah Jessica Parker ja:サラ・ジェシカ・パーカー no:Sarah Jessica Parker pl:Sarah Jessica Parker pt:Sarah Jessica Parker ru:Паркер, Сара Джессика sr:Sara Džesika Parker sh:Sarah Jessica Parker fi:Sarah Jessica Parker sv:Sarah Jessica Parker tr:Sarah Jessica Parker zh:莎拉·潔西卡·帕克