 |population_density_km2 = 4054 |elevation_m = 860 |timezone = Moscow time |utc_offset = +3 |timezone_DST = Moscow summer time |utc_offset_DST = +4 |latd=42 |latm=14 |lats=0 |latNS=N |longd=43 |longm=58 |longs=0 |longEW=E |website = http://tskhinval.ru  |footnotes = Tskhinvali (also spelled Cchinvali or Cxinvali; , ; , Tskhinval or Ch'reba; ), is the capital of South Ossetia, a de facto independent republic, which is internationally recognized as being part of Georgia's Shida Kartli region, except by Russia and Nicaragua, which regard it as an independent state.It is located on the Great Liakhvi River approximately 100 km (62 miles) northwest of the Georgian capital Tbilisi.NameThe name of Tskhinvali is derived from the Georgian Krtskhinvali (), literally meaning "the land of hornbeams",Словарь географических названий which is the historical name of the city.ИСТОРИЯ ЦАРСТВА ГРУЗИНСКОГО ("History of the Georgian Kingdom"), Вахушти Багратиони. Retrieved from vostlit.info on 24.08.2008 From 1934 to 1961, the city was named Staliniri (), after Joseph Stalin. Modern Ossetians call the city Tskhinval (leaving off the final "i", which is a nominative case ending in Georgian); the other Ossetian (unofficial) name of the city is Chreba.HistoryThe area around the present-day Tskhinvali was first populated back in the Bronze Age. The unearthed settlements and archaeological artifacts from that time are unique in that they reflect influences from both Iberian (east Georgia) and Colchian (west Georgia) cultures with possible Sarmatian elements. Tskhinvali was first chronicled by Georgian sources in 1398 as a village in Kartli (central Georgia) though a later account credits the 3rd century AD Georgian king Asphagur of Iberia with its foundation as a fortress. By the early 18th century, Tskhinvali was a small "royal town" populated chiefly by monastic serfs. Tskhinvali was annexed to the Russian Empire along with the rest of eastern Georgia in 1801. Located on a trade route which linked North Caucasus to Tbilisi and Gori, Tskhinvali gradually developed into a commercial town with a mixed Jewish, Georgian, Armenian and Ossetian population. In the 1910s, its censused population was 5,033 with 42.3% Jews, 33% Georgians, 13.4% Armenians and 11% Ossetians.The town saw clashes between Georgian People's Guard and pro-Bolshevik Ossetian peasants during the 1918-20 period, when Georgia gained brief independence from Russia. Soviet rule was established by the invading Red Army in March 1921, and a year later, in 1922, Tskhinvali was made a capital of the South Ossetian Autonomous Oblast within the Georgian SSR. Subsequently, the town became largely Ossetian due to intense urbanization and Soviet Korenizatsiya ("nativization") policy which induced an inflow of the Ossetians from the nearby rural areas into Tskhinvali. It was essentially an industrial center, with lumber mills and manufacturing plants, and had also several cultural and educational institutions such as a venerated Pedagogical Institute (currently Tskhinvali State University) and a drama theatre. According to the last Soviet census (in 1989), Tskhinvali had a population of 42,934.During the acute phase of the Georgian-Ossetian conflict, Tskhinvali was a scene of ethnic tensions and ensuing armed confrontation between Georgian and Ossetian forces. The 1992 Sochi ceasefire accord left Tskhinvali in the hands of Ossetians.2008 South Ossetian War   . August 18, 2008]]Tskhinvali was shelled by the central Georgian government on 8 August 2008 with BM-21 &quot;Grad&quot; mobile artillery rocket systems in an attempt to regain control over the breakaway republic of South Ossetia. Many civilians were killed, while the majority of the population left the town and fled into North Ossetia-Alania. After the bombings, the Georgian army invaded the city in an attempt to gain control of the capital. The Russian army responded on the following day by moving its own forces into the city and attacking the Georgian army. On 10 August Georgian forces pulled out of Tskhinvali that was captured by the Russian army after intense fighting. The town was heavily damaged during the battle. The Jewish Quarter - one of the town's unique neighborhoods was also destroyed.&lt;/ref&gt;PresentCurrently, Tskhinvali functions as the capital of South Ossetia. Before the 2008 war it had a population of approximately 30,000. The town remained significantly impoverished in the absence of a permanent political settlement between the two sides in the past two decades.The city contains several monuments of medieval Georgian architecture, with the Kavti Church of St. George being the oldest one dating back to the 8th-10th centuries, as well as Ossetian buildings.&lt;/ref&gt;On August 21, 2008 a world-famous Russian conductor and director of the Mariinsky Theatre of Ossetian origin Valery Gergiev conducted a concert near the ruined building of South Ossetian parliament in remembrance of the victims of the war in South Ossetia.&lt;/ref&gt;Sister citiesTskhinvali is twinned with the following cities:Tiraspol, TransnistriaSukhumi, AbkhaziaNotesExternal linksSitesSite of Tskhinvali: information, news, video, photos and etc.PicturesCasulaties in South Ossetia from Human Rights WatchTskhinvali after the war from RIA Novosti13 Aug 2008: Pictures of destroyed Tskhinvali after shelling of the city by Georgian troops on 8 Aug 2008 from OsinformReferences  Category:Cities, towns and villages in South Ossetiaar:تسخينفالي be:Горад Цхінвалі be-x-old:Цхінвалі bg:Цхинвали ca:Tskhinvali cs:Cchinvali cy:Tskhinvali da:Tskhinvali de:Zchinwali et:Tshinvali es:Tsjinval eo:Cĥinval fa:تسخینوالی fr:Tskhinval ko:츠힌발리 hr:Chinvali id:Tskhinvali os:Цхинвал it:Tskhinvali he:צחינוואלי ka:ცხინვალი lv:Chinvala lt:Cchinvalis hu:Chinvali mk:Цхинвали nl:Tsinvali ja:ツヒンワリ no:Tskhinvali nn:Tskhinvali nov:Tskhinvali pl:Cchinwali pt:Tskhinvali ksh:Zchinwali ro:Ţhinvali ru:Цхинвали sk:Cchinvali sr:Цхинвали sh:Chinvali fi:Tskhinvali sv:Tschinvali ta:திஸ்கின்வாலி tg:Схинволӣ tr:Tshinvali uk:Цхінвалі vo:Zkinval zh:茨欣瓦利