 |area_total_km2 = 29.75 |population_as_of = 2005-12-31 |population_footnotes =  |population_total = 60,185 |population_density_km2 = 2023 |timezone = CET |utc_offset = +1 |timezone_DST = CEST |utc_offset_DST = +2 |latd=59 |latm=22 |lats= |latNS=N |longd=16 |longm=31 |longs= |longEW=E |website =  Eskilstuna () is a city in Södermanland, Sweden and the seat of Eskilstuna Municipality. About 60,200 of the municipality's 93,101 inhabitants live in the seat. Eskilstuna also has a large Sweden Finn population.The town is located on the River Eskilstunaån (or Torshällaån or Hyndvadsån depending on where you are on the river), which connects Lake Hjälmaren and Lake Mälaren.It is served by the Svealand railway line (Svealandsbanan) between Stockholm and Hallsberg. The connections to the capital have improved in the last years - a train ride between the two cities now takes about an hour - and Eskilstuna has attracted many new inhabitants who commute to their places of work in greater Stockholm.European route E20 also passes the city.HistoryEskilstuna's history dates back to medieval times when English monk Saint Eskil made "Tuna" his base and diocese of the South coast of Lake Mälaren. Saint Eskil was stoned to death by the pagan vikings of neighbouring town Strängnäs, 30 km east of Eskilstuna, trying to convert them to Christianity. Saint Eskil was buried in his monastery church in Tuna. Later the pagan city of Strängnäs was Christianised and was given the privilege of becoming diocese of South Lake Mälaren. Later "Eskil" was added in to the word "Tuna". However, the town of Eskilstuna did not receive municipal privileges due to its proximity to the medieval city of Torshälla. The monastery of Saint Eskil was completely destroyed by Swedish king Gustav Vasa during the Protestant Reformation and was replaced with the royal castle of Eskilstuna House.The city's first city privileges were granted in 1659, and its boundaries included Tunafors and the newly-founded town of Karl Gustavs Stad ("City of Karl Gustav"), located on the west side of the river. Karl Gustavs Stad was built around the iron forges of master smith Reinhold Rademacher, encouraged by King Karl X Gustav. The first products of the forges were small arms and artillery.Karl Gustavs Stad was a free town from 1771, where manufacturers and craftsmen were allowed to establish tax-free workshops and factories. The town was merged with the rest of Eskilstuna in 1879.The city grew enormously during the Industrial Revolution and became one of the most important industrial cities of Sweden, earning the nickname "Stålstaden" ("The City of Steel"). Aside from firearms, the city also produced cutlery, scissors, keys, machine tools and precision instruments. As a tribute to the steel industry, the figure of a steel worker is included in the city's coat of arms.The city remains an important industrial city with internationally-known companies such as Volvo Wheelloaders and main site for the heavy machinery division of Volvo and Assa (locks, keys). The modern co-establishment of the Mälardalen University (Mälardalens högskola) together with the twice as large neighbouring city of Västerås, has also given Eskilstuna an academic touch. The city also has a combined zoo and amusement park - Parken Zoo, most famous for its white tigers.The most successful sports clubs of the city are the Smederna Speedway motorcycle racing club (Blacksmiths), and the handball club GUIF, which have both placed in the top divisions of their respective sports in Sweden for many years.Eskilstuna is sometimes called The Sheffield of Sweden. The origin of this comparison with Sheffield is unknown, even though the both cities share the characteristics of being early industrialised and later struck with mass unemployment. There's probably a connection to the common history of Steel and steel-related industry as well.Twin TownsEskilstuna has been twinned with Gatchina, in Russia since 1943, Luton, in England since 1949, and with Lviv in Ukraine since 1994.Notable NativesAnna Vasa (1568-1625) royal sister of the monarch of Poland, Sweden and Lithuania, Sigismund III Vasa.Kennet Andersson (born 6 October 1967) former international football player, 5 goals in the 1994 World CupRobert Andersson, Bowling pairs world champion 2006Kent Carlsson (born 3 January 1968), former world top 6 ranked Tennis playerTowa Carson (born 31 March 1936) popular Schlager (pop ballad) singer, Melodifestivalen participant (1960s through 2000s)Folke Heybroek (1913-1983) Artist, sculptor and IllustratorTommy Jansson (1953-1976), Speedway pairs world champion 1973 and 1975.Sebastian Larsson (born 6 June 1985) football player who currently plays for Birmingham City, former Arsenal playerKjell Johansson (born 5 October 1946), former world champion Table tennis playerDaniel Gildenlöw (born 5 June 1973), member of progressive metal band Pain of Salvation.Tomas Gustafson, Former triple Olympic champion in Speedskating.Kent, founded 1990, one of Sweden's best-selling Rock Groups. Lead vocalist and main songwriter Joakim BergFredrik Lindström, linguistics expert, author, comedian and TV host.Anni-Frid Lyngstad (born 15 November 1945), member of ABBAYvonne Ryding (born 14 December 1962), Miss Universe 1984Mika &quot;Gas&quot; Karppinen (born 8 February 1971), drummer of Finnish band HIM (band)Mika Väyrynen (born 28 December 1981), Finnish international football player representing SC HeerenveenReferencesExternal linksEskilstuna - Official site (in Swedish, French, German, English and Finnish)  Category:Cities in Sweden Category:Södermanland Category:Swedish municipal seatsda:Eskilstuna de:Eskilstuna et:Eskilstuna es:Eskilstuna fr:Eskilstuna id:Eskilstuna it:Eskilstuna lt:Eskilstuna nl:Eskilstuna (stad) no:Eskilstuna nn:Eskilstuna pl:Eskilstuna ro:Eskilstuna ru:Эскильстуна sk:Eskilstuna fi:Eskilstuna sv:Eskilstuna tr:Eskilstuna vo:Eskilstuna