 |archipelago = Sunda Islands |total islands = |major islands = |area = |highest mount = |elevation = |country = Indonesia |country admin divisions title = Provinces |country admin divisions = Bali,West Nusa Tenggara,East Nusa Tenggara |country 1 = East Timor |population = |population as of = |density = |ethnic groups =  The Nusa Tenggara (lit. Southeast Islands), or Lesser Sunda Islands, are a group of islands in the middle-south part of the Malay Archipelago. Together with the Greater Sunda Islands to the west they make up the Sunda Islands. The islands are part of a volcanic arc, the Sunda Arc, formed by subduction along the Java Trench.Partial listAdministrationThey are split into the independent state of East Timor (Timor-Leste) and the Indonesian provinces of Bali, West Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Barat) and East Nusa Tenggara (Nusa Tenggara Timur).Geology and ecologyThe geology and ecology of Nusa Tenggara shares much similar history, characteristics and processes with the neighbouring Maluku Islands region. There is a long history of geological study of these regions since Indonesian colonial times, however, the geological formation and progression is not fully understood, and theories of the island's geological evolution have changed extensively in recent decades.Monk (1996), page 9 Nusa Tenggara comprises some of the most geologically complex and active regions in the world. Biodiversity and its distribution in Nusa Tenggara is affected by various tectonic activities; most of the islands are geologically young being from 1 million to 15 million years old, and have never been attached to the larger landmassess.The Nusa Tenggara islands differ from other areas in Indonesia; they contain some of the country's smallest islands, coral island reefs scattered through some of the deepest seas in the world, and no large islands such as Java or Sumatra. Flora and fauna immigration between islands is thus restricted, leading to the evolution of a high rate of endemic biota.Monk (1996), page 9 The ecology of Nusa Tenggara has fascinated collectors for centuries; Alfred Wallace's famous book, The Malay Archipelago was the first significant recording of this natural history, and remains one of the most important sources on Indonesian natural history.Monk (1996), page 4While many ecological problems affect both small islands and large landmasses, small islands suffer their particular problems and are highly exposed to external forces. Development pressures on small islands are increasing, although their effects are not always anticipated. Although Indonesia is richly endowed with natural resources, the resources of the small islands of Nusa Tenggara are limited and specialised; furthermore human resources in particular are limited.Monk (1996), page 1General observationsBeller, W., P. d'Ayala, and P. Hein. 1990. Sustainable development and environmental management of small islands. Paris and New Jersey: United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation and Parthenon Publishing Group Inc.; Hess, A, 1990. Overview: sustainable development and environmental management of small islands. In Sustainable development and environmental management of small islands. eds W. Beller, P. d'Ayala, and P. Hein, Paris and New Jersey: United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation and Parthenon Publishing Group Inc. (both cited in Monk) about small islands that can be applied to Nusa Tenggara include:Monk (1996), page 1a higher proportion of the landmass will be affected by volcanic activity, earthquakes, landslips, and cyclone damage;Climates are more likely to be maritime influenced;Catchment areas are smaller and degree of erosion higher;A higher proportion of the landmass is made up of coastal areas;A higher degree of environmental specialisation, including a higher proportion of endemic species in an overall depauperate community;Societies may retain a strong sense of culture having developed in relative isolation;Small island populations are more likely to be affected by economic migration.ReferencesNotesSee alsoIslands of IndonesiaGreater Sunda IslandsMalay ArchipelagoExternal linksCategory:Lesser Sunda Islandsbs:Mala sundska ostrva bg:Малки Зондски острови cy:Ynysoedd Swnda Lleiaf de:Kleine Sunda-Inseln et:Väikesed Sunda saared es:Islas menores de la Sonda fr:Petites îles de la Sonde gl:Illas menores da Sonda ko:소순다 열도 hr:Mali sundski otoci id:Kepulauan Nusa Tenggara it:Piccole Isole della Sonda lt:Mažosios Sundos salos ms:Kepulauan Sunda Kecil nl:Kleine Soenda-eilanden ja:小スンダ列島 pms:Cite Ìsole dla Sonda pl:Małe Wyspy Sundajskie pt:Pequenas Ilhas da Sonda ru:Малые Зондские острова sk:Malé Sundy su:Kapuloan Sunda Alit fi:Pienet Sundasaaret zh:小巽他群岛