 Etosha National Park is a national park in the Kunene Region of northwestern Namibia. The park shares boundaries with the regions of Oshana, Oshikoto and Otjozondjupa.HistoryEtosha was first established in 1907, when Namibia was a German colony known as South West Africa. At the time, the park’s original 100,000&nbsp;km² (38,500 mile²) made it the largest game reserve in the world. Due to political changes since its original establishment, the park is now slightly less than a quarter of its original area, but still remains a very large and significant area in which wildlife is protected.Flora and faunaThe Etosha Pan dominates the park. The salt pan desert is roughly 130&nbsp;km long and as wide as 50&nbsp;km in places. The salt pan is usually dry, but fills with water briefly in the summer, when it attracts pelicans and flamingos in particular. Perennial springs attract a variety of animals and birds throughout the year, including the endangered Black Rhinoceros and the endemic Black-faced Impala.In the dry season, winds blowing across the salt pan pick up saline dust and carry it across the country and out over the southern Atlantic. This salt enrichment provides minerals to the soil downwind of the pan on which some wildlife depends, though the salinity also creates challenges to farming.The Etosha Pan was one of several sites throughout southern Africa in the Southern African Regional Science Initiative (SAFARI 2000). Using satellites, aircraft, and ground-based data from sites such as Etosha, partners in this program collected a wide variety of data on aerosols, land cover, and other characteristics of the land and atmosphere to study and understand the interactions between people and the natural environment.A long fence has been erected along the park’s 850 km boundary to control the spreading of disease. The animals concentrate around the new waterholes, resulting in excessive grazing in their vicinity. Fifty waterholes have been constructed to attract animals and so improve the viewing prospect for visitors.See alsoList of national parks of NamibiaGallery Image:Lion waiting in Nambia.jpg|Lion Image:Loxodonta africana (Rush for the water).jpg|African Elephants Image:Giraffa camelopardalis angolensis (mating).jpg|Giraffes Image:Etosha_sunset.jpg|Sunset at Etosha National Park ReferencesExternal linksMinistry of Environment and Tourism pageEtosha on PBSEtosha National Parkaf:Nasionale Etoshawildtuin de:Etosha-Nationalpark es:Parque Nacional Etosha fr:Parc national d'Etosha hr:Nacionalni park Etosha it:Parco nazionale Etosha lt:Etošos duburys nl:Nationaal park Etosha no:Etosha nasjonalpark pl:Park Narodowy Etosha sr:Национални парк Етоша fi:Etoshan kansallispuisto