 The port city of Santander is the capital of the autonomous community of Cantabria situated on the north coast of Spain between Asturias (to the west) and the Basque Country (to the east). Population in 2007 was about 184,000. Just over a third of Cantabrians live in Santander. The city is the home of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Santander.HistoryIn the Roman Empire, the town was known as Portus Victoriae Iuliobrigensium. Its present name is derived from St Emeterio (Santemter, Santenter, Santander), a martyr whose head was brought there in the 3rd century, along with that of St Celedonio, according to legend.CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPEDIA: Santander&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;In 1187, King Alfonso VIII made the abbot of San Emeterio lord of the town, and in 1248 Santander participated in the battle for Seville, receiving a coat of arms as reward.The city owes its existence to the excellent harbour of the Bay of Santander. Santander was an important port for Castile in the later Middle Ages, and also for trade with the New World. It officially became a city in 1755.In 1893 the freighter Cabo Machichaco exploded in the harbor, killing 500 people.In the early 1900's Santander became the favored summer residence of King Alfonso XIII, who built the Palacio de la Magdalena as the residence of the royal family during the holidays. The city gained great popularity from this and from the Victorian enthusiasm for sea bathing and it remains popular with the Spanish for beach holidays today.Great Fire of 1941Santander fell victim to a great fire in 1941. Fanned by a strong south wind, the fire burned for two days. There was only one casualty, a firefighter killed in the line of duty, but thousands of families were left homeless and the city was plunged into chaos.When it was over, the historic part of Santander was almost completely destroyed. The fire destroyed the greater part of the medieval downtown and gutted the city’s Romanesque cathedral.DemographyAs of 2004, Santander has a population of 183,800. The number has remained fairly steady since 1981. Spain's low fecundity rate and aging population have combined with rising immigration figures to keep the population growth fairly stagnant. Nevertheless, the Santander conurbation continues to sprawl as young families move away from the high cost of living in the heart of the city. TourismToday Santander remains a popular tourist destination. It is renowned for its mild, (though rainy) climate.Next to the Sardinero beach is a European style casino.The Sardinero beaches are nice urban beaches, certain parts of which are popular among local surfers.The Plaza de Cañadío is a very popular place to start a night of drinking. The Plaza immediately borders seven different bars, and many other taverns are close by.There are many interesting shops at the Cuatro Caminos and the area bordering the Ayuntamiento Image:Playa Sardinero - Santander - Spain.jpg|El Sardinero Image:Santander.Playa.Magdalena.jpg|La Magdalena Image:Santander.Gran.Casino.jpg|Casino Image:Santander.Plaza.Cañadio.jpg|Plaza de Cañadío EducationUniversity of Cantabria is the largest university in Cantabria.Universidad Internacional Menéndez Pelayo (UIMP) specializes in teaching foreigners about Spanish language and cultureExternal linksWebcams de Santander y Cantabria &mdash; Live webcams Santander and Cantabria.Ayuntamiento de Santander &mdash; Official website of the Santander Ayuntamiento (In Spanish).Santander - Cantabria 102 MunicipiosWebcam en Puertochico &mdash; Live webcam of Santander's Puertochico district.Tiempo y webcam de Santander desde El Sardinero &mdash; Live webcam and weather station at Sardinero beachMunicipios de Cantabria, incluyendo Santander&mdash;All the cities and villages in Cantabria, incluiding Santander: History, Demography and more exhaustive informationPictures of Santander &mdash; More than 100 photos of this city.Santander, rutas y monumentos &mdash; Touristic routes, museums, monuments...NotesCategory:Cantabria Category:Municipalities in Cantabria Category:Port cities and towns in Spainar:سانتاندير an:Santander roa-rup:Santander ast:Santander be-x-old:Сантандэр (горад) ca:Santander cs:Santander cy:Santander da:Santander de:Santander et:Santander es:Santander (España) eo:Santandero (Hispanio) eu:Santander fa:سانتاندر fr:Santander (Espagne) fy:Santander (Spanje) ga:Santander gl:Santander, España ko:산탄데르 (스페인) haw:Santander hr:Santander id:Santander, Spanyol os:Сантандер it:Santander (Spagna) he:סנטנדר jv:Santander lad:Santander la:Santander lb:Santander lt:Santanderas nl:Santander (Spanje) ja:サンタンデール (スペイン) no:Santander (by) oc:Santandèr pl:Santander pt:Santander (Espanha) ro:Santander ru:Сантандер sr:Сантандер fi:Santander sv:Santander, Spanien tet:Santandér vi:Santander, Cantabria tr:Santander zh:桑坦德 (西班牙)