 The Great Crested Grebe, Podiceps cristatus is a member of the grebe family of water birds.DescriptionThe Great Crested Grebe is 46-51 cm long with a 59-73 cm wingspan. It is an excellent swimmer and diver, and pursues its fish prey underwater. The adults are unmistakable in summer with head and neck decorations. In winter, this is whiter than most grebes, with white above the eye, and a pink bill. It is the largest European grebe.The young are remarkable because their heads are striped black and white, much like zebras. They lose these markings when they become adults.DistributionThe Great Crested Grebe breeds in vegetated areas of freshwater lakes. The subspecies P. c. cristatus is found across Europe and Asia. It is resident in the milder west of its range, but migrates from the colder regions. It winters on freshwater lakes and reservoirs or the coast. The African subspecies P. c. infuscatus and the Australasian subspecies P. c. australis are mainly sedentary.BehaviourThe Great Crested Grebe has an elaborate mating display. Like all grebes, it nests on the water's edge, since its legs are set very far back and it cannot walk well. Usually two eggs are laid, and the striped young are sometimes carried on the adult's back. Young grebes are capable of swimming and diving almost at hatching. The Crested Grebe feeds mainly on fish, but also little crustaceans, insects and little frogs.This species was hunted almost to extinction in the United Kingdom in the 19th century for its head plumes, which were used to decorate hats. The RSPB was set up to help protect this species, which is again common.Gallery Image:Podiceps_cristatus_1_(Marek_Szczepanek).jpg Image:Podiceps_cristatus_3_(Marek_Szczepanek).jpg Image:Podiceps_cristatus_4_(Marek_Szczepanek).jpg   Image:Podiceps_cristatus_5_(Marek_Szczepanek).jpg Image:GreatCrestedGrebes.jpg Image:Great Crested Grebe-Mindaugas Urbonas.jpg Image:Great_Crested_Grebe_-_24896.jpg References Database entry includes justification for why this species is of least concernExternal linksBTO BirdFacts - Great-crested GrebeBirdLife Species FactsheetIUCN Red ListCategory:Podiceps Category:Birds of Europe Category:Birds of Asia Category:Birds of Africa Category:Birds of South Australia Category:Birds of Western Australia Category:Birds of Kenya Category:Birds of Saudi Arabia Category:Birds of India Category:Birds of Bahrain Category:Birds of Sri Lanka Category:Birds of Southeast Asia Category:Birds of Bangladesh Category:Birds of Burma Category:Birds of Georgia (country) Category:Birds of Vietnam Category:Birds of Laos Category:Birds of Lithuania Category:Birds of Cambodia Category:Birds of Thailand Category:Birds of Malaysia Category:Birds of Pakistan Category:Birds of Turkey Category:Birds of Brunei Category:Birds of Indonesia Category:Birds of New Zealand Category:Birds of Tasmania Grebeaf:Kuifkopdobbertjie bg:Голям гмурец ca:Cabussó emplomallat cs:Potápka roháč cy:Gwyach Fawr Gopog da:Toppet lappedykker de:Haubentaucher et:Tuttpütt es:Podiceps cristatus eo:Tufgrebo fr:Grèbe huppé fy:Hjerringslynder hr:Ćubasti gnjurac it:Podiceps cristatus lt:Ausuotasis kragas hu:Búbos vöcsök nl:Fuut ja:カンムリカイツブリ no:Toppdykker nn:Toppdykkar pl:Perkoz dwuczuby pt:Mergulhão-de-crista ru:Большая поганка se:Silkebuokča sk:Potápka chochlatá sl:Čopasti ponirek fi:Silkkiuikku sv:Skäggdopping tr:Bahri uk:Велика пірникоза zea:Fuut zh:凤头鸊鷉