 The Republic of Texas was a sovereign nation in North America between the United States and Mexico that existed from 1836 to 1846. Formed as a break-away republic from Mexico by the Texas Revolution, the nation claimed borders that encompassed an area that included all of the present U.S. state of Texas, as well as parts of present-day New Mexico, Oklahoma, Kansas, Colorado, and Wyoming based upon the Treaties of Velasco between the newly created Texas republic and Mexico. The eastern boundary with the United States was defined by the Adams-Onís Treaty between the United States and Spain, in 1819. Its southern and western-most boundary with Mexico was under dispute throughout the existence of the Republic, with Texas claiming that the boundary was the Rio Grande, and Mexico claiming the Nueces River as the boundary. This dispute would later become a trigger for the Mexican–American War, after the annexation of Texas.Historical context  Texas was not the only Mexican state to secede from Mexico and declare independence. The Mexican states of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas also withdrew themselves from Mexico and formed their own short-lived federal republic called the Republic of the Rio Grande with Laredo as the capital, which is in the present-day State of Texas. The Mexican state of Yucatán also seceded and formed the Republic of Yucatán. Several other states also went into open rebellion including San Luis Potosí, Querétaro, Durango, Guanajuato, Michoacán, Jalisco and Zacatecas. All the Mexican states that revolted, including Texas, were upset with President Antonio López de Santa Anna over abolishing the Mexican Constitution of 1824, dissolving the Mexican Congress and changing the structure of the Mexican government from a federal one to a centralized one. In fact, Yucatán, in its declaration of independence, expressed its desire to re-accede to the Mexican Union if federalism was to be re-established. Texas was the only seceding Mexican state to retain its independence from Mexico.However, the context of the Texas rebellion was different from the other Mexican states/provinces attempting to declare independence, because the Texas rebellion was conducted with great assistance by Anglo American immigrants. Mainly because of this fact, Texas was also the only former Mexican state to entertain the idea of joining the United States entirely of its own volition. After gaining their independence, the Texas voters had elected a congress of 14 senators and 29 representatives in September 1836. The Constitution of the Republic of Texas allowed the first president to serve for only two years. It set a three year term for all later presidents.Diplomatic relationsOn March 3, 1837, US President Andrew Jackson appointed Alcée La Branche as chargé d'affaires to the Republic of Texas, thus officially recognizing Texas as an independent republic. France granted official recognition of Texas on September 25, 1839, appointing Dubois de Saligny to serve as chargé d'affaires. Great Britain never granted official recognition of Texas due to its own friendly relations with Mexico, but admitted Texan goods into British ports on their own terms.Diplomatic Relations of the Republic of TexasStatehoodOn February 28, 1845, the U.S. Congress passed a bill that would authorize the United States to annex the Republic of Texas. On March 1, U.S. President John Tyler signed the bill. The legislation set the date for annexation for December 29 of the same year. Faced with imminent American annexation of Texas, Charles Elliot and Alphonse de Saliny, the British and French ministers to Texas, were dispatched to Mexico City by their governments. Meeting together with Mexico's foreign secretary, they signed a "Diplomatic Act" in which Mexico offered to recognize an independent Texas, with boundaries that would be determined with French and British mediation. Texas President Anson Jones forwarded both offers to a specially elected convention meeting at Austin, and the American proposal was accepted with only one dissenting vote. The Mexican proposal was never put to a vote. Following the previous decree of President Jones, the proposal was then put to a national vote.On October 13, 1845 a large majority of voters in the Republic approved both the American offer and the proposed constitution that specifically endorsed slavery and the slave trade. This constitution was later accepted by the U.S. Congress, making Texas a U.S. state on the same day annexation took effect, December 29 1845 (therefore bypassing a territorial phase)The Avalon Project at Yale Law School: Texas - From Independence to Annexation. One of the motivations for annexation (besides the primary one of desiring to be united with their perceived Anglo-American ethno-cultural brethren of the United States and their Anglo-American brethren of "the South" regional-cultural) was that the Texas government had incurred huge debts which the United States agreed to assume upon annexation. In 1852, in return for this assumption of debt, a large portion of Texas-claimed territory, now parts of Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and Wyoming, was ceded to the Federal government.The annexation resolution has been the topic of some incorrect historical beliefs&mdash;one that remains is that the resolution granted Texas the explicit right to secede from the Union. This was a right argued by some to be implicitly held by all states at the time, up until the conclusion of the Civil War. The resolution did include two unique provisions: first, it said that up to four additional states could be created from Texas' territory, with the consent of the State of Texas. The resolution did not include any special exceptions to the provisions of the US Constitution regarding statehood. The right to create these possible new states was not "reserved" for Texas, as is sometimes stated.Joint Resolution for Annexing Texas to the United States. Second, Texas did not have to surrender its public lands to the federal government. While Texas did cede all territory outside of its current area to the federal government in 1850, it did not cede any public lands within its current boundaries. This means that generally, the only lands owned by the federal government within Texas have actually been purchased by the government. This also means that the state government has control over oil reserves which were later used to fund the state's public university system. In addition, the state's control over offshore oil reserves in Texas runs out to 3 leagues (10.357 miles, 16.668 km) rather than three miles (4.828 km) as with other statesOverview of U.S. Legislation and Regulations Affecting Offshore Natural Gas and Oil Activity.Presidents and vice presidents+ Presidents and Vice Presidents of the Republic of Texas with election resultsFromToPresidentVice presidentPresidentialcandidatesPres.votesVice pres.candidatesV.P.votes16 March 183622 October 1836David G. Burnet      (interim)Lorenzo de Zavala     (interim)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;22 October 183610 December 1838Sam HoustonMirabeau B. LamarHenry Smith]]  Stephen F. Austin5119  743  587Mirabeau B. Lamar&nbsp;10 December 183813 December 1841Mirabeau B. LamarDavid G. BurnetMirabeau B. Lamar  Robert Wilson6995  252David G. Burnet&nbsp;13 December 18419 December 1844Sam HoustonEdward BurlesonSam Houston  David G. Burnet7915  3619Edward Burleson  Memucan Hunt6141  43369 December 184419 February 1846Anson JonesKenneth L. Anderson]]Anson Jones  Edward Burleson__  __Kenneth L. Anderson&nbsp;Notable figures of the republic, known as the "Father of Texas"]]In Alternate HistoryThe "Sliders" episode "The Good, the Bad and the Wealthy" takes place in an alternate history where the Republic of Texas remained independent throughout the 19th and 20th Centuries (see List of Sliders episodes).The canceled CBS show "Jericho" showed an &quot;Independent Republic of Texas&quot; in the series finale. The Independent Republic of Texas, according to the show's history, was formed after the devastating nuclear attacks in the former United States of America. Eager to avoid a conflict with the newly-formed "Allied States of America" and the remnants of the former United States, it declared independence, and by assisting traitors to the Allied States, it became an ally of the United States in the upcoming war (which could never be aired).See also Timeline of the Republic of TexasHistory of TexasRepublic of the Rio GrandeRepublic of YucatánThe Texas LegationThe French LegationTexas NavyNotesReferencesRepublic of Texas Historical ResourcesThe University of Texas/historyThe State of Texas website/history[http://texashistory.unt.edu/permalink/meta-pth-2389 Texas: the Rise, Progress, and Prospects of the Republic of Texas, Vol. 1], published 1841, hosted by Portal to Texas History[http://texashistory.unt.edu/permalink/meta-pth-2392 Texas: the Rise, Progress, and Prospects of the Republic of Texas, Vol. 2], published 1841, hosted by Portal to Texas HistoryLaws of the Republic, 1836-1838 from Gammel's Laws of Texas, Vol. I. hosted by the Portal to Texas History.Laws of the Republic, 1838-1845 from Gammel's Laws of Texas, Vol. II. hosted by the Portal to Texas History.The Avalon Project at Yale Law School: Texas - From Independence to AnnexationExternal linksThe Texas Declaration Of Independence TexasBob.com.Texas, Republic of Category:Republic of Texas Category:Short-lived states Texas, Republic of Texas, Republic of Category:Texas Revolutionar:جمهورية تكساس bn:প্রজাতন্ত্রী টেক্সাস ca:República de Texas cs:Texaská republika da:Republikken Texas de:Republik Texas es:República de Texas eo:Respubliko Teksaso fa:جمهوری تگزاس fr:République du Texas ko:텍사스 공화국 id:Republik Texas it:Repubblica del Texas he:רפובליקת טקסס ka:ტეხასის რესპუბლიკა mr:टेक्सासचे प्रजासत्ताक nl:Republiek Texas ja:テキサス共和国 no:Republikken Texas nn:Republikken Texas pl:Republika Teksasu pt:República do Texas ru:Республика Техас sq:Republika e Teksasit simple:Republic of Texas sk:Texaská republika sv:Republiken Texas tl:Republika ng Texas vi:Cộng hòa Texas zh:得克萨斯共和国