 Negeri Sembilan (also Negri Sembilan, Jawi: نڬري سمبيلن), meaning "state of nine" in Malay, is a state of Malaysia. It is located on the western coast of Peninsular Malaysia, just south of Kuala Lumpur and is bordered in the north by Selangor, in the east by Pahang and in the south by Malacca and Johor.The name is believed to derive from the nine districts or nagari (now known as luak) settled by the Minangkabau, a people originally from West Sumatra (present-day Indonesia). Minangkabau features are still visible today in traditional architecture and the dialect of Malay spoken. Unlike the hereditary monarchs of the other royal Malay states, the ruler of Negeri Sembilan - known as Yang di-Pertuan Besar - is selected by the council of Undangs who lead the four biggest districts of Sungai Ujong, Jelebu, Johol, and Rembau.The capital of Negeri Sembilan is Seremban. The royal capital is Seri Menanti in Kuala Pilah district. Other important towns are Port Dickson and Nilai.The Arabic honorific of the state is Darul Khusus ("the Special Abode").The ethnic composition in 2005 was: Malay (497,896 or 54.96%), Chinese (220,141 or 24.3%), Indian (137,588 or 15.18%), Other (50,267 or 5.54%).Historyis the capital of the state of Negeri Sembilan.]] The Minangkabau from Sumatra settled in Negeri Sembilan in the 15th century under the protection of the Melaka Sultanate, and later under the protection of its successor, the Sultanate of Johor. As Johor weakened in the 18th century, attacks by the Bugis forced the Minangkabaus to seek protection from a prince of their homeland. The Minangkabau ruler, Sultan Abdul Jalil, obliged by sending his near relative, Raja Melewar. Arriving to find that a certain Raja Khatib had already established himself as ruler, Melewar was forced to compromise with the lesser chiefs in order to secure his position. He defeated Raja Khatib with their help, receiving Seri Menanti as his personal domain. The Sultan of Johor, confirmed his position by granting the title Yang di-Pertuan Besar Negeri Sembilan (He Who is Highest Lord of the Nine States) in 1773. After Raja Melewar's death, a series of disputes arose over the succession. For a considerable period, the local nobles applied to the Minangkabau ruler in Sumatra for a ruler. However, competing interests supported different candidates, often resulting in instability and civil war.In 1873, the British intervened militarily in a civil war in Sungai Ujong to preserve British economic interests, and placed the country under the control of a British Resident. Jelebu followed in 1886, and the remaining states in 1895. In 1897, when the Federated Malay States (FMS) was established, Sungai Ujong and Jelebu were reunited to the confederation of small states and the whole, under the old name of the Negeri Sembilan, was placed under a single Resident and became a member of the FMS.The number of states within Negeri Sembilan has fluctuated over the years, the federation now consists of six states and a number of sub-states under their suzerainty. The former state of Naning was annexed by Malacca, Kelang by Selangor, and Segamat by Johor.Negeri Sembilan endured Japanese occupation in World War II between 1941 and 1945, and joined the Federation of Malaya in 1948, and became a state of Malaysia in 1963.Government and PoliticsConstitutionThe Constitution of Negeri Sembilan came into force on March 26 1959. It is divided into the following two sections;THE FIRST PART OF THE LAWS OF THE CONSTITUTION OF NEGERI SEMBILAN.THE SECOND PART OF THE LAWS OF THE CONSTITUTION OF NEGERI SEMBILAN.The constitution establishes that the state's form of government is Constitutional Monarchy.The RulerThe official constitutional title of the Ruler of the state is His Royal Highness the Yang Di-Pertuan Besar and he holds office for life. The state's constitution proclaims the Yang Di-Pertuan Besar is vested with the Executive Power of the state, is the Head of the Religion of Islam in the state and is the fountain of all honor and dignity for the state. The current Yang di-Pertuan Besar is His Royal Highness Tuanku Jaafar ibni Almarhum Tuanku Abdul Rahman, born 1922, who was elected in 1967.Unlike Malaysia's eight other Royal Malay states, the Ruler of Negeri Sembilan is elected to his office by the territorial chiefs of the state. These chiefs are titled Undang. Only four of the Undangs have the right to vote in the election for the Ruler of the State. They are:The Undang of Sungei Ujong.The Undang of Jelebu.The Undang of Johol.The Undang of Rembau.The Undangs themselves cannot stand for election and their choice of ruler is limited to a male Muslim who is Malay and also a "lawfully begotten descendant of Raja Radin ibni Raja Lenggang".State Executive Council / AssemblyBreakup of State Seats Representatives elected 2008''The State Executive Council is established by the 1959 constitution. It consists of the Menteri Besar, who is its Chairman, and ten other members. The Menteri Besar and the other members of the council are appointed by the Yang Di-Pertuan Besar from the members of the State Assembly. The current Menteri Besar or Chief Minister of the state is YAB Dato' Seri Utama Mohamad Haji Hassan.EconomyNegeri Sembilan is mainly an agricultural state. However, the establishment of several industrial estates enhanced the manufacturing sector as a major contributor towards the state economy.Agricultural activity includes rubber and palm oil plantations, livestock, fruit orchards and vegetable farming. About 3,099 square kilometres are used for rubber and oil palm plantations.Manufacturing activity includes electrical and electronics, textiles, furniture, chemicals, machinery, metalworks and rubber products. The main industrial areas are Senawang, Sungai Gadut, Tuanku Jaafar Industrial Park, Nilai and Tanah Merah in Port Dickson.Current states and sub-states of Negeri SembilanJelai (Inas)JelebuJempolJoholUlu MuarRembauGunung PasirSungai Ujong (Sungei Ujong)TeraciTampinOriginal states of Negeri SembilanJelai (Inas)JelebuJoholKelang (Klang) (now Selangor State)Nanaing (Naning) (now mostly in Malacca State)RembauSegamat and Pasir Besar (Segamat is now in Johor State and Pasir Besar is in Tampin)Sungai Ujong (Sungei Ujong)Ulu Pahan (now divided between Jelebu and Pahang State)Current administrative districts of Negeri SembilanJelebuJempolKuala PilahPort DicksonRembauSerembanTampinExternal linksOfficial site of Negeri Sembilan State Government *ar:نجري سمبيلن دار الخصوص zh-min-nan:Negeri Sembilan ca:Negeri Sembilan da:Negeri Sembilan de:Negeri Sembilan es:Negeri Sembilan fr:Negeri Sembilan id:Negeri Sembilan it:Negeri Sembilan ms:Negeri Sembilan nl:Negeri Sembilan ja:ヌグリ・スンビラン州 pms:Negeri Sembilan pl:Negeri Sembilan pt:Negeri Sembilan ru:Негери-Сембелан fi:Negeri Sembilan tr:Negeri Sembilan uk:Негері-Сембелан zh:森美兰