 |top_floor=  |antenna_spire=  |floor_area=  |elevator_count= 32 |architect= William Van Alen |owner= Abu Dhabi Investment Council (75%)   Tishman Speyer (25%)  |Source= Emporis.com, SkyscraperPage.com|The Chrysler Building is an Art Deco skyscraper in New York City, located on the east side of Manhattan at the intersection of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. Standing at ,The Chrysler Building – SkyscraperPage.com it was the world's tallest building for 11 months before it was surpassed by the Empire State Building in 1931. However, the Chrysler Building remains the world's tallest brick building.The World's Tallest Brick Building – SkyscraperPicture.comA view from Above – The Chrysler Building After the destruction of the World Trade Center, it was again the second-tallest building in New York City until December 2007, when the spire was raised on the  Bank of America building, pushing the Chrysler Building into third position. In addition, the New York Times Building, which opened in 2007, is exactly level with the Chrysler Building in height.Emporis Data – See Tallest buildings RankingThe Chrysler Building is a classic example of Art Deco architecture and considered by many contemporary architects to be one of the finest buildings in New York City (see below). In 2007, it was ranked ninth on the List of America's Favorite Architecture by the American Institute of Architects.FavoriteArchitecture.orgHistoryThe Chrysler Building was designed by architect William Van Alen to house the Chrysler Corporation. When the ground breaking occurred on September 19, 1928, there was an intense competition in New York City to build the world's tallest skyscraper.Emporis Data &quot;...a celebrated three-way race to become the tallest building in the world.&quot;The Manhattan Company – Skyscraper.org; &quot;...'race' to erect the tallest tower in the world.&quot; Despite a frantic pace (the building was erected at an average rate of four floors per week), no workers died during the construction of this skyscraper.Design beginningsVan Alen's original design for the skyscraper called for a decorative jewel-like glass crown. It also featured a base in which the showroom windows were tripled in height and topped by twelve stories with glass-wrapped corners, creating an impression that the tower appeared physically and visually light as if floating on mid-air.The Silver Spire; How two men's dreams changed the skyline of New York Paragraph 8. Author: James E. Beyer, American Institute of Architects The height of the skyscraper was also originally designed to be .University of Wisconsin-Madison; School of Engineering – The Chrysler Building However, the design proved to be too advanced and costly for building contractor William H. Reynolds, who disapproved of Van Alen's original plan.Emporis.com – Chrysler Building The design and lease were then sold to Walter P. Chrysler, who worked with Van Alen and redesigned the skyscraper for additional stories; it was eventually revised to be  tall. As Walter Chrysler was the chairman of the Chrysler Automobile Corporation, various architectural details and especially the building's gargoyles were modeled after Chrysler automobile products like the hood ornaments of the Plymouth, and in which must also exemplify the machine age in the 1920s (see below).&lt;/ref&gt;&lt;ref&gt;Emporis DataConstructionConstruction commenced on September 19, 1928. In total, almost 400,000 rivets were used and approximately 3,826,000 bricks were manually laid, to create the non-loadbearing walls of the skyscraper.The Chrysler Building, Creating a New York icon, day by day. Pages 54, 158, image caption no.39 ISBN 1-56898-354-9 Contractors, builders and engineers were joined by other building-services experts to coordinate construction.Prior to its completion, the building stood about even with a rival project at 40 Wall Street, designed by H. Craig Severance. Severance increased the height of his project and then publicly claimed the title of the world's tallest buildingEmporis Data – See source no.4 line 4; "Briefly held the world's tallest title until it was eclipsed by the spire of Chrysler Building." (this distinction excluded structures that were not fully habitable, such as the Eiffel TowerCTBUH – Criteria of World's Tallest Building). In response, Van Alen obtained permission for a  long spireThe Chrysler Building, Creating a New York icon, day by day. Page 161. Image caption no.39 – ISBN 1-56898-354-9 and had it secretly constructed inside the frame of the building. The spire was delivered to the site in 4 different sections.The Chrysler Building, Creating a New York icon, day by day. Page 161, image caption no.54 ISBN 1-56898-354-9 On October 23, 1929, the bottom section of the spire was hoisted onto the top of the building's dome and lowered into the 66th floor of the building. The other remaining sections of the spire were hoisted and riveted to the first one in sequential order in just 90 minutes.The Chrysler Building, Creating a New York icon, day by day. Pages xiii (Paragraph 10) and 161. Image caption no.39 – ISBN 1-56898-354-9CompletionAs construction was completed on May 28, 1930, the added height of the spire allowed the Chrysler Building to surpass 40 Wall Street as the tallest building in the world and the Eiffel Tower as the tallest structure. It was the first man-made structure to stand taller than . Van Alen's satisfaction in these accomplishments was likely muted by Walter Chrysler's later refusal to pay the balance of his architectural fee. In less than a year after it opened to the public on May 27, 1931, the Chrysler Building was surpassed in height by the Empire State Building.PropertyThe land on which the Chrysler Building stands was donated to The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art,Cooper Union and Chrysler Building a private college that offers every admitted student a full tuition scholarship, in 1902. The land was leased to the Chrysler Corporation to construct the building in 1929. The land and the building continue to be owned by the college;The New York Times – Cooper Union however, the lease has changed several times. In 1957, it was leased to real-estate moguls Sol Goldman and Alex DiLorenzo, and later leased to the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company. The lobby was refurbished and the facade renovated in 1978–1979. The building was leased by Jack Kent Cooke, a Washington, D.C. investor, in 1979. The spire underwent a restoration that was completed in 1995. In 1998, The Cooper Union leased the building to Tishman Speyer Properties and the Travelers Insurance Group. In 2001, a 75% stake in the lease of the building was sold, for US$ 800 million, to TMW, the German arm of an Atlanta-based investment fund. On June 11, 2008 it was reported that the Abu Dhabi Investment Council was in negotiations to buy TMW's 75% economic interest in the building and a share of the Trylons retail structure next door for US$ 800 million. On July 9, 2008 it was announced that the transaction had been completed, and that the Abu Dhabi Investment Council was now the owner of the building.ArchitectureThe Chrysler Building is considered a masterpiece of Art Deco architecture. The distinctive ornamentation of the building is based on features that were then being used on Chrysler automobiles. The corners of the 61st floor are graced with eagles, replicas of the 1929 Chrysler hood ornaments;Unaccredited image on the 31st floor, the corner ornamentation are replicas of the 1929 Chrysler radiator caps.1926 Chrysler Radiator Cap Used On The Chrysler Building The building is constructed of masonry, with a steel frame, and metal cladding. In total, the building currently contains 3,862 windows on its facade and 4 banks of 8 elevators designed by the Otis Elevator Corporation. The building was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1976.|author=Carolyn Pitts|date=August, 1976|publisher=National Park Service and Crown ornamentationThe Chrysler Building is also well renowned and recognised for its terraced crown. Composed of seven radiating terraced arches, Van Alen's design of the crown is a cruciform groin vault constructed into seven concentric members with transitioning set-backs, mounted up one behind each other.The City Review.com – Chrysler Building by AIA Carter B. Horsley The stainless-steel cladding is ribbed and riveted in a radiating pattern with many triangular vaulted windows, transitioning into smaller segments of the seven narrow set-backs of the facade of the terraced crown. The entire crown is clad with silvery "Enduro KA-2" metal, an austenitic stainless steel developed in Germany by Krupp and marketed under the trade name "Nirosta" (a German acronym for '''ni'cht'ro'stender 'Sta'hl'', meaning "rust-proof steel").&lt;/ref&gt;Observation and broadcastingWhen the building first opened, it contained a public viewing gallery on the 71st floor, which was closed to the public in 1945. The private Cloud Club occupied the 66th–68th floors, but closed in the late 1970s. The very top stories of the building are narrow with low sloped ceilings, designed mostly for exterior appearance with interiors useful only to hold radio-broadcasting and other mechanical and electrical equipment. Television station WCBS-TV (Channel 2) originally transmitted from the top of the Chrysler in the 1940s and early 1950s, before moving to the Empire State Building. For many years, WPAT-FM and WTFM (now WKTU) also used the Chrysler Building as a transmission site, but they also moved to the Empire by the 1970s. There are currently no commercial broadcast stations located at the Chrysler Building.LightingThere are two sets of lighting in the top spires and decoration. The first are the V-shaped lighting inserts in the steel of the building itself. Added later were groups of floodlights which are on mast arms directed back at the building. This allows the top of the building to be lit in many colors for special occasions. This lighting was installed by electrician Charles Londner and crew during construction.Recognition and appealIn more recent years, the Chrysler Building has continued to be a favorite among New Yorkers. In the summer of 2005, New York's own Skyscraper Museum asked one hundred architects, builders, critics, engineers, historians, and scholars, among others, to choose their 10 favorites among 25 New York towers. The Chrysler Building came in first place as 90% of them placed the building in their top-10 favorite buildings.&quot;In a City of Skyscrapers, Which Is the Mightiest of the High? Experts Say It's No Contest&quot;, The New York Times, September 1, 2005. Accessed April 8, 2008.The Chrysler Building's distinctive profile has inspired similar skyscrapers worldwide, including One Liberty Place in Philadelphia.[http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=9B0DE3DA163BF936A25752C1A961948260 The NY Times ARCHITECTURE VIEW; Giving New Life to Philadelphia's Skyline. Paragraph 6, line 4, Quote: "...The tower resembles nothing so much as the Chrysler Building..."]University of Wisconsin-Madison; School of Engineering – One Liverty Place; Slide 18, Building MaterialsCultural DepictionsAs an iconic part of the New York City skyline, the Chrysler Building has been depicted countlessly in almost every medium—film, photography, video games, art, advertising, music, literature, and even fashion, as its use quickly establishes without doubt the location in which the depicted events are occurring.In the music scene, Meat Loaf's 1993 album Bat Out of Hell II: Back Into Hell's cover art depicts a demonic bat clinging to the top floors of the Chrysler Building. The artwork was by done by Michael Whelan.A demonic bat on the top of the Chrysler Building The Chrysler building is widely known to be depicted in many films, such as Deep Impact (1998), where a wall of water surrounds the skyscraper and people can be seen on the 61st-floor observation deck fleeing to the other side of the building. The tower was also prominently featured and being destroyed in the 1998 film, Godzilla and Armageddon, which featured the tower being struck by a meteor and its spire came crashing to the ground. In another film, Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, while Johnny Storm chases the Silver Surfer through Manhattan, the Silver Surfer flies straight through the Chrysler Building.Yahoo! Movies: Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer (2007)Movielocationguide – Rise of the Silver Surfer filming location Towards the end of Steven Spielberg's A.I.: Artificial Intelligence, the Chrysler Building is seen totally underwater as the aliens guide their spacecraft through the submerged ruins of Manhattan.The NY Times – In the Background, but No Bit Player In the film Spider-Man, Spider-Man perches on top of one of the building's gargoyles, mourning a beloved relative's murder.The Chrysler Building has also appeared in numerous video games such as Grand Theft Auto IV, being replicated as the "Zirconium Building".Paragraph 3, Hilary Goldstein, Chief News and Features Editor, IGN.com quoted: &quot;...with numerous identifiable landmarks, including the Chrysler Building..." Grand Theft Auto IV – Liberty City real World comparisonsQuotations"Art Deco in France found its American equivalent in the design of the New York skyscrapers of the 1920s. The Chrysler Building ... was one of the most accomplished essays in the style."–John Julius Norwich, in The World Atlas of Architecture"The design, originally drawn up for building contractor William H. Reynolds, was finally sold to Walter P. Chrysler, who wanted a provocative building which would not merely scrape the sky but positively pierce it. Its 77 floors briefly making it the highest building in the world—at least until the Empire State Building was completed—it became the star of the New York skyline, thanks above all to its crowning peak. In a deliberate strategy of myth generation, Van Alen planned a dramatic moment of revelation: the entire seven-storey pinnacle, complete with special-steel facing, was first assembled inside the building, and then hoisted into position through the roof opening and anchored on top in just one and a half hours. All of a sudden it was there—a sensational fait accompli."–Peter Gossel and Gabriele Leuthauser, in Architecture in the Twentieth Century"One of the first uses of stainless steel over a large exposed building surface. The decorative treatment of the masonry walls below changes with every set-back and includes story-high basket-weave designs, radiator-cap gargoyles, and a band of abstract automobiles. The lobby is a modernistic composition of African marble and chrome steel."–Elliot Willensky and Norval White, in AIA Guide to New YorkGallery Image:Chrysler_building_eagle.jpg|One of the Eagles on the 61st Floor Image:New_Meets_Old.jpg|Chrysler Building next to the Calyon Building Image:Chrysler Building Office North Facing Window.jpg|View from one of the north-facing triangular windows Image:Chrysler elevator.jpg|Elevator interior with inlaid wood Image:Chrysler Building at night.JPG|Illumination of the building at night Image:Chrysler building- top.jpg|The building's distinctive crown Image:ChryslerBuilding.JPG|The building rising into the sky Image:Chrysler Building 2005 4.jpg|A view of the Chrysler Building from the Empire State Building ReferencesSkyscrapers, Antonino Terranova, White Star Publishers, 2003 (ISBN-8880952307)The Chrysler Building: Creating a New York Icon Day by Day, D Stravitz, Princeton Architectural Press Publishers, 2002 (ISBN-10: 1568983549)NotesSee alsoBuildings and architecture of New York City50 Tallest buildings in the U.S.Tallest buildings in New York CityWorld's tallest structuresList of tallest buildings and structures in the worldList of tallest freestanding structures in the worldList of buildingsExternal linksThe story of Chrysler Building – by CBS ForumSalon.com article (02/2002)New York Architecture Images-the Chrysler Building       |-  |-    Category:Skyscrapers in New York City Category:Art Deco buildings in New York City Category:Skyscrapers between 300 and 349 meters Category:National Historic Landmarks in New York City Category:Registered Historic Places in Manhattan Category:1930 architecture Category:Former world's tallest buildings Category:Chryslerar:مبنى كرايسلر bg:Крайслер Билдинг ca:Edifici Chrysler cs:Chrysler Building da:Chrysler Building de:Chrysler Building et:Chrysler Building es:Edificio Chrysler eu:Chrysler Building fa:ساختمان کرایسلر fr:Chrysler Building ko:크라이슬러 빌딩 it:Chrysler Building he:בניין קרייזלר ka:კრაისლერ ბილდინგი lt:Chrysler Building hu:Chrysler Building ms:Bangunan Chrysler nl:Chrysler Building ja:クライスラービル no:Chrysler Building nn:Chrysler Building pl:Chrysler Building pt:Chrysler Building ro:Chrysler Building ru:Крайслер-билдинг simple:Chrysler Building sk:Chrysler Building sr:Крајслер зграда fi:Chrysler Building sv:Chrysler Building tl:Gusaling Chrysler ta:கிரைஸ்லர் கட்டிடம் th:ตึกไครส์เลอร์ vi:Tòa nhà Chrysler tr:Chrysler Binası uk:Крайслер Білдінг zh:克萊斯勒大廈