 |author = Aleksander Stavre Drenova |lyrics_date = 1912 |composer = Ciprian Porumbescu |music_date = |adopted = |until = |sound = Hymni i Flamurit |sound_title = Hymni i Flamurit (instrumental)  Himni i Flamurit (in English: Hymn to the Flag) is the national anthem of Albania. The words were written by the Albanian poet Aleksander Stavre Drenova. The hymn was first published as a poem in Liri e Shqipërisë (in English: Freedom of Albania), an Albanian newspaper in Sofia, Bulgaria in 1912. It was later printed in a volume of poems by Drenova titled Ëndra e lotë (in English: Dreams and tears), which was published in Bucharest.The music of the anthem was composed by the Romanian composer Ciprian Porumbescu, originally for the song "Pe-al nostru steag e scris Unire" (or "E scris pe tricolor unire").Himni kombëtar&lt;!--Bot-generated title--&gt;Lyrics and translationThere are two versions of the anthem: a long and a short one. Below is the text for the long version. Strophe 2 is considered as refrain and is repeated at the end. The short version makes use of the first two strophes only and repeats the last two verses of the 2nd strophe. Usually, in sportive events among national teams, the short version is the one officially used. (The original poem has three more strophes that are not part of the anthem.) The English translation is by Robert Elsie and Janice Mathie-Heck.Albanian lyricsTranslationFirst stanzaSecond stanzaThird stanzaFourth stanzaExternal links President of Albania - the website of the President of Albania has a page about the anthem. The Albanian language version includes a vocal version.ReferencesExternal linksAlbania Instrumental National Anthem mp3Category:National anthems Category:Albanian music Category:National symbols of Albaniaan:Hymni i Flamurit ast:Hymni i Flamurit be-x-old:Гімн Альбаніі bs:Himni i Flamurit bg:Химн на Албания ca:Hymni i Flamurit cs:Albánská hymna de:Himni i Flamurit et:Hymni i Flamurit el:Hymni i Flamurit es:Hymni i Flamurit fr:Hymni i Flamurit ga:Hymni i Flamurit gl:Hymni i Flamurit ko:알바니아의 국가 id:Hymni i Flamurit it:Hymni i Flamurit jv:Hymni i Flamurit hu:Albánia himnusza ms:Hymni i Flamurit nl:Hymni i Flamurit ja:旗への賛歌 pl:Hymn Albanii pt:Hino nacional da Albânia ro:Hymni i Flamurit ru:Гимн Албании sq:Himni i Flamurit fi:Hymni i Flamurit sv:Hymni i Flamurit tg:Суруди миллии Албания uk:Гімн Албанії vo:Hymni i Flamurit