A gyroscopic exercise tool is a device used to exercise the wrist as part of physical therapy or in order to build hand and finger strength. It can also be used as a clever demonstration of some aspects of rotational dynamics. The device consists of a tennis ball-sized plastic or metal shell around a free-spinning mass, which can be started with a short rip string or by a snap of the thumb. Once the gyroscope inside is going fast enough, a person holding the device can accelerate the spinning mass to high revolution rates by moving the wrist in a circular motion.How it worksThe device essentially consists of a spinning mass inside an outer shell. The shell almost completely covers the mass inside, with only a small round opening allowing the gyroscope to be manually started. The spinning mass is fixed to a thin metal axle, each end of which is trapped in a circular, equatorial groove in the outer shell. A lightweight ring with two notches in it for the ends of the axle rests in the groove. This ring can slip in the groove; it holds the spinning gyroscope centered in the shell, preventing the two from coming into contact (which would slow the gyro down), but still allowing the orientation of the axle to change. Once the gyroscope is spinning, tipping the device causes the gyroscope to precess, with its axle slipping around in the groove in a circular fashion. The groove inside the device is a little wider than the axle; an externally applied torque causes one end of the axle to push against the upper rim of the groove, while the other end pushes against the lower rim of the groove. These two effects combine to make the device work: as the gyroscope precesses in response to an external torque, one end of the axle "rolls" along the top edge of the groove while the other end "rolls" along the bottom edge, speeding up the rotation of the spinning mass.Article on the dynamics of the deviceThe acceleration of the gyroscope is best when the precession of the gyroscope is followed by wrist motion, so that an accelerating torque is continually applied. The wrist can be rotated either direction (clockwise or counterclockwise)--the result is always to increase the rotation speed. It takes a while before one finds the "rolling" point, but the gyro will also be accelerated to a smaller extent by the slipping friction which occurs if the wrist is rotated too quickly. Since frictional force is essential for the device's operation, the groove must not be lubricated.Models and manufacturersNames under which gyroscopic exercise tools are sold include DynaBee and Powerball. DynaBee has been a brand name since the 1970s for gyroscopic wrist exercisers.Powerball is a trademarked name for gyroscopic exercise devices produced by Nanosecond (NSD). Later patents for the Powerball device cover its extra features such as revolution counters and gyro-powered LED lights. The light-emitting diodes are powered by a small generator embedded in the gyroscope.Other Powerball models on the market today are the "Powerball 350Hz Metal" and "NSD SuperPowerBall" (these powerballs are made primarily of metal and have twice the weight of "regular" Powerball models and are more challenging to operate since up to 250Nm of torque is produced); the "Powerball Signature" (featuring a more stable rotor) http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-3212377216660677283&amp;q=powerball+signature&amp;hl=en; and the "Powerball Screamer" (based on the Powerball 250Hz model, but with 8 holes drilled in the rotor to generate a very loud sound).Nanosecond's Powerball was the first to feature electronic revolution counters and a generator for light-emitting diodes.RecordsSome devices include electronic revolution counters, which allow performance data to be gathered during use.The current records for 250Hz NSD Powerballs are: 16,553rpm peak, 21,228 revolutions in 90 seconds in Strength mode, and a combined 31,816rpm in the Dual category (one Powerball in each hand).The peak speed record for the (denser) 350Hz "Metal" Powerball is 14,091rpm.All of the above records are currently held by Akis Kritsinelis from Greece. For other results, see the official NSD ScoreboardPatentsThe device is covered by US patents 3,726,146 (1973) and 5,353,655 (1994) by L.A. Mishler and US patent 5,800,311 (1998) by P.S.Chuang and 6,942,601 (2001) by P.S. Chuang.External linksPowerball EspañaPowerball International website, ShopGyrotek Powerball Fan SiteNanosecond websiteProof of patents and principle of working PDF in GermanCategory:Toy brandscs:Powerball de:GyroTwister es:Power Ball fr:Powerball it:Powerball nl:PowerBall pl:Powerball ru:Powerball fi:Powerball tr:Powerball