 | place of birth =Schloss Frauenthal, Styria, Austria | date of death = | place of death = | buried = |Franz Joseph II, Prince of Liechtenstein, (Franz Joseph Maria Aloys Alfred Karl Johannes Heinrich Michael Georg Ignaz Benediktus Gerhardus Majella), (August 16, 1906, Schloss Frauenthal, Styria, Austria &ndash; November 13, 1989) was the sovereign prince of Liechtenstein from 1938 until his death. His full title was Fürst von und zu Liechtenstein, Herzog von Troppau und Jägerndorf, Graf zu Rietberg.He was son of Prince Aloys of Liechtenstein and his wife Archduchess Elisabeth of Austria (daughter of Archduke Karl Ludwig). He succeeded his childless cousin, Prince Franz I, after his father renounced his right of succession in his favour in 1921.During his reign women received voting rights for the first time, following a referendum on the topic (among men only) in 1984.Franz Joseph was an extremely popular sovereign in Liechtenstein. He was the first ruling prince to live full-time in the principality. He also oversaw the economic development of Liechtenstein from a poor agricultural backwater into one of the richest countries (per capita) in the world.World War IILiechtenstein remained neutral throughout World War II, and its neutrality was never violated by any of the combatants. However, two factors have linked the Liechtensteinian state to the Axis cause:In 2005, it was revealed that Franz Joseph II profitted directly from the Holocaust. Labourers from the Strasshof concentration camp, provided by the SS, had worked on estates in Austria owned by the Liechtensteinian royal house.BBC, &quot;Nazi crimes taint Liechtenstein&quot; 14 April, 2005 Access date: April 3, 2007. The family also bought property in Austria and Czechoslovakia which had been taken from Jews by the Nazis.At the end of the war, Liechtenstein gave asylum to about 500 soldiers of the First Russian National Army (a collaborationist Russian force within the German Wehrmacht). Eventually, Argentina agreed to permanently resettle the asylum seekers. In contrast, the British repatriated the Russians who fought on the side of Germany to the USSR.Marriage and childrenOn 7 March 1943, at Vaduz, Franz Joseph II married Georgine (&quot;Gina&quot;) Countess of Wilczeck (24 October 1921-18 October 1989). They had five children:Hereditary Prince Hans-Adam of Liechtenstein (b. 1945)Prince Phillipp of Liechtenstein (b. 1946)Prince Nikolaus of Liechtenstein (b. 1947)Princess Norberta of Liechtenstein (b. 1950)Prince Wenzeslaus (&quot;Wenzel&quot;) of Liechtenstein (b. 19 November 1962 - d. 28 February 1991)Final yearsFranz Joseph handed over most of his powers to his son, Hans-Adam, in 1984. Franz Joseph II died in november 13, 1989, a mere twenty-six days after his wife. Ruling Liechtenstein for 51 years, he was the longest ruling sovereign in Europe at the time of his death.Ancestry    FootnotesSee alsoPrincely Family of Liechtenstein Category:Princes of Liechtenstein Category:House of Liechtenstein Category:World War II political leaders Category:Roman Catholic monarchs Category:Knights of the Golden Fleece Category:1936 births Category:1998 deathscs:Franz Joseph II. da:Franz Josef 2. af Liechtenstein de:Franz Josef II. (Liechtenstein) et:Franz Joseph II es:Francisco José II de Liechtenstein fr:François-Joseph II de Liechtenstein it:Franz Joseph II del Liechtenstein nl:Frans Jozef II van Liechtenstein ja:フランツ・ヨーゼフ2世 no:Franz Josef II av Liechtenstein pl:Franciszek Józef II pt:Franz Josef II de Liechtenstein ro:Franz Josef al II-lea, Principe de Liechtenstein sr:Франц Јозеф II, кнез од Лихтенштајна sv:Frans Josef II av Liechtenstein zh:弗朗茨·约瑟夫二世 (列支敦士登大公)