 |Type = Cultural |Criteria = iii, vi |ID = 916 |Region = Africa |Year = 1999 |Session = 23rd |Link = http://whc.unesco.org/en/list/916  Robben Island (Afrikaans Robbeneiland) is an island in Table Bay, some seven kilometres off the coast of the Cape Town bay, South Africa and is located at . The name is Dutch for "seal island". Robben Island is roughly oval in shape and about a kilometre wide. It is flat and only a few metres above sea level, as a result of an ancient erosion event. The island is composed of Precambrian metamorphic rocks belonging to the Malmesbury Group. It is of particular note as it was here that former South African President and Nobel Laureate Nelson Mandela and incumbent South African President Kgalema Motlanthehttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/7634845.stm, alongside many other political prisoners, spent decades imprisoned during the apartheid era.HistoryRobben Island was first inhabited thousands of years ago by stone age people, at a time when sea levels were considerably lower than they are today and people could walk to it. It was then a flat-topped hill. Towards the end of the last ice age, the melting of the ancient ice caps caused sea levels to rise and the land around the island was flooded by the ocean. Since the end of the 17th century, Robben Island has been used to isolate certain people — mainly prisoners — and amongst its first permanent inhabitants were political leaders from various Dutch colonies, including Indonesia. African leader Makanda Nxele was sentenced to life imprisonment on the island in 1819 by the British colonial government after a failed uprising at Grahamstown. He drowned on the shores of Table Bay after escaping the prison.From 1836 to 1931 the island was used as a leper colony and animal quarantine station. During the Second World War, the island was fortified and guns were installed as part of the defences for Cape Town.The Apartheid Era. The view is roughly to the north-northwest. The distant sandy shore beyond disappears towards Saldanha Bay.]] Under the apartheid regime, Robben Island became a maximum security prison in 1959, and its character as an island-prison near to a major population centre invites comparisons with Alcatraz. Between 1961 and 1991, over three thousand men were incarcerated here as political prisoners, often for decades, including the distinguished international statesman Nelson Mandela. Prisoner family member visits were restricted to once every six months, for a period of only thirty minutes, in conditions which made even conversation difficult. The only reading material allowed was the Bible. A variety of barbaric impositions were made on prisoners, including breaking rocks and mining lime. In the early 1980s, many prisoners engaged in more active demands for rights, and a 1981 hunger strike reinforced their case and led to some minor improvements in conditions.Throughout this period, security was very tight and the island off limits to almost all civilians, including fishermen. Before about 1980 almost no-one, even among inhabitants of Cape Town, had set foot on the island. It is not generally known that the use of the island as a prison was greatly inhibited for centuries by a lack of fresh water. The island is arid, with low scrubby vegetation and has no watercourses. Boreholes were drilled in the first half of the 20th century but in due course the fragile water table was invaded by sea water and the bores became useless. Sometime after 1965 a pipeline was laid on the bottom of the ocean from Cape Town.The particular character of the apartheid era prisoners, and their disciplined morale in the face of considerable difficulties and even abuse, is well attested as being sustained by their commitment to the cause of the struggle for freedom, in particular for the majority black African population.In June 1980 Frederik Willem de Klerk initiated the removal of political prisoners, and most prisoners left by May 1981. The last of the non-political prisoners (who had always been held separately from political prisoners) left the island in 1996, and it became a museum in 1997. Nelson Mandela left to worldwide acclaim on February 11th, 1990., False Bay (top) and Table Bay with Robben Island (right) from space, February 1995.]]Maritime perilRobben Island has been the nemesis of many a ship and its crew. The surf of the open Atlantic Ocean thunders continuously at its margins and any vessel wrecked on the reefs offshore is soon beaten to pieces and disappears. In the latter half of the 1600s a Dutch ship laden with gold coins earmarked for the payment of the salaries of employees of the Dutch East India Company in Batavia (now Indonesia) disintegrated on these reefs a short distance off shore, in relatively shallow but very restless waters. The gold today would be worth tens of millions of pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. A few coins have washed ashore over the centuries but the treasure itself remains in the ocean. It is protected largely by the almost ceaseless and violent surf. Many other vessels have been wrecked around the isle.The island todayAll the land on the island is owned by the State, with the exception of the island church.Today the island is a popular tourist destination and was declared a World Heritage Site in 1999. It is reached by ferry from the Victoria &amp; Alfred Waterfront in Cape Town and is open throughout the year, weather permitting, and tours of the island and prison are led by guides who were formerly prisoners there. Robben Island Museum (RIM) operates as a site or living museum.Robben Island LighthouseJan van Riebeeck first set a navigation aid atop Fire Hill (now Minto Hill), the highest point on the island. Huge bonfires were lit at night to warn VOC ships of the rocks which surround the island. The current Robben Island lighthouse, built on Minto Hill in 1864, is 18 metres high and was converted to electricity in 1938. It is the only South African lighthouse to utilise a flashing light instead of a revolving light. Its light can be seen from 25 kilometres away.The Moturu KramatThe Moturu Kramat, a sacred site for Muslim pilgrimage on Robben Island, was built in 1969 to commemorate Sayed Abdurahman Moturu, the Prince of Madura. Moturu, one of Cape Town's first 'imams', was exiled to the island in the mid 1740s and died there in 1754. Muslim political prisoners would pay homage at the shrine before leaving the island.Animal lifeWhen the Dutch arrived in the area in 1652, the only large animals on the island were seals and birds, principally penguins. In 1654, the Dutch released rabbits on the island in order to provide a ready source of meat for passing ships.In about 1960, or a little before, the warden of the island introduced a few antelope that were native to the coastal dunes nearby and also a few giant tortoises, which were not. The tortoises probably originated in the Galapagos Islands or the Seychelles and came from the zoo on the slopes of Devil's Peak in Cape Town, where they have lived in captivity for at least 150 years. It is not clear whether these animals still exist on the island.The penguin colonyThe penguin colony is a popular attraction.List of former prisoners held at Robben IslandAutshumato, one of the first freedom fighters against colonialismDennis Brutus, former activist and poetPatrick Chamusso, former activist of the ANCLaloo Chiba, former accused at Little Rivonia TrialEddie Daniels, author and activistJerry Ekandjo, Namibian politicianNceba Faku, current Metro Mayor of Port ElizabethPetrus Iilonga, Namibian trade unionist, freedom fighter and politicianAhmed Kathrada, former Rivonia Trialist and long-serving prisonerLangalibalele, one of the first freedom fighters against colonialismMosiuoa Lekota, imprisoned in 1974, current Minister of DefenceMac Maharaj, former accused at Little Rivonia TrialNelson Mandela, African National Congress leader and former President of South AfricaChief Maqoma, former chief who died on the island in 1873Michael Matsobane, leader of Young African Religious Movement. Sentenced at Bethal in 1979; released by PW Botha in 1987.Jeff Masemola, the first prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment in the apartheid eraAmos Masondo, current Mayor of JohannesburgGovan Mbeki, father of former President of South Africa Thabo Mbeki. Govan was sentenced to life in 1963 but was released from Robben Island in 1987 by PW BothaMakana,one of the first freedom fighters against colonialismWilton Mkwayi, former accused at Little Rivonia TrialMurphy Morobe, Soweto Uprising student leaderSayed Adurohman Moturu, the Muslim Iman who was exiled on the island and died there in 1754Griffiths Mxenge, a South African Lawyer and member of the African National CongressM.D. Naidoo, a South African lawyer and member of the African National CongressJohn Nkosi Serving life but released by PW Botha in 1987Nongqawuse, the Xhosa prophet responsible for the Cattle KillingMaqana Nxele, former Xhosa prophet who drowned while trying to escapeJohn Nyathi Pokela, co-founder and former chairman of the PACJoe Seremane, current chairperson of the Democratic Alliance.Tokyo Sexwale, businessman and aspirant leader of the African National CongressWalter Sisulu, former ANC struggle heroRobert Sobukwe, former leader of the PACAndimba Toivo ya Toivo, Namibian politicianJacob Zuma, former Deputy President of South Africa and leader of the ANCExternal linksTime lineUWC Mayibuye Robben Island ArchivesDocumentary about Apartheid and Robben IslandRobben Island MuseumGoogle satellite map of the islandChief Maqoma imprisoned on islandThe Robben Island of Johannesburg, Constitution HillComprehensive list of prisoners held at Robben Island Prison during apartheid[http://www.news24.com/News24/South_Africa/News/0,,2-7-1442_2289102,00.html News 24 article, Robben Island "a lonely place", The once notorious Robben Island penal colony risks ghost town status as residents start leaving. March 17, 2008]A background to Makana, Category:World Heritage Sites in South Africa Category:History of Cape Town Category:Geography of Cape Town Category:Islands of South Africa Category:Prison museums Category:Defunct prisons in South Africa Category:Living museums Category:Museums in Cape Town Category:Places associated with apartheid Category:Leper colonies af:Robbeneiland da:Robben Island de:Robben Island es:Robben Island eo:Insulo Robben fr:Robben Island fy:Robbeneilân gl:Robben it:Robben Island he:רובן איילנד sw:Robben Island lb:Robben Island hu:Robben-sziget nl:Robbeneiland ja:ロベン島 no:Robben Island pl:Robben Island pt:Ilha Robben ru:Роббен fi:Robben Island sv:Robben Island