The Province of Teramo is located in the Abruzzo region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Teramo. The province has an area of 1,948 km², a population of 296,063 (2005), and is subdivided into 47 comunes (), see Comunes of the Province of Teramo. The Province of Teramo shares its northern border with the Province of Ascoli Piceno in the Marche Region, southern and southwestern borders with the Province of L'Aquila in the Abruzzo Region, and a western border with the Province of Rieti in the Region of Lazio. To the south is the Abruzzo Province of Pescara and to the east is the Adriatic Sea.GeographyThe landscape of the Province of Teramo is somewhat peculiar in that it is dominated almost entirely on the east by a large body of water and on the west by the Apennine Mountains. The province is divided latitudinally by the hills and valleys that begin in the Apennines and run almost to the coast. In addition to the provincial capital, the most populous and important commercial centers include Roseto degli Abruzzi and Giulianova with populations of 24,000 and 22,000 inhabitants respectively. The peaks of the Gran Sasso rise to the west of the Province of Teramo while those of the Monti della Laga dominate its northern border. These two ridges are among the most distinctive and perhaps the most important of the entire Apennine Mountain range. The majestic Gran Sasso rises at its peak, the Corno Grande, to an altitude of 2912 meters and is characterized by steep, and in places virtually inaccessible, gorges. Calderone, the southernmost glacier in Continental European, is found nearby. In contrast to the rugged and isolated Gran Sasso area, the Monti della Laga are characterised by thick forests, shallow gorges, rolling slopes and valleys, and several spectacular waterfalls.On the eastern portion of the province are the so called "seven sister" beaches directly adjacent to the Adriatic Sea. These resorts are noted for very fine white sand and their mild and wholesome Mediterranean climates which support a rich flora of palm, pine and oleander trees. Much of the province is hilly and very few large flat plains are to be found. Running from the west to the east are a number of valley streams and rivers which eventually empty into the Adriatic Sea. The Voman is one important river traversing the province and at its source is the large lake, the Lago di Campotosto.CultureThe Province of Teramo holds a great many art treasures including several very early Christiran-era temples. Dotted among the countryside are hilltop towns which once served as watchpoints and guardians of the deep and rocky valleys below. Connecting these treasures are important roads and trails that cut from the east to the west. Many of these follow shepherding routes that once dominated the area. Two important towns in the Province of Teramo are Civitella del Tronto and Atri. The first stood as the northernmost protective point of the Bourbon Empire. It was the last fortress to fall into the hands of the conquering French forces of Savoy. Still today, this fortress and the thriving town at its base testify to the power that the Bourbon Empire of Napes once possessed. In Atri there is an extraordinary Roman Catholic cathedral and an imposing theatre. The town's grandeur speaks of the importance of the once powerful Counts of Acquaviva who laid claim to this region. The provincial capital of Teramo hosts a majestic cathedral and has for centuries served all of Abruzzo as a main administrative and economic center.An historical event took place in the Province of Teramo on 15 September 2005. On that day the President of Italy, Azeglio Ciampi, came to the city of Teramo to make a special presentation in honour of the resistance movement that arose in this town against the Nazi forces during the Second World War. A special note was made of the young Italian partisans who gathered in the village of Bosco Martese. There they risked deportation, severe reprisals, and other barbarous acts. Several of them, most famously Mario Capuani, gave their lives during these struggles.Tourism.]] Man tourist attractions include:Atri, including a strange erosion phenomena called "Bolge" and see the treasures of the Count of AquavivaCivitella del Tronto - Bourbon fortress and surrounding villageTeramo - cathedral and museumsGran Sasso and Monti della Laga National ParkFrom north to south, the main beaches on the Adriatric Seacoast, called the seven sisters, are the following:MartinsicuroAlba AdriaticaTortoretoGiulianovaRoseto degli AbruzziPinetoSilvi MarinaTransportationMajor HighwaysThe Province of Teramo can be reached from the north and the south by the main highway, the A14, that runs along the Adriatic Coast. It can be reached from the west by the A24 coming from Rome via L'Aquila.Railroad LinesThe central railroad station of the province is located in Giulianova. From here is it possible to follow the coastline to the north and south or to travel in a westerly direction towards the provincial capital.SeaportsThe port of Giulianova is the maritime terminal of the Province of Teramo.AdministrationSince 2004, the president of the province has been Ernino D'Agostino of the Centrosinistra (centerleft) political party.==Major comuni== The main comuni and towns by population as of 2005 are:Teramo (52,794), Roseto degli Abruzzi (23,669), Giulianova (21,875), Silvi Marina (15,247), Martinsicuro (15,047), Pineto (13,763), Atri (11,269), Alba Adriatica (11,219), Sant'Egidio alla Vibrata (9,177), Mosciano Sant'Angelo (8,559), Tortoreto (8,536), Montorio al Vomano (8,072), Campli (7,598), Bellante (7,208).External linksProvince of Teramo Homepage (in Italian)Abruzzo 2000 - Province of Teramo InformationGran Sasso National ParkCategory:Province of Teramo Teramo Teramoar:مقاطعة تيرامو ca:Província de Teramo cs:Provincie Teramo da:Teramo (provins) de:Provinz Teramo et:Teramo provints el:Τέραμο (επαρχία) es:Provincia de Teramo eo:Provinco Teramo fr:Province de Teramo id:Provinsi Teramo it:Provincia di Teramo he:טראמו (נפה) jv:Provinsi Teramo lad:Provinsia de Teramo hu:Teramo (megye) nl:Teramo (provincie) ja:テーラモ県 no:Provinsen Teramo nn:Provinsen Teramo oc:Província de Teramo pms:Provincia ëd Téramo pl:Prowincja Teramo pt:Téramo (província) ro:Provincia Teramo ru:Терамо (провинция) simple:Teramo sl:Teramo (pokrajina) fi:Teramon maakunta sv:Teramo (provins) tl:Teramo vi:Teramo (tỉnh) vec:Provincia de Teramo zh:泰拉莫省