Eduard Suess (August 20, 1831 London &ndash; April 26, 1914 Vienna) was a geologist who was an expert on the geography of the Alps. He is responsible for hypothesising two major former geographical features, the supercontinent Gondwana (proposed 1861) and the Tethys Ocean.Born in London to a Saxon merchant, when he was three his family relocated to Prague, then to Vienna when he was 14. Interested in geology at a young age, he published his first paper (on the geology of Carlsbad, now in the Czech Republic) when he was 19.By 1857 he was a professor of geology at the University of Vienna, and from there he gradually developed views on the connection between Africa and Europe; eventually he came to the conclusion that the Alps to the north were once at the bottom of an ocean, of which the Mediterranean was a remnant. While not quite correct (mostly because plate tectonics had not yet been discovered &mdash; he used the earlier geosyncline theory), this is close enough to the truth that he is credited with postulating the earlier existence of the Tethys Ocean, which he named in 1893.His other major theory involved glossopteris fern fossils occurring in South America, Africa, and India (as well as Antarctica, though Suess did not know this). His explanation was that the three lands were once connected in a supercontinent, which he named Gondwanaland. Again, this is not quite correct: Suess believed that the oceans flooded the spaces currently between those lands, when in fact the lands drifted apart. Still, it is so similar to what is currently believed that his naming has stuck.Suess is considered one of the early practitioners of ecology. He published a comprehensive synthesis of his ideas in 1885-1901, entitled Das Antlitz der Erde (translated as "The Face of the Earth"), which was a popular textbook for many years. In this work Suess also introduced the concept of the biosphere, which was later extended by Vladimir I. Vernadsky in 1926. Smil, Vaclav. 2002. The earth's biosphere : evolution, dynamics, and change. MIT."... one thing seems to be foreign on this large celestial body consisting of spheres, namely, organic life. But this life is limited to a determined zone at the surface of the lithosphere. The plant, whose deep roots plunge into the soil to feed, and which at the same time rises into the air to breathe, is a good illustration of organic life in the region of interaction between the upper sphere and the lithosphere, and on the surface of continents it is possible to single out an independent biosphere" - Eduard SuessHe won the Copley Medal of the Royal Society in 1903.Suess crater on the Moon and a crater on Mars are named after his son, Franz Eduard Suess (1867-1942), who was superintendent and geologist at the Imperial Geological Institute in Vienna. Geological Maps of EuropeReferences Category:1831 births Category:1914 deaths Category:Austrian geologists Category:Recipients of the Copley Medalda:Eduard Suess de:Eduard Suess es:Eduard Suess fr:Eduard Suess it:Eduard Suess nl:Eduard Suess ja:エドアルト・ジュース pl:Eduard Suess pt:Eduard Suess ru:Зюсс, Эдуард sk:Eduard Suess sl:Eduard Suess sv:Eduard Suess