 The Hajj () is a pilgrimage to Mecca (Makkah). It is the largest annual pilgrimage in the world.Atlas of Holy Places, p. 29 It is the fifth pillar of Islam, an obligation that must be carried out at least once in their lifetime by every able-bodied Muslim who can afford to do so. It is a demonstration of the solidarity of the Muslim people, and their submission to Allah.Dalia Salah-El-Deen, Significance of Pilgrimage (Hajj) The pilgrimage occurs from the 10th to the 15th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic calendar. Because the Islamic calendar is a lunar calendar, eleven days shorter than the Gregorian calendar used in the Western world, the Gregorian date of the Hajj is eleven days earlier from year to year. In 2007, the Hajj was from December 17 to December 21; in 2008 from the first week of December. If on the Hajj, a female must be accompanied by her husband or a member of her family (Mahram).The Hajj is associated with the life of Muhammad, but the ritual of pilgrimage to Mecca is considered by Muslims to stretch back to the time of Ibrahim and Isma'il, prominent figures in both Islam and in Judaism. Pilgrims join processions of hundreds of thousands of people, who simultaneously converge on Mecca for the week of the Hajj, and perform a series of rituals. As part of the Hajj, each person walks counter-clockwise seven times about the Kaaba, the cube-shaped building which acts as the Muslim direction of prayer (qibla); runs back and forth between the hills of Al-Safa and Al-Marwah; drinks from the Zamzam Well; goes to the plains of Mount Arafat to stand in vigil; and throws stones in a ritual Stoning of the Devil. The pilgrims then shave their heads, perform an animal sacrifice, and celebrate the four day global festival of Eid al-Adha.BBC - Religion &amp; Ethics - Eid ul Adha&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;As of 2006, an estimated three million pilgrims participated in this annual pilgrimage.altmuslim - As Hajj begins, more changes and challenges in store&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Crowd-control techniques have become critical, and because of the large numbers of people, many of the rituals have become more stylized. It is not necessary to kiss the Black Stone, but merely to point at it on each circuit around the Kaaba. Throwing pebbles was done at large pillars, which for safety reasons were in 2004 changed to long walls with catch basins below to catch the stones. The slaughter of an animal can be done either personally, or by appointing someone else to do it, and so forth. But even with the crowd control techniques, there are still many incidents during the Hajj, as pilgrims are trampled in a crush, or ramps collapse under the weight of the many visitors, causing hundreds of deaths. The [[Kingdom of Saudi Arabia]]'s Ministry of Hajj has a website, with the message, "Be peaceful, orderly and kind. No crushing." - Pilgrims can also go to Mecca to perform the rituals at other times of the year. This is sometimes called the "lesser pilgrimage", or Umrah. However, even if they perform the Umrah, they are still obligated to perform the Hajj at some other point in their lifetimes.HistoryThe Hajj is based on a pilgrimage that was ancient even in the time of Muhammad in the 7th Century. According to Hadith (supplemental writings to the Qur'an), elements of the Hajj trace back to the time of Abraham, around 2000 BC. The belief is that the Prophet Abraham was ordered by God (Allah) to leave his wife Hagar and his infant son Ismael alone in the desert. While he was gone, the child became thirsty, Hagar ran back and forth seven times searching for water for her son. The baby cried and hit the ground with his foot (some versions of the story say that an angel scraped his foot or the tip of his wing along the ground), and water miraculously sprang forth. This source of water is today called the Well of Zamzam.Each year tribes from all around the Arabian peninsula would converge on Mecca, as part of the pilgrimage. The exact faith of the tribes was not important at that time, and Christian Arabs were as likely to make the pilgrimage as the pagans.Armstrong, Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths, p. 221. "Each year the tribes would assemble from all over the peninsula to take part in the arduous and intricate rites of the hajj pilgrimage, Christian Arabs alongside the pagans. By Muhammad's time, the Kaaba was dedicated to the Nabatean deity Hubal and surrounded by effigies of the Arabian pantheon, but it may well originally have been the shrine of Allah, the high god." Muslim historians refer to the time before Muhammad as al-Jahiliyah, the "Days of Ignorance", during which the Kaaba contained hundreds of idols representing totems of each of the tribes of the Arabian peninsula. The idols represented multiple faiths, from pagan gods like Hubal, al-Lat, Uzza and Manat, to symbols of Jesus and Mary and Allah (God).Freeman-Grenville, Islam: An Illustrated History, p. 28Muhammad was known to regularly perform the Umrah, even before he began receiving revelations. Historically, Muslims would gather at various meeting points in other great cities, and then proceed en masse towards Mecca, in groups that could comprise tens of thousands of pilgrims. Two of the most famous meeting points were in Cairo and Damascus. In Cairo, the Sultan would stand atop a platform of the famous gate Bab Zuwayla, to officially watch the beginning of the annual pilgrimage.In 632 AD, when Muhammad led his followers from Medina to Mecca, it was the first Hajj to be performed by Muslims alone, and the only Hajj ever performed by Muhammad. He cleansed the idols from the Kaaba, and re-ordained it as the house of God.In the Lands of the Prophet, Time-Life, p. 31 It was from this point that the Hajj became one of the Five Pillars of Islam. Also it was at this juncture that Allah gave the command to forbid any non-muslims from entering into the Sacred Masjid and as an extension the entire city of Mecca.Incidents during the Hajj There have been many incidents during the Hajj that have led to the loss of many hundreds of lives. The worst of these incidents have usually occurred during the Stoning of the Devil ritual. During the 2006 Hajj on January 12, 362 pilgrims died. Tramplings have also occurred when pilgrims try to run between the two hills known as Al-Safa and Al-Marwa. In 2006 there were some 600 casualties among pilgrims performing the Hajj.Preparations Pilgrims generally travel to Hajj in groups, as an expression of unity. Some airlines have special packages for Muslims going to Mecca. Ships also take pilgrims to Mecca so they can perform Hajj.During the Hajj, male pilgrims are required to dress only in a garment consisting of two sheets of white unhemmed cloth, with the top draped over the torso and the bottom secured by a white sash; plus a pair of sandals. Women are simply required to maintain their hijab - normal modest dress, which does not cover the hands or face.The Ihram clothing is intended to show the equality of all pilgrims in the eyes of Allah: there is no difference between a prince and a pauper when everyone is dressed the same. The Ihram also symbolizes purity and absolution of sins. A place designated for changing into Ihram is called a miqat.While the pilgrim is wearing the Ihram, they cannot shave, clip their nails, or use deodorant or perfume. They may not swear or quarrel, kill any living thing, masturbate or engage in sexual intercourse.RitesUpon arrival in Mecca the pilgrim, now known as a Hajji, performs a series of ritual acts symbolic of the lives of Ibrahim (Abraham) and his wife Hajar (Hagar). The acts also symbolize solidarity of Muslims worldwide.The greater Hajj (al-hajj al-akbar) begins on the eighth day of the lunar month of Dhu al-Hijjah. If they are not already wearing it upon their arrival, pilgrims put on ihram clothing and then leave Mecca for the nearby town of Mina where they spend the rest of the day. The Saudi government has put up thousands of large white tents at Mina to provide accommodations for all the pilgrims.UmrahOn the first day of the Hajj, the 8th day of the 12th month, Dhu al-Hijjah, the pilgrims perform their first Tawaf, which involves all of the pilgrims entering The Sacred Mosque (Masjid Al Haram) and walking seven times counter-clockwise around the Kaaba, kissing the Black Stone (Hajr Al Aswad) on each circuit. If kissing is not possible due to the crowds, they may simply align themselves with the stone and point to it. Each complete circuit constitutes a "Shout" with 7 circuits constituting a complete tawaf. The place where pilgrims walk is known as "Mutaaf". Only the first three Shouts are compulsory, but invariably almost all perform it seven times.Eating is not allowed and the tawaf is normally performed all at once, the only exception being the drinking of water. Men are encouraged to perform the first three circuits at a hurried pace, followed by four times, more closely, at a leisurely pace.After the completion of Tawaf, all the pilgrims have to offer two Rakaat prayers at the Place of Abraham (Muqaam E Ibrahim), a site near the Kaaba. However, again due to large crowds during the days of Hajj, they may instead pray anywhere in the mosque.Although the circuits around the Kaaba are traditionally done on the groundlevel, Tawaf is now also performed on the first floor and roof of the mosque.After Tawaf on the same day, the pilgrims perform sa`i, running or walking seven times between the hills of Safa and Marwah. This is a re-enactment of the frantic search for water for her son Ismael by Abraham's wife Hagar, before the Zamzam Well was revealed to her by Ismael, who started to cry for water and hit the ground with his feet, upon which the water of the Zamzam started coming up from under his feet . The circuit used to be in the open air, but is now entirely enclosed by the Masjid al-Haram mosque, and can be accessed via air-conditioned tunnels. Pilgrims are advised to walk the circuit, though two green pillars mark a short section of the path where they are allowed to run, along with an 'express lane' for the disabled. The safety procedures are in place because previous incidents in this ritual have resulted in stampedes which caused the deaths of hundreds of people.As part of this ritual the pilgrims drink water from the Zamzam Well, which is made available in coolers throughout the Mosque. The pilgrims then return to their tents.Arafat  The next morning, on the ninth of Dhu al-Hijjah, the pilgrims leave Mina for Mount Arafat where they stand in contemplative vigil, near a hill from which Muhammad gave his last sermon. This is considered the highlight of the Hajj. Pilgrims must spend the afternoon within a defined area on the plain of Arafat until after sunset. No specific rituals or prayers are required during the stay at Arafat, although many pilgrims spend time praying, and thinking about the course of their lives. If a pilgrim does not spend the afternoon on Arafat then their pilgrimage is considered invalid.and stay in tents.MuzdalifahAs soon as the sun sets, the pilgrims leave Arafat for Muzdalifah, an area between Arafat and Mina, where 49 pebbles are gathered for the next day's ritual of the stoning of the Devil (Shaitan). Many pilgrims spend the night sleeping on the ground at Muzdalifah before returning to Mina. It is now the 10th of the month, the day of Eid ul-Adha.Ramy al-Jamarat At Mina the pilgrims perform Ramy al-Jamarat, throwing stones to signify their defiance of the Devil. This symbolizes the trials experienced by Abraham while he decided whether to sacrifice his son as demanded by God. The Devil challenged him six times, and three times Abraham refused. Each pillar marks the location of one of these refusals. On the first occasion of when Ramy al-Jamarat performed, pilgrims will stone the largest pillar know as Jamrat'al'Aqabah. On the second occasion, all three will be stoned. http://www.easyhajj.co.uk/throwingpebbles.php The stoning consists of throwing seven pebbles. Because of the crowds, in 2004 the pillars were replaced by long walls. Pilgrims climb ramps to the multi-levelled Jamarat Bridge, from which they can throw their stones at the one jamarat.Eid ul-AdhaAfter the Stoning of the Devil an animal is sacrificed. This symbolizes God having mercy on Abraham and replacing his son with a ram, which Abraham then sacrificed.Traditionally the pilgrims slaughtered the animal themselves, or oversaw the slaughtering. Today many pilgrims buy a sacrifice voucher in Mecca before the greater Hajj begins which allows an animal to be slaughtered in their name on the 10th, without the pilgrim being physically present. Centralized butcher houses will sacrifice a single sheep for each pilgrim, or a cow can represent the sacrifice of seven people. The meat is then packaged and given to charity and shipped to poor people around the world. At the same time as the sacrifices occur at Mecca, Muslims worldwide perform similar sacrifices, in a four-day global festival called Eid ul-Adha.Tawaf az-Ziyarahduring the Hajj]] On this or the following day the pilgrims re-visit the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca for a tawaf called the Tawaf az-Ziyarah or Tawaf al-Ifadah which symbolises being in a hurry to respond to God and show love for Him, an obligatory part of the Hajj. The night of the 10th is spent back at Mina.On the afternoon of the 11th and again the following day the pilgrims must again throw seven pebbles at each of the three jamarat in Mina.Pilgrims must leave Mina for Mecca before sunset on the 12th. If they are unable to leave Mina before sunset, they must perform the stoning ritual again on the 13th before returning to Mecca.Tawaf al-WadaFinally, before leaving Mecca, pilgrims perform a farewell tawaf called the Tawaf al-Wada.Journey to Medina Though it is not required as part of the Hajj, many pilgrims also travel to the city of Medina and the Mosque of the Prophet, which contains Muhammad's grave.Social effect of HajjA 2008 study on the longer-term effect of participating in the Islamic pilgrimage found that Muslims communities become more open after the Hajj experience.Entitled ‘Estimating the Impact of the Haj: Religion and Tolerance in Islam’s Global Gathering’, the Harvard University Kennedy School of government study found that the Hajj experience promotes peaceful coexistence, equality, and harmony.Estimating the Impact of the Hajj: Religion and Tolerance in Islam's Global Gathering&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; Specifically, the report states that the Hajj "increases belief in equality and harmony among ethnic groups and Islamic sects and leads to more favorable attitudes toward women, including greater acceptance of female education and employment" and that "Hajjis (those who have performed the Hajj) show increased belief in peace, and in equality and harmony among adherents of different religions."See alsoHajji, honorific title of one who has completed the HajjList of Islamic terms in ArabicList of largest religious gatheringsTourism in Saudi ArabiaNotesReferencesFurther readingTrojanow,Ilija 'Mumbai to Mecca: A Pilgrimage to the Holy Sites of Islam', Haus Publishing, 2007, London, ISBN 978-1-904950295External linksAdvice on Hajj and Umrah and discussion forumMinistry of Hajj Official WebsiteHaj &amp; Umra Travel Ltd, United KingdomAll about Hajj and Ummrah and various service and ebooks Haq IslamHajj Portal - Personal Hajj Experiences, Picture Gallery, Supplications, Hajj Step by Step guides plus moreUSA Hajj Guide a good guide to Hajj that is easy to understandHajj - A Google Earth View - Explaining the sequence of the Hajj alongwith locations involved and their importance.Crowd control during the HajjHajj: The PilgrimageSpecial report from CNNBBC: 2006 Hajj approaches spiritual climax15th-century Hajj certificate: information, zoomable image British Library websiteU.S. Army information sheet about the HajjShort History of HajjStep by Step Hajj Guide Slide ShowPractical Guidelines For Hajj - Printable - on PDF FormatPictures of Hajj in 2007Pronunciation of the word HajjHajj Info in Indonesian Language (Bahasa Indonesia)Category:Hajj Category:Meccaar:حج bg:Хадж bn:হজ্জ ba:Хаж bs:Hadždž cs:Hadždž cy:Hajj da:Hadj de:Haddsch dv:ޙައްޖު et:Hadž es:Hajj eo:Haĝo fa:حج fr:Hajj hr:Hadždž id:Haji ia:Hadj is:Hadsjí it:Hajj he:חג' jv:Kaji lt:Hadžas ml:ഹജ്ജ്  ms:Haji nl:Hadj ja:ハッジ ce:Хьаьж no:Hajj nn:Hadj uz:Haj pl:Pielgrzymki w islamie pt:Hajj ru:Хадж simple:Hajj sl:Hadž sr:Hadžiluk su:Haji fi:Hadž sv:Hajj te:హజ్ th:ฮัจญ์ tr:Hac ur:حج zh:朝覲