 Nong Bua Lamphu (Thai หนองบัวลำภู) is one of the north-eastern provinces (changwat) of Thailand. Neighboring provinces are (from north clockwise) Udon Thani, Khon Kaen and Loei.GeographyNong Bua Lamphu is located in the heart of the Khorat Plateau.HistoryNong Bua Lam Phu was traditionally given as appendage to the crown prince of Lan Xang. Chao Anou designated Phagna Narin the governor of this place in 1827, famous in history for being the spot where the King-Liberator of Siam, Naresuam, came in the sixteenth century to learn the outcome of the war between the Lao and the Burmese in the Vientiane region. Nong Bua Lam Phu was a Lao stronghold, where the birth place of the principal wife of Siribunyasan, last independent King of Vientiane.The province was originally 5 Amphoe (districts) in the province Udon Thani. In 1993 this province was decentralized and the new province Nong Bua Lamphu was created. It is thus one of the three youngest provinces of Thailand, together with Amnat Charoen and Sa Kaeo.SymbolsThe seal of the province shows king Naresuan in his shrine. This shrine was built to commemorate the visit of king Naresuan to the city of Nong Bua Lamphu in 1574 when he was collecting troops to fight Burman kingdom of Taungoo. Behind the shrine is a pond with Lotus flowers (Nymphaea lotus), which is also the provincial flower. The provincial tree is the Siamese Rosewood (Dalbergia cochinchinensis),Administrative divisionsThe province is subdivided into 6 districts (Amphoe). The districts are further subdivided into 59 sub-districts (tambon) and 636 villages (muban).TourismSightsMonument and shrine of King Naresuan the Great. (พระอนุสาวรีย์และศาลสมเด็จพระนเรศวรมหาราช) Built to commemorate King Naresuan the Great who in 1574 led his army en route Nongbua Lampu to Vientiane by the assignment of the King of Hongsa, or the kingdom of Burma which ruled Thailand at that time.Nong Bua.(หนองบัว) The big pond is situated right in front of the city hall. As it never dries up, the pond with beautiful back drop of Phu Phan Kham Range is a nice place to relax for Nongbua Lampu people.Phra Wor Phra Ta City Pillar Shrine. (ศาลหลักเมืองพระวอ พระตา) The city pillar shrine is built to honor Phra Wor and Phra Ta who had established the city.Namtok Huay To Botanical Park. (วนอุทยานน้ำตกเฒ่าโต้) The shady park is a nice place for picnic. The secreted shrine of Pu Loop is located nearby.Shell Fossil Museum. (พิพิธภัณฑ์หอยหิน ๑๕๐ ล้านปี) The museum features shell fossils from Jurassic Era, dating back to 140-150 million years ago. In nearby area, 60 pieces of dinosaur fossils are found in the layer of siltstone, above the layer where fossils of shell, ancient crocodile and some minerals are foundWat Tham Klong Pen.(วัดถ้ำกลองเพล) is the province’s famous forest temple. Blanketed with lush vegetable and decorated with rock garden, around the temple is very shady and peaceful. The main hall or Ubosoth houses statue of Luang Pu Khao and two-sided ancient drum or Klong Pen. A bit from the temple leads to the monument of Luang Pu Khao.Museum of Luang Pu Lod. (พิพิธภัณฑ์หลวงปู่หลอด) In the compound is Pmotita Pagoda which houses relic of the Lord Buddha from Nepal.Wat Sri Koon Muang. (วัดศรีคูณเมือง) Located on Worarat Road, the ancient temple houses ancient stone leaves which are significant archeological artifacts, and ‘Luang Por Phra Chaichettha’ significant Buddha statue in Laotian style.Phu Phan Noi.(ภูพานน้อย) The mountain provides great view point ‘Dao Bon Din’ or ‘Stars On the Ground’.None Wat Pa. (โนนวัดป่า) The historical site once was ancient temple as stone Buddha image in the attitude of seating under protection of naga, ancient architecture and antique from the Khmer era are found.Phu Khao-Phu Phan Kham National Park. (อุทยานแห่งชาติภูเก้า-ภูพานคำ) The park features two sandstone mountains situated away from each other. It is blanketed by deciduous dipterocarp forest, mixed dipterocarp forest, and dry evergreen forest. The park’s headquarter is located by the reservoir of Ubonrat Dam, close to Phu Khan Kham.Phu Phan Kham. (ภูพานคำ) The mountain range, which is part of Phu Phan Range, is on the east of Phong River Basin.Phu Khao (ภูเก้า) is rugged sandstone mountain range in the shape of a pan. It comprises 9 mountains. Home of numerous wildlife, all 9 mountains are blanketed with lush forest. Its interesting attractions include:Wat Phra Buddha Bat Phu Khao. The ancient temple houses two gigantic foot prints, of human and dog, on the rock. In its compound, there are Tham Mum and Tham Archan Sim, the caves which houses pre-historical paintings and carving on the walls.Tham Sua Tok, Tham Pla Hai, Tham Chek. The caves are interesting archeological sites. They house cave painting and carving which can be dated back to 1,500 years ago.Ham Tang Stone Pillar. The area is filled up with rocks in different weird shape. The outstanding one is huge rock sitting on the other like mushroom, making it a remarkable natural sculpture.Hor Sawan. The rock-top pavilion is amazingly built on a huge rock sitting by 30-metre high cliff.Tad Fah Waterfall. The small falls cascades through mixed dipterocarp forest before plunging 7 metres down into big pool below.None Don Klang Archeological Site (Ban Kud Kwang Soy). แหล่งโบราณคดีโนนดอนกลาง (บ้านกุดกวางสร้อย) Pre-historical artifacts found here include terra cottage similar to Ban Chiang Culture, human’s skeleton, bronze and stone bracelet, glass beat, sandstone mold for bronze axe, steel tool and etc. Some artifacts are kept at National Museum Khon Kaen, the remaining are displayed in the village’s museum.Tham Erawan. (ถ้ำเอราวัณ) There is a big Buddha Statue at the cave’s entrance which leads to a huge hall naturally decorated with rock formation. This cave is a scene in local legends “Nong Phom Hom’ Or “the lady with fragrant hair”.Tham Pha Wiang. (ถ้ำผาเวียง) The cave is situated among picturesque mountain range called Phu Pha Wiang. Tham Pha Wiang is naturally beautiful with rock formation and stalagmites.Wat Santitham Banpot or Wat Pa Phu Noi. (วัดสันติธรรมบรรพต หรือ วัดป่าภูน้อย) Besides offering very nice place for practicing meditation, the temple houses Buddha footprint and 8 groups of stone leaves setting in 8 directions. Each group comprises 4 stone leaves, some feature carving in Bhotisattva and pagoda’s crest.Huay Rai Reservoir. (อ่างเก็บน้ำห้วยไร่ ) The medium sized reservoir is situated in Ban Srakaeo, Moo 6, Tambon Dongsawan.Wooden Ubosoth of Wat Chaoreon Songtham. (สิมไม้วัดเจริญทรงธรรม) The wooden chapel or Ubosoth has compact size in rectangular shape. High roof creates good air ventilation. The ubosoth has delicate carving on the roof, and gable with neatly carved garuda.Tham Suwan Kuha. (ถ้ำสุวรรณคูหา) The cave house antique and portrait of King Chai Shettha of Vientiane.Phu Pha Ya Archeological Site. (แหล่งโบราณคดีภูผายา) Many pre-historical cave painting are found here. The first group of painting comprise pictures of geometric, animals, hands, in red. The second group comprises pictures of star, man, reptile, draft of big animal. All the pictures wee painted in red and scatter in small groups. These paintings are estimated to be 2,000-3,000 years old.Wat Pa Phufang Santitham. (วัดป่าภูฝางสันติธรรม) The calm and peaceful temple is built beautifully in modern style. There are delicate monasteries and amazing sculpture of nine-headed is built to protect the pavilion.Local ProductsBan Kong Sawan Pottery Village. หมู่บ้านหัตถกรรมปั้นหม้อบ้านโค้งสวรรค์ The vaillage is famed for its terra cotta products by traditional method .Calathea Rice container (กระติ้บข้าวจากคล้า) The village of Ban Huak, Tambon Sri Boonruang, Amphoe Sri Boonruang is famous for the race container weaved from calathea. Some 95% of the villagers thrive on this handicraft which mirrors their wisdom to benefit from natural material.Kud Hae Silk. (ผ้าไหมกุดแห่) Silk cloth weaved by Lady Group of Tambon Kud Hae, Amphoe Na Klang is quite famous and won many national awards. Silk products from this group are 5-star product of Isan.CultureFestivalsNaresuan Maharaja and Nongbua Lampu Red Cross Fair. The fair is held annually between January 25-February 3 at Naresuan Maharaja Field, Amphoe Muang.Boon Khao Chee Festivals. The festivals is held annually during the 13th-15th date of waxing moon in February at Wat Tham Suwan Kuha, Ban Kuha Pattana, Amphoe Suwan Kuha. The annual celebration and merit making of Amphoe Suwan Kuha features gigantic Khao Chee, local cuisine make from roasted sticky rice dipped in egg and sugar cane juice.Tham Erawan Festival. The festivals is held between April 12-15 of each year at Hat None Yao, Amphoe None Sang.Annual Festival of Pu Loop Shrine and Phra Wor Phra Ta Shrine. The rite is held annually on the first Wednesday and Thursday of May at Phra Wor Phra Ta Shrine and Pu Loop Shrine in Amphoe Muang.Rocket Festivals of Amphoe Sri Boonruang. The lively festival is held annually on the fullmoon day of May at the field of Amphoe Sri Boonruang. Rocket in huge size, or Bang Fai Lan, will be decorated before launching high into the sky. The local festival of Sri Boonruang is one of 12 festivals of Northeastern Region. The rocket is assumed as the present for Phaya Thaen, the god who will make the rain for rice plantation.Banana Fair. The fair is held between July 25-27 at Ban Suan Sawan, Tambon Wangthong, Amphoe Na Wang.Tiew Hoi Hin-Kin Lam Yai Festival. The festival is held every Auguest 8-15 at community outlet of Ban Huay Dua, Amphoe Muang.Namtok Thao To Festival. The annual festival is held very September 14-15 at Namtok Thao To Park, Amphoe Muang.External linksProvince page from the Tourist Authority of ThailandWebsite of province (Thai only)Nong Bua Lamphu provincial map, coat of arms and postal stampCategory:Isan Category:Provinces of Thailandzh-min-nan:Nongbua Lamphu Hú de:Nongbua Lamphu (Provinz) es:Provincia de Nongbua Lamphu fr:Province de Nong Bua Lamphu it:Nongbua Lamphu (provincia) nl:Changwat Nongbua Lamphu ja:ノーンブワラムプー県 no:Nongbua Lamphu (provins) pl:Prowincja Nongbua Lamphu pt:Nong Bua Lam Phu (província) th:จังหวัดหนองบัวลำภู vi:Nongbua Lamphu (tỉnh) tg:Вилояти Нонгбуа Лампу