 |Died =  |Origin = Detroit, Michigan |Years_active = 1998&ndash;2006 |Genre = Midwest Hip Hop |Label = Shady, Iron Fist |Associated_acts = D12,Promatic,5ela Eminem,Dogmatic Royce Da 5'9&quot;, Obie Trice, Bizarre, Swift, Kuniva, Kon Artis  DeShaun Dupree Holton (October 2 1973 &ndash; April 11 2006), better known as Proof, was a Detroit rapper and member of the rap groups D12, 5 Elementz & Promatic and was also a member of the original Goon Sqwad.Early careerAlthough Proof first rose to national prominence as a part of the rap group D12(the group that he personally formed), he had been fairly successful on his own. Most notably, he was featured in The Source's Unsigned Hype column in 1999 and came close to winning the 1998 Blaze Battle. His first television appearance can be seen in the Aaliyah video "Age Ain't Nothing But a Number". In 2000, Proof toured along with Eminem, Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg in the Up In Smoke Tour as a hype man rapper for Eminem. He rose to prominence in 2001 with the release of Devil's Night, D12's debut album with Interscope Records. The following year, Proof collaborated with Dogmatic on Promatic and joined Eminem's "Anger Management" tour in support of the release. He also appeared in Eminem's semi-autobiographical film 8 Mile; although in the film the character based on him, Future, was portrayed by Mekhi Phifer, he appeared as Lil' Tic, a freestyle rapper who trounces the lead character with his battle verse.FilmographyTo capitalize on the publicity from the film, Proof released a six-song EP called Electric CoolAid: Acid Testing. Proof also had a cameo alongside the rest of an Eminem-less D12 in The Longest Yard appearing as "Basketball Convicts" in the credits.Solo workProof released a solo effort featuring collaborations with Eminem, 50 Cent, Method Man, Nate Dogg, B-Real of Cypress Hill, T3 of Slum Village, Obie Trice, Royce Da 5'9&quot; and other members of D12 on his own Iron Fist Records label in conjunction with Alliance Entertainment's IDN Distribution. Proof said that he did not produce the record with Shady Records or Aftermath because he wanted to "build his own thing". Many of his "catchy" beats, like "Many Men", can be seen in other rappers songs. Called Searching for Jerry Garcia, the album was released on August 9, 2005 on his own Iron Fist Records label 10 years to the day following Grateful Dead frontman Jerry Garcia's death. This release did not make a significant impact on the charts despite its list of guest appearances and Proof's well known lyrical flow.Originally, every song title on the album was to be named after a celebrity. "Jump Biatch" was originally titled "Eric Clapton Jr." (Proof changed the title when he realized that Eric Clapton's son fell to his death from a 53rd-story window.) Another song presumably meant for the album was "Neil Armstrong", which can be found on Proof's mixtape "I Miss The Hip Hop Shop".Proof has said that he considered Jerry Garcia to be a "genius" who suffered from character flaws that are indicative of all people. Proof has stated his admiration for Garcia's eclectic style, saying that Garcia "went against the grain". The album received favorable reviews, which commented on its "eclectic" and "introspective" nature.Proof stated how he wanted to be remembered in an interview with SOHH.com shortly after his album release; 'I want people to say that I was a true artist', ' That I did it best and stayed true to Hip Hop roots' and 'I'd want people to understand I did it for the love not for the charts.' Death On April 11 2006, Proof was killed by a gunshot wound to the head at the CCC Club by Mario Etheridge on 8 Mile Road in Detroit, Michigan after allegedly fatally shooting U.S. military veteran Keith Bender, Jr.It is also believed that following a dispute over a pool game, Proof fired the first shots into Bender's head after taking his pistol and striking Bender several times in the face. According to the coroner, Proof had a blood alcohol content of 0.32%. Proof was then shot by the bouncer Mario Etheridge, Bender's cousin. He was then taken by private vehicle to St. John Health's Conner Creek Campus, an outpatient emergency treatment site, and pronounced dead shortly thereafter.Bender's family began a wrongful-death suit against Proof's estate. An XXL article  that interviews Mudd (a friend of Proof who allegedly witnessed the shooting) offers an alternative viewpoint to the media reports.AftermathThe family of Keith Bender, sought legal advice to sue Proof's estate for damages that were a result of Proof's actions.DiscographyFuckin’ Backstabber/Soul Intent (1995)I Miss the Hip Hop Shop (2004)DJ Salam Wreck Presents: Proof - Grown Man Shit (2005)Searching for Jerry Garcia (2005)ReferencesExternal linksDetailed account of Proof's death, funeral and exact time of deathOfficial Proof/Iron Fist Records SiteProof Profile at D12World.comProof at XXL MagazineRapper Proof Shot, Killed At Detroit ClubSwifty McVay of D12 talks about Proof to Jonathan Hay from DubcnnCategory:1973 births Category:2006 deaths Category:American murder victims Category:American rappers Category:Detroit rappers Category:Freestyle rappers Category:Murdered African Americans Category:Murdered hip hop musicians Category:People from Detroit, Michigan Category:Shady Records artists Category:People murdered in Michigan Category:Deaths by firearm in Michigancs:Proof de:Proof (Rapper) et:Proof (räppar) es:Proof fr:Proof id:Proof it:Proof (rapper) he:פרוף (ראפר) nl:Proof (rapper) ja:プルーフ no:Proof (rapper) pl:Proof (rapper) pt:Proof (rapper) fi:Proof sv:Deshaun Holton