Marcus Aurelius Claudius Quintillus (d. 270) was born in Sirmium (now Sremska Mitrovica, Serbia)in Illyricum"These men are usually called the Illyrian emperors since they all were born in that province (Illyricum) and were raised to power by legions stationed there" The Ancient World, Joseph Ward Swain. He was brother of Roman Emperor Claudius II, and became Emperor himself in 270.Historia Augusta reports that he became Emperor in a coup d'état. Eutropius reports Quintillus to have been elected by soldiers of the Roman army immediately following the death of his brother. The choice was reportedly approved by the Roman Senate. Joannes Zonaras however reports him elected by the Senate itself.Records however agree that the legions which had followed Claudius in campaigning along the Danube were either unaware or disapproving of Quintillus' elevation. They instead elevated their current leader Aurelian to the rank of Augustus. Historia Augusta reports Aurelian to have been chosen by Claudius himself as a successor, apparently in a deathbed decision.Reign of QuintillusThe few records of Quintillus' reign are contradictory. They disagree on the length of his reign, variously reported to have lasted as few as 17 days and as many as 177 days (about six months). Records also disagree on the cause of his death. Historia Augusta reports him murdered by his own soldiers in reaction to his strict military discipline. Jerome reports him killed, presumably in conflict with Aurelian. John of Antioch and Joannes Zonaras reported Quintillus to have committed suicide by opening his veins and bleeding himself to death. John reports the suicide to have been assisted by a physician. Claudius Salmasius pointed that Dexippus recorded the death without stating causes. All records however agree in placing the death at Aquileia.Quintillus was reportedly survived by his two sons.Historia Augusta reports Claudius and Quintillus having another brother named Crispus and through him a niece, Claudia. who reportedly married Eutropius and was mother to Constantius Chlorus. Historians however suspect this account to be a genealogical fabrication to flatter Constantine I.Surviving Roman records considered Quintillus a moderate and capable Emperor. He was seen as a champion of the Senate and thus compared to previous Emperors Servius Sulpicius Galba and Publius Helvius Pertinax. All three were highly regarded by Senatorial sources despite their failure to survive a full year of reign.ReferencesPrimary SourcesAurelius Victor, Epitome de CaesaribusEutropius, Breviarium ab urbe conditaHistoria Augusta, Life of ClaudiusJoannes Zonaras, Compendium of History extract: Zonaras: Alexander Severus to Diocletian: 222-284Zosimus, Historia NovaSecondary Sources[http://www.roman-emperors.org/quintil.htm Banchich, Thomas, "Quintillus (270 A.D)", De Imperatoribus Romanis]    Category:Roman emperors Category:3rd century Romans Category:Crisis of the Third Century Category:Roman emperors who committed suicide Category:Suicides by sharp instrument Category:Year of birth unknown Category:270 deathsbg:Квинтил (император) cs:Quintillus cy:Quintillus da:Quintillus de:Quintillus et:Quintillus es:Quintilo eo:Kvintilo eu:Kintilo fr:Quintillus fy:Kwintillus hr:Kvintil it:Quintillo he:קווינטילוס sw:Kaizari Quintillus la:Quintillus hu:Quintillus nl:Quintillus ja:クィンティルス pl:Kwintyllus pt:Quintilo ro:Quintillus ru:Квинтилл sk:Quintillus sr:Квинтил fi:Quintillus sv:Quintillus tl:Quintillus tr:Quintillus zh:昆提卢斯