Iwao Takamoto (タカモト・イワオ, Takamoto Iwao) (April 29, 1925 &ndash; January 8 2007) was a Japanese American animator, television producer, and film director. He was most famous as being a production and character designer for Hanna-Barbera Productions shows such as Scooby-Doo.BiographyTakamoto's father emigrated from Hiroshima to the United States for his health. He returned to Japan only once, to marry his wife. Takamoto was born on April 29, 1925 in Los Angeles, California. After the bombing of Pearl Harbor, Takamoto's family, like many Japanese Americans, was forced to move to an internment camp. They spent the rest of World War II in the Manzanar internment camp. It was there that Takamoto received basic illustration training from a couple of friendly co-internees.Takamoto first entered the cartoon world after the end of the war. He was hired as an assistant animator by Walt Disney Studios in 1945. Takamoto eventually became an assistant for the legendary Milt Kahl. He worked as an animator on such titles as Cinderella, Lady and the Tramp, Sleeping Beauty, and One Hundred and One Dalmatians.Leaving Disney (1961)Takamoto left Disney in 1961 and joined Hanna-Barbera Productions shortly thereafter. He worked in several positions there, but is arguably best known as a character designer. He was responsible for the original character design of such characters as Scooby-Doo, The Jetsons' dog Astro, and Penelope Pitstop. He worked as a producer at Hanna-Barbera, supervising shows such as The Addams Family, Hong Kong Phooey, and Jabberjaw. He directed several feature length animated films, including Charlotte's Web (1973) and Jetsons: The Movie (1990). The inspiration for Scooby-Doo's creation as a Great Dane came from an employee of the Hanna-Barbera company, who bred this dog.http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/10/arts/television/10takamoto.html?ex=1326085200&amp;en=621fc868fcd67df1&amp;ei=5088&amp;partner=rssnyt&amp;emc=rssTakamoto was Vice-President of Creative Design at Hanna-Barbera, and was responsible for overseeing H-B's many product related merchandising. In 2005, he received the Golden Award from the Animation Guild, to honor his more than 50 years of service in the animation field.DeathHe died on January 8, 2007 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles from a heart attack at age 81. Adult Swim for the next week put up a bumper that said Iwao Takamoto 1925-2007. He was buried at Mount Sinai Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles in Gardens of Blessing, Section 3, Lot 1390, Space 3.ReferencesExternal linksJanuary 1999 interview in ANIMATION BLASTObituary, The Guardian, 29 January 2007.Iwao Takamoto's Gravesite at Find A GraveCategory:Japanese Americans Category:Japanese American film directors Category:Japanese American internees Category:People from Los Angeles, California Category:Hanna-Barbera and Cartoon Network Studios Category:American animators Category:Asian American filmmakers Category:Deaths by myocardial infarctionda:Iwao Takamoto de:Iwao Takamoto es:Iwao Takamoto fr:Iwao Takamoto lb:Iwao Takamoto nl:Iwao Takamoto ja:イワオ・タカモト no:Iwao Takamoto pl:Iwao Takamoto pt:Iwao Takamoto simple:Iwao Takamoto vi:Iwao Takamoto ur:ایوو تاکاموٹو