 , some sources say 1900 |birth_place = Smyrna |origin =  Greece |death_date =  |death_place = Neuilly-sur-Seine |occupation = Shipping magnate |spouse = Athina Livanos (1946&ndash;1960)  Jacqueline Kennedy (1968&ndash;1975) |children = Alexandros and  Christina |relations = Aristotelis (also Ari or Aristo) Sokratis Onassis () (January 15 1906 &ndash; March 15 1975) was one of the prominent shipping magnates of the 20th century.&quot;The Aristotle Onassis Model&quot; at sleight-of-mindBlyth, Myrna, National Review Online, [http://article.nationalreview.com/?q=NDRjYzJhMWI5ZjE3ZmNmOWQ0YWEyNjBkYmI1MjhiODI= Greek Tragedy, The life of Aristotle Onassis], Retrieved on 2008-04-05.Smith, Helena, The Guardian, [http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/oct/06/arts.artsnews Callas takes centre stage again as exhibition recalls Onassis's life], Retrieved on 2008-04-05. Some sources say he was born in 1900 and later changed his age to be 16 so as to avoid deportation from Turkey.The Life of Aristotle Onassis&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;LifeOnassis was born in Karatass, a suburb of Smyrna, Ottoman Empire (now İzmir, Turkey) to a middle-class Greek family.Aristotle Onassis biography Part Myth, Part Legend At the time of his birth, Smyrna had a very significant and prosperous Greek population. After being briefly occupied by Greece (1919&ndash;1922) in the aftermath of the allied victory in World War I, the city was re-captured by Turkey; the Onassis family holdings were lost, causing them to move to Greece as refugees. During this period Ari lost three uncles and one aunt with her husband Chrysostomos Konialidis and their daughter, who burned to death when the Turks set fire to a church in Thyatira where 500 Christians were seeking shelter. In 1923, Aristotle Onassis left his country to go to Buenos Aires, ArgentinaRichest People in History Aristotle Onassis with allegedly only $63. He once said: "It is hard to maintain vitality when you are always hungry". He finally got his first job in the British United River Plate Telephone Company.First big stepAfter hearing a call from an Argentinian film distributor and a senior executive at Paramount in New York about the film star Rudolph Valentino that was saying that everything from Orient was in evidence at that moment, Onassis had the idea of importing tobacco from Turkey with help from his father Socrates. The tobacco was softer than the Cuban variety, and he was sure it would appeal to women more. After the failure of a contract with Juan Gaona, the director of a huge Argentinian company, he turned to making his own cigarettes. After some time managing this business and his job in British United River, he made a considerable amount of money.His power and influence were rapidly increasing; he used to be present in important social events, and in 1925 he received Argentinian and Greek citizenships.According to Peter Evans (his official biographer) Ari: Life and times of Aristotle Onassis and Christian Cafarakis (a former employee) http://books.google.com.br/books?id=rmRXHQAACAAJ&amp;dq=cafarakis+onassis&amp;ei=WE1USIjmOJOaigGC35CJDA&lt;/ref&gt; a considerable part of the tobacco was smuggled Aristotle Onassis biography &amp;mdash; The man and legend&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt;, which would explain the speed with which he made his first million dollars. In 1928, Onassis traded with Greece U$2.800.000,00 just four years after his arrival in Argentina. This was due to other illegitimate activities he undertook, like sabotaging his competitor and using the same name of a famous cigarette company: Bis. This last was profitable but ended once the real Bis company sued him. ===Huge money and Greek consulship ===In 1929 the Greek government announced a 1000% increase in tax of imported products from countries with no trade agreement with that country; this could have ruined Onassis' South America business, as Argentina didn't have such commercial relationships with Greece. With the help of Costa Gratsos, a former student of the London School of Economics and descendant of rich family - the Dracoulis - he wrote a letter to the prime minister of Greece Eleutherios Venizelos. The text was a warning about the damage that the increase in tax could cause to Greek merchant navy, once 80% of it was used in transport between Europe and Argentina.That text caused a good impression in the prime minister and he sent Onassis to speak with the foreign minister Andreas Michalakopoulus. The first impression of the minister wasn't good, with Andreas brushing his nails the most of the time, and simply saying at the end:"Mr. Onassis, I'm hearing what you're saying, but this type of things need time. I'm going to study your points of view with great interest. You can count with that"During the some weeks later Ari and Andreas had other encounters, and Onassis hospitality, what usually means good bribes - Onassis once said he don't trust anyone who don't accept a bribe - finally conquest Michalakopoulus friendship.Due to this new friendship Aristotles returned to Argentina with a new passport and the tranquility to go ahead with his business, once Greece would refrain from the heavy tax in argentinian trades.In 1931 again with Michalakopoulus help, Onassis had his connections in Argentina recognized and he was granted with the vice-counsulship cargo.This title take Ari business to sky high levels, once he got the status he was hungry for, and the most important thing, access to an incredible amount of money that he exchanged in the black market, despite of Gratsos desaproval.Success in businessAfter engaging in many different entrepreneurial activities with determination and a passion for success, he finally managed to become a world-class businessman making his first million by the age of 25.BBC NEWS | Europe | Teenager inherits Onassis fortune&lt;!-- Bot generated title --&gt; from tobacco. In 1954, the FBI investigated Onassis for fraud against the U.S. government. He was charged with violating the citizenship provision of the shipping laws which require that all ships displaying the U.S. flag be owned by U.S. citizens. Onassis entered a guilty plea and paid $7 million. He founded Olympic Airways (today Olympic Airlines), the Greek national carrier, in 1957.To finance his ships he used a method that he, in his own words, described as utilizing the formula OPM (other people's money). And, much in the same way, he closed contracts to transport ore in ships he didn't yet have, and closed several contracts to transport oil on tankers that hadn't been build yet.While the big petroleum companies like Mobil, Socony, and Texaco were signing contracts with long terms and fixed prices, and with Onassis then having trouble in managing their own fleet with high cost due to USA flags, Aristotle made huge amounts of money.Onassis's fleet had Panama flags and sailed with no tax and low costs. With all this Aristotle could profit in every business, despite of having one of the lowest prices in the merchant navy market, and his tankers paid itself with a simple six month contract. The other 20 years of these ships lifecycle were only profits.Marriage and familyAthina LivanosOnassis married Athina Livanos, daughter of shipping magnate Stavros Livanos, on December 28 1946; their son, Alexander (April 30 1948 &ndash; January 23 1973), and daughter Christina (December 11 1950 – November 19 1988), were both born in New York City.The founder.To Onassis this marriage was more than just a dream come true. It was a punch in the stomach for his father-in-law and the rest of the traditional Greeks who held Onassis in very low esteem due to his commercial tactics, like sailing with a Panama flag.During the wedding Costa Gratsos said:“''Now you’re avenged''”“''It’s not enough, Costa''.” Said Ari. - “''I want to smash these son'' **” – Talking about the richest Greeks of the world that were present in the party. This type of behavior and competitiveness, were very typical for him, seen throughout his entire life.After their divorce, Athina married John Spencer-Churchill, Marquess of Blandford. She later married Stavros Niarchos, her late sister's widower and Onassis's arch shipping rival.in New York.]]  |Maria CallasDespite the fact they were both married, Onassis and opera diva Maria Callas embarked on a notorious affair.MARIA CALLAS Biography They met each other in 1957 during a party in Venice promoted by Elsa Maxwell. After this first encounter, Ari said to Spyros Skouras: "There was just a natural curiosity; after all, we were the most famous Greeks alive in the world". According to Greek Fire: The Story of Maria Callas and Aristotle Onassis by Nicholas Gage, Callas gave birth to their child, a boy, who died hours later on March 30 1960.That Callas was really the love of his life is suggested by the short lived happiness he experienced with Kennedy (he tried to end the marriage early but was unable to without committing an egregious offense, according to Greek law at the time), and by the many times he tried to see Callas while married to Kennedy. He flew to Paris to see Callas after the death of his son Alexander in an airplane crash. Callas responded, "If only our son had lived," referring to the child they are believed to have had together in 1960.Gage, Nicholas (2000-10-03). Greek Fire: The Story Of Maria Callas and Aristotle Onassis. Knopf. ISBN 0375402446 Onassis never recovered from the death of his son.Jacqueline Kennedy OnassisOnassis ended his relationship with Callas to marry Jacqueline Kennedy, widow of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, on October 20 1968. It was said that Kennedy insisted on marriage rather than an affair so as to avoid upsetting her children.According to Peter Evans, Jacqueline received U$3.000.000,00 for her and U$1.000.000,00 for each son. Using a tax of 8% a year it would be equivalent to U$65.000.000,00 and U$22.000.000,00 respectively. After Onassis death she would receive U$150.000,00 (U$3.250.000,00 using the same calculus) each year until the end of her life. All the marital contract was discussed with Teddy Kennedy and later reviewed by André Meyer Jacqueline's financial consultant.Ari used to broadcast his sexual life with Jacqueline, las seen by this statement made to a close friend in Athens right after their marriage:"Five times in one night... She's superior to every woman that I've already met" SexualityIn a 2007 interview, director Franco Zeffirelli described Onassis as bisexual, recounting him making a pass at Zeffirelli.Zeffirelli: «Onassis tentò di sedurmi» This information could be true because Peter Evans describes a similar occurrence during Aristo's early life in Turkey, where he got sexually involved with a male lieutenant from the Turkish army. Death and legacyOnassis died at age 69, on March 15 1975 in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, of bronchial pneumonia, a complication of the myasthenia gravis that he had been suffering from during the last years of his life.Onassis, Aristotle According to his will, his daughter Christina was to inherit 55% of the Onassis fortune while the other 45% were used as funds for the Alexander S. Onassis Foundation set up to honor his son Alexander Onassis.Aristotelis (Aristotle) Onassis (1906&amp;ndash;1975) This 45% was the share that his son Alexander would have inherited, had he not died in 1973. Jackie Kennedy also received her share of the estate settling for a reported $10,000,000 ($26 million according to other sources) which was negotiated by her former brother-in-law Teddy Kennedy (this amount would later grow to several hundred million under the financial stewardship of her companion Maurice Tempelsman). Christina's share has since passed to her only child Athina, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world.During his lifetime Onassis was one of the richest men in the world and certainly one of the most famous. Just like Rockefeller his name has become synonymous with "a rich person". He is referenced in the Tintin album Flight 714 where billionaire Lazlo Carreidas is bidding up against Onassis at an art auction. He does this by telephone. In the Simpsons episode Homer Defined Mr. Burns introduces Homer to his Greek billionaire friend Aristotle &quot;Ari&quot; Amadopoulos, another reference to Onassis.See alsoGreek shippingSkorpios Onassis' private islandChristina O Onassis' famous yachtJohn Paul Papanicolaou He purchased his yacht Christina O.Stavros Niarchos One of Onassis' greatest rivals, and husband of his sister-in-law; a big shipping magnateNotesReferencesAri: The Life and Times of Aristotle Socrates Onassis, by Peter Evans, 1986.Le Fabuleux Onassis, by Christian Cafarakis, 1971.External links The Life of Aristotle OnassisThe Onassis Foundation Category:1906 births Category:1975 deaths Category:People from İzmir Category:Greek billionaires Category:Greek businesspeople Category:Greek Orthodox Christians Category:Onassis family Category:Businesspeople in shipping Category:Greek shipping tycoons Category:Argentines of Greek descent Category:Greek Eastern Orthodox Christiansar:أرسطو أوناسيس bs:Aristotel Onassis bg:Аристотел Онасис da:Aristoteles Onassis de:Aristoteles Onassis el:Αριστοτέλης Ωνάσης es:Aristóteles Onassis fr:Aristote Onassis hr:Aristoteles Onassis id:Aristoteles Onassis it:Aristotele Onassis he:אריסטוטלס אונאסיס nl:Aristoteles Onassis ja:アリストテレス・オナシス no:Aristoteles Onassis pl:Arystoteles Onassis pt:Aristóteles Onassis ro:Aristotele Onassis ru:Онассис, Аристотель sq:Aristotel Onasis sl:Aristoteles Sokrates Homer Onassis sr:Аристотел Оназис fi:Aristoteles Onassis sv:Aristoteles Onassis tr:Aristotle Onassis zh:亚里士多德·奥纳西斯