 Agostino Carracci (or Caracci) (August 16, 1557 - March 22, 1602) was an Italian painter and printmaker. He was the brother of the more famous Annibale and cousin of Lodovico Carracci.He posited the ideal in nature, and was the founder of the competing school to the more gritty (for lack of a better term) view of nature as expressed by Caravaggio. He was, along with his brothers, one of the founders of the Accademia degli Incamminati, which helped propel painters of the School of Bologna to prominence.LifeAgostino Carracci was born in Bologna, and trained at the workshop of the architect Domenico Tibaldi. Starting from 1574 he worked as a reproductive engraver, copying works of 16th century masters such as Federico Barocci, Tintoretto, Antonio Campi, Veronese and Correggio. He also produced some original prints, including two etchings.He travelled to Venice (1582, 1587-1589) and Parma (1586-1587). Together with Annibale and Ludovico he worked in Bologna on the fresco cycles in Palazzo Fava (Histories of Jason and Medea, 1584) and Palazzo Magnani (Histories of Romulus, 1590-1592). In 1592 he also painted the Communion of St. Jerome, now in the Pinacoteca di Bologna and considered his masterwork. From 1586 is his altarpiece of the Madonna with Child and Saints, in the National Gallery of Parma.In 1598 Carracci joined his brother Annibale in Rome, to collaborate on the decoration of the Gallery in Palazzo Farnese. From 1598-1600 is a triple Portrait, now in Naples, an example of genre painting.In 1600 he was called to Parma by Duke Ranuccio I Farnese to began the decoration of the Palazzo del Giardino, but he died before it was finished.Agostino's son Antonio Carracci was also a painter, and attempted to compete with his father's Academy.Works''Head of a Faun in a Concave ''(drawing in roundel, c. 1595, National Gallery of Art, Washington DC)''The Penitent Magdalen ''(Private collection)''The Annunciation '', Musée du Louvre, Paris http://cartelen.louvre.fr/cartelen/visite?srv=car_not_frame&amp;idNotice=18809''The Lamentation '', Hermitage, St. Petersburghttp://www.hermitagemuseum.org/fcgi-bin/db2www/quickSearch.mac/gallery?selLang=English&amp;tmCond=Carracci+AgostinoErotic workExternal linksCatholic Encyclopedia: Carracci Category:1557 births Category:1602 deaths Category:People from Bologna Category:Italian painters Category:Italian Baroque painters Category:Bolognese painters Category:Italian printmakersbr:Agostino Carracci da:Agostino Carracci de:Agostino Carracci et:Agostino Carracci es:Agostino Carracci eo:Agostino Carracci fr:Agostino Carracci id:Agostino Carracci it:Agostino Carracci mi:Agostino Carracci nl:Agostino Carracci ja:アゴスティーノ・カラッチ no:Agostino Carracci pl:Agostino Carracci pt:Agostino Carracci ro:Agostino Carracci ru:Карраччи, Агостино simple:Agostino Carracci sk:Agostino Carracci fi:Agostino Carracci sv:Agostino Carracci