One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. (RO) We welcome the signing of the Nabucco project agreement on 13 July in Ankara.
I would like to use this opportunity to point out that, since an overwhelming majority of our Irish friends said 'yes' today to the constitutional treaty and the Polish President - according to what the President of our Parliament said just now - is also about to sign the treaty, all that is needed is a 'yes' from the Czech President.
However, what the European Parliament should focus on above all is the way in which public money and also the aid allocated by the European Union can be invested in a different form of regional development, to ensure that construction work is carried out properly and the severe environmental damage that has been done can be rectified.
In the space of one and a half years, four schools, with a total of 45 classes, were closed, and a further 107 classes are threatened with closure.
Finally, many Poles have still not been returned property which was seized by the communists, by the Soviet Union, after 1939 or after 1944.
I appeal to the European Parliament to defend Poles in Lithuania, in accordance with European standards of human rights and the rights of minorities. (PT) Mr President, optimistic proclamations are being made concerning the announcement of the beginning of the end of the crisis.
The situation in northern Portugal is an illustration of this.
The initial directive handed implementing measures to the European Commission which, in effect, meant that the regulation was allowed to pass without the consent of this farce of an Assembly or of my real parliament at Westminster.
Therefore, if I speak Hungarian to a policeman in Slovakia, he is obliged to answer me in Slovak, even if Hungarian is his mother tongue, and regardless of the fact that I do not understand his reply.
Since 2005, this body has brought together more than 100 000 members from 16 European member organisations of train drivers and has sought to be recognised as a fully-fledged social partner in the section of social dialogue dealing with railways.
In my opinion, this is a very unfortunate state of affairs.
Social dialogue, as approved by the European Parliament, should, in my view, allow pluralism.
They were sentenced to a total of 61 years and their case was used by nationalists as election propaganda.
The European Parliament sent a fact-finding delegation to Serbia in January 2005.
The European Parliament should react to this. (RO) The subject of my speech today is linked to the most important event that has taken place recently in the European Union, namely the successful outcome of the referendum organised by Ireland to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon.
However, it is not true that we are avoiding debate on this matter because, if someone tries to agree in five minutes on this subject in front of 10 journalists, they will probably fail.
I would like to give you a positive example in this area.
It is vital for the new Member States in the central and eastern part of Europe to receive necessary support for economic recovery.
On 15 September, I condemned the risky situation and the helplessness and defencelessness of these workers.
I ask you therefore to do everything you can for them so that they receive fairer treatment from you.
This money was promised by the Commission President under the Globalisation Adjustment Fund in a recent visit to Limerick.
It was estimated at one stage that Dell and its suppliers employed one in every five people throughout the mid-west of Ireland, so this area has been hard hit.
Thanks to Atalanta, the European operation, which was begun in December 2008 at the initiative of France and Spain, joined by other European Union countries, we now have a significant deployment of forces in the area.
It would be an exercise well worth doing. (RO) In June 2009, the European Council called on the European Commission to draw up and present a strategy for the Danube region by the end of 2010.
The European Commission and Member States should adopt a common European strategy which will combine current Danube initiatives and boost the importance of this river as part of the European Union's policies.
The creation of this intergroup helps the European Parliament reaffirm its commitment to be involved in and actively support both the drafting of a strategy for the Danube region and its implementation. (ES) Mr President, I would like to call the attention of this House to the fact that 27 September was the thirtieth World Tourism Day, held under the slogan 'Tourism - Celebrating Diversity', at a time when we are all hoping for the rapid entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which incorporates tourism as a new sphere of action for the European Union.
Mr President, I would also like to add that the Spanish Government is maintaining its firm undertaking to ensure the security of all troops on peace missions deployed abroad, not just in Afghanistan, but also in other locations around the world. (RO) The last two rounds of enlargement of the European Union have brought numerous benefits to old and new Member States alike, while also posing a number of challenges.
