European Union annual report on human rights (debate) The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the European Parliament's annual report on Human Rights.
The first report on human rights was published in 1999, when Finland, as it was this time too, was involved in drafting the report in its role as Presidency of the European Union.
The report now completed concerns the EU action and policies implemented in the period from 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2006 and which were aimed at promoting a universal respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The report follows seven earlier annual reports published between 1999 and 2005, in accordance with the declaration adopted in 1998 by the European Council.
The Council appreciates the central role played by the European Parliament in our joint efforts to defend and promote the implementation of human rights.
Over the years Parliament has acknowledged the achievements of major figures, such as Nelson Mandela and Kofi Annan.
During the period under review in the report, which is to say between the summer of 2005 and the summer of 2006, there was a major change to the UN structures.
The negotiations on the creation of the United Nations Human Rights Council and, later, the first sitting of the new Council, provided a crucial framework for EU action in the area of multilateral human rights policy.
In statements made in several UN and other forums, the EU has reiterated its opinion that a respect for human rights is vital in the work to combat terrorism.
The mainstreaming of human rights has involved an attempt to guarantee that human rights issues will be dealt with consistently in contact between the EU and third countries at different levels.
The annual report this year is again a valuable record of the combined efforts of us all in promoting and protecting human rights around the world, and a reflection of the positive way in which the European Union has come together to produce it.
I am happy to inform you in this context that last June the Commission revised the mandates of its heads of delegation, following up on the report by Mr Agnoletto.
It is absurd for me to have to point out that these women are not dangerous counter-revolutionary terrorists funded by the CIA, but simply women who are not willing to give in to injustice and the trampling of their most fundamental rights as human beings.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would like to thank the Council for coming for the second year running to present its annual report on human rights at this December sitting, which the European Parliament is in fact dedicating to human rights.
This principle is valid in all fields, but it is particularly important when it comes to human rights.
The European Union must not just be consistent, but exemplary, in its fulfilment of its international obligations.
I would like to thank the Council and the Commission for their hard work, and I am glad we have moved away from just a list of countries where human rights abuses take place.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, last Sunday the former Chilean dictator, Augusto Pinochet, died, by a strange coincidence precisely fifty-eight years after the signature by world leaders, in 1948, of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
It is also important to stress the universal and indivisible nature of those rights.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, a major element of the European Union's activities in the coming year should be to continue its support for the fight for democracy in Belarus.
It is vital to continue exerting pressure on the Lukashenko regime using all possible means.
China is the only country in the world where the suicide rate is higher for women than for men.
The Council report itself covers the EU external and internal policies, as well as bilateral EU human rights policies with regard to third countries and action on multilateral fora, in addition to analysing a range of thematic issues.
In terms of the process of putting the report together, I am still not satisfied that there has been sufficient consultation between the Council and Parliament and, in particular, with the Human Rights Sub-Committee.
I am rapporteur for the 2006 European Parliament report and I will continue to urge the Council to produce an all-encompassing cross-institutional report.
I hope we will succeed in going to both of those countries with an EP delegation to deliver the awards. (PL) Mr President, I am speaking today in the European Parliament on the 25th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in my country, Poland.
The European Union's annual report on human rights is one of its most important documents.
Over 200 000 people have died and two and a half million people have been displaced.
It is not just one report that counts, but what that report represents. (PL) Mr President, the European Union does a lot for human rights in the world and we are all proud of that fact.
Man is, in part, a religious creature and the upholding of human rights also includes showing respect for this religious nature.
Perhaps because this report is based on a decision by the European Council from 1998, the drafting procedure also takes place within the context of the Council.
This debate also raised the issue of the almost philosophical question as to whether we have done all we can to improve the human rights situation.
Under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, Cuba has been one of the countries targeted under Campaign 3 to promote the democratic process.
On China, let me just say that in the future the inclusion of human rights, an essential clause in the new agreement that will be negotiated with China, will also hopefully reinforce the human rights dialogue that has been going on for 11 years, thus demonstrating our firm adherence to the principles of human rights and democracy in EU external policy.
On 21 November we launched a non-paper, in which we show the Belarusian people what they could have if the regime changed and if they engaged in more democratisation, improving human rights and the rule of law.
Those are only a few examples, but I know time is pressing and therefore I cannot go into each and every question that has been raised here.
