Presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual report - 2007 The next item is the presentation of the Court of Auditors' Annual Report for 2007.
President of the European Court of Auditors. - Mr President, it is an honour for me to be able to take part in your debate on the Court of Auditors' annual report on the 2007 financial year, which I have already presented to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 10 November.
Overall, the Court's audit opinion on the accounts is now unqualified - positive, if you wish - but the opinion on underlying transactions is broadly similar to that of last year.
For 'agriculture and natural resources', where EUR 51 billion was spent in 2007, the Court found that 'rural development' continues to account for a disproportionately large part of the overall error, while the error rate for EAGF expenditure is estimated to be slightly below the materiality threshold.
But why is this situation persisting, and why are the underlying transactions in a situation broadly similar to that of last year?
All of this said, it is fair to acknowledge that the Commission has made significant efforts since 2000 to address the weaknesses in supervision and control, mainly through developing and implementing an internal reform programme and, in 2006, launching an action plan to improve the supervisory and control systems across the Union.
As the external auditor of the European Union, it is our obligation to act as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the Union.
In 2007, for the first time, there is not a single chapter with a red card on control systems from the external auditor.
So, to summarise: in the Commission's view the Court of Auditors' annual report for 2007 shows that there is steady, gradual progress.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to thank you, Mr President of the Court, for the immense task you have accomplished with the Court's auditors; I think this is an important document for our information.
As we know, this discharge is the first discharge for the financial perspective 2007-2013.
And I cannot hide the fact that I shall never get used to accounts with negative equity of 58 billion.
However, the Member States have poor shared management in agriculture, cohesion and the Structural Funds, where there are too many errors - over 60% sometimes in some Member States.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would very much like to congratulate the Court of Auditors for the work which it is submitting to Parliament in the form of the Annual Report for 2007.
The Commissioner for Research has also indicated that the criticism from this House and from the Court of Auditors in last year's report has fallen on fertile ground.
One area where things are still not working well is the cooperative effort to control the European budget which Member States are withdrawing from.
Since the Wynn and Mulder reports we have been attempting to bridge the gap in the treaty between Article 274 and Article 5 by means of this requirement for national statements of assurance.
If we read what was written in 2006 and 2007, then there is not that much difference, really, although there is an improvement.
Had agricultural policy continued as before, I doubt very much that we would have achieved an approval margin of over 40%.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I, too, should like to thank the Court of Auditors, and not least their staff.
They have once again done a sterling job.
There may be an attractive website, but I have noticed that a number of Member States, including my own country Belgium, place information on it which is woefully inadequate and wholly intransparent.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, well, Commissioner Kallas seems to have read a completely different document.
If any UK PLC had filed accounts of this nature for 14 years which have been completely unacceptable, and again this year - and I do not regard the Court of Auditors as having given this a clean bill of health at all, and I have read the document - if the Commission were a board of UK PLC directors I have to say they would now be in prison!
Even the internal auditors in Member States admit that that system is impossible to operate.
In Turkish-held Northern Cyprus, EUR 259 million of public money has been handed over for economic development, but the EU office in Nicosia openly admits it cannot monitor or control it, simply because we do not recognise the Turkish regime.
Not only are the accounts unacceptable, but some of the judgements on how public money is used are unacceptable too. (SV) I would like to start by thanking the Court of Auditors for a constructive report that is unusually easy to follow.
I would therefore like to suggest that examination of these institutions is also becoming increasingly important.
I therefore think that it is particularly unfortunate that the Council is not here to participate in the debate, as I think that we have a joint responsibility to ensure that these decentralised authorities are controlled and monitored.
It is important that the Court has concluded that the transactions underlying the income and commitments for the budget year are lawful and correct.
For this reason, the Commission's explanation that auditing costs are very high, as indicated by the ratio of the costs to the effectiveness of the audits is unconvincing.
I would like to say that I hope that, when they report our debates and the results of the work of the Court of Auditors, the media will not do what they usually do and talk about the trains which arrived late and say nothing about the trains which arrived on time, because most of the budget of the European Union has been spent advisedly.
Having said which, we have noted that the trend in this report by the Court of Auditors has been one of improvement.
However, we are now faced with the question of what to do about the Member States which have been part of the EU since 1981 and still do not apply EU legislation consistently.
I would like to ask the Commission - and this is one of the lessons which I have learnt from this - to acknowledge that the more consistent the Commission's actions are, the faster we will have improved results.
One aspect of this report in particular which interested me is the position of the new Member States, but not very much information is provided in this area.
I do not understand some of the numbers, for example, your findings on the two new Member States Romania and Bulgaria and what the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) identified there in 2007.
This annual report is the last from the Barroso Commission and the first in the new financing period.
I would like to congratulate Commissioner Kallas and the Barroso Commission for their work in the field of financial control.
Commissioner Kallas, so much praise from Mrs Gräßle is really something to be proud of! (DA) Mr President, our discussions can be a little abstract at times, so I therefore think that we should start by reminding ourselves what it is we are actually talking about.
Unfortunately, there is no doubt that when Member States get a bag of money from the EU they are not so inclined to subject this money to as much control and as many rules as would be the case if it was national money.
However, I would also like to point out that great progress has been made, for example, following pressure from the European Parliament.
The President will, as always, try to do his best. (DE) Mr President, Mr President of the European Court of Auditors, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it has now become a tradition that once again no statement of assurance can be issued about the relationship between spending at a European level and administration at a national level.
Firstly, a budget that consists of around 95% subsidies is much more susceptible to fraud than a national, regional or local authority budget.
This subsidy budget is largely managed by the Member States, which have demanded a great deal more independence from us in the new financing period, because they complained during the last funding period that there was too much central control.
Of course, this also means that the responsibility for the budget funds must be transferred to a regional and national level.
For this reason, those with responsibility for the projects, in particular in the area of structural operations, namely the Member States, should also take responsibility for ensuring that money is not wasted and that only those projects are subsidised which provide genuine added value for the region.
If Member States have to pay back the money, they will only fund the projects that they really need. (PT) Mr President, I want to start by congratulating the Court of Auditors on its excellent work and also for having made this work much more accessible to all of us here, and even to European citizens in general.
As far as I can see, particularly with the Structural Funds, we have regulatory frameworks that often demand absurd things.
The buildings here in Strasbourg were purchased in 2007 and, when we bought them, we were absolutely assured that there was no asbestos in these buildings.
However, the health issue does exist and I should have liked the Secretary-General to give clear guarantees that the proposed asbestos removal plan is compatible with the continued use of these buildings.
The first sentence in the conclusions from the Court states that for 2007 the Court has identified further progress in the Commission's supervisory and control systems, so at least we are going in the right direction.
There are improvements in certain areas, but the error rate is still way too high in some sectors, and those have been outlined here this morning.
An extremely important aspect is that, according to OLAF, suspected fraud in the Structural Funds affected 0.16% of payments made by the Commission between 2000 and 2007, and that is a hugely significant figure.
I am constantly being bombarded about Brussels red tape and Brussels bureaucracy and, in the middle of citizens and this debate, we have Member States - many of whom need to seriously improve their act - the Commission, which still has some work to do, Parliament and the Court of Auditors.
We are making progress but it is too slow.
For this reason, I welcome the fact that the European Court of Auditors is also proposing simplification in this area.
For example, there is a lot of talk at the moment about higher figures in the costs of regional policy.
Important progress has been made, but it is still not enough.
One thing that strikes me very clearly from the presentation this morning is that it was clearly said that, when it comes to rural development, there are big problems in terms of compliance when, under the health check, we are now taking more money from the single farm payment to pour into rural development.
I should also like to point out that these reports are always analysed within a specific context.
In my view, it is wrong simply to identify an error or the level of error with the ineffectiveness of a specific policy.
I in any event take it as read that the European Commission will help us in this in the coming months. (BG) The release of the European Court of Auditors' annual report is a good occasion to analyse what the European Union budget is used for and how it is used.
This was also mentioned in the European Commission's latest report from July 2008, which unfortunately led to a partial freezing of European funds for Bulgaria.
It seems that about EUR 6 billion cannot be properly accounted for.
I would like to mention here the regrettable example of the ineffective control system mentioned in respect of Bulgaria.
Court of Auditors. - Mr President, I wish first of all to thank everyone for their kind words about those working at the Court of Auditors, and all those contributing to the result we have debated here this morning.
At the end of the day, the important thing is that the result of our work, as I said in my speech, is a sign that the European institutions are accountable and transparent, and that one can have confidence in the European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, many remarks have been made.
Secondly, we have until now - although the past two years or so have been different - always assumed that there is zero tolerance for any error.
