&#160;&#160; Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Committee on International Trade’s draftsman, Mr Sjöstedt, who is on Hong Kong with virtually all the other members of the committee apart from me.
The Commission has already come to us asking for urgency at a very late date, on the issue of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
It is a success for everyone but, if I may say so, it is above all a success for Parliament, which has been able to fight for its political priorities.
We have achieved a budget of EUR&#160;112 billion and a joint declaration that an amending budget will be put forward, particularly for the Structural Funds, if spending picks up in the new Member States, as we think it will.
I feel particularly pleased that we have achieved our aim of sending out a strong political message to the youth of Europe through the reinforcement of the Socrates, YOUTH and Leonardo programmes.
Today we are experiencing a profound crisis in the European project, but it is not an irreversible crisis.
The European Parliament has made an important contribution to the debate on the budget for 2007-2013 in the excellent Böge report, which has so far been unfairly ignored.
With the annual budget, however, we are making a positive response, and for that I am also grateful to Minister Lewis and Commissioner Grybauskaitė.
This House made it perfectly clear, on 8 June, that its negotiating position on this is in fact not itself subject to negotiation.
Let me add in conclusion that, for the British Prime Minister Mr Blair, as President-in-Office of the Council, to say, on the subject of the negotiations on the Financial Perspective, that either there is a deal in December or there will be no more agreement under the Austrian or Finnish presidencies, is for him to threaten a blockade.
It is difficult to establish the extent to which the European Commission, the Member States or this Parliament are responsible for this situation, which is repeated year after year.
We in this Parliament vote every year for budgetary appropriations in accordance with our own political debate and the interests that we believe our electors bring to this Chamber, and that is why we are here.
And we are aware that the Member States make an effort year after year both in order to fund the budget and in order to implement Community policies.
We know that this is good news for the Finance Ministers of the Member States, since this is a sum that they do not have to incorporate into the Community budget in order to fund the 2005 financial year.
Nevertheless, from a European point of view, it is not good news, because the saving results from a very significant under-execution in payment appropriations corresponding to the Structural Funds.
During the 2005 budgetary procedure, we agreed with the Council a significant reduction in the Structural Funds, below our first reading of the budget, and also below the preliminary draft budget presented by the Commission.
We also agreed a joint statement with the other two institutions, in which the Council committed itself to presenting an amending budget which would include the payment appropriations necessary to pay Structural Funds, in the event that the execution was as expected.
During November, the Commission altered its figures on the basis of the news about budgetary execution reaching it from the Member States and, in the end, what were funding requirements have been turned into surpluses.
The political message we are sending to the European citizens every year is very disappointing.
The European Parliament’s second reading of the annual budget, culminating in the vote on Thursday, is a key part of the European Union calendar and is probably more important this year than ever before.
The agreement between the Council and the parliamentary delegation on the main elements of the 2006 budget was reached in the end in the best spirit of cooperation and compromise.
By putting that agreement into effect in the adopted budget, the European Parliament has the opportunity to send a clear signal to the people of Europe that, despite the challenges we face over the Constitution and future financing, the European Union is still operating effectively and in their best interest.
They will be acutely aware that the last procedure under the current financial perspective has a special role in bridging past priorities and future objectives to provide a measure of continuity and the basis for coherence between two financial perspectives.
The difficulty of reconciling our policy priorities with the core principles of budget discipline and sound financial management highlights the fact that the current budget structures are stretched to breaking point.
The next financial perspective must offer the prospect of real reform and renewal in the future if the EC budget is to remain relevant and genuinely meet the needs and expectations of European citizens in the 21st century.
It will not be easy, but if the two arms of the budgetary authority – the Parliament and the Council, which I represent today – can build on the spirit of cooperation we found in the end to deliver a 2006 budget, we have a chance to create a shared vision in the next few days for a better future in 2007-2013 and beyond.
Returning to 2006, honourable Members will be aware that the budget agreement between the Council and the parliamentary delegation focused primarily on three key elements.
I stress that in each case, the parliamentary delegation drove a hard bargain and, as a consequence, several members of the Council felt unable to support our final compromise.
But I believe that we reached a fair and balanced outcome in the end, one which I was able to steer through Council by a qualified majority.
Firstly, we agreed to amend upward the financial envelopes for six codecided programmes in heading 3: Internal Policies.
The Council did not see the need to propose these increases in its draft budget; however, the parliamentary delegation argued strongly that the six programmes concerned would be severely constrained without additional resources.
Secondly, we agreed to mobilise the flexibility instrument for programmes in heading 4: External Actions, for a total of EUR&#160;275&#160;million.
However, I stress that the Council remains firmly committed to meet the urgent needs of external partners consistent with promises made and commitments undertaken.
Member States recognise the tight budgetary constraints in heading 4, demonstrated no more clearly than the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and the Council was ultimately persuaded of the need to mobilise the flexibility instrument to ease these constraints.
I believe the outcome, which exceeds the Commission’s proposals by more than EUR&#160;110&#160;million, represents a fair compromise, ensuring resources for key urgent priorities, such as Iraq, tsunami reconstruction, traditional assistance for sugar protocol countries, and CFSP.
However, I stress that this is the first time it has been necessary to exceed EUR&#160;200&#160;million in a single year.
I hope that honourable Members will appreciate the significance of this outcome and share with me the hope that more effective use of the principle of reprioritisation and reallocation will prevail in similar circumstances in future years.
This represents the Commission’s original proposal which, after taking account of Amending Letters 1, 2 and 3, is more than half a billion euros above the Council’s original position.
I recognise that this figure is somewhat lower than some Members of Parliament would have liked.
Of course the budgetary authority stands ready to consider an amending budget to amend the level of payments, should that prove necessary during 2006.
As I said earlier, I believe that this compromise agreement represents a fair and balanced outcome for all three institutions – Council, Parliament and Commission.
It also accepted the proposal to reduce EUR 20 million from Parliament’s budget.
Otherwise it reinstated its first reading position, recalling the need for savings in operating costs from interinstitutional cooperation and economies of scale.
Finally, in heading 7: Pre-accession Strategy, the Council reinstated its first reading position.
Of course, Parliament will need to make changes to the Council’s second reading position to implement our agreement on payments, codecided amounts and mobilisation of the flexibility instrument.
I very much hope that Parliament will take account of the Council’s position, especially concerning commitments in headings 3 and 5, where there are clear opportunities to make savings and ensure there is a margin for the unexpected during 2006.
In conclusion, the agreement we reached on 30&#160;November provides adequate funding for the European Union’s various priorities.
It deserves the confidence of the citizens of the European Union and will contribute to rebuilding public confidence in the Union and its institutions.
I intend to return to Strasbourg on Thursday for the vote and the adoption of the 2006 EC budget.
It is due to prudent and inevitable compromise that we are near our goal today – an EU Budget for 2006 that may play a decisive role not only concerning the financial possibilities of the coming year, but also in shaping the further financial fate of Europe.
The approval of the budget may, and I hope will, become a vitally important message to the European Union that its institutions are still operational and able to function constructively, to make important decisions together and to achieve positive results.
Mr President, regarding the positive outcome of the negotiations for 2006: overall, a successful result has been achieved and one with which Parliament can be satisfied and proud.
I would like to thank Mr Pittella, Mr&#160;Lewandowski – the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and all the rapporteurs involved in the process.
From the very beginning, the Commission strongly supported Parliament’s interpretation of the flexibility instrument which the Council, after hard negotiations, has now accepted.
Turning to the co-decision programmes, you have achieved an important EUR&#160;100&#160;million over 6&#160;programmes.
From the earliest stages, this was a strategy supported by the Commission in the process of negotiation, and now that agreement has been reached by both arms of the budgetary authority, the Commission will do its utmost to ensure implementation of the new amounts.
I would like also to thank Parliament, and in particular, Mr Pittella, for taking into account so many aspects of the Commission’s letter of executability of the amendments from the first reading.
I would now like to turn to the level of payment appropriations.
It is important that the payment appropriations in the budget can cover the incoming bills, and ensure that beneficiaries receive the payments they are expecting.
The level of payment appropriations agreed for 2006 is accompanied by the agreed declaration, so that, if necessary and on the basis of the most up-to-date information, this will allow for any additional appropriations needed to be made available as soon as possible.
In order to facilitate the deal between the two arms of the budgetary authority, the Commission has proposed Amending Letter&#160;3, which is technically well founded, but the Commission will keep a close watch on the implementation of the 2006 budget and will not hesitate to use the budgetary tools at our disposal, if certain areas need to be reinforced.
In the first instance, appropriations can be transferred, and, notably, we can also call on the provisions of the declaration agreed at the trilogue, should an amending budget be required.
I would finally point out that the total payment appropriations figure on the table today represents an increase of almost 6% compared to the 2005 budget.
The European Parliament Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, of which I am a member, should be satisfied with the results of the agreement, as we have succeeded in achieving our main goals.
In 2006, allocations will be increased for codecision programmes, such as scientific research, SOCRATES, LIFE, small and medium-sized enterprises, youth programmes and European cultural organisations.
Growth, competitiveness and support for SMEs have always been and will continue to be the priority areas of the European People’s Party.
It is also very important that we have come to an agreement to use the flexibility instrument for external policies and new needs, allocating EUR 275 million to Iraq, reconstruction efforts in tsunami-affected countries and consequences of sugar reform in the ACP countries, of which EUR 40 million will go to the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The level of appropriations for 2006 was a very important subject of negotiation for the European Parliament, and the agreement reached on EUR 111.969&#160;billion, or 1.01% of GNI, is within the limits of the Financial Perspective and therefore should be seen as a positive outcome of the negotiations.
Although at the first reading Parliament voted for significantly higher appropriations, the compromise reached with the Council 2006 provides a good foundation for agreement on the new Financial Perspective, as well as for negotiations on the EU Budget for 2007.
In actual fact, we have ended up today with a smaller budget than we were hoping for, but one that has been drawn up quite legally and that adheres to the current financial perspective, namely 1.09% of commitment appropriations.
That is important and exceeds the results obtained last year.
Furthermore, we can use the flexibility instrument to adhere to the promises made by the Council.
We will remember, though, the problems we had in securing this option when we embark upon the forthcoming negotiations.
In short, we have attained a modest and reasonable budget, which will do no damage to the revenue provided by the Member States.
The budget adheres to the priorities we set and, thanks to several policies adopted under codecision, it mainly enables us to anticipate the Lisbon Strategy and to hold on to the bulk of external aid, the aid that we give to the poorest countries and that we value highly.
In fact, if the budget headings continue not to be implemented, then the European Parliament’s political commitment, as budgetary authority, is likely to dwindle.
Finally, I should like to say to the Council that, admittedly, we now have a proper budget for 2006, agreed upon in the wake of a whole host of problems.
We are in this situation because the promises made by the Council are not often backed up with funds and because you had made a commitment, more than two years ago, to implement an information system on security policy.
Since then, we have been awaiting a genuine proposal from the Council.
The Committee on Budgets will work for a budget benefiting Europeans.
It will adopt a similar approach in the negotiations on the financial perspective, and Parliament will support it with a view to providing the European Union with a budgetary framework that will enable it to fund the activities in which it is required to engage with a view to developing quality jobs and protecting the environment.
As regards the 2006 budget, Parliament rejects the intergovernmental approach in relation to the financial perspective.
It does show that, despite everything, the Council’s and Parliament’s positions on the 2006 Budget were not so far removed from each other, even though the negotiations were quite tough.
My group does not, then, wish to support the proposal to reject the 2006 Budget in protest against the British Presidency’s proposals concerning the financial perspective.
We too are angry that the British Presidency has proposed cutting back on aid to the poorest EU countries in order to give to the rich countries, but that is of course a debate to which we shall return later.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is particularly pleased that increased appropriations to development and research programmes – over and above what has been agreed in the past, moreover – were successfully obtained.
Regarding the size of the payments in 2006, which in fact remained at 1.01% of gross national income, it will of course be the actual level in 2006 that will determine the budget over the next few years, if it should turn out that we do not obtain an agreement on the financial perspective.
My group wants a financial perspective, but not at any price. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Lewis, Commissioner Grybauskaitė, ladies and gentlemen, we too believe that we have succeeded in achieving a defensible and credible compromise.
Our aim was to exercise discipline over expenditure while nevertheless showing an ability to shape policy, and I think we have succeeded in doing that.
The prospect of the 2006 budget’s commitment appropriations amounting to 1.09% offers us the opportunity for an appropriate basis for the next financial perspective, and means that we are going beyond the figures proposed by the Luxembourg Presidency this summer.
I do, nevertheless, want to remind the House that difficult negotiations in the Council on the financial perspective lie before us.
I therefore appeal to France, to the United Kingdom, to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, to give a little bit of ground and come to a real agreement that makes for a better future for us all and does not ruin Europe’s image. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, Parliament and the Council have arrived at a conciliation solution for next year’s budget.
It came just prior to the negotiations to be held tomorrow and the guidelines for future budgets in the period 2007–2013 to be presented the day after tomorrow.
In payments the 1% limit is to be approached from above, without Parliament being able to defend its own territory.
The very fact that there might not be budgetary harmony would, under Article 272 of the Treaty, have given Parliament the use of more payment appropriations than the proposal which the negotiating parties have agreed on.
At first reading, Parliament blew up the biggest balloon by increasing Structural Fund payments by more than EUR 3 billion.
Our group takes a very critical view of next year’s budget.
A constantly increasing number of these Member States are in need of assistance, solidarity and subsidies because they are not sufficiently advanced.
The competitiveness of EU businesses is declining.
The budget keeps the old mechanisms in place, and rewards economic sectors that are both costly and inefficient.
If the 2006 budget is a forerunner of the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective, then it should also be rejected, because Parliament proposed expenditure of around EUR&#160;1&#160;000&#160;billion for this period, whereas the current proposal refers to a figure of around EUR&#160;850&#160;billion.
Our group will vote in favour of the agreement reached by the Council and Parliament on the 2006 budget, even though it is far from satisfactory.
We find it hard to accept that the level of payments has been set at 1.01% of GNI.
The concessions granted by the Council on the flexibility instrument and on programmes adopted under the codecision procedure do not compensate in any way for this propensity to make cuts.
This latter is now worryingly close to 1%, or in other words the symbolic, and indeed real, threshold below which achievement of the EU’s basic goals cannot be safeguarded.
The solidarity and cohesion policies could therefore suffer as a result of the Council’s position for many years to come.
There is no consensus that this is the case, however, just as there is no consensus on a budget that will ignore the needs of countries, especially the new Member States.
This is a good springboard for negotiations on the long-term financial perspective.
Payments increased by almost 6% compared with 2005, which is a substantially higher increase in budgetary resources than in many Member States of the European Union.
Considering the fact that the expected rate of inflation and economic growth in the European Union in 2006 is around 2%, it is apparent that the proposed budget is also reasonable from the macroeconomic standpoint.
The problem that continues to dog us is that the gap between commitments and payments is too wide.
I would like to conclude by expressing my appreciation for the work of my fellow Members and of the rapporteurs from the Committee on Budgets.
The results of their work also give us hope for the long-term budgetary outlook. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the enlarged European Union’s second budget is in the process of becoming reality.
This was apparent from its endeavours to defend its priorities under the headings of internal and external policies, which was a far from easy task in the final year of a financial perspective.
It has also been necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument, and even to exceed its annual ceiling.
All these decisions were taken in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement, which is proof of the value of this latter.
This was an example of genuine unity in diversity, and a good sign for the future.
The successful conclusion of a very well structured budget becomes even more relevant considering the potential outcome of the 2007 to 2013 financial perspectives.
In the budget conciliation process Parliament’s negotiating team went a long way to find a workable, balanced formula.
Likewise, we should do our utmost to reach an agreement on the financial perspectives, but, as Mrs Jensen said, not at any cost.
We should not agree on a set of financial perspectives that would make it very difficult, if not impossible, realistically to deliver on our promises and to meet our commitments and objectives.
If we fail our citizens in this respect, apathy and their perception of the barrier between the EU institutions and ordinary citizens will grow much bigger.
In other words, if we really mean what we say, we should put our money where our mouth is. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for all the work they have done.
I think that what we have achieved, namely payment appropriations amounting to 1.01% of the gross national income, is especially significant in the light of the negotiations about the financial perspectives.
I agree with the many who say that Parliament’s most important achievement has been the broader scope of the programmes relating to young people.
We have received more funds in the framework of the flexibility instrument, which is also one of Parliament’s important criteria for subsequent financial perspectives.
The Council wanted to teach us a lesson in cutting budget spending, and virtually every hour, the appropriations for this policy area increased.
This I regard as particularly bad budget policy on the part of the Council in this area, and it has resulted in considerably higher amounts than first proposed at first reading.
The Council ignored the agreement on the first two occasions.
Third time lucky, we hope. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is evident that good policy, of the kind that benefits the European public, results where the European Parliament possesses powers of codecision and that difficulties arise whenever the Council puts national interests first.
It is also apparent from the current debate that this House was very far-sighted in European agricultural policy and in initiating the reduction in export subsidies.
In Cancún, it was at the behest of the European Parliament that Mr Fischler and Mr Lamy proposed that these export subsidies be suspended outright.
Certain governments – the British one in particular, which is now proposing cuts – should take good note of the fact that this rebate will nullify the House’s qualification, in part through budget policy, in this area, and put the brakes on a modern agricultural policy founded upon rural development, which will be particularly to the detriment of the new Member States of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Generally speaking, there is no harm in comparing the 2006 ceiling, and the Community’s budget priorities, which stands at around 1.01% of Community GNI, with the 2005 figure, or with the proposals made by the Luxembourg and British Presidencies for the 2007-2013 Financial Framework.
In recent years, there has been a real terms reduction in the Community budget, which some are trying to set at around 1%.
Once again, a mindset has taken hold that oddly views every concession as a victory, in reference to each increasingly damaging proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, every year, around this time, we live through a period of unprecedented extravagance in the European Union.
I am talking about the surpluses, which give us a small foretaste of what we can – unfortunately – expect on a larger scale later on.
Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets was discussing something the presence of which on the agenda was cause for bafflement, namely the purchase, for the sum of EUR&#160;3 million, of a building for the European Parliament in Valletta – it is worth mentioning that the intention was that the Commission should be a tenant.
So along comes one of your colleagues, Mr President, the Vice-President Mr Onesta, and says, ‘that is a good property investment, and I promise you that, in three years’ time, if we find something better, we will be able to sell the building at a profit and move on somewhere else’.
We are forced to accept these benefactions, and the European Parliament is made into a property speculator by the mere fact of having too much money, and then people wonder why it is that, in Malta, the public wonder what this is all in aid of, what sort of waste this is, what sort of attitude this is to take.
The desire to spend in appropriate conditions should therefore, in my opinion, be approved by a man who is as fond of budgetary rigour as you are. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again, with everyone in this House embracing one another and congratulating themselves and each other on this budget.
It justified this by reference to an alleged lack of opportunity for implementation in the countries concerned.
The present cuts in the internal policy areas and in foreign policy hit hardest those areas in which the money could actually have been put to good use, and this is something of which I really do take a very critical view.
This is totally unacceptable and I know that many others, including Mr Garriga Polledo, have made this point.
I would ask the Commissioner to take full responsibility for improving implementation, not only in the programmes that the Commission champions, but also in respecting Parliament’s will.
My second point is that collectively we need to be more aware of our public image and the importance of demonstrating the collaborative working habits that drive the EU project and inspire confidence in the European Union.
Let this be a priority for the Council Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Pittella and Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, rapporteurs for the budget, for their excellent budget draft, as well as Mr Lewandowski, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, for his conciliatory role as leader of the negotiations.
The draft budget before us aims at improving employment in Europe.
This particularly applies to the research framework programme and training programmes.
The new financial framework should bolster European entrepreneurship and therefore employment.
Research and development, and training and the promotion of cohesion will have key roles to play in this.
The budget should aim at the future and endorse action which no single Member State can afford on its own.
This budget shows the way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, some aspects of the funding of the so-called Common Foreign and Security Policy are highly dubious.
What I would like to know is for what, precisely, these EUR&#160;40 million are being used.
The AMIS operation in the Sudan, which includes military training, is funded jointly by ten Member States, as well as by the fund called the African Peace Facility.
I believe that even the most backward of students will be aware that the continent of Europe has been around for quite some time and is a bit more than an idea.
I would urge any Member of this institution who generally believes in democracy and accountability to the electorate to vote against this budget and any other documents that purport to legitimise it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Member States are in reality the EU’s paymasters without discretion.
You have big problems and many of them are of your own design. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am delighted, first of all because from now on the Council will negotiate CFSP issues with us at ambassador level, thereby upgrading Parliament's role in the shaping of the CFSP.
Thirdly, payment appropriations for 2006 are 1.01, compared to 1 in 2005, while the British proposal makes provision for 0.98 for the seven-year period from 2007 to 2013.
I am afraid that the minister should not have said this in his intervention, because, on the contrary, we shall not achieve integration with less money, especially less necessary money.
To divide the Member States into net contributors and net recipients of appropriations, when we are not going to spend more than 1% on Europe, when we are not focusing our overall synergies from common European action, does not do us credit and certainly does not testify to our regard for European ideals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, and his team, on the excellent work they have done and I would like to add that it is not my custom to congratulate all of the rapporteurs when their reports are finished.
Firstly, for the first time we have managed to apply a principle which this Parliament had always advocated: the sums approved during codecision are not sacred and they can be altered if the budgetary authority believes that to be necessary.
We all agree that, in order to improve the management of multi-annual programmes, the security of financial packages is an important factor.
This is what differentiates us from the Council.
Both the Socrates Programme, which is well known to many citizens, and Youth, are examples of what a Parliament can do to create European awareness amongst the Union’s citizens.
An unnecessary instrument within the interinstitutional agreement, which only exists because of the Council’s constant and almost legendary refusal to use the appropriate instrument for dealing with cases in which more appropriations than those provided for at the beginning of a period of programming of the financial perspective are required.
The Council orders more and more powers for the European Union, while being willing to pay less and less for them.
The Council sticks up for the Member States.
When I consider the way the 2006 budget procedure went, and how the preparations for the next financial framework are progressing, I really do wonder, Mr President-in-Office, why your Prime Minister – to whom I ask you to pass this on – delivered such an incandescent speech in Brussels at the end of June.
The words were fine, but action has not been forthcoming.
I am glad that the British Presidency of the Council has learned, in the course of this budget procedure, that this House knows what it is for and what it is about.
You have an image of Europe as somewhere where a few Heads of State or Government announce how things are to go and steer them in that direction, and in which the Commission and Parliament are no more than decorative accessories that have to be tolerated; well, I have to tell you that that Europe no longer exists.
If you have taken this lesson to heart, then I will be very satisfied with the British Presidency of the Council.
Getting additional funds made available could have been achieved with less of an effort, but the fact is that presidencies sometimes need a bit longer to understand things and to come round to supporting them.
I would just like to say something else about the financial perspective.
If you bear that in mind, you will have a successful weekend; if you do not, it will be a flop. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to express my sincere thanks to our fellow Members, Mr&#160;Pittella and Mr&#160;Dombrovskis, as well as to Mrs Jensen, for the enormous task they carried out during this long procedure.
This budget, while not perfect, is, in my opinion, relatively satisfactory, and I am delighted that the level of payment appropriations has been brought up to EUR&#160;112 billion, that is to say 1.01% of GNI, and that our operating costs have been curbed and relatively stabilised.
As permanent rapporteur for the Structural Funds within the Committee on Budgets, I might nevertheless have hoped that the Council would have granted more appropriations to all of these financial instruments, which remain the cornerstone of our policies aimed at reducing territorial disparities.
What is more, I, like many of our fellow Members, am still waiting to hear the results of the European Council negotiations, and I should like to drive home the point that it is worth keeping in mind Parliament’s positions during these negotiations.
We need Europe so that we can carry out an ambitious economic policy for its 450 million people.
To conclude – and contrary to the opinion expressed by some of our fellow Members with regard to brainwashing - we need Europe more than ever in order to build a project for society uniting us around shared values.
That is my dream; I hope that it is yours too. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to take the opportunity of this debate on the 2006 budget to remind the House that the payments in this budget are set at a level that is as much as 0.07% of GNP lower than that foreseen in the 2000-2006 Financial Perspective.
This is certainly not good news, in particular for the new EU Member States.
This fundamental objection notwithstanding, I should like to thank all those who have helped ensure that the 2006 budgetary procedure will soon come to an end.
A total of two rounds of painstaking conciliation negotiations with the Council were needed to get this far, as well as the taking up of a firm position by both the negotiating group and Parliament as a whole.
This is a particularly important message to send out at a time when the debate on the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective is ongoing, and when the positions of the Council and Parliament on this matter are unfortunately very different.
The 2006 budget sets a figure of almost EUR&#160;112&#160;billion to cover payments, which is the equivalent of 1.01% of the EU’s GNP.
This is substantially higher than the level of payments proposed by the British Presidency for the individual years in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
As I see it, this should be one of our key arguments in the debate on the level of payments for the 2007-2013 period, given that the European Union, far from wanting to abandon the funding of any of its present activities, is currently seeking to increase its involvement.
The European Union can only offer a successful response to global changes through unity and the exploitation of knowledge, innovation and creativity at a European level.
The budget for 2006 is not important simply for the coming year, but will also be of key importance in the event of our failure to agree on the future financial perspective.
For this reason I would prefer the budget to be significantly more development-orientated.
Despite the increase in comparison with the 2005 budget, it is the area of internal policies that receives the smallest amount of resources in the 2006 budget and thereby the developmental part of European policies.
The ceiling set by the financial perspective has only been achieved for rural development and internal policies remain more than two percent below the threshold.
In the event of failed negotiations on the financial perspective, this means more development-orientated spending of European financial resources than was set out in the Luxembourg and British proposals for 2007-2013. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this agreement on the 2006 budget has finally been reached, and I would like essentially to stress two aspects: one directly relating to the budget and another indirectly related.
The effort that has been made in relation to small and medium-sized businesses is particularly relevant.
However — and this is an important ‘however’ — research and development are also a fundamental pillar in terms of the competitiveness of our companies, of the competitiveness of our economies.
And there is a very worrying aspect here: the current financial perspective does not include an increase in the fund intended for research and development.
It is fundamental, if we want to maintain the consistency and credibility of a debate which focuses on competitiveness in innovation, development and research, that the financial perspective provides for the funds intended for research.
I hope that this week the Member States’ governments at the European Council will also be able to agree on the Council’s position with regard to the Financial Perspective.
I call on the European Council, when debating this issue, also to take into account the opinion and ideas expressed in the European Parliament’s resolution.
The main priorities of the 2006 budget for the other EU institutions are enlargement and the effective and highly targeted use of EU budget resources.
The first priority is connected with the successful completion of the 2004 round of enlargement, as well as preparations for the next round of enlargement, when Bulgaria and Romania will join.
Unfortunately, once again it is necessary to point out that, although more than a year has passed since EU enlargement, many permanent staff posts set aside for the new Member States still remain vacant.
In accordance with the decision taken at first reading, the proposal at second reading is again to support all the permanent staff posts requested by the other institutions in connection with enlargement, and also other additional expenditure connected with enlargement, in order to ensure the success of the next round of EU enlargement.
The second priority is effective and highly targeted use of EU budget resources.
This priority encompasses such matters as: focusing EU institutional expenditure on fundamental tasks; giving support to new budget requests and permanent staff posts requests only after having assessed the possibility of redistributing resources and staff within the framework of the existing budget; giving support to new initiatives only after having assessed their impact on the budget and interinstitutional cooperation with a view to economical and effective use of budget resources.
Both institutions with budgetary decision-making powers – the European Parliament and the Council – endorse the principles of budgetary discipline and the rational use of EU taxpayers’ money.
At second reading the European Council proposed reverting to its initial position and reducing the administrative expenditure of the other institutions by 15&#160;million euro as compared with the institutions’ original requests.
Nonetheless, during the conciliation meeting a compromise was reached whereby the European Council will not object to the amount of expenditure by the other institutions set by the European Parliament at first reading.
Therefore, the proposal at the European Parliament’s second reading is to retain the amount of expenditure fixed at the European Parliament’s first reading, restoring part of the reductions in expenditure made by the European Council – in total by 7.5 million euro.
To conclude, I should like to return to the issue of the Financial Perspective.
During the conciliation meeting on the EU budget for 2006 it could be seen that the European Council and particularly the UK Presidency focused excessively on just a single issue – the minimum possible figure for payment appropriations.
It only remains to hope that at this week’s European Council summit the Member States’ governments will be able to deal with EU issues within a wider perspective, and not reduce everything to just one question – the minimum possible figure for payment appropriations.
Particularly striking proof of this tendency is provided by the unacceptable proposal by the UK Presidency to find a compromise between the older Member States at the expense of the new Member States, by reducing by 10 per cent the amount of EU funds accessible to the new Member States.
We must remember that the Luxembourg Presidency had already proposed a significant reduction in the amount of resources to be directed towards the EU’s regional policy, in comparison with what the European Commission had announced.
Fortunately, this proposal by the UK has already been withdrawn.
It only remains to hope that the UK Presidency is serious about reaching a compromise this year on the Financial Perspective, and that its next proposal will be an improvement. &#160;&#160; The President of the Council informed me that he had to leave the debate under way.
With the result that was negotiated in this political environment, in which we all participated, we have achieved the optimum possible outcome.
I wish Parliament a successful vote on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
In order to improve European competitiveness, we will see to it that all forms of bureaucracy are reduced and that all unnecessary legislation is done away with.
The PPE-DE also lays emphasis on the completion of the internal market, the optimal running of which is crucial for all of our businesses, for all of our jobs and for our consumers.
The budget dedicated to the new framework programme for research and innovation will be enlightening.
Commissioner, the PPE-DE will also pay a great deal of attention to the external borders of the European Union.
We call on you, for 2006, genuinely to begin to reflect on the Union’s absorption capacity and openly to debate this issue with Parliament.
This is a very important issue for our citizens, who question us on this point every day, just as they question us on the fight against illegal immigration or the strengthening of border control capacities.
To strengthen our border control capacities, we must increasingly use biometric data and ensure better cooperation between information systems – a crucial kind of cooperation that we must also see applied in the contexts of cyber security, the fight against terrorism and the fight against crime.
Finally, the European Union can bring its added value to other areas, such as health care.
We look forward to practical measures being implemented in relation to the fight against obesity, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer or psychological problems.
The PPE-DE also wants a proposal in favour of patients’ mobility and of providing them with information.
We regret your lack of ambition, particularly in relation to improving language teaching and to developing our university centres.
Commissioner, you know that the fulfilment of our objectives together with Europe’s everyday added value are dependent on two fundamental requirements.
On the one hand, the institutional rules governing the functioning of the European Union: you are aware of our attachment to the Constitutional Treaty; a strong initiative is urgently required to restart the debate.
If I may begin with Plan D, for which you have personal responsibility, I can say that you will have this group’s wholehearted support.
Quite apart from its social content, it would be very interesting to discuss that with you, but that can, of course, wait for next year.
I would like to say something about two things to which our Socialist Group in the European Parliament will be giving particular attention next year.
This is not just a matter of concern in the so-called old Member States, but in the new ones too.
Speaking on behalf of my group, then, I urge the Commission to produce a proposal for legislation on, for example, non-standard working arrangements, to unveil – as the Council Presidency has not done – a workable approach to the establishment of a globalisation adjustment fund and, at last, to put on the table a proposal for a framework directive on services of general interest, which are among the means whereby the public are connected to the public sector.
I can tell the Vice-President of the Commission that the members of my group are not starry-eyed about social issues, but we do know that, if we fail to make this Europe of ours more social, if we fail to give greater prominence to the social dimension in addressing the issues of globalisation and the opening up of markets, then we will fail to win backing for our project from the citizens of this continent.
I would, however, also like to make some critical comments.
A document such as this is comprehensible only to those in the institutions who have to work with it; it is not something with which one can give the public any real idea of what Europe actually intends to do.
This applies not only to new initiatives, for those that are already going through the system, along with legislation already in force, must also be evaluated in order to determine whether it really is needed or whether it costs too much.
The issue has an effect on the debate relating to the legislative programme insofar as my group criticised the Commission’s programme, considering that insufficient attention had been paid to the very issues concerning sustainable development.
Since last month’s debate with Mr&#160;Barroso, the European Environment Agency has published a very important and very interesting report, the third five-year report on the state of the environment in the European Union and the effectiveness of the Union’s policies.
Firstly, the fact that the cost of inaction can be higher than the cost of a prevention policy.
Secondly, this report states that household expenditure will double between now and 2030.
That is why the resolution tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance calls on you, in particular, to introduce binding measures with regard to car emissions – which are linked to air pollution – to introduce implementing measures in the context of the eco design directive, on which the Commission has fallen behind in comparison with its work programme, and to introduce a tax on aviation fuel as part of a broader fiscal reform that reduces the tax on work and that, as has long been recommended, penalises those products that are harmful to the environment.
Finally, another aspect included in our resolution is the extension of the scope of the directive on buildings in favour of a more wide-ranging policy on insulation and in favour of better building insulation.
In other words, I would say that, if Bill Clinton declared at Montreal that he was fond of Kyoto, then we, for our part, know that the Commission is very fond of Lisbon.
The conference revealed a determination to choose a different development path, focusing on alternative energies and energy savings, and to go down the road of multilateral cooperation, making all that the most important mission for a world caught up in an environmental crisis and the contradictions arising from increasingly marked inequalities.
President Barroso is proposing free trade and dumping, the Bolkestein directive and the working time directive, and unbridled globalisation leading to increased pollution from transport emissions, which are exceeding all limits.
The Prodi Commission also promised us a comprehensive annual programme, stating the legal basis for every individual piece of draft legislation.
Moreover, a public debate on the annual programme would then take place in each individual parliament.
The Danish Parliament went further and wanted to allow each individual specialist committee to carry out its own check on compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
The legal basis has been removed, so it is impossible to see whether the EU is planning a harmless resolution or a binding regulation.
Every year, between 2&#160;000 and 4&#160;000 pieces of draft legislation are adopted, but the annual programme has only included 32 such pieces and 64 other proposals in the annual programme.
One hundred and eighty-two other pieces of draft legislation and 295 other initiatives have also been mentioned.
That debate is a very practical one, but can only be serious if it is based on the full and unadorned annual programme. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whilst the Commission talks in its programme about, and I quote, ‘closing the communication gap’ and, and I quote again, ‘strengthening the democratic foundations of the European project’, in practice, we have to conclude that all of this remains theory and that this selfsame Commission very often pursues a policy that is fundamentally undemocratic.
The way in which the accession negotiations with Turkey are being rammed down the European public’s throat, despite their lack of any democratic legitimacy whatever, is a case in point.
By way of a second example, it is striking how the Commission rejects the common initiative of members of national parliaments right across the European Union in favour of the systematic testing of legislative proposals by reference to the subsidiarity principle.
The Commission regards this system as comparable to nothing other than the familiar yellow-card system for which the European Constitution provided.
This strange Charter of Fundamental Rights is a kind of Bon Marché or Ikea catalogue that entitles everything and everyone to all manner of things, which makes it a particularly dangerous vehicle.
I think it is worth recalling that the current Commission sets its objectives over a five-year period, and a single annual work programme cannot encompass everything that we wish to achieve under our mandate.
Some things will need to be reserved for inclusion in the work programmes in 2007 and beyond.
The Commission has greatly appreciated the new process of involving committees in identifying priorities and discussing the Commission’s work programme.
The work programme includes a green paper on the evolution of labour law, which is expected to launch a wide debate, in which the EU institutions, Member States, social partners and experts will participate.
A communication on social services of general interest is still planned for 2006.
I would also like to underline the importance of the Commission’s dialogue with the other institutions during the preparation of the 2006 work programme.
When the work programme was being prepared, Parliament presented the Commission with an important list of priorities.
We have also had very constructive contact with the Conference of Presidents in the context of implementing Plan D.
We know the content of that report very well and it has to be taken into account.
We will have to lead the way on this particular issue as well. &#160;&#160; – I have received three motions for a resolution(1) in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today, Tuesday, at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we had proposed an oral amendment but we will withdraw it now because we are satisfied, for the time being, with the statement of the European Commission, yesterday evening, that it is committed to fighting all forms of discrimination in all Member States and that it is prepared to urge all Member States to allocate the financial resources accordingly.
You stated that Amendments 1 and 2, which we voted on by roll call, had been rejected, but you also said that we needed a qualified majority.
I have counted the votes against, and 328 votes do not add up to a qualified majority.
The UK Presidency has been very cooperative and has taken on board many of Parliament’s amendments, which allows us now to vote on this first reading package of the general enacting terms of the European payment order.
A lack of enforcement systems for payment undermines the internal market and business confidence.
I call on my fellow Members to support this request, which constitutes significant evidence of transparency and internal democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr Romagnoli, you do not belong to a political group; you are a non-attached Member.
It just shows how important it is to belong to a group, especially a large one! &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of equality and rights, I feel that this Parliament shows a certain intolerance towards opinions that are not to its liking.
I believe that everyone has the same rights, including the right to freedom of opinion. &#160;&#160; In all 18 reports, the rapporteurs have proposed that the European Parliament be given a role in appointing the various agencies’ Executive Directors and in extending their terms of office.
We have thus voted against the reports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the truth about the Roure report is that it again plays us the same old tune that we have heard for years and that was continually in our ears during the recent immigrant riots in France, namely that the constant problems involving immigrants in our countries are down to us and us alone, to be blamed on the repugnant Europeans who discriminate always and everywhere.
If we want to talk about discrimination and lack of equal opportunities in Europe, let us also mention the call from women in the Islamic communities.
In many suburbs in my own country, in Brussels, for example, women are these days systematically abused or called whores by Islamic immigrants who want to inflict their prejudices on us.
The principle of equality and non-discrimination is one of the core fundamental rights that lie at the heart of the EU.
This proposal designates 2007 as the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, with the aim of promoting equality and eliminating all forms of discrimination.
It will help to promote three priorities: information and awareness-raising; analysis and monitoring of the impact of anti-discrimination legislation; and networking between the people involved in the fight against discrimination.
We must therefore spread this kind of awareness-raising initiative in order to combat discriminatory attitudes and to ensure that the citizens are kept informed about their rights and obligations.
What we are seeing, in other words, is the most blatant exploitation and the destruction of public services, which are being taken over by private capital, leading in turn to poverty and social injustice.
The way to ensure equal opportunities is to fight against the policy that undermines them. &#160;&#160; .‘Equal opportunities for all.
We are also against the European Union being able to impose sanctions in the event of a Member State not complying with the provisions laid down in a Community directive.
This Green Paper gave rise to the idea of setting up a ‘European Year of Equal Opportunities for All’ in 2007, an initiative with four objectives, namely to raise public awareness, to encourage debate, to celebrate diversity and to promote respect and tolerance.
The Commission believes that a European Year of Equal Opportunities would be a positive step in this regard.
I have never been keen on big events as a way of resolving problems.
These proposals are aimed at extending to Denmark the provisions of the Eurodac system and the procedure for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application.
This is a welcome step, although such agreements should be concluded under special circumstances and for a limited period of time.
These situations raise major question marks regarding the differing guarantees which asylum seekers will enjoy depending on whether their asylum application is dealt with in Denmark or in one of the countries participating in the European asylum policy.
This is because Denmark will be implementing these two regulations but staying outside of other measures in this area.
These interruptions often last several months, which means that vessels lie idle, fishermen are unemployed, and problems are created in the supply of fisheries products at national and Community level.
This proposal makes it possible for third countries to issue fishing licences on the date laid down in the exchange of letters between the two parties, even if the Council decision has yet to be adopted.
In any event, it should not be the fishermen who foot the bill for the lengthy negotiations and renewal of agreements.
The competitiveness of a European industry such as fisheries must not be constrained by the bureaucratic inefficiency of the Community’s institutions. &#160;&#160; The EU has an important role to play in strengthening democracy and human rights in the countries in its immediate neighbourhood.
We are, however, opposed to the attempt to use the EU’s Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument for strengthening and developing the common foreign and security policy.
Nevertheless, given that we are discussing a provisional programme, I feel that our priority in shaping the future European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) should be the timely adoption of this programme, with the new framework with which it is now equipped.
This should therefore be one of our major priorities in the coming legal steps taken on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the important objectives of European environmental policy is the prompt introduction into the EU of systems for collecting batteries.
Article 175 has inbuilt safeguards (in Article 176 EC) against unilateral trade distorting decisions that may be protectionist in nature rather than environmentally justifiable.
Second, it is clear that nickel-cadmium batteries only contribute between 1% and 3% of cadmium in the environment compared to 27% from fertilizers.
The drive to outlaw them seems driven by a refusal to confront this statistic in the interests of certain national battery manufacturers and the inability to confront public misconceptions as to the real situation of cadmium pollution.
The position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety contains clear priorities and clarifies the objectives of the directive.
We have every confidence that the Member States are capable independently of meeting the requirements laid down by the directive.
I also believe that recycling targets should be realistic and achievable and collection systems practicable for retailers and the public and cannot therefore support some of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and other colleagues. &#160;&#160; .
Of all the aspects mentioned in the report there is one that deserves particular focus.
I am generally in favour of a free and open economy in which there is complete access to information – or at least in which such access is promoted – given that consumers only have true freedom of choice when they are provided with information.
This report prioritises the provision of information to consumers, and that led me to vote in favour. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the adoption of a new European directive on batteries and accumulators and on the management of their waste.
This is a text with a twin objective in an area in which the disparities between the 25 Member States are huge: on the one hand, to make batteries and accumulators cleaner by substantially restricting any traces of heavy metals such as cadmium and mercury in them and, on the other, more effectively to organise the collection and recycling of these products.
By drawing inspiration from the successful experiments carried out by the Member States, this directive sets ambitious targets in terms of collection: 40% after six years and 60% in ten years’ time.
All of a sudden, however, new solutions are being proposed and collection targets being set that are much higher than before.
There can be no question that this is the right way to guarantee safety and to make the environment in Europe cleaner, but this process should be compatible with the solutions that have been implemented to date.
It is an unfortunate fact that most of the rapporteur’s amendments are not backed up by any studies or assessments of the impact that the new directive will have on business development in this sector.
The majority of Member States will find it impossible to achieve the collection targets proposed in Amendments&#160;26 and 27 of the report.
The Council thus adopted a realistic approach to the proposals by Parliament and the Commission.
I opposed common savings targets binding on all Member States right to the last, because I saw them as punishing countries where energy savings measures had already been practised for a long time.
The final outcome will also carry a risk, however, if the comitology procedure does not adhere to reason and fairness as the guiding principle.
The method by which we should start to calculate savings needs to be fair and flexible, and it should above all treat fairly those countries where savings have already been made for years. &#160;&#160; .
We therefore backed the measures that sought to implement that objective effectively.
Indeed, we are nearing the end of the current financial framework and the so-called N+2 rule will apply, whereby authorisation expenses are automatically cancelled when they are not implemented within two years.
What we want to see is conditions put in place for complete, effective implementation of the Structural Funds.
The procedure takes place in two stages: 1.
In return: - the time limit for lodging a statement of opposition must be extended; - and this time limit must only begin when the debtor has actually received the notification.
Finally, the choice proposed in Amendment 20 between the notice being served by a bailiff or being delivered by post should not exist.
A European procedure for issuing payment orders is a step forward in this regard, because it would promote greater legal certainty in business transactions and better justice, as proven by similar national instruments.
As various Member States have said, however, there is a need to ensure that the remit of such a procedure would not go beyond what is reasonable and feasible in terms of cooperation between sovereign Member States.
We ought to be protected – and I deliberately say ‘we ought to be’ rather than ‘we are’ – when we speak as Members of this Parliament, regardless of what we say.
It is disgraceful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted against the suspension of Mr Gollnisch’s parliamentary immunity, regarding as I do his prosecution as an undisguised attempt at character assassination waged against one who is a non-conformist both as a Member of this House and as an academic.
According to the settled case-law of the European Parliament’s Committee on Legal Affairs, therefore, it is laid down as a basic principle that, when the actions for which a Member has been criticised form part of his or her political role or are directly linked to it, then immunity is not withdrawn.
In our colleague’s, Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s, case, there is no doubt whatsoever that this well-defined case-law has been unfairly circumvented in this House.
Because the parliamentary immunity of our colleague, Mr Gollnisch, has not been defended today, this Assembly is unworthy of the principles it proclaims – unworthy of them, and unjust! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the majority of this Parliament has just decided, for political reasons, not to defend my immunity.
I do, however, note with satisfaction that my defence was supported by a large number of fellow Members not belonging to my political group, and I am all the more satisfied because all of the allegations featured in Mrs&#160;Wallis’ preliminary draft report have disappeared, as was insisted on by the majority of the committee, no doubt to ease its conscience.
We need not even go into the detail of the matter, because anyone who calls himself a democrat must in the first place hold dear the right of free expression of opinion on the part of all those with whom they disagree.
Clearly, the world is not yet rid of the Robespierres, the Freislers, the Berias and their cowardly accomplices in this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have voted against the Wallis report because it goes against the tradition that Parliament does not address the question of whether immunity should be lifted where opinions constituting an offence are expressed, or are alleged to have been expressed.
If we go down this road, we might as well abolish the concept of parliamentary immunity itself. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this report, which concludes that the immunity of our colleague, Mr&#160;Gollnisch, should not be upheld, disregarded all of the general principles related to privileges and immunity, as well as the settled case-law of the competent committees.
This entire matter has all the hallmarks of sordid political manipulation, with the sole aim of removing an irreproachable man from the political scene. &#160;&#160; I should like to point out that I find Mr Gollnisch’s remarks offensive. &#160;&#160; .At a press conference held on 11 October 2004, Mr&#160;Gollnisch made remarks seemingly questioning the existence of the gas chambers.
Yet, the issue at stake in this vote is that of bringing a man, a university lecturer, face to face with his responsibilities.
That is why I will vote in favour of withdrawing Mr&#160;Gollnisch’s parliamentary immunity.
Well, evidence of such nevertheless abounds in this affair.
It emerges, however, from the facts and the circumstances of this affair that the measures taken by the judicial authorities are aimed at hindering the political activity of this Member. &#160;&#160; Mr President, our concern, in the Fourtou report, was with events in Spain, and specifically in the region of Valencia, where many European citizens have felt themselves very unfairly treated in consequence of poorly-framed regional legislation and its faulty interpretation on the part of the regional, local and state authorities.
It is to be welcomed that the Valencian regional authorities have taken a very cooperative attitude towards and are even now amending the law.
The new law is in the process of being drafted.
This means that the Member States’ elected assemblies, different kinds of elected regional assembly and quite a few of the local assemblies elected by popular vote could be ridden roughshod over.
We are voting against this report. &#160;&#160; I do not believe that the EU should interfere in the way in which a country conducts its detailed planning.
The report represents a good compromise between those who want the European Union to have more powers in fiscal affairs, and those who do not, be it in relation to the tax base for businesses or to the rate at which businesses are taxed.
Even while we were voting, though, I was informed that the European Court of Justice has handed down a ruling in the case of Marks [amp] Spencer.
A common consolidated tax base and minimum tax rates for companies will make the internal market more efficient and, at the same time, combat the trend towards tax competition, which threatens our social models in Europe.
The adoption of the Lisbon Strategy gave fresh impetus to the idea of an internal market without fiscal obstacles.
The objectives are clear: to remove tax barriers to companies carrying out cross-border transactions and to create conditions in which the large multinational corporations operate within a single regime covering the distribution of dividends and cross-border offsetting of profits and losses, thereby facilitating cross-border restructuring operations and merger and acquisition operations.
In its maximalist approach, Parliament is even considering promoting stronger cooperation, if some Member States do not want to follow this path.
We have always objected to this path, because it is an attack on the Member States’ tax sovereignty, and because it fails to solve the key problem of work bearing the brunt of the tax burden.
And tax competition is healthy.
The EPLP believes that the EU must look at all methods of attracting investment and is not convinced that a harmonised tax base will attract further foreign investment.
This compromise meets some of the most important requests made not just by the Council but, above all, by this Parliament during the intense debate of recent months.
We have taken account of fundamental demands, such as the protection and security of personal data, imposing penalties on the illegal use of retained data, and restricting the application of the directive to serious crimes.
That is precisely why I should like in particular to express my personal gratitude and appreciation for the work of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, in which I took part on several occasions, and of its chairman, Mr&#160;Cavada, and rapporteur, Mr&#160;Alvaro.
Mr&#160;President, the Commission is thus very pleased with the compromise that has been reached and recommends that the European Parliament support the compromise by accepting particularly Amendments 51 to 92 signed by Mrs&#160;Roure and Mr&#160;Kreissl-Dörfler for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and by Mr&#160;Reul for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I particularly want to express my appreciation to Mr Cavada and everybody in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, including Mr Alvaro, and the leaders of the groups for the way we have worked to discuss these questions.
It has been one of the most important items on our agenda and I hope that we can agree that these proposals represent a chance for all three institutions of Europe, Parliament, the Commission and the Council, to stand united in the face of terrorism and organised crime and to send a message that we are determined to work together to achieve these things.
We have adopted a strategy to address radicalisation and terrorist recruitment.
We have established a European Union programme to protect critical infrastructure against terrible attacks.
To be candid, there was some scepticism in the Council at the idea of going down the course of a first-reading deal and a process of this kind.
To make the statement that the European Parliament in particular, not just the Council and Commission, commits to proposals in this area seems to me very important.
It is essential, in my view, to provide a proportionate and balanced legal basis for the retention of data that would otherwise be erased or anonymised.
The position of the Council, supported by the Commission, aims to find a compromise between Parliament and the Council, in particular, the need to balance law enforcement needs with individuals’ right to privacy by including specific rules on data protection.
As amended, the directive would oblige Member States to ensure the retention of data for the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious crime only.
On periods of retention, the proposed period in the compromise, six to twenty-four months, represents a compromise between those in the Council, who wanted a much longer maximum period – and there are some in the Council who did not believe in principle that we should legislate on this basis at all – and those in the Parliament, who would have been happier with a shorter retention period.
I believe the compromise will enable law enforcement authorities to obtain the data they need without disproportionately infringing privacy rights.
The Presidency took account of concerns expressed by Member States and industry and by some in Parliament about costs, particularly those incurred by storing types of data such as unanswered calls.
As I mentioned, the Council also took very seriously the concerns expressed in Parliament about data protection and security.
Our right to privacy, our right to property, our right to free speech and our right to life are all threatened by terrorists and criminals.
I believe the Commission’s proposal, as amended by the Council and with the support of Parliament, would secure an instrument which strikes a better balance between the need to retain data to protect our citizens and the need to protect and respect individuals’ privacy.
It is right, therefore, that we do all we can to deliver justice and to protect citizens.
I am pleased that tomorrow Parliament as a whole has its chance to express its view on the proposal for a directive.
The Commission, in Mr Frattini’s excellent contribution, has already indicated its support.
If you, the Parliament, also give your support, we can celebrate an historic achievement, which will send a powerful message to all European Union citizens about both our determination and our ability to combat terrorism and serious crime and the importance of the European Parliament in that fight.
I believe the message that would send would be important in its own right, but it will also be important for the future arrangements within the European Union as to how we develop these questions in a positive and constructive way.
I conclude by again thanking all my colleagues in Parliament, many of whom are in the Chamber now, for the very friendly, positive, thoughtful and constructive approach they have taken in trying to debate these matters.
Moreover, the Commission also brought in a proposal, under Article 95, for a directive that would have required codecision by this House.
Speaking personally, I believe that we knew perfectly well what we were letting ourselves in for, and we know from the legal services – including the Council’s own – that the Council would not have been well advised to take a decision.
The decisions we took in Committee were taken together, without regard to party allegiances, and sometimes unanimously, and the amendments we drafted were excellent.
A final vote of 33 to 8 with 5 abstentions accurately reflects the position taken by the second-largest committee of this House, and the only one of its constituent bodies to take a decision on the matter.
As regards content, we also consulted with the Commission, which took a similar line to our own, and came to the conclusion that: ‘It is quite clear that the text is divergent from our original proposal in a number of important areas.
While the adoption of our proposal would have resulted in almost complete harmonisation in this area, the compromise text represents only a partial harmonisation.’ As we have not resolved the issue of the retention of data once and for all, which is what the Committee and the Commission had had in mind, I do wonder to what degree we can call this an outright success.
What we have done is to hand over to the Member States a measure that Directive 2002/58 did not empower them to implement.
I do not believe that, in so doing, we can justifiably claim to have acted as European legislators.
A press communiqué dated 8 December from the Socialist Group ends with the following sentence: In future all dossiers in this area will be treated on the basis of codecison with Parliament, including the revision of the present directive.
In the latter case, that is certainly true, but the idea that, in future, everything serving to combat terrorism will be dealt with in accordance with a codecision procedure, is something I find highly doubtful, since this is an area in which the Council’s decisions must be unanimous.
Here, on the table before us, we have something that might improve the situation – the retention and storage of data.
People are entitled to have results put in front of them without delay.
I do not think it relevant to ask whether the same result might have been achieved in some other way and at some other time.
What interests me is that this project can be completed at the end of 2005 and can thereby enter into effect.
We have set six months as the minimum period for retention – it is one about which I think we can certainly talk some more – and 24 months if the time limit is to be extended.
And Parliament remains a key player, with no comitology and revision after two years!
I think people are entitled to see us taking serious the ways in which they are protected against crime. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, democracy and freedom are not defended through restrictions on human rights.
It would be in danger of damaging confidence in the EU if it proved to be in conflict with freedoms and rights and with the state governed by law.
If the need for the measure cannot be substantiated, it will be a case of the EU forcing the Member States to vote against their own constitutions, in which Article 8.2 of the Council of Europe Convention is incorporated.
It is necessary to establish freedoms and rights in the EU’s founding Treaty before matters go too far.
Do not make large holes in our provisions for protecting data.
What is also customary in arriving at democratic decisions is the seeking of majorities for a position and the negotiating of compromises, and those produced by the two major groups enjoy the support of a broad majority in this House.
This House can claim to have achieved various successes, in that we were able to substantially reduce the number of types of data over against what the Commission had proposed.
Now, for the first time, the European Parliament is involved in the third pillar, that of internal security, to which codecision applies, something that was not wanted by all the Member States, and certainly not by the government of my own.
This House has, in any case, succeeded in getting the Council to come to an agreement and in making crucial improvements to important aspects of what the Council originally produced.
Data retention is one – but not the only – important instrument in combating serious crime, internationally organised criminal activity and terrorism, and some Member States are already using it – the United Kingdom, Spain and Sweden, for example.
It was, then, with considerations of cost and data protection concerns in mind that we were successful in inserting the requirement that standard data relating to the beginning, but not the end, of the mobile telephone call be stored – the operative term is ‘profiling’ – but that traffic data relating to what are termed ‘unsuccessful calls’ would not be included, except where the companies retain this data in any case.
It is also left to the Member States themselves to determine the period for which data is to be stored, within a range from 6 to a maximum of 24 months.
It is only where a longer period is already applicable – as in Italy, for example – that the existing rules can be maintained, and I would very much welcome some information as to what is being done in the case of Poland.
Data protection, though, has been tightened up in comparison with what was initially proposed, and national legislation continues to apply to access to data and the use made of it.
My group will be voting by a large majority to adopt this compromise, even though some of us would have settled for less and others would perhaps have preferred to see rather more.
Tomorrow’s vote is not only important, it is crucial.
Firstly, because it is designed to create the beginnings of a Community framework and to leave it to the Member States’ discretion to establish certain limits with regard to the volume of data retained and the length of time it is retained in order to meet the requirements of the fight against crime and terrorism.
This six-month limit had already been suggested by the national authorities to protect data when the first directive on data protection had been approved.
Thirdly, because Parliament wanted to demonstrate to the Council, but also mainly to its own people, that it is ready to take into account not only economic interests, but also the requirements relating to the protection of its people’s security and fundamental rights.
I myself do not know of any cases in which economic interests would take precedence over the general interest in such a tragic situation, whatever the price to be paid, and this in spite of the current legal frameworks of the treaties, which are, I might add, somewhat schizophrenic.
The Constitution would have spared us this multiplicity of pillars, but we must confine ourselves to the legal bases available to us.
The Court recently half-opened a door for us; let us seize this new opportunity to draft the Community legislation that we so desperately need.
Money, even our euro, can be spent only once.
Registration of that nature would therefore be rather pointless.
My group was also in favour of bringing this discussion to a prompt close, namely after first reading in this House, but as, you have now done a deal with the British Presidency before Parliament has even adopted a position, we are now faced with a .
The small groups were not even informed and even the rapporteur for this subject, Mr Alvaro, knew nothing about this.
It is all very well for Mrs Klamt to say that they were unable to reach him, but Mr Alvaro has a telephone, and informing the person in question would have been the decent thing to do.
The compromise that the PPE-DE and PSE groups have negotiated with the Council is rotten to the core and stinks to high heaven.
The plan for the storage of collected data goes hand in hand with blatant assaults on Europeans’ fundamental rights and freedoms, along with the threat of disproportionate restrictions on the privacy of communications and the protection of the private domain, the very essence of both of which is at risk.
Citizens under general suspicion, combined with the obsessive collection of data and information to which the police and secret services then had access at any time – there was a time when people, quite rightly, took to the streets in demonstrations to rid themselves of this sort of political thinking, and it is a good thing that they did! &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between you and the honourable gentlemen sitting on the front benches: they are selected by their governments to serve authority.
Just imagine if this technology had existed in 1940 and if Hitler had had this directive in his hands.
In other words, Bin Laden and his ilk will use public telephones, they will buy prepaid cards and, if they want to use the Internet, they will go to an Internet café to do so.
The attacks in London and Madrid alarmed the population because they hit civilian targets and unsuspecting citizens on their way to work, school or hospital.
We cannot allow people to be monitored in the manner of Big Brother-type TV shows.
People elect governments in order to free them from having to decide on day-to-day public affairs.
Governments, however, have no right to use people’s privacy as a public affair.
That is why I think the report should be amended, placing greater emphasis on the obligations of the state with respect to the implementation of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which concerns the right to privacy, so that no part of the proposed directive may be in contradiction with this Convention. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the issue we are debating today is one of the most difficult and important issues, because we are being called upon to strike a balance between the right to personal freedom and the right to public security.
In addition, we need uniform and unanimous action by the global community, better coordination of measures, proper evaluation of data and, more importantly, improved cooperation between the national law enforcement authorities.
A directive is required in the area of data retention, as all the data related to trafficking is already retained and used by the law enforcement authorities in the large majority of the Member States.
The debates on this report have been very difficult.
I am therefore pleased and proud that my group is in a position to support the compromise proposed by the Council, not because we are ready to accept just anything but, rather, because my group was able to maintain its firm stance throughout the negotiations in order to secure the better protection of Europeans.
I myself am draftsman for this framework decision and I will submit my draft report to the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs at the start of 2006.
We consider that this is a reasonable compromise, which allows a balance to be struck between the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against serious crime and terrorism.
Finally, an agreement at first reading, under codecision, is a victory for the European Parliament.
No, we are, to a great extent, being lulled into a false sense of security, because the proposals are not proportionate.
I believe that this directive is disproportionate, because it places security above freedom and democracy.
I endorse the rapporteur’s line and I should like to finish by quoting George Orwell’s words to the effect that ‘Some groups are more equal than others’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to join with my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the work that has been carried out on this very difficult matter.
This Parliament rightly objected very strongly and criticised all those who were involved in terrorist acts, called for solidarity amongst Member States and amongst all the institutions of the European Union and sought to ensure that we could cooperate to fight the evil of terrorism.
There is a potential clash of legal opinion in this regard.
It is important to preserve the rights of Member State parliaments and governments to ensure that existing legislation in these areas can be maintained.
I simply wonder why it is that more and more action is being taken against inconvenient journalists, and in what way the private citizen is protected when the non-conformist elements in our society get to feel the heavy hand of state power.
The negotiations were difficult and the compromise that was reached is far from perfect, yet we did what we had to in order to reach a compromise at first reading.
Unlike some Members of this House, I welcome the decision on a period of retention of six months minimum to 24 months maximum.
It is crucial in my view that data be stored securely and that there be no room for abuse; the rules on data protection, security and access must be strengthened.
Member States must establish appropriate penalties, in line with their national laws.
We need a clause ensuring that within three years we assess the system that we are currently adopting, and in this regard I welcome the calls for transparency and for the Commission’s eventual assessment to be made public.
I trust that this assessment, to be provided by Mr Frattini, helps us to make a rigorous assessment of the effectiveness of the adoption of these instruments. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, finding a balance between the protection of people’s private lives and the retention of personal data in order to respond to the terrorist threat is difficult because the temptation is so strong in our Member States to transform exceptional measures into general rules.
The compromise reached with the European Parliament is a positive step, but it should not make us lose sight of the objective of having a directive providing a legal framework and identical guarantees in all countries, for all citizens.
Businesses must neither become an instrument for governments to monitor their citizens, nor be hindered in their work, and their cooperation must go hand in hand with strict guarantees, not least in relation to the full reimbursement of extra costs.
Finally, it is vital that the arrangement be as well adapted as possible to the functioning of the Web and that it hinders neither the development of the Internet nor access to ICTs in the Union.
Neither can do without its freedom. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the present national variation that Mr Clarke says gives an open goal to criminals will persist and even grow under the Council Conservative-Socialist deal.
It is a pretext for gold plating to allow, for instance, the 15 years storage that Poland wants, a wider list of data used for purposes far removed from law enforcement and access for any public or private agency, and all with a convenient Brussels stamp of approval.
In contrast, the agreement of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs is a reasonable and proportionate response to fighting terrorism.
This Parliament could give up any pretence to care either about civil liberties or about European business competitiveness.
To use his three day absence on an official trip to Israel at the end of a phone and fax is a cheap alibi for a stab in the back by Mrs Klamt and Mrs Roure. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the proposal for a directive being debated reveals in a characteristic and, I would say, cynical manner the character of the European Union itself, which has no hesitation in abolishing – I repeat abolishing – and not, in your words, restricting the personal and democratic rights achieved as a result of the fight of the peoples.
We reject the draft directive, which will not brook improvement. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, this debate centres on an issue that is of supreme importance for all of mankind.
For many years now, Members of the House have reiterated the point that freedom is mankind’s most valuable asset, and that human civilisation cannot develop properly without it.
It is true that terrorism must be fought by all available means and methods, but such a fight must not be waged at the cost of human freedom.
What the directive will do instead is help bring about the total surveillance of millions of free citizens.
I also have to say that the Commissioner is a hypocrite.
The comments he made yesterday before the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, when defending himself against accusations that the CIA had transported a number of terrorists to Europe and interrogated them there, were of a very different tenor.
Today, however, he has come out in support of a solution that quite clearly curtails civil liberties. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction with the agreement finally reached on an issue that is so complex from technical and political points of view.
Whether we like it or not, our society of values is under threat and, whether we like it or not, the instruments available to us so far have not been entirely effective in dealing with this threat.
I would say: infinite freedom, but with security; and that is simply because without security we cannot fully enjoy our freedoms.
Terror and crime exploit our doubts and hesitations and seek out our weakest points so that they can attack our societies.
We must fight them with all the power of our democratic system, a system that always advocates the full observance of legal guarantees.
The victims deserve all of our efforts.
And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard anybody talk about them this afternoon. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, today's compromise abolishes all the protections imposed by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and is a monument to non-harmonisation.
At the same time, it refuses to make provision for anything tangible in order to protect millions of innocent citizens and their rights.
Thus, while Mr Clarke is talking about harmonisation, his proposal leaves the exemptions in Article 15(1) of the previous directive untouched.
As a result, the Council is giving the Member States the go-ahead to retain any information they want, for any purpose they choose and for any period of time they consider expedient, without the slightest material European presence, restriction or control.
President-in-Office, on a personal note, it has been a great pleasure to work with you, both professionally and personally.
What we have in the end is a proposal with a roar for police access and with a whimper for the protection of fundamental rights.
It is shame that we missed this opportunity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the reasons given for this directive are the usual ones about the fight against terrorism and organised crime, but this is a red herring.
Governments already use the most sophisticated means to monitor national and international communications.
The British Government has GCHQ in Cheltenham.
The UK Presidency is trying to use this Parliament to implement a policy that has already been rejected by the UK Parliament.
I hope this Parliament will reject it. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, there can be no doubt that regulations on data retention can help us a great deal in our fight against terrorism and dangerous crime.
The efforts of all those involved in achieving a consensus on this issue should therefore be acknowledged.
The period of data retention may be extended to more than two years pursuant to this Article, provided that the appropriate procedure is followed.
Mr&#160;Clarke responded to a Polish journalist who had asked whether a data retention period of 15&#160;years would be permissible by saying that a period of this duration would still be compatible with the directive, even in such extreme cases.
I do not believe that a 15-year retention period is compatible with the concept behind the directive, the aim of which is to protect individuals’ right to privacy.
A retention period of this duration also blatantly violates the principle of proportionality, and means that the directive’s impact will not be commensurate with its goals.
I should therefore like to receive a clear answer from the Commissioner, and also from the Council representative, to the question of whether the Commission regards a 15-year data retention period as acceptable in line with the procedure outlined in Article&#160;X.
I hope that Mr&#160;Clarke’s response to the Polish journalist was founded on a misinterpretation of the directive, although it may well be the case that&#160;he has made some sort of concession to the Polish Government on this matter in order to achieve a compromise at any cost.
Since we are adopting joint regulations, however, we have a right to call for them to be interpreted similarly by all of the EU institutions. &#160;&#160; Madam President, this is a very difficult debate because, interestingly, groups that are normally homogeneous are split; political allies who normally work with one another are split.
I and my group are proud that we have achieved a compromise that delivers and protects fundamental freedoms. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Council and the Commission have recently come to an agreement on the retention of stored data, and I am glad that it has proved possible, following long and intensive negotiations, for a compromise also to be reached between this House, the Council and the Commission.
We must also, though, be aware that we find ourselves caught between the desire to protect fundamental rights and the need to fight against international terrorism and organised crime.
I am also, in principle, glad to see the obligation imposed on telecommunications enterprises to store certain traffic data for the purpose of combating organised crime.
I very much hope that we need never again experience such tragic events as those that occurred in Madrid and London. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to address those Members who have spoken against this compromise.
Freedom and security are part of democracy.
I would therefore ask you to support this directive and this compromise. &#160;&#160; Madam President, from a Finnish perspective, I must say that I am slightly worried about the British debate here because, on the one hand, we have Mrs Ludford from the Liberal Democrats who agrees with Mr Batten from the UKIP Party and then you have Mr Cashman who is widely applauded by the British minister.
The first concerns the balance between freedom and security.
My second point concerns cost-efficiency or efficiency in general.
What came out of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs was quite good.
Therefore I would urge this European Parliament not to be bullied by the Council or the UK Presidency but to find a compromise and push it through. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to focus on the internet part of this directive.
Mr Clarke, you think that the lack of massive quantities of traffic data is a threat to our security.
Practice shows that it is the lack of online security that offers unlimited opportunities to criminals and terrorists.
Last month, a group of three criminals who control a network of over 100&#160;000 hacked PCs was rolled up by the Dutch police.
Imagine what could happen if these men offered their services to terrorist networks.
The methods used to track these criminals down are specified in the Cybercrime Treaty, which has been signed by all Member States but implemented by only a few.
I fear that part of this directive could even pose a threat to our security. &#160;&#160; When we debate the draft legislation tabled before us, we must take into account four issues.
Secondly, when crimes are committed with the use of new technologies, we cannot leave European criminal investigation agencies without the necessary resources.
And fourthly, we should only resort to the use of European-level regulations in areas where Member State regulations are less efficient.
To summarise it briefly: human rights, efficient criminal investigation agencies, competitiveness and subsidiarity.
Our orders of preference may be different, and they are indeed different even within our factions, as clearly proven by our debate today.
This may sound familiar to my fellow Eastern and Central European Members.
A compromise that – while leaving room for manoeuvre for Member States to make their criminal investigation agencies more effective – does not affect human rights.
I believe that a periodical review of the directive would be justified, particularly in respect of the range of data required by the authorities. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when, tomorrow, plenary votes on a minimum directive on data retention, we shall do so by means of an agreement with the Council and the Commission in which Parliament has the right of codecision.
People also want us to solve problems jointly, and that is something in which we have succeeded.
We have protected personal privacy and human rights.
We must succeed in these areas together.
We must also monitor what everyone in this Chamber is concerned about, and we must do it together. &#160;&#160; Madam President, firstly, I would like to thank Mr Alvaro for his excellent work as Parliament’s rapporteur on this issue; Mrs&#160;Cederschiöld too has done excellent work as co-rapporteur.
I sincerely hope your efforts will not be in vain, as the hard work accomplished was circumvented at the last minute by a deal between the Council and the Commission and, shame to say, by the two biggest groups in this House.
Yes, that kind of information should be retained and used against those who are threats to our society.
No, I am not convinced that the compromise package proposed is a balanced one.
I am against this proposal.
If we are passing terrorist laws and, at the same time, fulfilling other objectives, we should then at least have a chance to debate and examine them properly and have the right to proper procedures.
Secondly, we are leaving too much decision-making to the Member States.
Thirdly, I am opposed to this proposal because it leaves completely in the air what kind of costs it brings and who should bear them.
My opinion is that this directive, which was drawn up jointly by the Council, Parliament and the Commission, will in fact help to safeguard human rights and the rights of citizens, in particular their right to life and their right to a life in safety.
In one of the many speeches, I heard someone say that this directive is an undemocratic instrument; some people even mentioned Stalin and Hitler.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a directive firmly based on the principles of necessity and proportionality.
There is a clear procedure if Member States want to go beyond the period of time.
On the question raised by Mr Crowley from Ireland, it is certainly true that Mr McDowell, the Irish Minister, raised questions about the legal basis.
It is the rule of law that determines how this technique is used, and what we are doing here is proposing the rule of law.
This proposal goes in exactly the opposite direction.
I hope, when the vote takes place tomorrow, we will agree that the democratic European Parliament will stand by the democratic Council of the European Union, will stand by the democratic Commission in that process, to defend our democracy against the criminality which is working to weaken us and our societies at all times. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to make it plain, for Mrs in 't Veld’s benefit, and in order to nip in the bud any potential legends on the subject, that the rapporteur was in Israel until the evening of the Wednesday prior to the crucial meeting of the Council.
So let them stop talking about ‘deals’ and accept the democratic majority opinion in this House. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will be held on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the Council’s annual report on human rights. &#160;&#160; .
The then General Affairs Council decided in December 1998, on the 50th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that the European Union should enhance its actions on human rights, and that it should draw up an annual report on human rights.
It is, obviously, only able to highlight those areas where EU action has been particularly significant during the reporting period.
But it does provide European Union citizens, civil society partners and governments and human rights defenders in third countries with a regular, accessible overview of EU concerns, priorities and actions.
Much of the report focuses on the European Union’s promotion of human rights and democratisation as part of its common foreign and security policy.
We all recognise that, while much has been done to promote human rights within the European Union, there is still scope to improve.
The report also provides information on EU instruments and initiatives in third countries, for example, the EU’s human rights dialogues with China and Iran, and the new human rights consultations established during 2005 with Russia.
The report highlights that the EIDHR was created at Parliament’s initiative, and that Parliament has used its budgetary powers to increase substantially the resources earmarked for the protection of human rights and democracy.
There is also information about policy development and specific action in relation to 17&#160;thematic issues.
These include areas where the EU has adopted human rights guidelines such as on the death penalty, torture, human rights defenders and the rights of children, including their involvement in armed conflict, as well as on other issues, ranging from human rights and terrorism to democracy and elections and the International Criminal Court.
It also provides a country-focused perspective, with an account of EU action in its immediate neighbourhood, in Africa, in the Americas, in Asia and in the Middle East.
The first – which, I am sure you will agree, was welcome, and perhaps overdue – was the inclusion of a substantive chapter outlining the extensive work that the European Parliament has done in support of human rights and democratisation.
Everyone recognises that Parliament adopts its own annual report and resolution on human rights in the world and on the European Union’s policy.
However, I think it is both right and helpful that readers of this report get a sense of how the Council, Commission and Parliament all contribute together to the common EU goal of promoting and protecting human rights around the world.
I know how much the Council, and in particular its Working Group on Human Rights, values the contact and cooperation which is being established with that subcommittee.
For example, the chapter on racism, xenophobia and non-discrimination includes information on an EIDHR project to combat discrimination against Dalits in Nepal.
The chapter on the rights of the child includes a project to promote the rights of children in the New Independent States.
We believe that these specific examples will help readers make the connection between EU policy and our ability to deliver real changes to the lives of real people right around the world.
A short analysis is provided at the end of each main chapter.
It will always be the case that some internal reflection must remain internal, if the EU is to act effectively in, for example, UN negotiations or in its relations with certain third countries.
But it is also important for NGOs and other key partners to have a sense of where we are content with our performance and where we ourselves want to do more.
Agreed by the Council in early October, it provides information on EU action up to June 2005.
Our Presidency has sought to use the six months since June to build on the broad range of existing EU commitments.
Many of these issues could be the subject for next year’s annual report.
In conclusion, I look forward to hearing the views of the European Parliament and those of the Commission on the report itself, and on the various issues that it covers.
The special thing about this report is that, for the first time, it has been drawn up jointly by the Council, Parliament and the Commission.
The Council and the Commission have been doing so in recent years, but, for the first time, Parliament is also associated with it.
The EU Annual Report on Human Rights is a very important expression of the crucial importance of human rights policy in the overall policy setting of the European Union.
It covers both the EU internal policy developments in the human rights dimension, in particular in the external and international dimensions.
Its broad coverage of all major thematic and geographic human rights issues underscores the European Union’s strong attachment to the protection and promotion of human rights as defining principles of the Union across the board: as a community of shared values, founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law.
This year is a crucial year for the future of the UN human rights system, with the ongoing negotiations on the creation of a new institution, the Human Rights Council, as a successor to the existing, widely contested Human Rights Commission.
In pursuit of the UN Summit conclusions in September, it is without exaggeration the rarest of opportunities for the international community to club together to improve on the ability of the UN to monitor, improve and act decisively on critical human rights situations throughout the world.
The human rights dimension impacts increasingly on the European Union’s external relations with a range of countries around the world: the human rights dialogue with China; the dialogue with Iran – though, regrettably, we have not had a dialogue round for more than a year, but we hope to have one again; the human rights consultations with Russia; the local human rights dialogues at the level of the heads of missions of the European Union in numerous other countries; and, specifically, our developments under the European Neighbourhood Policy and its human rights related agenda under the various action plans, where a great deal is always concentrated and reserved for human rights.
I am convinced that, little by little, the message gets through.
On the basis of the European Community’s association agreements or partnership and cooperation agreements with third countries, the Commission regularly reviews the partner countries’ respect for international human rights standards.
Indeed, the policy dialogues with many of our partners under these agreements include substantial discussions on relevant human rights and democracy related issues in partner countries.
The Commission has taken the initiative to establish – with some of those policy dialogues – working groups on human rights and good governance, within the framework of the regular Joint Committee consultations, for example, with Vietnam, Jordan or Morocco.
It is my belief that these structured exchanges on human rights offer a very promising way of realising the goals for which the human rights clauses have been included.
Indeed, there will be times, in cases of widespread, egregious human rights violations, when sanctions need to be imposed or even an agreement suspended, such as in the case of Zimbabwe or Togo.
In that context, I am very grateful for the draft report on the human rights clauses prepared so assiduously by the honourable Member, Mr Agnoletto.
The EU Annual Human Rights Report also reflects the re-casting of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights for the 2005-06 period.
As a consequence, four campaigns have been designed with a more flexible geographic coverage and integrating actions at global, regional and country level.
Two elements are particularly dear to me: the stronger commitment to mainstreaming the rights of women and children, as well as the enhanced incentive for the effective participation of civil society organisations from partner countries in the developing world.
At the moment, while the last contracts under the 2004 budget of this initiative are being awarded, the publication of the important calls for proposals for the 2005-06 budgets is imminent; indeed, they should be published any day now.
At the same time, country-specific calls for proposals are going ahead, and the next annual report will give details of this exercise.
I would therefore like to salute the efforts undertaken under the Luxembourg and UK Presidencies this year in orchestrating very effective campaigns under these guidelines.
The more that the Union, its Member States and its institutions speak with one voice on human rights matters, the greater the political impact is.
Therefore, we should not cease in our efforts, in the Council, in Parliament and in the Commission, to work together as closely and efficiently as possible.
I believe, if possible, we should be moving towards the creation of one substantial human rights annual report for the EU in future, representing the views of the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Our separate role should be to analyse critically the performance of the Council and the Commission in relation to meeting targets set out in key areas outlined in an EU annual human rights report.
Finally, while we are debating human rights in the EU for 2005, I cannot let the occasion pass without registering my concern regarding the need for clarity on the so-called CIA rendition flights issue.
As this year’s parliamentary rapporteur on the annual human rights report, the President-in-Office is aware that it is my intention, rather than duplicating the Council’s work in this area – as Mr Coveney has already indicated – to strengthen collaboration between the Council and Parliament so that the European Union can send a stronger and more coherent message in favour of human rights to the wider world.
However, I invite him to indicate the Council’s willingness to enter into a debate with Parliament on our closer collaboration in relation to the annual report itself when he replies to this debate.
The annual human rights report this year should be welcomed for its scope and honesty.
I remind the Commissioner that, despite her comments this afternoon, Parliament is still looking for her support to retain a separate legal base on the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
In this area, the EU too has, of course, been extremely successful in disseminating these values.
Even though human rights are always included in theory, it is difficult to achieve our objectives through dialogue.
As we know, the human rights dialogues with China and Iran are going badly.
Those around us expect us to have a common foreign policy through which we can play a role on the international stage and speak with one voice.
This foreign policy, which takes the form of trade, aid and political and economic cooperation, must always be guided by respect for human rights.
As democrats, we have a responsibility for making sure we combat lack of freedom and spread democracy and human rights as far afield as the villages of Colombia, Zimbabwe and North Korea.
To reach this stage, it is important that a continual flow of information circulate between our institutions.
Well, it is very useful for MEPs to know to whom, when and how the Council and the ambassadors in third countries provide their support under the guidelines for the protection of human rights defenders.
Another example: the Council compiles fact sheets evaluating the human rights situations in the various countries.
Another example: I read in this report that, for the first time ever, Chinese representatives had participated in the structured dialogue on human rights between the Union and China.
As regards the Commission, finally, we are aware of the shortcomings of the European initiative for democracy and human rights, but I must say to you, Commissioner, that I have the gravest reservations and concerns in the face of the document currently being examined by the European Commission on the implementation of the horizontal programme for human rights.
This document in no way meets the European Parliament’s expectations, any more than it meets those of the NGOs, as you will see … &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very much to be welcomed that the EU has published an annual report on human rights for the past seven years.
At the same time, however, we should be wary of an attitude that was all too common in Communist times, namely that an office or agency should be set up every time a problem arises.
This leads me on to something the Council representative mentioned a few moments ago.
It is good news that the EU is cooperating with various bodies in the field of human rights, such as the OSCE and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.
We defend human rights in enemy and neutral countries, but we are not bold enough to speak out when human rights are violated in countries that are our allies.
In addition, there are times when Commissioner&#160;Ferrero-Waldner fails to speak out, especially when it comes to regions and countries that are seen as strategic partners for the EU.
I would call for some consistency in this regard, and for human rights, which belong to the EU’s fundamental values, no longer to be observed selectively. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the reason why the EU is accepted throughout the world as the voice of human rights is that, more than other institutions, it backs its words up with deeds.
The Commissioner was quite right to describe as a key point the clause that is making human rights an essential component in trade and cooperation agreements with third countries.
To date, 120 agreements of this kind have been concluded.
The Report on Human Rights lists the major successes that were achieved in 2005, including such things as tighter export controls on material capable of being misused for the purposes of torture, or the campaign against child abusers who use the Internet for their own purposes, and the campaign for the recognition of the International Criminal Court.
China’s violations of human rights need to be on the agenda for the Human Rights Convention when it meets there.
The Socialist Group had asked for this on many occasions.
Thus, our report can be better geared towards the monitoring and evaluation of its commitments.
This Parliament works extremely hard to ensure that its voice is heard, but in order for its voice to be heeded, we need you, and we need you to renew your commitment to European human rights policy, which is supposed to be a fundamental pillar of our external action.
We are still awaiting many replies. &#160;&#160; Madam President, today we again debate human rights across the world and point out the deficiencies of others.
However, I want to focus this debate on a flagrant breach of human rights perpetuated within this European Union specifically within the United Kingdom.
Council Directive 2000/78/EC rightly prohibits religious discrimination in employment.
So before this House and the EU parade their human rights credentials, I say: let it set about righting that wrong, implementing the directive on employment in its entirety and ending the outrageous discrimination against the majority community in my country. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am responsible in the Committee on International Trade for the proposed revision of the human rights clauses in partnership and trade agreements.
The second point is that sometimes process failures interfere with product outcomes.
We welcome the human rights dialogue with China and Iran.
For two years the EU was the only place in the world that had a human rights dialogue with a deeply unloved regime in North Korea.
Then the Council sponsored a resolution condemning North Korean human rights in Geneva without informing either the North Koreans or the Commission.
Within the EU, too, however, human rights violations continue to occur, particularly in the form of domestic violence, honour killings, polygamy and widespread discrimination against women, which we indirectly tolerate if we accept these as part of Islam in Europe.
In Turkey itself, almost 80% of all women in rural areas are living in forced marriages.
Discrimination against minorities and members of other religions continues.
Given that, in 2004, more applications for asylum were received throughout the EU from people of Turkish than of Iraqi nationality and that, even in&#160;2005, Turkey remains the second most common country of origin of asylum seekers in Germany, for example, it can in no way be assumed that human rights have actually been implemented in Turkish society; and this in a country that is negotiating accession to the EU. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the future of the European Union, as a democratic community of principles and values, is linked to the consistent stand of the institutions and of the Member States in defending human rights, minority rights and democratic freedoms.
The European Union needs, firstly, to take initiatives to shape a new, effective, institutional framework to defend human rights within the framework of the UN.
Secondly, it needs to make the issue of the ratification and implementation of all the international conventions on the protection of human rights and abolition of torture chambers a high priority in its relations with third countries.
Thirdly, it needs to help to shape an open and democratic global system of governance of the information society and to combat the digital divide which is creating new relations of dependence and hegemony between the developed and developing countries.
As reflected in the conclusions reached at its meeting yesterday, the General Affairs and External Relations Council welcomes the cooperation with the Parliament in developing and delivering its human rights policy during 2005 and looks forward to building on that relationship further.
I will ensure that we give very serious reflection to the specific ideas that have been put forward and I am sure that we can find ways to deepen our dialogue.
The Troika often works to promote human rights in an intergovernmental framework.
We particularly value our regular and open exchanges with the Subcommittee on Human Rights.
It is important to keep some distinction between the roles the different institutions can play in promoting human rights and democratisation.
Glyn Ford raised an important issue about the way in which we use human rights clauses.
The Council will look seriously at any issues put forward by the European Parliament.
Human rights clauses have been invoked in at least 12&#160;cases since 1995 as a basis for consultation, suspension of aid or other measures involving 10&#160;ACP countries.
I conclude by welcoming once again the strong commitment the EU institutions have shown to promoting human rights and to providing an effective report on EU policy and actions in this area.
Secondly, we have country-specific cooperation programmes, to which a total of EUR&#160;35&#160;million has been allocated.
Many Members know of it and its importance because they have been chief observers in different countries, although the chief observer does have a certain amount of independence.
This instrument is allocated EUR&#160;13&#160;million.
The Neighbourhood Policy is my specific responsibility.
Human rights are valid in every situation.
It is a challenge to maintain the right balance between improving the right to privacy and combating terrorism.
We have to protect our people but we also have to protect the principles on which our society is based.
Finally, with regard to the democracy and human rights instrument, I have often stated that for us the EIDHR is a flagship policy.
The proposed thematic programme would be identified within each of the proposed external action instruments.
I would like to record our appreciation of Tunisia’s recent hosting of the United Nations World Summit on the Information Society from 16 to 18 November.
At the same time, it is right for us to consider more generally the issues of human rights and freedom of the press in Tunisia.
The Council shares the concerns of Members of this House about the human rights situation in Tunisia and is well aware of the shortcomings in Tunisia’s performance, particularly with respect to acts of intimidation and harassment by the authorities against civil society and human rights activists.
The meeting convened on Thursday, 1&#160;December, involving MEPs, certain committees and other EU institutions involved in the summit, specifically to discuss human rights concerns in Tunisia, further highlighted the importance of these issues.
Human rights is an essential element in the EU’s relationship with Tunisia, as set out in the EU-Tunisia Association Agreement, which came into force on 1&#160;March 1998, and the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan which came into force on 4&#160;July this year.
Under its action plan, Tunisia has signed up to commitments in the area of democracy, good governance and human rights.
That plan included the creation of a governance facility to help those countries that make progress on good governance, allowing them access to additional funds to spend on their priorities.
Tunisia is a state party to the six core United Nations human rights treaties.
Tunisia plays an active role within international human rights institutions and was elected to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in April 2004.
The EU welcomes Tunisia’s record of promoting reform in the Arab world, notably on the position of women and the right to education.
This debate has raised in particular the issue of the freedom of the press in Tunisia.
As I already made clear, the EU welcomes the agreement on the Tunis Commitment and the Tunis Agenda for the Information Society reached at the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis.
A number of incidents involving freedom of expression and freedom of assembly were reported in the run-up to and during the summit itself.
The Tunisian Human Rights League, the oldest human rights body in Tunisia, claimed police harassment of its activists and says that it has been prevented from functioning properly.
A court decision in September 2005 postponed its Congress.
The EU consequently made representations to the Tunisian authorities and issued a statement reminding the Tunisians of the EU’s expectations of its human rights responsibilities.
These include the disruption of the activities of a Belgian TV crew, as well as the disruption of the European Commission workshop for MEPs to meet members of civil society in the summit’s conference centre.
The law provides for freedom of assembly, as long as a permit is obtained from the Minister of Interior.
The EU is also concerned by reports from NGOs, including Amnesty International, about prison conditions in Tunisia.
We therefore welcome the fact that since June 2005 Tunisia’s authorities have allowed the International Committee of the Red Cross access to prisons.
Earlier this year, the Tunisian authorities announced their intention to allow Human Rights Watch representatives access to prisons in a similar way to that of the International Committee of the Red Cross, although no timeframe was specified.
The Minister for Justice and Human Rights also announced that the practice of detaining prisoners in solitary confinement beyond 10&#160;days, the maximum allowed under the Constitution, would cease.
However, Amnesty International and others report that the authorities interfere in the judicial process.
The trial in April 2005 of a lawyer and member of the National Council for Civil Liberties in Tunisia, Mohamed Abou, who wrote an article criticising Tunisia’s President Ben Ali, seems to support this contention.
A law passed on 12&#160;August 2005 making provision for the statute of magistrates does not take into consideration earlier calls by the Tunisian Magistrates’ Association concerning terms and conditions of service and would appear to weaken its position.
The EU wishes to work with Tunisia to support the modernisation of its judiciary.
We regret the serious restrictions on freedom of expression and association and the incidents which occurred prior to and during the World Summit on the Information Society.
The Council should like to assure honourable Members that the EU will continue to express its concern over specific human rights violations and to impress on the Tunisian authorities the need for full respect for human rights and democratic principles.
What brings me to Parliament today is a series of incidents that occurred at the recent World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis, an event in which both Members of Parliament and the Commission were present.
The active participation of the Commission and the continuous coordination of the position of the 25&#160;Member States, together with the UK Presidency, since the June Telecom Council, had a positive impact on the final agreement.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has spoken with one and the same voice throughout the negotiations and has exerted a real influence on the debates.
As regards Internet governance, the results of the Summit bestow on the world an agreement that covers such crucial aspects as freedom of expression and of access to information, security, and the fight against spamming.
As regards the key functions of the Internet, it has been decided, consistent with the proposals made by Europe, to create two fora and two processes.
On the one hand, the Internet Governance Forum, already known by the acronym IGF and, on the other, the process organising enhanced cooperation between governments on the political principles related to Internet governance.
In other words, information and communication technologies will be an important tool in the future for our development policy.
In the first quarter of 2006, the Commission will adopt a communication, the aim of which is to evaluate the results of the Summit and to show how the European policies will take account of them.
We, for our part, will actively consult with industry, as we have done in the past, and I believe that the European Parliament will be in a position to take responsibility for a substantial part of the consultation of civil society.
As regards enhanced cooperation between governments – the second process – Mr&#160;Annan wanted first of all to know what the intentions of the United States and the European Union were.
Together with the Member States, we must now define the process that will enable political principles in relation to Internet governance and the transparent and responsible implementation of these principles to be attained.
Mr President, unfortunately, the summit was overshadowed by events that prompted the Commission to mark its strong disagreement as to the way the Tunisian authorities interfered with civil society events, creating difficulties even for the European Parliament-Commission Joint Workshop on Human Rights, not to mention the restrictions on expression experienced both before and during the summit.
On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has already expressed our concerns to the Tunisian Government, and we have pointed out that it was difficult for us to believe that the incidents were just the result of an ‘unfortunate’ misunderstanding.
We also explained that in the absence of positive reactions it will be more and more difficult for the Commission to continue its constructive approach.
Secondly, an EU demarche on human rights is being considered by Member States, and the Commission will participate fully.
At the beginning of next year, we will re-evaluate the situation with Member States and decide, in the absence of progress, whether further measures should be taken.
It is our firm intention, shared with the Council, to put the neighbourhood instruments at the service of improving the situation in the field of human rights.
Finally, I welcome the good dialogue that we have had with Parliament on this issue.
Our efforts in promoting democracy and respect for human rights in Tunisia will be all the more effective if we are able to send consistent and coherent messages. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Tunisia is a country that has an important relationship with the European Union.
It is the first country in its region to sign an association agreement with the EU.
However, the conditions and events which surrounded the recent World Summit on the Information Society have significantly increased existing concerns relating to human rights and freedom of expression in Tunisia.
In the build-up to the summit, advocates for freedom of expression and association in Tunisia experienced increased harassment.
The enhanced cooperation of the Member States has enabled progress to be made with regard not only to the introduction of an Internet Governance Forum, which will meet for the first time in Athens, but also to the democratic balance between the Member States, to pluralism and to the involvement of civil society.
Human rights and fundamental freedoms constitute the essential foundations of Internet governance and of the action plan.
It is on the basis of the proposals made by the Union and, more specifically, by the Commission, that an agreement was reached in Tunis, not least with the United States.
I should like to pay tribute to the Commission’s negotiators and to sincerely thank the Commissioner for having involved the European Parliament in this process.
The serious incidents that surrounded the Summit and that undermined not only the freedom of the press and freedom of expression and of assembly, but also the people are, in my opinion, unacceptable, as are the events targeted at our delegation including, in particular, the sabotage of the Workshop on Human Rights in relation to Internet governance.
They run counter to the commitments made by Tunisia in the Summit conclusions and in the Association Agreement, thus violating the reciprocal character of these commitments.
These events call for a swift and firm response from the Union, and I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the compromise resolution, which demands that practical measures be taken immediately.
I thank the Commissioner for the very precise remarks she made just now along these lines. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as Commissioner Reding reminded us, the fact that Tunisia undertook to organise what must have been one of the biggest ever global summits cannot go unheeded.
As Tunisia came under this spotlight, we became acutely aware of the imbalance that exists there between the treatment of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the undeniable progress that Tunisia has been making in the fields of economic and social development, education and training and equality between men and women.
The Union has long been monitoring these things, because Tunisia is a partner of ours and was one of the first countries to conclude an association agreement with us.
In our opinion, its development has been exemplary, and we reiterate the wish expressed in our last resolution, adopted in September, that the development of respect for human rights should keep pace with the observable progress in other areas.
All we are asking, in other words, is that Tunisia honour the contractual commitments it has made.
It comes in the wake of the numerous violations of human rights that accompanied the World Summit on the Information Society which, as we know, took place in Tunis.
Let us remember that these violations are not isolated, one-off occurrences but routine everyday practice in Tunisia.
The human-rights situation in Tunisia is deteriorating – as we noted, by the way, in our resolution of 29&#160;September.
We consider it important that the Commission and the Council undertake, firstly, to convene a meeting of the Association Council as soon as possible in order to discuss the human-rights situation and the practical consequences of the observed violations and, secondly, to initiate discussions, in the true spirit of the action plan, on a timetable of reforms in the areas already referred to, a precise timetable with deadlines for measurable results: result number one is the reform of the judicial system; in this context, we must demand the release of the lawyer Mohammed Abou and of all political prisoners in Tunisia as well as an end to the harassment of the Tunisian Magistrates’ Association; result number two is the removal of restrictions on the activities of civil society; number three is cooperation with UN mechanisms.
These are the minimum requirements if we are to meet the challenge confronting us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is effectively a complex process and one which not even our own governments have ever achieved fully.
For months, European funds intended for the Tunisian League for Human Rights and other associations have been frozen.
The defenders of human rights, whom I applaud today because they are here with us in Parliament, have described to us the political intimidation and physical threats to which they are subjected.
Freedom of the press, as we have seen at this latest conference, is non-existent and torture is practised in Tunisian jails.
Secondly, Tunisia is a model of Mediterranean cooperation.
Lastly, Tunisia is a model of cooperation in the French-speaking world.
By rallying round the systematic detractors of Tunisia, such as Mrs&#160;Flautre, and by attacking a country which, I repeat, has been exemplary, this House will convey the impression that it seeks, under cover of cooperation and respect for human rights, to harden positions on both sides, which will ultimately foster Islamic fundamentalism.
This is what is currently happening in Iraq through the agency of the West – or, to be more precise, Washington and its accomplices – and it is a process which first Egypt then the Maghreb countries might experience too.
Our involvement in that would not serve the interests of the European powers; on the contrary, it would expose our peoples to the effects of terrible divisions in our common maritime region. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was privileged to be part of the European Parliament’s delegation in Tunis.
I share the regret expressed by Mrs Reding and my colleague Mrs Trautmann about what I regarded as the entirely unnecessary disruption of our meetings in a country that clearly has embraced many aspects of the digital revolution, as the previous speaker said.
We in the European Union have been hugely successful in the way that we have offered the benefits of our own networking technology through spreading the Géant Network to the developing world and also encouraging the development of open competitive markets to deliver high-quality services at competitive cost.
I admire Mrs Trautmann for the robust way in which she stood up to the interventions at our meeting.
It was a pleasure to watch her. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Minister, Commissioner, if there is one cause for rejoicing in the aftermath of the recent Tunis summit, it is the beneficial effect the summit has had in convincing the world of something too many people refused to accept – and still refuse to accept, in fact, judging by what I have just heard – namely that democracy is flouted in Tunisia on a daily basis.
I trust that this timidity is not directly linked to other objectives, such as the organisation by the Maghreb countries, as some would wish, of a kind of policing system for our borders to curb illegal immigration.
It would be useful to give it the opportunity to express its views to this recently created body. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can draw two lessons from the Tunis Summit.
First and foremost, an assessment of what happened: this was a summit focusing on the issue of a knowledge-based society, debating how new technology and services can be used to develop a high-technology society that seeks to spread greater freedom, give opportunities to all and ensure access to information and knowledge – just look at the computer designed for the so-called developing world – and to expand areas of freedom.
In the middle of a discussion on ways of increasing freedom and respect for rights, we actually found ourselves facing behaviour that clearly curtailed freedom, showed intolerance and prevented debate.
We all know that Tunisia has a secure constitution.
We all know about President Ben Ali’s long and complicated struggle with An-Nahda – an extremist, radical, pro-terrorist movement which combines its influence with the far left and quite clearly threatens the regime and democracy in Tunisia.
Nevertheless, we should use this opportunity to send a clear message not only to President Ali, but to many other rulers in the Middle East.
We must firmly support every possible means to struggle and fight against Islamic radicalism, extremism and abuse of power to explain and present the general truth to everyone.
But we must not allow friendly countries, friendly presidents and friendly regimes to misuse our support to wipe out, kill and destroy a diverse, democratic and secular opposition.
The drive for democracy must be based on local ownership and respect for local sensitivities.
This should be our friendly message to our friend President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to pre-empt certain criticisms and reassure Mr&#160;Coûteaux that the media will not engage in a systematic lynching of Tunisia.
Europe is struggling to propagate its ideal of democratic pluralism.
I have only one request: that the issue of human rights and the rule of law in Tunisia play a key role in the deliberations of the Association Council which is due to meet in January&#160;2006 and that no one beat about the bush. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin with a reference to Commissioner Reding’s final comment, calling for coherence.
The case of Tunisia is not just any case.
If the European Union wants its message, its debate and its Euro-Mediterranean policy to be coherent, it should not send out the message that the situations we have witnessed over recent days are being ignored, in particular during the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunisia and the arrests of several leaders of human rights organisations.
The European Union wishes to see Tunisia maintain and develop its security and its prosperity.
We welcome Tunisia’s record of promoting economic and social reform, notably on the position of women and the right to education, but we need to continue to work with Tunisia on a number of human rights issues and see progress made, particularly in the areas of the right to expression and association.
We will continue to work with the Tunisian authorities to implement the commitments on democracy, good governance and human rights that it signed up to in its European neighbourhood policy action plan.
The Association Committee will meet at the start of next year.
Informal agreement has been reached on all points other than the individual cases, and I believe this is important in the light of the discussion we have had.
Following the debates that are currently taking place within the Council, we shall make a formal proposal to Tunisia.
May I thank all the European Members of Parliament who have demonstrated their solidarity with all those in the Council, the Commission and Parliament who are committed to ensuring that human rights and freedom of expression become a reality and not a political football for the governments of this world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; ( Tunisia is a critically important partner for the dialogue between Europe and the Arab world.
A fundamental premise of this cooperation is respect for human rights, as enshrined in the EU-Tunisia Agreement, which entered into force in 1998, and the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan inaugurated this year.
The Tunisian Government has always shown itself to be particularly open and willing to accept its commitments towards the international community in the field of human rights, democracy and governance, as shown by the recent establishment of the EU-Tunisia Human Rights Subcommittee and the country’s willingness to agree to organise the World Summit on the Information Society.
The problem is that this extremely rapid development has not been followed by development of the law.
Even though video on demand still plays a relatively minor role, experts tell us that, if the rules permit the development of that type of service, 22 million households will be connected to a video-on-demand service by 2010, generating an annual turnover in excess of EUR&#160;2 billion.
First of all, there will be a distinction between two types of content.
But – and this is a big ‘but’ – although there are two types of content, a balance must be maintained between the industrial dimension – I have already referred to the creation of European content – the European values that must not be sacrificed to this new type of content, the protection of consumers, particularly minors, which is important whatever the type of content, and, of course, the cultural diversity to which we are committed.
We must therefore strike a balance between these factors while applying the principle of better regulation.
First of all, there will be a set of minimum requirements for all types of content.
It would be unacceptable, for example, for particular types of content to be immune to measures designed to combat incitement to racial or religious hatred.
Moreover, Parliament and all the other defenders of European culture could not accept a situation in which the European identity and European cultural diversity were promoted in one type of content but not in another.
The rules that will remain in place cover quotas, the right of reply and access to events of major importance.
The rules governing the volume of advertising will change, partly because simplified and updated rules are needed in this new multimedia world and partly because it is not up to the Commission to do the work of programme planners.
On the other hand, we have no wish to see television programmes awash with advertising, and for this reason we are maintaining some important ground rules.
The first of these rules is the twelve-minute limit.
Another important element that was conceived from the perspective of the funding of content is the authorisation, subject to very restrictive and strict conditions, of product placement.
Importantly, however, there will also be major restrictions: no placement of children’s products and no product placement in news and current-affairs programmes or in documentaries.
Indeed, we will be carrying them to Parliament in our iPods or whatever other digital mechanism we use.
It is indeed very striking that you should put a few fresh requirements forward in this respect.
We will have an opportunity to discuss these definitions later in our various committee meetings, as I made very clear in the text of the proposal.
I chose to use a light-touch approach to provide an opportunity for these media to develop.
I want to provide this opportunity for these services to operate in the internal market and develop, because I believe that video on demand will offer an extraordinary chance not only for new entrants on the VOD market but also in bringing our European content and films to the consumer.
It is evident that the European film industry has distribution problems and difficulties in getting its products seen by the public – either there is no cinema or the cinema does not carry the European content.
Video on demand is a real opportunity to bring the European product to the consumer.
Mr Belet, product placement is part of the basic set of common requirements, which means that the rules governing product placement, including those relating to young people, apply to both linear and non-linear programming.
Nowadays, we have the problem that product placement is almost everywhere, but is illegal in some countries.
As a former journalist – since you mention it – I have discussed the influence of product placement on information and on information-type programmes at length with my journalist colleagues and have come to the conclusion that a full ban on product placement for information and in information-type programmes is desirable. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to express my sincere thanks and congratulations to the Commissioner on the presentation of the draft revision of the Television without Frontiers Directive.
My questions today relate to just two issues.
The review of the directive and the enlargement of its scope to non-linear media must not result in the watering down of its regulatory arrangements.
The safeguarding of the principle of cultural diversity and pluralism is necessary, irrespective of the medium by which the audiovisual content is transmitted.
We cannot put the interests of the industry before viewers' rights and the quality of television, nor can we expect the market to regulate these important issues on its own.
In brief, we need a directive which will give European television the necessary balance between quality and ratings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Reding, historically, every time this directive has been discussed in the European Parliament, since 1984, there has been a struggle between Parliament and the Commission.
It is not true because in the world of radio and the world of television we are subject to a system of administrative franchises and there is interference by public powers.
Mrs Reding, I am going to tell you about something that is happening in our country and which has no precedent in the European Union: 500&#160;000 Spanish citizens, more than half a million Spanish citizens — something which has never before happened in the European Union, in any of its institutions — are supporting an initiative to prevent a public power, the Government of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, from closing a radio station.
Increasing self-regulation is a means of implementing the directive, which itself constitutes a legal framework that the national authorities must transpose into national law.
It is correct that this is the first time that this terminology has appeared in a European legislative text.
Everything that worked well in the Television Without Frontiers Directive has been reproduced in the new directive.
The percentage provided by independent producers remains in place, and consumer protection is reinforced, because we need well-informed consumers who know what awaits them.
Mr&#160;Herrero wondered whether the pluralism of the media was still guaranteed in a world where changes took place every day.
Cultural diversity is also a very important aspect of pluralism, and the extension of such diversity to the new services is an important step towards pluralism.
At the beginning of next year, my departments will publish a document on the national rules relating to media concentrations.
It will be on the table at the start of next year.
We shall then have the opportunity to debate its content and any action that needs to be taken at European level. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Commissioner: it is nice that she is introducing the draft to Parliament after the press is already familiar with it.
In my opinion, we cannot have product placement in films in the same way as the US.
After all, the market always determines the way products are represented in films.
She had mentioned that news and children’s programmes are to be protected against product placement and, just now, she also mentioned programmes of an informative character.
The term ‘information programmes’, referring to programmes intended to inform the population, constitutes a broad concept.
Mrs&#160;Gröner is absolutely right, there will of course be two readings, and so we shall have plenty more opportunities to exchange views on the content of my draft.
Mrs&#160;Gröner mentioned advertising during children’s programmes.
Perhaps I did not make it sufficiently clear that product placement during children’s programmes will be prohibited.
That is going one step further than is currently possible in very many Member States.
Accordingly, product placement is prohibited in information programmes and in what are known in English as ‘current affairs’ programmes.
Consequently, health information is included in this definition. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Weber, I have called three members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, three members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and two members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
That concludes this item. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0343/2005).
Football is an extremely popular sport, as we all know, and the way in which its media rights are sold can have significant long-term effects on the development of the media markets.
The importance of this case is shown by the number of companies, free-to-air and pay-TV broadcasters, internet operators, mobile operators and potential new entrants who have expressed their concerns to the Commission and, on occasion, to the relevant national authorities in the course of this case.
Finally, the UK Consumers’ Association published its own report into these issues, concluding that there was a genuine consumer problem and that the cause of that problem lay in the manner in which the English Football Association Premier League jointly sold the rights to Premier League games.
The joint selling of football rights risks creating a seller with market power and the consequent transfer of that market power downstream.
Premier League football is very popular, for example, in Ireland, and the Premier League has changed its rights policies as regards Ireland as a result of the Commission’s intervention.
Pure sporting rules are rules inherent to a sport or necessary for its organisation or for the organisation of a competition.
As the Commission’s decision regarding the UEFA and DFB shows, it is perfectly possible to operate collective selling mechanisms that help provide solidarity payments and are compatible with competition rules.
A matter of hours afterwards this item was withdrawn from the agenda for the meeting of the College of Commissioners on 9 November 2005 and postponed to the meeting on 15 November, when the final decision was taken to leave the takeover bid in the hands of the Spanish authorities.
In fact, given the highly complex legal, economic and accountancy issues raised by this case, the Commission simply had not finished its analysis of the case in time for its meeting on 9&#160;November.
On 19&#160;September, Endesa referred the case to the Commission for a decision on whether the case had a Community dimension.
Having respected essential due process requirements by allowing the two sides sufficient time to comment on each other’s submissions and having considered all the arguments put forward, the Commission concluded that, under existing EU merger control rules and on the basis of Endesa’s 2004 audited annual accounts, the proposed concentration does not have a Community dimension and therefore falls outside the Commission’s competence.
The Commission considers that its objectivity and its neutrality cannot be questioned by the fact that the Spanish Prime Minister may have touched upon the issue of Gas Natural’s bid for Endesa during a meeting with the President of the Commission.
The President of the Commission meets regularly with many EU Heads of Government, including the Spanish Prime Minister, and discusses, as he told me, a wide range of issues with them.
The Commission is entitled and indeed required to listen to any opinion by interested parties from the private or public sector and examine all the aspects of a case before adopting any decision.
Instead, it can simply be seen as part of the internal discussions carried out within the Commission in order to assess the issues at stake from all relevant perspectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am grateful for the Commissioner’s reply, but, having listened to her, I have the impression that, with regard to this matter, only technical issues have been dealt with, when the reality is that this decision has been the subject of many statements and positions prior to the meeting of the two Presidents which are far from normal.
You have not referred to the statement of the ministers of the Spanish Government, nor the position of certain Commissioners who are not competent in this field, nor even the request for exclusion from the Socialist Group a week before the decision so that you would not be competent in relation to these issues.
Commissioner, correct procedures are of the greatest importance in our democracy, and you know the saying: ‘Caesar’s wife must not just be honourable, but must appear to be so’.
A government of the Union must comply with Community rules, but the foremost rule is common sense in the way this decision is made.
It was my responsibility to deal with this case and it is my responsibility to deal with any case if the facts and figures show that it is a case for the Commission.
I do my duty based on facts and figures and whatever the surrounding emotion, you can be sure that I will stick to my line. &#160;&#160; Madam Commissioner, please do not worry, what you have said is absolutely correct.
I just presented my decision based on the facts and figures.
The first is directly to the beneficiary country using a mechanism based on one of the European Community’s pre-accession financial instruments, PHARE.
The second, covering the bulk of assistance, is delivered through an international fund managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the EBRD.
Related projects will often only be commissioned several years after a contract has been signed.
For the specific case of EBRD-managed projects, the rules of the Ignalina decommissioning support fund require that before contracts can be concluded on any project sufficient funds must be available on the EBRD’s account.
That situation leads to contracts being awarded that will not be completed for several years and, clearly, do not require disbursement of all budget costs.
As already stated, the EBRD fund covers projects that are realised over a long period.
Several initiatives taken by the Commission in the realm of transport and energy demonstrate the importance we attach to people with special needs.
In terms of the public-service requirement, the Commission has undertaken to create a suitable legal basis on which the Member States can guarantee users high-quality transport services at affordable prices.
It proposed a regulation on the rights of rail passengers, which is currently under discussion by the European Parliament and the Council, the latter having arrived at a political agreement on 5&#160;December.
In connection with the implementation of the Directive on the interoperability of the trans-European rail system, the Commission is compiling a set of technical specifications designed to improve the accessibility of the public areas of the rail infrastructure for people with reduced mobility.
All initiatives of this type are underpinned by the strategy of the European Union to improve the active inclusion of people with disabilities.
The priority objective of the second phase of the 2006-2007 action plan is the promotion of access to transport services and non-discrimination, in accordance with the communication recently adopted by the Commission on the situation of disabled people in the enlarged European Union.
Member States obviously have some discretion in the matter because they are able to introduce benefits for these categories in their laws.
Europe and other developed countries have a responsibility to show the way out of this trap.
Transport is responsible for 30% of our energy consumption, of which 85% is from road transport.
Road transport causes severe environmental pollution in many European cities, which also means increasing health problems for European citizens living in urban areas.
The Civitas programme is an innovative initiative combining transport, energy and environmental aspects.
Moreover, to give fresh impetus to the organisation of public transport, the Commission has adopted a revised proposal for a regulation on land-based public passenger transport services.
Finally, in its communication on air quality adopted on 21&#160;September, the Commission announced its intention to establish a common framework for designating low-emission zones.
The next thematic strategy on the urban environment will encourage an integrated approach to the management of our cities, including urban transport.
This strategy, which will be published in January 2006, will recommend that Member States and local and regional authorities draw up plans for sustainable urban transport.
We will see what policy for greater support we are able to adopt when the White Paper is revised. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, the suburban railway network is vital to sustainable urban transport in the majority of European cities.
There is a link between the text on the liberalisation of international passenger transport and the one on public service obligations, which will avoid some members of the public being in a difficult situation because they cannot have the means of transport they need, as you have just indicated in your question.
However, urban and interurban transport is really a question of subsidiarity.
What we need to do is to encourage the exchange of good practice between our European cities in order to find the best solutions.
Thank you for raising this issue, which is very important for our citizens. &#160;&#160; Questions Nos. 61 to 72 will be answered in writing(1).
The Commission fully shares the position set out in the document defining the framework for accession negotiations, in other words the negotiating mandate of the Union that Turkey should progressively align positions within international organisations with those of the EU, including in relation to membership of all Member States in relevant organisations.
This position is reflected in the Commission’s proposal for a revised accession partnership with Turkey, in which one of the short-term priorities is that Turkey should ‘progressively align policies towards third countries and positions within international organisations with those of the EU and its Member States, including in relation to the membership by all EU Member States of relevant organisations and arrangements such as Wassenaar.
The Commission will use all the instruments at its disposal, in particular the negotiating framework and the association agreement, as well as the accession partnership in order to ensure that Turkey aligns progressively with the Community also in this regard.
I remind you that this was one of the key issues that was discussed on 3&#160;October when the decision on the opening of the accession negotiations with Turkey was taken.
I would also like to point out that the EU Presidency has just made a demarche to Turkey concerning the Cyprus application for membership in the Wassenaar agreement. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to extend my special thanks to Commissioner Rehn for his reply.
I would, however, like to point out that we all know the institutional framework which now governs relations between Turkey and the European Union.
This means that Turkey will need to make serious and significant progress both on the reforms related to the Copenhagen political criteria and concerning the normalisation of its relations with the Republic of Cyprus, in accordance with the EU declaration and the negotiating framework.
The safeguard clause, or the emergency brake as it is called, is a very serious policy tool, but it is not appropriate to speculate further on this before concrete negotiations on the chapters have really started.
However, in the case of a serious and persistent breach of human rights, the rule of law or political criteria, the Commission would not hesitate to propose using this safeguard clause, provided for by the negotiating framework.
The Commission is following closely the situation in Sandžak, notably with a view to the possible independence of Montenegro, should there be a referendum along the lines I described.
We note that the Bosniak communities living in the Serbian part and in the Montenegrin part of Sandžak have differing attitudes towards this issue.
As regards the Montenegrin part of Sandžak, the Bosniak political leaders seem to be in favour of Montenegro’s independence.
However, a large part of the non-Bosniak population in the Montenegrin part of Sandžak declares itself Serb and is against Montenegro’s independence.
For the Commission and for the European Union it is essential that both in Serbia and in Montenegro the rights of the minorities, including the Bosniak community, are duly protected. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I am much obliged to the Commissioner for his very good, very detailed answer.
Should Montenegro use the constitutional possibility of withdrawing from the State union, then the Serbian and Montenegrin authorities will need to ensure adequate bilateral cooperation, which is in the mutual interests of their citizens.
That is particularly important for those living in the border areas such as Sandžak, where the establishment of an international border could exacerbate the difficult economic situation.
We have to contemplate different alternatives if there is either a referendum or a process that will lead to the independence of Montenegro.
Concerning your first question relating to investment and economic development, previous experience shows that there is significant capacity in Sandžak for the implementation of projects that are geared towards peaceful conflict settlement and cross-border cooperation.
The problem of a black market in medicinal products is very closely related to counterfeiting activities.
It is currently evaluating the possibility of further action based on that report.
At the same time, the WHO has proposed a framework convention to combat counterfeit medicinal products at global level.
The Member States are responsible for the enforcement of any activities against counterfeiters.
Therefore, the Member States are currently evaluating the results of a survey with the aim of identifying the extent of the problem of counterfeit medicines and the development of an anti-counterfeit strategy.
While the above-mentioned actions of the Commission and the Member States are far reaching, the Commission continuously monitors and analyses the situation for possible legal implications within the European Union and opportunities for future international cooperation. &#160;&#160; The Commissioner has very accurately described the illegal activities that underpin the black market in antivirals and medicines in general.
This is a very important issue which indeed has to be tackled both at EU level and at global level.
I will convey your message to Vice-President Verheugen, who is responsible for this in the Commission. &#160;&#160; Questions Nos 84 to 126 will be replied to in writing(3). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I understand that you are applying the Rules of Procedure, and quite rightly so, but Commissioner Rehn has only been given 12 of the 20 minutes allocated to him for his replies.
On behalf of Parliament, I should like to thank the British Presidency, and particularly Mr Twigg, for his successful commitment.
Thanks to this agreement, Parliament has made considerable progress in key areas from first reading.
The agreement only provides for the possibility of Member States passing on infrastructural costs and not, or rather not yet, external costs, because a clear and transparent calculation model is lacking as yet.
The agreement does, though, considerably reinforce the environmental elements in the directive.
Additionally, from 2012 onwards, Member States will be required to impose toll charges from 3.5 tonnes upwards, with exceptions, because excessive administrative costs and a negative impact on the environment should, of course, be prevented.
Parliament regards it as essential that the agreement should contain a clear and explicit road map for passing on external costs for all transport modes, as well as an impact assessment.
I can tell Commissioner Barrot that it is crucial that we gain more insight into this impact before we reach a decision.
I should like to ask Commissioner Barrot to confirm here in this House that the Commission will be presenting a model and an impact assessment in two years’ time.
This will enable us to revisit this topic during our term in office.
Perhaps he could also confirm that the Commission, as soon as the report and model are ready, namely in five years’ time, will present a proposal for the directive’s revision, for that, too, is vital.
Parliament has taken a firmer line on this than it did at first reading, and I am pleased by the Council’s willingness to accept that.
I should like to thank the Socialist Group in this European Parliament, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left and the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, who have signed this agreement, for their support, and let me say that I hope that other groups will follow suit.
May I remind you of the approach underlying the proposal for a directive.
These problems were identified in the White Paper on the common transport policy.
Our response is to say that if transport users are gradually made to carry the costs of the transport they use, that will help to reduce pollution and congestion and release further funding for investment in transport infrastructures.
The present directive is both restrictive and ineffective.
The Commission has proposed several amendments in response to this situation.
While Parliament was able to give its opinion swiftly in first reading, the Council, Minister, found it more difficult to reach a decision.
It took four meetings of the Council to come to an agreement, and I in turn would like to thank you.
Peripheral states, for their part, want to ensure that transport will play its part in integrating their national economies into the single market, and this difference in stance between transit states and peripheral states makes discussion difficult, but it has also enabled us to find this compromise.
Since then, the three institutions have been working very hard to reach an agreement in second reading.
The text that is now on the table brings us back to the concerns to which the Commission has drawn attention in the form of declarations.
The new directive will also allow greater variation in tolls to take account of vehicle pollution or road congestion.
Finally, on the subject of analysing the internalisation of external costs, I am pleased to say that the Commission will be able to prepare and publish the models and impact analyses requested by Parliament in the next two years.
The second concern is this directive’s geographical coverage.
On this point, the new directive will allow the Member States to apply tolls and user charges to all roads.
So far as the possibility of a toll mark-up in urban areas is concerned, the compromise you propose is reasonable.
It is perfectly clear that if the Member States wish to introduce urban charging systems in order to reduce pollution and congestion, they are free to do so, and the example of London seems most interesting in this regard.
When Mr Darling addressed the Committee on Transport and Tourism in June he said that the UK would do all it could to secure an agreement between the Council and Parliament during our Presidency.
I particularly congratulate Mrs Wortmann-Kool, your rapporteur, for her hard work and the dedication to find an agreement acceptable to both Parliament and the Council.
The directive will provide for the Commission to develop a model for the assessment of external costs in no longer than two years.
The draft is extremely simple, and I hope that it remains so.
We can say ‘yes’ to the compromise negotiated by the rapporteur during the informal trialogue.
Doing so will enable us to conclude one of the very difficult European transport dossiers this year, at second reading, whilst striking a balance between Europe’s requirements as a business location – with free movement of goods in the internal market of 25 and more – and an infrastructure costs directive that also takes very much better account than previously of environmental concerns and the health of the people having to live along European transport routes.
With this dossier, she has shown that even Sisyphean tasks can be completed successfully.
In conclusion, I should like to say a few words as an Austrian.
If this definition is true, Parliament has made full use of its possibilities in the face of the widely differing interests in our countries, and also in our parties.
It brings about a Europe-wide changeover to a system of transport infrastructure costs and thus to fairer user financing of the infrastructure that is calculated on a uniform basis.
At the same time, the legislation means embarking on the ‘polluter pays’ principle, with which we wish to make progress, including by charging for external costs, by the end of this parliamentary term – as both the Commissioner and the Council have told us.
Embarking on a system of traffic management via variable toll rates and the fact that these are to be variable from&#160;2010 is important to us in transport-policy terms.
The burden of proof for exceptions rests with the Member States, and we have defined these fairly narrowly.
I think that we can support this compromise, which we have all achieved together, as a whole, and I eagerly await the next steps we shall take and the discussions we shall hold together here in Parliament on the internalisation of external costs. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am here above all to state my support for the compromise achieved and to recommend colleagues to vote in favour of it.
Charging for infrastructure will yield all its benefits only when two principles can be fully combined: the principle of ‘the polluter pays’ – and on the roads negative effects arise in terms of the environment, safety and congestion – and the broader principle of 'the user pays'.
Only by combining these two principles can the two aims be made to converge, namely allocation, which in our case means influencing the modal shift, and recovery of the inherent cost of charging.
In particular, it encountered the strongest resistance from Transport Ministers.
It is essential to charge for these external costs if we are serious about wanting to protect health and the environment; these costs have to be charged to polluters at long last.
Nevertheless, I should like to thank the rapporteur and also my colleagues for this progress.
Switzerland is a good example in this respect.
The compromise proposal for charging toll is better than the directive we have at the moment, but too many loopholes and exceptions have crept in.
The most polluting trucks are exempt until 2010.
My group would have liked to endorse amendments that are geared to more and quicker results, which this compromise does not cater for.
In my view, reference to external costs is this dossier’s key asset, without which it would be impossible to calculate the integral costs for all modes of transport in a bid to achieve the desirable goal of a level playing field.
The agreement on external costs is at the same time the greatest loss.
Finally, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the result achieved and on the way in which this was brought about. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I cannot support Mrs Wortmann-Kool’s report.
Basically, I view the Eurovignette as the first obvious direct tax which the European Union wishes to impose and which could open the door to other unacceptable taxes.
I shall therefore vote against the proposal. &#160;&#160; Madam President, yet again I am forced to rise in this House to speak on a report which will increase costs for both consumers and businesses alike.
These matters are rightly the purview of Member States, and, before I am corrected, let me say that the Eurovignette is a tax, not a toll, since the Commission proposes hypothecating revenue from what can only be called a stealth tax.
I am sure the President-in-Office will confirm that in the UK alone over GBP&#160;40&#160;billion is taken in road-related taxes, yet only GBP&#160;8&#160;billion is reinvested in the transport infrastructure – far from being tax-neutral.
If I know national governments well, the end result of this proposal would be tantamount to double taxation.
I am pleased that you, a skilled environmental politician, are present to see us make good progress with a European sustainable transport policy by adopting the infrastructure costs directive.
Therefore, I offer her my compliments and my sincere thanks.
I should like to discuss two important points.
We are discussing freight transport, and we cannot restrict ourselves to lorries weighing 40, 12 or 7.5&#160;tonnes or more here, but want vehicles weighing 3.5&#160;tonnes or more to be subject to tolls.
According to a study, transport by road incurs external costs of EUR&#160;88 per thousand tonne-kilometres, whereas the figures for transport by rail and inland waterway are EUR&#160;19 and EUR&#160;17, respectively.
The compromise envisages that we meet again in two years’ time.
That is, we are expecting to see not only the model, but also legislative proposals in two years’ time, and I can already anticipate the quarters from which he will have to fend off the arrows.
Firstly, this directive responds to the profound imbalances in the transport system, within which road transport is progressively increasing its share and is in danger of collapse.
I believe that railways are a more sustainable and less polluting means of transport than lorries, and that we must discriminate positively in their favour until they can manage by themselves.
Let us hope that it does not take five years. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as a German MEP, I strongly condemn Germany’s veto on the internalisation of external costs with the ‘eurovignette’ and on the extension to all lorries weighing 3.5&#160;tonnes or more.
This directive means that there is no future for the European railways. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, by drafting a report on this extremely complex directive, the rapporteur has very ably guided us through an area of legislation that at times resembles nothing so much as a minefield.
We would only be able to answer this question in the positive if there were a guarantee – I repeat, a guarantee – that all of the revenue from the Eurovignette would be earmarked for transport-related objectives.
Those Members who have commented, both today and on other occasions, that these charges may well be used as a stealth tax by the Member States were therefore entirely right to do so.
I would therefore call on the European Commission to monitor the way in which revenue from the Eurovignette is spent as closely as possible.
It would also be a good idea for Parliament to be informed of any irregularities in this regard.
At this point, I should like to remind Commissioner Barrot that this directive is his brainchild too.
He should attend to it with particular devotion, and lavish care and attention on it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank Mrs Wortmann-Kool for her dedicated and remarkable work.
We are in fact talking about the financing of our ambitions, which appear in the 2001 White Paper and are meant to stabilise transport’s modal shares or even to finance alternative modes of transport.
I am very much afraid that, in order to reach a compromise&#160;–&#160;and we should perhaps have used the conciliation&#160;procedure –&#160;the European Parliament will drop some of its ambitions tomorrow, that it will not be firm enough on external costs and in particular on the sunset clause that Mr El Khadraoui has tabled in an amendment.
That means that if the Commission and the Member States fail to propose a directive within the time required, the automatic clause will apply. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am very much obliged to the rapporteur, who inherited this report, as it were, and has made quite outstanding progress with it in this parliamentary term.
Allow me to say a few things about the external costs.
The social costs have been internalised via insurance premiums: may I make that very clear.
I would recommend he take a look at the trend in the freight transport volume of Deutsche Bahn AG from September&#160;1998 to October&#160;2005.
In the seven years in which his party shared power in the German Government, the volume of freight transport by rail fell by half.
His party also imposed the environmental tax on the railways.
That is unacceptable. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Wortmann-Kool, for the work she has done and, above all, for the result that is on the table today.
A result that, if all goes well, will be the end, for the time being, of a long and laborious negotiation process.
Needless to say, I have a great deal of sympathy for this viewpoint, having myself tabled, in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, an oral amendment that goes much further with a view to keeping the pressure on in order to make quicker progress in terms of external costs, the well-known 60% rule.
We scrapped this in the compromise, which means that things will all take a little longer.
This may be a concession, but this is offset by the fact that the Council, in its common position, had not made any reference to external costs, and had to make a U-turn without there being any turning back now.
The principle of external costs in toll charges will be accepted and applied.
This is surely considerable progress on the road to fairer competition between the modes of transport, with the underlying principle being that the polluter pays.
Combined with the fact that the revenue from toll charges will be used for investments in the whole of the transport system, and thus not only roads, means that possibilities are being created for alternative modes of transport, such as rail transport and inland shipping, which is a giant leap forward. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is important not only for environmental reasons but also for reasons of competition to have a non-discriminatory kilometre tax system on European roads.
At the same time, it is important for the new Eurovignette to take account of the different conditions prevailing in Europe, for example in the peripheral Member States.
It is therefore good that this compromise first of all takes account of different geographical situations, secondly makes it possible to fix the price of infrastructure in ways that accurately reflect the cost to national economies and, thirdly, makes it possible to have different tolls for different euroclasses.
This is important in countries where long distances and light traffic mean that it is never possible to bring about a situation in which costs are fully covered.
I think, then, that the compromise is acceptable, since it takes account of countries in Europe’s outer circle.
Thank you, Madam President, and thank you everyone for your constructive work over a long period. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, first of all, I should like to express my deep respect to the rapporteur for her work on this truly difficult job.
The current status of discussions on the infrastructure costs directive is more or less satisfactory.
The most welcome results are primarily due to the pressure by Parliament and the Committee on Transport and Tourism and, within our institution, to the refreshing, committed approach of the rapporteur and also, in particular, my fellow Members towards the left and in the centre of this House.
This would have been a major step; one that we unfortunately failed to take. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Wortmann-Kool, for her excellent work.
This directive is of key significance for road hauliers.
At the same time, however, the directive is crucial as a source of funding for road construction.
This is vitally important for the new Member States, including my own country, Poland.
The directive is absolutely essential for the sustainable development of branched transport infrastructures.
I should like to remind Commissioner&#160;Barrot, however, that we must carry out a systematic impact assessment for this directive.
This assessment should cover both the directive’s impact on hauliers and on the road haulage market, and its impact in terms of furthering our goal of increasing the market share of railways. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I warmly congratulate Mrs Wortmann-Kool on her tenacity and flexibility, which are the greatest virtues in terms of achieving fair and balanced agreements such as the one that is being presented to us.
I would also like to congratulate the Council and the British Presidency on their dynamism and on the efforts they have made to achieve a good agreement.
We would like the same kind of results to be achieved in other fields as well.
It is also proper that I should congratulate the Commission and, if Commissioner Barrot will allow me, I would like in particular to congratulate the Director-General, Mr Lamoureux, who will be greatly missed and whose great contribution we wish to acknowledge.
The truth is that the impressive European achievements and progress in the field of transport now carry his mark.
This agreement is an important step forward and, thanks to Parliament, the next stages for the formal internalisation of external costs have been defined.
This agreement is in keeping with our strategy for sustainable development while encouraging our economies to be competitive and guaranteeing the principle of equity: if the user pays, he must not pay twice.
For me as Commissioner, this compromise is a commitment for the future, a commitment to work for a mobility compatible with the demands of sustainable development. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I would like to thank the European Parliament, particularly your rapporteur, Mr&#160;Evans, who cooperated with the Council and the Commission to facilitate the speedy adoption of this proposal.
This is not the only initiative that aims to improve protection for people with reduced mobility in the transport sector: the Commission has made a commitment to look into the need to improve and guarantee these same rights in other modes of transport.
The Commission has already put forward a proposal for rail passengers and I intend to do the same for people with reduced mobility who use maritime transport and international coach transport.
The proposal before you today meets this objective of non-discrimination.
In this proposal, to be presented on 16&#160;February, the Commission is pursuing four aims: there must be no discrimination against people with disabilities or reduced mobility; they must not be directly charged for the assistance they receive; this assistance must comply with a set of minimum standards and must be seamless; and responsibility for providing such assistance must be given to those best able to provide it&#160;–&#160;airports and airlines.
In terms of concrete implementation, the proposal includes all the flexibility needed to design appropriate solutions for the airports and airlines.
Thanks to Parliament’s constructive contribution, we hope that this important text can be adopted quickly, so as to provide disabled people and those with reduced mobility with the real possibility of assistance, throughout Europe.
That demonstrates the importance of this text in terms of society and solidarity.
This regulation, on the rights of disabled people and those with reduced mobility when travelling by air, will make a real improvement to the lives of those members of our Community, by giving them the security to take full advantage of the opportunities for air travel – for business and leisure – which have so transformed our world in recent years.
It is a fine example of how, when a legislative proposal offers real and tangible benefits to the citizens of the Community, the institutions can collaborate effectively to ensure that these benefits are delivered in the shortest possible time.
For the first time, this regulation sets out in clear terms what assistance disabled persons and those with reduced mobility are legally entitled to expect from airports and airlines and under what conditions.
Of course, many airports and airlines already provide excellent services to disabled people and are rightly proud of their achievements in this area.
In short, I consider that this regulation pulls off the difficult trick of ensuring that disabled people get the legal right to an acceptable standard of service when travelling by air, without placing undue and onerous burdens on the industry that has to provide these services.
I should like sincerely to thank the shadows, the Parliament and Group staff, my own staff, the Commission, the various disabled organisations and aviation groups with which I have been privileged to work and the UK Presidency, without whose sterling efforts my anticipated historic first reading agreement would not have been possible.
One example is Ryanair and the insulting manner in which it treats disabled passengers.
Madam President, you and I were speaking recently about your issues with Lufthansa; I have had other issues with Iberia, to name but two.
Of course, against this, as Mr Twigg has said, many people’s experiences are positive, and many airlines and airports offer a good service.
During its passage through the European Parliament I have also been pleased to be able to present other improvements.
In the report we also requested that planes and airports be better designed in consultation with disabled people’s organisations and that the airport and airline staff be given real disability awareness training.
The aim is to ensure that people with reduced mobility and disabled passengers enjoy the same rights when travelling by air as you or I, without incurring any additional costs – the costs being spread across every passenger handled by the air carrier and included in the price of the ticket.
Airline statistics suggest that up to ten million passengers in this category are assisted at Europe’s airports every year.
Thanks to the hard work of the rapporteur, Mr Evans, and to cooperation by the Council and Commission, we have achieved a good compromise which will allow us to approve the regulation at first reading and to have it implemented rapidly.
These are fundamental guarantees to protect the right to mobility without discrimination, and it is therefore an important step forward in the defence of human rights, of which the European Parliament is the guarantor. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if a regulation is concluded at first reading, the rapporteur deserves double the praise, especially if it was not a very easy one.
There will be comprehensive, uniform rules at European level for the rights of air passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility; which represents great progress.
This is a further step towards the passenger rights for all modes of transport that are so important to us.
I also believe that by approving this report we will ensure equal travel possibilities for disabled persons and those with reduced mobility and will regulate the provision of such services at the European Union level.
I congratulate Mr Evans and I thank him for the possibility of constructive cooperation.
I should also like to thank the organisations representing disabled persons, which stood by our side and gave us good tips.
In addition, I wish to ask the Member States to drive the implementation and entry into force of this directive forward as quickly as possible at airports, in particular, and make it a real Christmas present. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the Committee on Transport and Tourism succeeded in reaching a compromise on the issue under discussion, which was made abundantly clear in Amendment 49.
Disabled people and people with reduced mobility have the same rights as the rest of the community to freedom of movement, freedom of choice and non-discrimination.
All subsequent content stems from this positive principle and we welcome this, not least the extension of the original plans to cover not only those with limited mobility but also people with physical or mental disabilities, something that deserves to be highlighted.
This extended concept could be more stringent for operators or lead to further costs, but the problem is not the people’s problem, and must not be seen as such, but should be viewed as part of a broader need to ensure accessibility to infrastructure, transport and services, for which fair solutions must be found.
We must therefore congratulate the rapporteur on his ability to broker compromises in adopting amendments, for example those relating to the distribution of responsibilities between airports and airlines.
The report acknowledges that there are airlines already offering this service to a very high standard, an aspect that often sets them apart from their competitors, and at no extra cost.
Secondly, I would like to praise the explicit introduction of the principle of transparency in the calculation of attendance rates charged by airports to the airlines, which will ensure proportionality and direct correlation with the actual service provided.
To conclude, I welcome this report and congratulate Mr Evans and those who helped him to reach the excellent compromise. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I believe that disabled people with reduced mobility in the European Union — this being something that we will all experience sooner or later — have been extremely lucky to have a Labour rapporteur, Robert Evans, and a British Presidency of the Council which, in a laborious — not to say labour — fashion, have been able to invite them on board without discrimination and with guaranteed facilities.
In close cooperation with the Commission, which, we must acknowledge, is doing exemplary work in terms of facilitating access for disabled people to all forms of transport — they have already done so in the case of trains, now aircraft, and tomorrow buses — have succeeded in drawing up rigorous legislation, which is demanding but applicable, and suited to the new circumstances of the airports and companies.
I am proud of the European Union for creating – in the shape of this regulation – the first legislation especially for people with disabilities.
The proposal provides that an air carrier or tour operator may not refuse to accept a reservation for a flight on the grounds of reduced mobility of the passenger.
It is good that there is a consensus that the cost of particular services for air passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility must be shared equally by all air passengers.
The amendments proposed enhance the Commission’s objectives.
They enable us to put the emphasis firmly on the need to prevent any discrimination against people with reduced mobility and on the need to assist them when they travel by air, throughout Europe.
These amendments serve to clarify the text by reaching a compromise that is positive for everyone, and I would also like, Mr&#160;Twigg, to thank the Council for having enabled us to reach an agreement at first reading.
The Commission accepts all of the amendments in this compromise.
I would like to thank Parliament one last time for its support and I must say that the text you are going to adopt will have a practical impact on more than 40&#160;million people with reduced mobility in Europe, a figure taken from the communication that Commissioner&#160;Špidla has just published.
I do indeed commit to doing so following the excellent work done by Parliament and the Council. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0378/2005) by Mr&#160;Kristensen on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection on the promotion and protection of consumers’ interests in the new Member States (2004/2157(INI)). &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I was very pleased to be rapporteur for this report.
A large proportion of the work that goes on in the EU at the moment is of course about getting the internal market to operate more smoothly when it comes to both goods and services.
It is ultimately for consumers that companies produce goods and services, so it is quite crucial to competition in the internal market that consumers make demands of such goods and services.
In this connection, it is crucial that we turn our attention to the new Member States.
Just as there are big differences from one old Member State to another, we cannot, of course, lump the ten new Member States together.
There is, however, no doubt that what might be called consumer culture tends generally to be weaker in many of the new Member States than in many of the old ones.
Consumers are often not especially demanding with regard to the quality of the products and services they buy, and institutionalised procedures for complaining about defects in, or problems with, products or services either do not exist or exist to only a limited degree.
I believe that one of the most important things to do is to direct our attention to the consumer organisations.
In many of the old Member States, independent consumer organisations play a central role in placing consumer issues on the political agenda and in helping and representing consumers in disputes with businesses.
The consumer organisations are, unfortunately, often very weak in the new Member States, and they therefore rarely constitute the necessary counterbalance to businesses and governments.
Only in a few countries does the ministry responsible make resources available and, in those cases in which financial resources do exist, the amounts are often very small.
The conditions for winning a tender or obtaining support from the Commission are, however, very strict and, at least in a number of cases, it is difficult for the consumer organisations to meet the Commission’s requirements.
A second problem is that the political influence of consumer organisations is often quite limited.
These are problems that we must sort out if the internal market and consumer protection are to operate at their best.
The governments of the new Member States have a responsibility for taking consumer issues far more seriously than they do at present and, at the same time, for providing the necessary support to consumer organisations.
It should be understood, however, that a high level of consumer protection and an efficient market economy are not mutually exclusive but are, on the contrary, dependent on one another.
At the same time, the Commission and the other EU Member States have an outright political responsibility for giving priority to these issues, especially in the new Member States.
Last but not least, the consumer organisations in the new Member States also have a responsibility themselves.
Usually I am the last on the list in these late debates, so I know exactly what we are talking about!
It is very important to identify the special situation regarding new Member States and consumer protection.
Most of them I agree with, and we are going to try and see how we can adopt in practical terms, but the problem is that to do all those things we will need adequate funds, and that is a problem.
It is true we have reached a very high level of legislation.
We now have 25&#160;Member States, soon to be 27, and not 15&#160;Member States.
New Member States or old Member States, new initiatives or old initiatives, we will not have any funds left.
It is true that we have a lot to do in the new Member States, but we have gone a long way.
However, I can tell you that we have already achieved a lot: we offer training courses especially for consumer organisation staff in new Member States.
EU co-financing is higher and the criteria are more favourable for the new Member States.
With regard to European consumer centres, which are very important institutions – you have supported the idea many times – we already have them in seven out of the ten new Member States and next year will be establishing them in Hungary, Slovenia and Slovakia.
We will continue in the meantime to work on finding the means to make operational some of the calls in Mr Kristensen’s report.
We will need to have objective criteria to be able to evaluate and assess the situation in each Member State and, in particular, in the new Member States.
What we do complements but does not substitute for national responsibility and national initiatives.
Many aspects, such as the financing of the day-to-day operations of national consumer organisations, are the responsibility of national governments.
I believe that Members of the European Parliament can also play a very important role in this respect.
Firstly, I can assure you that in the consumer strategy we will bring forward in 2006 there will be a more detailed, elaborate proposal that we will develop and present to Parliament.
We are building a country profile for all Member States in the consumer protection area, containing all the data on the situation, and this will be published on the website.
If there is anything incorrect, I would be very happy to know, because most of the information will be given to us by the Member States.
I can assure you that Mr Barrot spoke for much longer! &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, I found your words most encouraging, and I would merely like to stress the importance of this report in terms of raising confidence in the internal market.
According to the analysis carried out by my colleagues in the CPP, the new Member States came under pressure during the accession negotiations to make their consumer protection laws more modern and in some areas more stringent than those of the old, and in particular the founding Member States.
The citizens as customers are unaware of their rights and do not assert themselves sufficiently in this regard.
Given that over the past 40 or 50 years they have not been used to fighting for their rights, the provision of information about such rights and assistance in claiming them, both in and out of court, are the key elements of the implementation of consumer protection, as the Kristensen report emphasises.
Consequently, citizens in the new Member States are also easy prey to unscrupulous business practices, even from the old Member States, in which such practices are not permitted and where there is in fact a more highly developed consumer culture, for example the restriction of users' rights in the case of goods covered by intellectual property protection, attempts to distribute untested goods from non-EU countries, and so on.
In the report, we urge the Commission to establish measurable quality indicators for the purpose of benchmarking, because we feel that in order to ensure high quality it is extremely important – and this is not only true of the new Member States – to establish publicly objective standards.
I would also like to highlight the fact that consumer organisations differ from those in the old Member States and that there is a need to enable them to allow for the work of volunteers ... &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Kristensen for his outstanding report, which really does address exactly the right issues.
He has shown a great deal of creativity in drafting this report, which provides us with many excellent starting points, as Mr&#160;Kyprianou has just confirmed.
In my opinion, it is crucial that a high – and indeed an equally high – level of consumer protection be achieved in all EU Member States.
This is the goal we must set ourselves, and this is why the idea of a consumer culture is exactly the right place to start in order to demonstrate the need for us to ensure a high level of awareness of consumer rights in all Member States, in order for citizens to be able to demand these rights, which is a prerequisite for achieving this high level of protection in reality. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, our group very much welcomes this own-initiative report, which is of great value.
It will allow Parliament to send an important political message to the Commission, as well as to the Member States, to industry and to the public.
Consumer protection organisations and consumer rights belong to the European Union’s key fundamental values.
I am delighted that the fruits of many years of work in the 15&#160;old Member States, which are now taken for granted in these countries, are also to be reaped by the 10&#160;new Member States, in line with the principles of partnership and solidarity.
At the same time, however, the old Member States could learn a lot from the new Member States in this field.
In other words, the EU institutions are planning to use taxpayers’ money to hire advocates of their own policies.
We can now also see how very dangerous it is. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur most warmly for his excellent report, which is first and foremost a key political message to the European Commission, to the governments of the Member States, to the business world and to consumers.
We must not forget the specific conditions in the new Member States when formulating European consumer policy.
The report contains comprehensive descriptions of the situation and standing of consumer organisations in these countries.
Their consumer organisations are only just starting to gain a foothold in the internal market, and they are plagued by a constant lack of money and expertise.
At the same time, we should not forget that consumer organisations in many new Member States are financially dependent on the state, which means that we can hardly expect them to be independent.
Measures of this nature will help to strengthen consumer organisations, and consequently to raise public awareness and to promote a consumer culture.
As a new Member of the House, and as a member of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I have to admit that I am only just starting to make contact with consumer organisations in my own country and work with them.
I therefore believe that it would be a very good idea to publish monthly magazines targeted at the new Member States and containing analyses of current EU consumer policy.
This is in fact one of the proposals made by the rapporteur in his report. &#160;&#160; I too welcome the report of Mr Dam Kristensen, and I recommended that the report be translated and sent to all members of national Parliaments in the new Member States, because it indicates that considerable assistance can be given to new Member States even without money.
This report could be an action plan standard for new Member States.
At the same time, I obviously agree with Commissioner Kyprianou that the resources available to us are not sufficient, and I am deeply convinced that our most important task is to include consumer protection issues in the compulsory curriculum for very young children (I also say this as the mother of three children).
Therefore I congratulate Mr Kristensen and ask the Commissioner to treat the issue of consumer protection as part of the development process of the internal market in new Member States, as the internal market cannot operate in a balanced manner if consumers in Scandinavian and Eastern European countries cannot exercise their rights to the same extent. &#160;&#160; This report is historically the first to deal with consumer protection in the new Member States.
A good example of this would be the swift implementation of a directive dealing with certain aspects of the sale of consumer goods and related guarantees.
The key point of this report is its emphasis on the financing of consumer organisations.
Despite lack of funding, consumer organisations in the new Member States make considerable efforts, mainly through volunteers, to improve consumer culture.
It is a basic policy that consumer protection is an integral part of the internal market and we cannot have completion of the internal market without consumer confidence and consumer protection.
The situation in the consumer organisation area is problematic in many new Member States.
The responsibility for most of the financing of the operational costs of the consumer organisations lies with the national governments.
I am happy that, by next year, all the new Member States will have their own European Consumer Centres.
In that way, we help the organisations cover their part of the contribution to their financing through this volunteer work, which is a great help to the consumer organisations.
I have figures from the new Member States.
Once again, I congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for this interesting debate. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
From the beginning of the reform debate, the Commission has been well aware that any reform leading to a more market-oriented sugar regime will require the Sugar Protocol ACP countries to adjust.
The Commission is committed to helping those countries through this adjustment phase and has therefore proposed accompanying measures.
Before drafting the proposal for a regulation on accompanying measures for Sugar Protocol countries, the Commission had produced an action plan setting out the principles of its proposed support for the Sugar Protocol countries.
I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Lehideux, on his commitment and very constructive engagement in support of the Protocol countries.
The Commission welcomes the amendments proposed in his report.
The Commission understands the complexity of the challenges facing the ACP countries concerned.
The Commission has proposed EUR&#160;40&#160;million for initial investment in 2006, taking into account the Community’s budget availability and the lack of information on the precise needs, which are estimated at this stage.
Substantial additional funding will be provided from 2007 onwards.
The reform of the EU sugar regime will only start being implemented from July 2006 onwards.
Anticipating these effects and starting to adapt to the expected changes as early as possible is likely to be the most successful coping strategy. &#160;&#160; .
Reform of the CMO in sugar will, of course, have extremely serious economic and financial consequences in countries that have, until now, been able to export to the EU markets.
However, its effects will also go far beyond that.
The reform will have an extremely serious social impact in these countries, due to the very special role played by sugar cane cultivation: a social, economic, cultural and environmental role.
It is therefore our duty, as you just said, Commissioner, to take measures now that will be applicable from 2006 and may be renewed in 2007 to assist the initial efforts of these countries to restructure their sugar industries or to diversify their economies.
I bitterly regret the attitude of certain Member States who did everything they could to block this proposal, particularly by refusing to take part in any dialogue on any increase of the 40&#160;million proposed.
Indeed, in order for this regulation to be implemented normally, and in view of the timescale for examining the action plans to be submitted by the ACP countries, it is vital for it to be adopted at first reading.
This situation therefore caught us in an impasse: if we took the risk of pushing through a sum of 80&#160;million, that would have lead to a second reading, which would have threatened the very existence of the text.
True, as I said before, the level of aid is clearly inadequate, but these countries need this money now and cannot be made to wait under the pretext that the Council, the Commission and a number of our fellow Members are not prepared to keep the European Union’s commitments or its word.
Madam&#160;President, one time does not make a habit.
At a time when the EU is taking part in the difficult negotiations at the WTO, tomorrow in Hong Kong, the day after elsewhere, I am afraid that the ACP countries risk remembering how flippantly we have treated them.
In conclusion, Commissioner, once this regulation has been adopted, the development of this matter will be in the hands of the European Commission and will ultimately depend largely on the welcome it gives to the projects of the ACP countries.
I hope that Parliament will be kept regularly informed, via its Committee on Development, which I would like to thank for its constant support, on developments in this important matter. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to extend my wholehearted thanks to Mr&#160;Lehideux for his report.
Our own sugar farmers, on the other hand, will receive extremely generous compensation, to the tune of over EUR&#160;5&#160;billion.
While I do not begrudge our sugar farmers this compensation in the slightest, I would be willing to bet that our policies will directly contribute to the future political and social destabilisation of some of the ACP countries, most of which are small island states.
I myself have visited Guyana and various other countries.
Nearly two thirds of jobs in Guyana depend directly or indirectly on sugar.
Nestlé, in the UK alone, has had GBP&#160;11&#160;million, and even more in Belgium and Holland.
In Spain 18% of the top farmers received 76% of the funding in 2003.
We must get away from the idea that it is our farmers versus the farmers in the developing world.
In fact, they are pretty poor and many of them have just taken the first step on the way to development.
They need time to adjust to sugar reform and they need money.
The Commission President has talked a lot about Robin Hood in the last couple of weeks.
Let us find new money to aid these countries.
Secondly, not only is it important for the countries in question to export sugar, but sugar cane can also be used for different purposes.
The 40 million that has been mentioned before is probably the maximum, in my opinion.
I am not as optimistic as Commissioner Kroes about the level of funds that will become available for foreign aid in the next financial perspectives.
The report also reveals that liberalisation, which follows the colonial principle whereby the former colonies supply us with cheap food while we then sell industrial products to them, is both disastrous and dangerous.
The necessary reduction in quantities could have been achieved equally well by administrative means, without any need for this money.
One of the ACP countries, St Kitts and Nevis, has already stopped sugar production and it will not be an isolated case.
The chairman of the ACP Sugar Group, Mr Arvin Boollel, has said that, following the EU decision, it is very likely that we are all going to suffer from the St Kitts and Nevis situation.
The ACP countries call it peanuts.
It will not be a sweet Christmas for sugar producers, be they in East Anglia or East Africa.
Once again the European Union is in the difficult position of having to reconcile compliance with its international commercial obligations and the introduction of policies to foster the development of its poorest partners and to defend the interests of its citizens, particularly those working in sectors at risk.
The reform of the sugar regime has caused considerable turmoil in a number of Member States, including my own country, Ireland, but they have been bought off with billions of euros.
Whatever dislocation the reform of the sugar industry is causing in the European Union, the impact on ACP countries, and people there who are already poor and barely subsisting, could be catastrophic.
Like many others in this House, I am deeply concerned that the financial reference amount of EUR&#160;40&#160;million, earmarked by the Commission for 2006, is grossly inadequate.
The money we find for the ACP countries has to be new money.
The consequences of such a strategy for global food production could be quite disastrous. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is only right that the changes to the EU’s sugar regime should go hand in hand, as they do, with accompanying measures, for the reduction of guaranteed prices affects not only our own sugar industry, but also the sugar exporters from the ACP countries.
What is important is that aid from the European Union should make a considerable contribution to greater competitiveness of the industry in the ACP countries, particularly by higher efficiency and greater diversification.
After all, those countries need no longer be so dependent on their sugar production in nine years’ time.
It is also important for the ACP countries to become competitive to such a degree that they can, in time, hold their own in the face of competition from third-country exporters, such as Brazil, without the EU’s guaranteed price.
In any case, the future for the financial perspectives looks positive.
Some were more enthusiastic about the amount of money than others.
I can assure you that when, and only when, an agreement is reached on the financial perspectives, the Commission plans to allocate a figure of EUR&#160;190&#160;million in addition to the existing development budget. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
Without going into details of the budget, I wish to emphasise that extensive financial aid alone will not solve the problems that sugar sector reform may entail for the ACP countries.
It was therefore only natural that the Union should start to regulate state aid and that the bodies of the Community should increasingly strive, within the context of such experience, to develop a unified approach in this area.
When the opportunity came along of producing a report for the European Parliament on the Commission’s draft guidelines dealing with regional aid as a tool of regional development, I viewed it as an invitation to contribute towards improving the way the Community functions in this area.
The long process of negotiation between the Commission, the Council, Parliament and other interested parties, which eventually took a year despite the modest scope of the issue, provided confirmation of the complexities involved in the task of seeking to balance regulation in this area.
In July of this year, the Commission presented the revised proposal which forms the basis of my current report and which itself is based on the second informal draft and on the previously mentioned negotiations.
I can say that I broadly welcome the Commission’s decision to pursue a philosophy of providing less and better-targeted state aid, in fulfilment of the Barcelona and Gothenburg European Councils’ conclusions concerning reductions in the level of state aid and its focus on subjects of common interest, including economic and social cohesion.
That is why I think also that it is so important to support the Commission proposals for providing state aid under the process of convergence with EU standards to regions located mainly in the new Member States.
During the approval process I was happy to accept any amendment proposals that coincided with these aims, and that is why I supported the idea of including statistical regions in the category under Article&#160;87(3)(a) for the provision of relevant state aid to all regions with natural handicaps or disadvantages that make it impossible for them to initiate development, or regions that have for various reasons fallen into the group of poor areas, as well as proposals restricting the destructive relocation of enterprises receiving state aid, and others.
In my report, I fully supported the idea of taking regional factors into account in the horizontal guidelines for the provision of state aid.
It will not be possible, however, to implement effectively all of the Commission’s well-intentioned proposals for the regional aid guidelines or the related recommendations from the European Parliament unless the procedures are simplified, which the Commission has to a large extent suggested as well.
Implementation will also require complete transparency over the provision of state aid both at the national and European levels, including the integration of state aid for regional development into the national reference framework.
Some of the recommendations may go beyond the frame of reference defined in the principles set out by the Commission, but I trust that the Commission will examine all well-intended recommendations from Parliament.
Regional aid reform implies strict control of the more distortive aids by limiting the scope for investment aid for large firms to the regions most in need, in particular, as regards very large investment projects.
The reform also allows Member States a sufficient degree of flexibility to design aid matters to promote the realisation of the Lisbon objectives and targets.
That additional flexibility is just one of the elements which was introduced into the package as a result of consultation, including my discussions with the Committee on Regional Development.
Our approach is coherent with the state aid action plan, which recognises the need to allow regional aid in order to promote cohesion and convergence but emphasises that this should be targeted on the regions most in need.
Let me reiterate the importance of the principle of concentration.
Those regions not eligible for regional aid will continue to receive other forms of support through the horizontal aid measures that are covered by the state aid action plan: aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, innovation, training, employment and risk capital.
Following a very extensive consultation process, I believe we are moving towards a global compromise that should meet the legitimate concerns of the vast majority of Member States.
No compromise is perfect and some limited adjustments to the text are always possible.
However, I will study your proposals very carefully before putting a final package before the College next week for adoption.
However, it will not be possible significantly to modify the overall balance that has been struck in the guidelines; otherwise we would risk upsetting the large majority of Member States which welcome and support our text, and might call the whole exercise into question. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the factors that influence businesses when they are deciding whether or not to invest in a particular region is the extent to which they will receive support in the form of State aid.
This aid therefore also contributes to economic growth and job creation in the region in question.
It is entirely natural that most State aid is granted in the European Union’s neediest regions, since it helps to reduce regional disparities, similarly to the Structural Funds.
This five-year period should be enforced in the case of both large companies and SMEs, in order to avoid State aid being used as an incentive to relocate jobs to other areas of the EU, and as a source of funding for large-scale redundancies and plant closures.
If State aid is used, monitored and analysed correctly, it can be a useful tool to boost growth and job creation. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, I should like to focus on merely two aspects of this complex and highly sensitive issue.
There have already been cases in every Member State, however, where the regions were glad to have the opportunity to provide State aid for investments, with the support of the European Union.
This is what the report calls for, and I hope that the Commission will play its part in achieving such regulations.
The second aspect relates to the regions affected by the statistical effect, to which Mr&#160;Berend has already referred.
I fail to understand how it can be possible, given that Commissioner&#160;Hübner has always supported our decision to treat the statistical effect regions as Objective&#160;1 regions for the entire 2007-2013 period – and this decision was backed by a large majority – for Mrs&#160;Kroes now to put forward an entirely different idea, namely that this period should be divided into two parts.
I hope that the Commission will start to realise that Parliament can also have good ideas now and again, and that it is entirely justified in wanting to provide support to the statistical effect regions. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report.
I was certainly pleased that our committee supported the amendments to maintain as Article&#160;87(3)(a) the status of the statistical effect regions for the entire programming period.
I also fully supported the call for the economic development regions to be entitled to the maximum levels of aid intensity with their transitional arrangement for these regions.
The Commissioner referred to Lisbon and, in order to achieve the objectives of more and better jobs, EU regions must be competitive within Europe but equally competitive with the rest of the world.
In this context, I believe that we need an assessment of the impact that state aids have in determining if a project can be located in the EU with state aid, or outside the EU without state aid. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, in my one minute I have little time for context or subtlety on this convoluted report, although I will say that I hope colleagues will take the opportunity tomorrow to clear up some slightly regrettable inconsistency and imprecision that have crept into it.
The key points for us are: the safety net, the period in which investment has to be maintained within the region, and the de minimis criteria.
I would urge colleagues to support our amendments, which bring some much needed clarity to this report.
I hope that we can continue in that manner. &#160;&#160; . – We welcome the compromise that has been reached and trust that it will not be amended; in other words, the arrangements regarding state aid that apply to the regions affected by the statistical effect will continue to apply to convergence objective regions, as is being proposed for the outermost regions.
As the report confirms, cohesion policies and state aid policies are complementary.
State aid is a key instrument available to Member States to promote regional development and genuine convergence between the various countries of the EU.
It is also an important lever in promoting public investment and sustainable economic development, and in ensuring that public services are provided in the least favoured regions.
High quality public services are a crucial factor in implementing the objective of social, economic and territorial cohesion.
Each State must define its public sectors and services, its suitable financing and its organisation.
Member States must be able, in compliance with the subsidiarity principle, to use this instrument to respond appropriately to the specific needs relating to the development of the least favoured regions.
Competition in international trade is putting increasing pressure on the least favoured regions, by causing the closure and relocation of companies and increased unemployment, which has a terrible impact on the development of many regions, not least in countries such as Portugal.
We therefore say once again that the Member States, with EU backing, have a duty to take action to address these situations, be it through state aid or other funding measures.
We also feel that the obligation to maintain investment in the regions for a minimum period of five years is woefully inadequate and must be increased.
State aid must not promote the relocation of companies, either in full or in part, within or outside the EU.
The eight eastern European countries that have already joined the EU, plus Bulgaria and Romania, have been promised EUR&#160;139&#160;billion out of the total structural funds budget of EUR&#160;336&#160;billion for the period 2007 to 2013.
I can well believe that Tony Blair will agree to impoverish Britain in his quest for European popularity, but I cannot imagine Mr Chirac doing the same thing to France. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when discussing the role of State aid as a tool of regional development, we should not forget that such aid always comes out of taxpayers’ pockets in one way or another.
It should therefore be distributed on the basis of clear and transparent criteria, and targeted at areas where it really will produce the desired results.
I should therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission to present an annual report on the actual amount of State aid granted by each Member State.
After all, this type of aid is a clear-cut case of interference in the free market.
There are not enough forms of aid for what are known as horizontal investments, examples of which include support for small and medium-sized enterprises, environmental protection measures, the development of research and the stimulation of innovation.
Sectors or large companies that perform poorly should only receive public funds on a temporary basis, and only when these funds are genuinely used for restructuring activities and to increase the profitability of businesses.
State aid that directly or indirectly supports regional development should promote territorial, social and economic cohesion.
The recent events in French cities are proof that the consequences of social exclusion can be truly dramatic.
This supremely discriminatory and inconsistent rule has been replaced, under pressure from Member States, by a different, rule, which one can say is at least consistent.
The problem was supposedly solved by bringing in regions affected by the statistical effect of enlargement.
Yet all of these regions will have a right to a virtually identical level of aid, which is neither fortunate nor fair, and which is certainly not in keeping with the spirit of solidarity.
The new rules on national regional aid were also intended to strengthen the EU’s competitiveness and economic growth, and that is something that the Commission has not come close to achieving.
The rules on aid in place before, which were workable on the whole, have been drastically watered down.
There is no doubt in my mind that the new rules will lead neither to economic growth nor to the creation of new jobs. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I believe that Parliament understands the Commission's intention of less and better targeted state aid, obviously with the emphasis on the poorer regions of the European Union.
A large and simultaneous reduction in the appropriations received by the regions through the Structural Funds, on the one hand, and in state aid, on the other, risks turning out to be a disaster for their essential development.
Similarly, the problem of the islands needs to be addressed, especially in relation to the additional cost of transport for island regions.
Rest assured, Commissioner, that, if the safety net is increased to 25%, the Member States will make good use of the indicators you have put in place, in the interests of Europe and of our fellow citizens.
State aid is consistent with structural fund policies and it can contribute to social and economic cohesion.
More flexibility would be important in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to allow for a proper response to the specific development needs of individual, less-favoured regions.
I want, in particular, to welcome the report’s assertion that the natural effect regions and the economic development regions should be eligible for a more flexible regime of state aid in the future.
I would also like to stress, as others have, the need for firms to remain in the region for which they have received the aid. &#160;&#160; I should just like to remind the House that Mrs de Brún sometimes starts and ends her speeches in Irish, for which there is not yet any interpretation.
A key aspect in the debate over direct state aid as a tool of regional development is the threatened application of the British proposal to reduce financial assistance for new members from the European Union’s structural funds for 2007–2013.
A reduction in assistance would increase the risk of failure in terms of the desired aims of state aid in the new Member States, as it is often the case that these states simply do not have any funding of their own for these purposes.
If they did, we would be approaching state aid, the problems of less advanced regions and the issue of cohesion in a completely different way.
In addition, there is a lack of proper analysis and of verifiable studies into the impact of the decisions under consideration.
Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed resolution of the Committee on Regional Development and rapporteur Koterec is good, but it will be meaningful only if the level of assistance for new Member States remains unchanged. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Madam&#160;President, today’s debate is not directly concerned with European solidarity, the cohesion policy or the sharing out of EU funds.
In reality, however, it is not too far removed from debates on the solidarity principle or on the factors driving economic development, in particular those factors that promote or hinder the existence of functioning economies in the Member States.
At the same time, however, Parliament cannot merely be a passive observer of developments in this field, given that it is working actively on a legislative package on cohesion policy.
Particular emphasis should therefore be placed on a point made in the report, namely that we expect the Commission to delay its adoption of a position until the new Financial Perspective is agreed on, and until the budget for cohesion policy is adopted.
Regulations on levels of State aid should, if they are formulated correctly, heighten the impact of structural interventions rather than curtailing economic freedoms, by which I also mean business activity.
State aid should not become an alternative means of artificially prohibiting such measures as the relocation of businesses.
The consultation of regional and local authorities on the criteria for identifying aid-recipient regions is also absolutely essential. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, first of all, to thank Mr Koterec for his work.
We are talking about a reduced level but improved targeting of state aid in order to provide an effective response to the challenges of economic globalisation, enlargement and the need to restore the Union’s competitiveness.
However, there is the risk that some areas will be penalised: state aid must be used to promote competitiveness and innovation, research and development across the whole territory of the European Union.
I invite the European Commission to take note of this and to take the appropriate action, and also to take greater account of the rate of unemployment in a region when determining its status. &#160;&#160; – State aid is normally seen as something detrimental to competition.
The Treaty of the European Union acknowledges, however, that such aid is acceptable when it is intended to contribute towards the economic development of those regions in which the standard of living is well below the European average.
While the free functioning of the market brings benefits in terms of economic development, it alone cannot ensure development.
In terms of regional policy, therefore, this kind of state aid could serve to support the least favoured regions.
Indeed, reducing minimum coverage by considerably less than the 50% proposed would enable us to do justice to the situation in States where the statistical divisions do not take account of regional disparities.
It is illogical to ask the outermost regions to cooperate with neighbouring countries that have much, much lower salary costs, while at the same time drastically reducing the aid provided to their businesses, which is a vital tool in re-establishing fair conditions for regional competition, which has been distorted.
I would like to thank the Committee on Regional Development for adopting my amendment stressing that the guidelines should expressly provide Member States with the possibility of notifying aid projects and the Commission with the possibility of assessing the compatibility of these aid projects using more flexible criteria so that they can take account of any specific issues in the sector or region, and of innovative approaches. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I support the basic premise of these reforms, which can be summed up as less, but more effectively targeted, state aid.
The text under discussion is a balanced one, taking account of the needs of the poorest regions and those regions affected by the statistical effect.
I particularly welcome the fact that the Commission has retreated from its original proposal to reduce the intensity of state aid in neighbouring regions to the wealthiest countries, not least the Czech-German and Czech-Austrian border regions, which, as neighbours of the former Iron Curtain, have for many years lagged behind.
I do not believe that the solution to the problem of so-called relocation lies in demonising the businesses concerned.
The reform of the rules should therefore be based on the principles of effectiveness, transparency and solidarity.
I am confident that this reform, which is only a first step in our overall review of state aid rules, will constitute an important contribution to the achievement of the Lisbon Agenda and the restoration of European competitiveness, and will act as a driver for the virtuous circle of economic growth, better standards of living and more and better jobs.
The next stage of the wider debate will come when Parliament discusses the state aid action plan next year.
Under the draft guidelines these regions will benefit from Article&#160;87(3)(a) status and a 30% aid intensity for aid to large companies for the first part of the programming period as well as the possibility of granting operating aids.
The situation of these regions will be subject to a mid-term review if their GDP has fallen below the 75% EU-25 GDP per capita.
Therefore, all statistical effect regions will continue to be eligible for regional aid for the whole programming period, either as Article&#160;87(3)(a) or as Article&#160;87(3)(c) regions.
Our discussions this evening and the amendments tabled to the motion for a resolution lead me to add three more specific points.
Firstly, it remains essential to focus regional aid on the neediest regions.
Thirdly, there is a delicate balance to be struck between ensuring that investment remains in a region for the time necessary to contribute to development, and overly restrictive obligations on the investing companies, which would become a disincentive to investment.
A cut in the financial perspective as well as an increase in population coverage would be anti-cohesion and I would like to underline that.
Again I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koterec, and the members of his team, for all their work. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday. &#160;&#160; – State aid is devoted to particularly less-favoured regions and helps, in a more focused way than other policies, to foster the Lisbon, Gothenburg and Barcelona objectives.
It is therefore an important tool available to Member States to assist poorer regions, such as those impacted by the so-called statistical effect following enlargement, or less-favoured regions such as islands or mountainous areas.
The reduction and better targeting of state aid are vital factors in promoting effective competition, but care is needed with the parameters proposed in this new approach.
It is therefore necessary to restore more limited aid levels and reduce the differentials between the maxima of less-developed regions.
