It is against this backdrop that we have been seeing significant acts of international solidarity towards Portuguese women, including the recent attempt by the Dutch ship belonging to the organisation ‘Women on Waves’ to enter Portuguese territorial waters.
Against this backdrop, we feel that the European Commission cannot turn its back on what is happening in Portugal, on the appalling hypocrisy and violence against women, which clearly encourages back-street abortions and pushes women on the lowest incomes and those with the poorest access to information into the most dangerous activities for sexual and reproductive health.
This Dutch vessel belongs to the ‘Women on Waves’ organisation, which Portuguese women’s organisations have invited to Portugal to give out information on abortion, contraception, and the RU 486 abortion pill, which is the least traumatic method of terminating pregnancy.
The Portuguese Government thought it was worth violating two of the European internal market’s fundamental freedoms: the right to information and the right to freedom of movement within the EU.
This is a serious political incident; never before has the right to freedom of movement been violated for purely political reasons.
The fact of the matter is that women in the European Union really are having their freedom curtailed, and we cannot accept the creeping rollback that is going on here.
It is clear that this case, at the end of the day, not only has the most profound effect on individual women’s right to choose, but that it is also and at the same time a highly political act, and that is why we cannot accept the violation of two of the four basic freedoms.
This happens, of course, in the debate in this House, but also in the media, where the discussion about the reproductive rights of women, which are not recognised in all EU countries, is once again cranked up.
This is exactly what the ‘Women on Waves’ association wants.
I fully support this House’s position, as set out in Mrs Van Lancker’s report, which is that, although a termination should not be decided upon lightly, women should, have the right to decide in favour of a safe, lawful termination.
The association’s campaign is concerned with two women’s rights which to my mind are indispensable: the right to health and the right to dignity, both of which are included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I am not here to reprimand those Member States which have chosen to restrict, prohibit or punish the practice of abortion, but I believe that the event of which I am speaking today should be an opportunity for these Member States to reopen the debate on this difficult issue.
Women often have to take the serious decision to end a pregnancy on their own, and it is always a time of great distress.
It is the duty of the European institutions to set an example in this field and to ensure that individual freedoms are respected.
On 6 September 2004 the administrative and fiscal court of Coimbra adopted a decision on the appeal which has been the subject of a further appeal by 'Women on Waves'.
The Commission would recall the principles of Community law in connection with the free movement of persons.
Member States can restrict this fundamental right enshrined by Article 18 of the EC Treaty solely when this is justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health.
However, it intends to contact the Portuguese authorities to obtain more detailed information on the facts related by the honourable Members. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is no reason to hold this debate.
The Portuguese Government does not give orders to the judiciary.
I understand that pregnant women must be able to make their own decisions in this delicate matter, but we must also respect the fact that a majority of citizens expressed a different view.
Limiting freedom of movement in the European area is intrinsically linked to protecting public health and to preventing the practice of illicit acts.
Citizens of Europe and defenders of women’s rights have been prevented from entering a European country and treated as though they are criminals.
The Commission and Parliament cannot and must not remain indifferent when men and women belonging to a non-governmental organisation from one Member State, invited by an NGO from another Member State, with the aim of jointly promoting awareness-raising activities on sexual and reproductive health, have been compared to drug traffickers, illegal fishermen or smugglers.
The Commission and Parliament cannot and must not remain indifferent.
The Portuguese Government cited compliance with national law and protection of public health, yet which Portuguese laws were breached, when and how?
What happened in Portugal with the ‘Women on Waves’ ship must not be allowed to happen again and must not go unpunished.
The second part of the debate is about the measures actually taken in connection with ‘Women on Waves’.
Such a situation would clearly be unacceptable.
Through its action, the Portuguese Government has challenged not only women and others throughout Europe who wish to defend human rights and respect for international conventions, but also the whole European idea, together with freedom of movement in Europe.
I thus wish to call upon both the Commission and the Council to take clear action on this issue without delay. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that we are not debating here whether or not Portuguese law is among the most backward in Europe – it is – given that, in the area of abortion, it is worse than, say, Tunisia.
We are not debating why Portuguese women have to go to Spain to have abortions that could be carried out in Portugal, or why those without the means to go to Spain have back-street abortions, which is a matter of concern for Portuguese public health.
It is not even because Portuguese women still have to go to court to expose their pain and their intimate details in a humiliating ordeal.
Nor are we discussing why the Administrative Court of First Instance took the decision that it took in Portugal.
Mr Graça Moura may, therefore, wish all he likes to abort this debate, but he has no way of doing so.
The Commission’s response was an encouraging one, which, while falling short of what was required, ensures that the kind of incident that took place recently will continue to be met with firm opposition by the many people in Europe who believe that the free movement of people and ideas is an integral principle of the European project itself. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank God for giving me the chance to speak before Parliament on the most important issue of modern times, namely the defence of life.
This is of particular significance at a time when over 50 million children are killed each year in their mothers’ wombs, which amounts to genocide on a considerably larger scale than the millions of Holocaust victims.
The fact that in many countries the fundamental right to life is not respected is deeply shameful for today’s civilisation and today’s Europe.
It is a very welcome fact that there are now a great many more people in this House who do remember the words of our Saviour 2&#160;000 years ago, when He said: ‘As you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me’.
They must never be forgotten! &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects of the ban on the entry into Portugal of the ship belonging to ‘Women on Waves’ which are worthy of consideration; firstly, the violation of the principle of free movement of goods and persons, as the Dutch ships were expressly prohibited from entering Portuguese territorial waters and thus from berthing, and secondly, the propaganda spread by ‘Women on Waves’.
In this context, I should like to note that in its resolution of 3 July 2002, Parliament called on the Member States to conduct information campaigns on sexual and reproductive rights, and not to encourage women to use abortion as a method of contraception.
The protest by our fellow Members appears to us to be nothing but a political act against the Portuguese Government, and this is an act with which we do not wish to be associated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the third time the boat has put out to sea.
We are not going to discuss boats by Greenpeace or other organisations.
I set great store by a debate on ethical questions, such as abortion and women’s rights, and indeed applaud it, but the discussion is specifically about this boat and what happens on it.
I think that what happens on this boat is unfortunate.
We may be a community of values, but not in this respect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to address the Commission about European citizens’, and particularly women’s, right to information.
It was not the intention of the ‘Women on Waves’ ship to export the Dutch achievements in the area of abortion to Portugal, but rather to give Portuguese women and men objective information about their sexual rights.
Although the ship has now left Portugal, ‘Women on Waves’ has indicated its intention of returning in time for the forthcoming elections in Portugal.
Commissioner Wallström, can the Commission ensure that best practice in the area of providing information about women’s reproductive and sexual rights will again be put more firmly on the map, and will it take concrete steps in this respect, for example in the form of organising a conference on this topic in Lisbon? &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Portuguese Government claims that the activities on board the 'Women on Waves' ship violate Portuguese law.
However, I also believe that this was a provocative act by 'Women on Waves' and an attempt to undermine the principle of subsidiarity because, while in this House we may or may not agree with Portugal's stance on abortion, we must at all times recognise its right as a democratically elected government to make these decisions.
If a Portuguese or Dutch citizen were to smoke on board an Irish ship in international waters, that would break Irish law.
Children have an unrestricted right to be welcomed into the world with the prospects of a good life.
If this vessel, that is the subject of our debate, had been called ‘Men for violence as a means of conflict resolution’, would it, I wonder, not, in all likelihood, have been permitted to enter the port?
That is precisely what is happening here with ‘Women on Waves’.
I would note in this connection that the Dutch Public Health Inspectorate is launching an inquiry in order to assess whether the activities by ‘Women on Waves’ are permitted.
The Netherlands need not show the way in this matter.
Article 28 of Community law stipulates that there should be free movement of goods and services.
Article 30 of the same Community law stipulates that free movement of goods should not apply when common decency, public order, safety and public health need to be protected.
It is therefore quite a privilege for the EU Member States to still have the right to adopt their own policies.
The Portuguese Government should be praised for considering the unborn life worthy of protection. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that when we discuss the ‘Women on Waves’ boat, the discussion relates in large part to the problem of abortion, which is an entirely new problem for the EU.
It should be borne in mind that in the majority of European countries abortion has only been permitted in the past few decades, and even now it is not permitted in all of them.
They must appreciate that for a great many people in Europe and for a large majority of people in many European countries abortion is a serious crime.
I have the greatest respect for the Netherlands, for the Dutch people in the European Union and for the Dutch Presidency, but we have our laws.
We have always debated these issues freely without the need for such digressions.
Our laws are the fruit of our democracy.
In other words, Portugal is not a colony of the Netherlands or of any other country, and less still, the target market of some opportunist group that comes along to educate the local population, as happened during the 1975 ‘cultural dynamisation’ and when the PREC (Ongoing Revolutionary Process) was at its peak.
If that were to happen, this House would be up in arms.
Our fellow-Europeans in Portugal have the same right to information and debate as all others.
For two weeks I saw how the organisation ‘Women on Waves’ repeatedly mocked Polish law by violating a large number of regulations, for example by entering the port of Władysławowo without the consent of the port authority.
If ‘Women on Waves’ wish to enter Polish ports again in the future, we will not allow this to happen. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there are differing views as to how the law should treat abortion, but, listening to some of those who have spoken, I got the impression that they regarded abortion as progress.
Poland and many other Member States do likewise, some of them very effectively.
What is going on here is agitation and an attempt at undermining the law of a Member State and an important principle of the European Union, that being the subsidiarity principle, and the most important principle in our Charter of Fundamental Rights, the right to life. &#160;&#160; Mr President, just because abortion in Portugal is illegal in most cases, it does not mean that it is not needed there.
Women in Portugal need help and advice on abortion, sexual health and reproductive rights.
I would remind this House that in most Member States abortion is legal.
I would also draw your attention to the Van Lancker report, which has already been mentioned.
We are not talking here about something being forced on people, we are talking about something being requested because there is a clear need and demand for it.
The committee has devoted sufficient time to discussion of these events, even in a situation where we did not have sufficient information and in-depth analysis, especially with regard to the possible contravention of human rights, community rights or rights of freedom of movement or information.
The following reflections are simply the reflections of a woman in solidarity with other women.
The Commission recommends that Member States strengthen all resources for this fight.
Women who have the wherewithal to pay can have these operations in Portuguese private hospitals disguised as other kinds of surgery.
The hypocrisy has now, however, reached new levels of insanity, with the ban on entry into Portugal of the ship belonging to the ‘Women on Waves’ organisation.
The Portuguese Government, the one that Mr Barroso has left, has sought to stifle information and debate on family planning, in clear breach of human rights, international law and Community law.
Resources have thus been diverted, once again, from important activities, such as the fight against international terrorism and organised crime, and observing vessels used in drug-trafficking that use Portuguese waters as a point of entry into the rest of Europe.
I should like to ask the Commissioner, in addition to the points that she mentioned, not to ignore the unjustified, excessive and almost obsessive use by the Portuguese Government of criminal, legal and even military resources in the fight against abortion and against providing family planning information.
In so doing, they have removed the resources and the efforts that Portugal ought to be putting into EU crime prevention policies in the joint fight against international terrorism and organised crime. &#160;&#160; I wish to join other colleagues in showing solidarity with the Portuguese Government for its decision not to allow the ship ‘Women on Waves’ in Portugal.
I show my solidarity and congratulate the Portuguese Government for its courage and, why not, also its moral courage when taking this decision.
This means that, by raising this issue here when we know that this Parliament has no jurisdiction, all we are doing is mixing people up and creating total confusion, when, in fact, this is a clear issue and upon which there is no place for confusion.
This confusion has even caused a number of countries, including Malta, my country, to seek clarification regarding this issue in the context of negotiations by negotiating a specific protocol regarding the abortion issue.
Therefore whilst again congratulating the Portuguese Government that set an example to others, I appeal that we should not muddle people’s minds regarding this issue by entering into matters that do not concern us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I find it somewhat ironic that all of the men who have spoken on the other side of this House have had the temerity to tell women what they should do with their bodies.
I am proud to stand here and defend a woman's right to choose.
If we could separate politics and religion, I tell you now that the world would be a safer and better place in which to live.
This issue goes to the heart of Europe.
Ours is a Europe based not on suppression of information or repression, but on fundamental freedoms and human rights.
Finally, as I said previously, this is about informed choice as opposed to enforced ignorance.
As I said earlier, on 6 September 2004 the administrative and fiscal court of Coimbra concluded that there had been no violation of Community law.
This decision is the subject of a further appeal.
The Commission intends to seek information on the precise motives and implications of the decision of the Portuguese Government.
As I have already stated, the Commission believes that any Member State adopting a decision restricting the free movement of persons must respect fundamental rights, including freedom of expression, as general principles of Community law. &#160;&#160; I thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is oral question (B6-0012/2004) on the EU strategic objectives for the 13th meeting of the CITES Convention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am wearing several hats this morning, so I apologise for the confusion.
CITES is a global conservation agreement on trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna, which is implemented in the EU through the even stricter EU wildlife trade regulations.
CITES regulates trade in some 30&#160;000 species of plants and animals.
It is really only Appendix I and Appendix II that require the sanction of the Conference of the Parties in this area.
It welcomes an Australian proposal to list the great white shark in Appendix II of CITES with a zero quota on precautionary principle grounds.
On the great white shark issue, the Community has generally supported the Appendix&#160;II listing, but rejected the zero quota on legal and scientific grounds.
Although it is a free vote, I will be recommending that we vote against, in the hope that a compromise will be found in that area.
I am leaning in favour of it, but the scientific and practical doubts remain.
In doing so, our position on some high-profile issues has evolved.
For example, we are now leaning in favour of the proposal to outlaw commercial trade in the Irrawaddy dolphin.
CITES has been in force for nearly 30 years and has proved a very effective tool in reducing the threats to wild fauna and flora posed by unsustainable international trade.
Since its entry into force, other agreements relating to biodiversity have been adopted, most notably the Convention on Biological Diversity.
Increased protection is often required to safeguard the conservation status of some species in trade, but we must also acknowledge the efforts of those countries that have already implemented effective conservation measures.
The Community supports this science-based approach and therefore is hesitant about the proposals concerning the African lion and endemic reptiles.
Finally, the Community wishes to maximise the efficiency of CITES by minimising unnecessary administrative burdens.
The proposal before us now will in some cases mean protection will be more rigid, while in some cases it will be slacker.
The all-important issue is not strictness, but sustainable development.
The EU is unfortunately one of the largest markets for the illegal trade in wild animals and plants. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Doyle has just said when putting our written question to the Commission, this position statement affects not only the 25 Member States of the European Union, but is also a signal to the remainder of the 166 states that have signed up to CITES, known also as the Washington Agreement on the Protection of Species.
We know that, beside the destruction of their habitats, international trade is the greatest threat to the survival of many endangered species.
That is what makes CITES necessary, and that is why I have been heartened by many of the positions taken by the Commission, which, at the conference of states party to the Convention, is speaking out loud and clear in favour of strict restrictions on trade.
It did not manage to get its position accepted at the last meeting of the International Whaling Commission in July 2004.
We call on the European Union and its Member States to reject Japan’s demand that three types of minke whales be transferred from Appendix I to Appendix II and hence also to unambiguously retain a higher standard of protection for the whales.
Virtually no animal on this planet can exist without the agreement of humans.
However, the issue of land animals in Africa highlights the complexities involved in securing solutions.
However, curtailing the ivory trade seems to have been successful in preventing a complete wipe-out.
If we in Europe want to deny poor nations the right to sell harvested ivory legitimately and sustainably, should we not be contributing financially to meet our desires and their needs? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that we can congratulate ourselves today, as this House is putting forward a resolution supported by all political groups.
We are aware that, as the 25 Member States of the European Union, we are the largest consumers of wild species.
Mrs&#160;Doyle has drawn up a list, and it is truly horrifying; millions of species are taken from their habitats around the world for our pleasure alone, not for our survival but for our pleasure alone.
Legal trade in species is an enormous market.
It is for all these reasons that we should support these proposals, and I would ask you, Mr President, to allow me to say something on the issue of secrecy, which is an extremely important issue.
The first concerns the issue of secret ballots.
That is my first question.
Lion hunting was, in fact, what was wanted, as a split vote was requested, and we are in actual fact still short of an explanation from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats as to its wishes in connection with a species 90% of which has disappeared over the last decade.
However, I question why the CITES conference is to be held in Bangkok.
In my constituency there is an organisation called Monkey World Ape Rescue Centre which wants to get a particular chimpanzee called Naree out of Thailand, but the Thai Government has not been helpful in this regard.
If the conference is held in Thailand, it is very important for both this Parliament and the Commission to raise these issues with the Thai Government.
While I welcome CITES and everything it is trying to do, the fact that the conference is to be held in Thailand will give us an opportunity to raise these issues with the Thai Government, so as to help stop such things happening.
Firstly, on the issue of enforcement and information exchange, last week Member States agreed to step up activities in this area.
This would be in the best interests of CITES and of nature conservation in general.
and to ensure that any such sanctions do not add to the suffering of the population of Sudan.' &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;Are there any objections to this oral amendment being included? (3) &#160;&#160; Mr President, before moving on to the vote on the joint motions for resolutions on Iraq signed by five political groups, I would like to point out that there has been an error on the part of the services of the sitting who have omitted three references which were part of the compromise resolution.
I have made a note of this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, all the points raised by Mr Salafranca are correct.
Paragraph three must therefore be amended as well.
Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that it is annoying, but I assure you that we tabled the correct version of the text.
All the other language versions will be brought into line and your request will be complied with. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the Members of this House know, this morning in Baghdad three people were abducted from their home, two of whom are US citizens and one a European citizen of British origin.
I propose to the House an oral amendment to paragraph 2 to add, after the reference to the Italian humanitarian workers, Simona Torretta and Simona Pari, the words ‘and the British citizen’ – followed by his full name – so that the European Parliament can issue a timely call for the release of this other citizen of our Union and guarantee him the support of all the political forces represented within it. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;Are there any objections to this oral amendment being included? &#160;&#160; Mr President, an issue has arisen overnight concerning paragraph 5 of our resolution.
The original paragraph 5 referred to an 'Australian proposal to list the Great White Shark in CITES Appendix II with a zero quota'.
However, the Australians have now withdrawn the reference to a zero quota on legal and scientific grounds, as I mentioned when I moved the question and as the Commissioner has confirmed.
However, we can welcome the first sentence 'to list the Great White Shark in CITES Appendix II'.
I would like to amend paragraph 5 of our text: 'welcomes the Australian proposal to list the great white shark in CITES Appendix II'.
This parody must be stopped, the so-called court disbanded and Slobodan Milosevic freed. &#160;&#160; .
I voted in favour of Parliament’s draft resolution on the proposal for a Council regulation imposing certain restrictive measures in support of effective implementation of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), because this is a matter of adopting measures relating to defendants who have yet to be captured and who continue to escape justice.
These would have a negligible effect on demand for most air travel, but would have a disproportionate effect on the budget airline sector.
The coordinator of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Georg Jarzembowski, makes the following statement, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in relation to the meeting of the ICAO: The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will abstain in the vote on the joint resolution, as the resolution’s demands are too indiscriminate and as the pressure of time has prevented a nuanced debate, such as these matters require, on these demands with the Member States represented at the ICAO and with the industry and consumers affected.
I abstained on the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the 35th session of the International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) Assembly of 28&#160;September to 8&#160;October 2004.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Committee on Development on the Darfur region in the Sudan, and the reports presented to us by the Members of this House who were in Parliament’s delegation to the region between 2 and 7&#160;September.
Apart from Amendment No 12, I voted in favour of the amendments, which have improved upon the Committee on Development’s initial proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last night I fell asleep thinking about the explanation of vote on Iraq and I found myself in the midst of the damned in hell, among whom I spotted Bin Laden, with his beard burning constantly, as in Dante’s inferno.
It does not address the question of how the current situation in Iraq evolved over the last two years and therefore fails to criticise the Bush Administration's defiance of the UN in its rush to invade Iraq.
Since Georges Malbrunot and Christian Chesnot were taken hostage, France has also been dragged into the quagmire in Iraq.
The terrorists, who belong to the ‘Islamic Army in Iraq’, want more.
With or without immediate withdrawal, it is becoming urgent for Europe to disassociate from the American positions in Iraq.
The only people with the authority to resolve the political problem are the Iraqis themselves.
The people, and the people of Europe, are demanding the immediate withdrawal of all the occupying forces, which must compensate the Iraqi people for their crimes and for the destruction which they have caused.
I voted in favour of Parliament’s resolution on Iraq, because I feel that Europe should set a firm example in condemning terrorist attacks against civilians, the police, soldiers from the multinational force and civilian hostages.
We must also support the interim government’s plans to press ahead with preparations for free and democratic elections in January 2005, which will enable Iraqis to proceed along the road towards democracy and towards dismantling the terrorist networks operating in their country.
We must remain firm within our societies, our alliances must remain solid and loyal and, most importantly, our actions must form part of a concerted struggle for the peace, stability and prosperity to which Iraq and the Iraqi people are unquestionably entitled. &#160;&#160; .
It is based on transforming the dramatic situation of the victims and the journalists and volunteers who have lost their lives or have been taken hostage and not as a consequence of the invasion and the occupation.
It is based on attempting to bring under the UN umbrella, in the near future, something that was done on the margins and against the UN and international law.
Similarly, it is the people who are against war and in favour of peace that are with us. &#160;&#160; .
I have been following the developments in Iraq with alarm and, specifically, the difficulties experienced in stabilising the country democratically following the fall of Saddam Hussein’s dictatorial regime.
The frequent hostage taking and murder of Iraqis and foreigners, which presents a challenge to the international community and to the Iraqi Interim Government, cruelly reflects how much remains to be done in the country.
The trade in wild animal meat for human consumption is just one part of a wildlife trade which includes ivory, fur and the trade in certain animal body parts – a trade which threatens biodiversity and the ecological balance of areas such as Central and West Africa.
The Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) is the main legal instrument in the world for defending and protecting wild fauna and flora.
We cannot tolerate and we denounce both the efforts to mislead public opinion, as some would wish, and the EU's blatant intention to confirm the threatening and aggressive role of the European army once again in Vojvodina. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;That concludes the explanations of vote. (4) &#160;&#160; The next item is the topical and urgent debate. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions presented by: – Glenys Kinnock, Mauro Zani and Margrietus J.
van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in Myanmar/ASEM (B6-0046/2004); – Vittorio Emanuele Agnoletto, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Myanmar and the forthcoming ASEM Summit (B6-0048/2004); – Nirj Deva, Bernd Posselt, Charles Tannock and Geoffrey Van Orden, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the ASEM Summit (Asia-Europe Meeting) (B6-0056/2004); – Johan Van Hecke, on behalf of the ALDE/ADLE Group, on Myanmar (ASEM Summit) (B6-0059/2004); – Frithjof Schmidt, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on Myanmar and the ASEM Summit (B6-0061/2004). &#160;&#160; Mr President, we in the PSE Group attach great importance to relations between the European Union and the countries of Asia.
There are economic and commercial reasons for this, but there is also the essential need for political cooperation in order to create a world order of peace and stability.
It is essential that our Asian partners see us as an economic, industrial, scientific and cultural power, but also that they appreciate our process of continental integration and the democratic values and solidarity on which this process is based.
The European Union must contribute to marginalising that regime, demanding freedom for Aung San Suu Kyi and other prisoners of conscience, and the participation of political parties in any democratically oriented process.
By excluding that regime from the Hanoi Summit, the European Union will be doing what is right, but furthermore our determination and consistency will consolidate our credibility in the eyes of our Asian partners and certainly in the eyes of the people of Myanmar. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I just wanted to ask whether we were going to benefit from the presence of the presidency of the Council this afternoon, because the remarks that I want to make – and which I am sure many of my colleagues will be making – are in fact directed at the Council.
It is perhaps not very extensive, but it is what the Council has decided and Parliament cannot therefore tell the Council how it should be represented in the House’s sittings, although your comment is undoubtedly very valid. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the fourth resolution that I have tabled on Burma in the last 18 months, but the situation continues to deteriorate and the Council's reaction is pusillanimous.
It is 15 years since Aung San Suu Kyi was first put under house arrest and 14 years since the SPDC decided to disregard the will of the Burmese people as expressed in the 1990 elections.
In 1997 Burma's entry into ASEAN was heralded as a means to exert pressure on the regime.
Six years after Burma joined ASEAN, oppression in the country has intensified and any return to democratic rule remains a distant prospect.
The Asian governments must realise that they may be sacrificing a rewarding partnership with the European Union for the sake of a morally bankrupt regime in Burma.
The EU Foreign Ministers must demand that they do this before Burma is allowed to sit down with them in Hanoi. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Myanmar, a country that lives under a repressive, violent and enormously cruel regime, is known to us all.
In this situation, we feel that the EU should accept the request of the ASEAN countries, which have already admitted Myanmar to their forum, to have it attend the next ASEM summit, which sees the European Union engaged in a dialogue of cooperation and political exchange with Asian countries.
From that time onwards, the military dictatorship has been repeatedly denounced by international institutions, the European Parliament and the Council among them, and their constant demands have been threefold: freedom for the NLD to engage in political activity, freedom for Aung San Suu Kyi and the initiation of political dialogue aimed at advancing the country’s democratisation process.
It was a major breakthrough when, at the 2004 ASEM Summit in Kildare, the Asian states supported these demands as the minimum requirement before Burma would be able to take part in future ASEM summits.
We can see, then, that there is a broad consensus in the international community that these conditions must be fulfilled, and it is one that this House has repeatedly underlined.
We have to make it clear that the foreign ministers have taken the wrong decision and that this House continues to take a critical line on the Burmese Government. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I consider it an affront to democracy and humanity that Burma will be represented at the ASEM Meeting in Hanoi in October.
As the previous speaker, Mr Schmidt, has said, the three necessary conditions for Burma's attendance at the meeting have not been met: the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other National League for Democracy leaders, their freedom to participate freely in the National Convention, and the modification of procedure of the National Convention.
In my view, it is time the Vietnamese Government made a gesture in this respect.
Secondly, human rights are a topic of discussion also in other countries in the region, and remain so.
This is a welcome step forward, but in the case of the prisoner, Machiel Kuijt, with which I am particularly concerned, it was agreed that he would appear before the court of cassation before 1 July.
Finally, Burma has been mentioned.
No other Asian country is struggling with human rights and democracy as much as Burma.
Moreover, its problems are historical.
In my view, the other Asian countries, particularly the ASEAN countries, which are so insistent that Burma should take part in those talks, also have a responsibility to ensure finally that Burma is taking this kind of dialogue seriously. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the end of 2002 I was travelling in Burma and saw that Burma was a police state.
The Burmese authorities have not cooperated with the UN special envoys, and the latest attack on Aung San Su Kyi and the NDL is a further setback.
The brutal military dictatorship is the root cause of the problems ravaging Burma.
All members of the Committee on Development who have spoken in the debate feel strongly that the EU should not participate in the ASEM Summit in Hanoi with Burma.
Instead, the EU should increase and toughen sanctions against the regime leaders and should impose sanctions on the European corporations that do business with the Burmese regime, and specifically the French oil company Total.
It is absolutely clear that all members of the European Union remain highly critical of the military regime in Rangoon and the European Union will continue to repeat our demand for the immediate and unconditional release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and other leading representatives of the Burmese National League for Democracy.
We have been able to reach this agreement, because we value EU relations with Asia too much to allow our ASEM dialogue to be taken hostage by the behaviour of the regime in Rangoon.
At the same time, in order to send a strong signal to the Burmese regime that we do not agree with its policies, the European Union has decided to strengthen the targeted measures against the Burmese regime if it has not fulfilled the Tullamore conditions by the time of the ASEM summit.
The Commission therefore looks forward to the ASEM V summit in Hanoi on 8 and 9 October, which in the context of wider discussions will allow a discussion with Asian leaders on human rights and prospects for reform in Burma and allow us to communicate our concerns to the Burmese representatives there.
The vote will take place following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following seven motions for resolutions presented by: – Véronique De Keyser, Johannes (Hannes) Swoboda, Csaba Sándor Tabajdi and Jan Marinus Wiersma, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the harassment of minorities in Vojvodina (B6-0045/2004); – Roberto Musacchio, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Vojvodina (Serbia and Montenegro) (B6-0049/2004); – Kinga Gál, Doris Pack and Bernd Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Vojvodina in Serbia and Montenegro (B6-0055/2004); – Adriana Poli Bortone, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the harassment of minorities in Vojvodina (Serbia and Montenegro) (B6-0057/2004); – Jelko Kacin and István Szent-Iványi, on behalf of the ALDE/ADLE Group, on the continuing atrocities against minorities in the province of Vojvodina (Serbia and Montenegro) (B6-0060/2004); – Angelika Beer, Gisela Kallenbach, Joost Lagendijk, Raül Romeva Rueda and Tatjana Ždanoka, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the violence against minorities in Serbia (B6-0062/2004); – Bastiaan Belder, on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, on Vojvodina in Serbia and Montenegro (B6-0064/2004). &#160;&#160; In the name of the European Socialist faction and the Hungarian Socialist delegation, I welcome today’s resolution proposal by the European Parliament.
The European Parliament is doing itself proud by resolutely defending the rights of minorities.
The day before yesterday, when the President of the Hungarian Republic held discussions with President Tadic in a good atmosphere, 15 kilometres from the borders of the European Union, in Szabadka-Subotica, the word ‘death’ was painted on the front door of the house of the man who first dared to complain publicly about the physical injuries he had sustained.
Today’s resolution of the European Parliament is an important reinforcement of the fact that the rule of law and observing the rights of the minorities are preconditions of a partnership between the European Union and Serbia.
This is a fundamental political question.
I am pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has accepted my budgetary amendment proposal to increase the Union’s support by EUR 5 million for the process of democratisation in Serbia.
Today’s European Parliament’s resolution will encourage the Vojvodina minorities, amongst whom live 300 000 Hungarians, and they will not feel abandoned by Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr President,after a string of violent conflicts in the states of former Yugoslavia between 1992 and 2001, everyone hoped that the survivors would co-exist peacefully.
However, we will not solve this problem merely by committing our condemnations and moral indignation to paper.
If that is the only thing we do, then I fear that we will have to repeat pertinent resolutions of this kind again and again, because they are not being heard by the people who matter.
Since the 1918 division, when it became part of Serbia, it has continually become more Serbian and other groups have moved away or have been driven out.
The recent riots are part and parcel of this long-term development.
We should therefore do more than merely adopt this resolution, although it is a step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; – We are pleased that our proposal found agreement and has enjoyed the support of every Parliamentary group.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; – The process of democratisation in Serbia has faltered over the last year and a half.
Serbia’s leaders must know that what is at stake is the European future of the country.
In short, what exactly are the minority rights of the Hungarians in Vojvodina?
We must support the Hungarians, but also all the other minorities too.
Young Hungarians in Serbia want to be good Hungarians, good citizens of a democratic Serbia, but, above all, good Europeans.
They want to remain in the land where they were born.
As a mayor, I would like to express my particular solidarity with the Mayor of Padej, Laszlo Komárom who was twice slapped in the face by a police superintendent.
Everything seems to suggest that within this province with its different minorities, the Serbs are once again turning more insolent and more radical.
The sad experiences from the recent past should have taught us that conflicts in so-called multi-cultural or multi-ethnic societies are rooted in recent history, and that we should therefore look for a balanced political solution, whereby consideration is given to the complaints of all those involved, as well as to the conflict’s historical background.
We should therefore firmly condemn all violence, but we should be careful not to lay the blame on one party alone. &#160;&#160; – Vojvodina is the last multicultural region of the former Yugoslavia that, so far, has largely been free of public violent atrocities.
The brutality of the organised atrocities and ethnic cleansing by the central authorities in the other parts of the former Yugoslavia, for instance Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo, serves as a warning.
The guarantee of and respect for human and minority rights are the touchstones of democracy.
Serbia and Montenegro’s long-term objective is to join the European Union.
A country that refuses to accept this has no place in the European Union.
As representative of the Hungarian community in Slovakia, I can prove through experience that a minority community is very sensitive to any measures and events that also endanger its existence beyond its identity.
The recent visit of the Serbian Prime Minister Kostunica to Vojvodina, as well as the letter sent by the Foreign Minister of Serbia and Montenegro to the President-in-Office of the EU Council of Ministers, were concrete expressions of the declared commitment of authorities in Belgrade to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice and more generally to ensure the protection of minorities.
The visit of the Hungarian President Mr Madl to Belgrade on 14&#160;September was an excellent opportunity to discuss this issue in a constructive way and to confirm the good relations between Budapest and Belgrade.
For its part, the Commission is committed to contributing to the promotion of good inter-ethnic relations in Vojvodina as well as in other areas through a number of EU-funded projects. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote will take place following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on the following five motions for resolutions presented by: – Pasqualina Napoletano, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the human rights situation in the Maldives (B6-0044/2004); – Giusto Catania and Jonas Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on human rights in the Maldives (B6-0047/2004); – Nirj Deva, Thomas Mann, Charles Tannock and Geoffrey Van Orden, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the Maldives (B6-0054/2004); – Graham R.
Watson, on behalf of the ALDE/ADLE Group, on the political situation in the Maldives (B6-0058/2004); – Cristiana Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the Maldives (B6-0063/2004). &#160;&#160; In the paradise islands of the Maldives, where more than 300&#160;000 European tourists enjoy unforgettable holidays, thousands of local citizens have to endure appalling oppression by a regime that has been in power for 26 years.
The European Union, for its part, has a moral and political duty not to forget these people who live under a state of emergency, subject to arbitrary mass imprisonment – pro-democracy leaders have been tortured, detained and forbidden from communicating with the outside world – and still have to live under a regime that denies them an independent judiciary.
The EU must demand an immediate end to the state of emergency and the release of all detainees.
The EU must, in turn, ask Member States to notify tourists planning to go to the Maldives that paradise is not paradise after all, and that there are human beings suffering tremendous oppression in that country. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is inconceivable that we are discussing the Maldives when this name evokes for us all holidays and a scene of paradise.
In reality, there is systematic violation of human rights on these islands.
I think that a firm resolution is needed, aiming at ensuring, , that the Maldives really are a paradise, but a paradise in which democracy and the respect of human rights prevail. &#160;&#160; Mr President, why are we talking about the Maldives today?
We have not looked at the living conditions or quality of life of the people in that country.
Eight MPs were detained, MPs who had been tasked with drafting constitutional amendments for increased representation in parliament, including a former candidate for the role of Speaker, former Secretary-General of SAARC Mr Ibrahim Zaki, who has been nominated by some of us for the Sakharov Prize.
Others have been held in prison without charge.
Habeas corpus has been suspended and human rights have been abused.
If the government of the Maldives wants to engage with the European Union, it should first restore the fundamental rights of those people it has imprisoned.
Again, I gather that there are some detainees who are in desperate need of such attention.
For over 26 years, the President has ruled over the archipelago as a dictator; only his own party is allowed to contest elections, he himself is the supreme judge, appoints one-sixth of the members of parliament, and controls the media, while economic life as a whole is in the hands of his family, something to which Mr Deva referred.
In August, in order to reinforce his power, the President declared a state of emergency, and had supporters of the pro-democracy movement arrested.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats calls on him to release opposition elements from jail and at last initiate democratic reforms, failing which financial aid from the European Union and its Member States will have to be stopped.
However, the more the legitimate opposition, such as the Maldivian Democratic Party, and fundamental rights are suppressed, the more people will be driven into the arms of extremists. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr President, Mr Deva made us in the Committee on Development aware a few weeks ago of the tyranny – for there are no other words to describe the situation – which is governing the heavenly Maldives and where in August, a corrupt ruler, motivated by sharia law, once again imprisoned without trial a number of members of the opposition.
The measures imposed under the ‘state of emergency’ are draconian.
Building on this, a resolution from the European Parliament that would underline the main messages already passed by the EU would be very valuable.
We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote on: (1) (2) (3) &#160;&#160; Parliament has come to the end of its agenda.(1) I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
