The full findings of the investigation are set out in the measures which we published on 6 October, as well as the details of how we established the level of dumping and injury to EU industry and determined the appropriate level of duties in this case.
Nevertheless, the situation is specific to this particular case, and, while each case must be judged on its own merits, particularly when we face globalisation, it does not as such represent a fundamental change in the way we deal with trade defence cases.
At the moment I can tell you that the last industry remaining in France, in Alsace, manufacturing safety footwear, which is very important, is going to go to the Court of Justice, because the differences are of 40% - bearing in mind that we are asking for antidumping measures in the form of a tariff of 10% to 20% - and the footwear coming in does not conform to the minimum safety standards.
The question of antidumping duties on footwear has divided the Member States of the Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, may I first of all associate myself with the comments of complaint that were raised by Mr Barón Crespo.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, the Council's decision concerning duties on shoes from China and Vietnam is another example of the EU's protectionism.
The decision is an assault on the multilateral agreement system and, specifically, the Multifibre Agreement, and it excessively punishes those Member States that have managed to comply with the agreement.
The duties hits, for example, Denmark, which has transferred its production of shoes to China and only retained the design and marketing aspects in Denmark.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, we feel that the problem with the measures decided by the Council is that they are overdue, that they will have a limited impact and that they fall short of what is needed in a sector that has a good future ahead of it and that is very important to Portugal and the EU.
Meanwhile, since 2001, production of leather footwear in Europe has fallen by almost 30%.
In the European Union shoe sector almost 40 000 jobs have been lost during this period.
In 2001, Poland imported only 300 000 pairs of Chinese-made shoes.
The European Commission must do everything in its power to prevent such a situation from repeating itself in any other sector of the economy.
I should like to know which Head of State or which Commissioner will be going out in person to explain to families with many children that when they buy more expensive shoes they are not buying higher quality, but are subsidising inefficient footwear companies. (PT) In imposing the anti-dumping tax on leather footwear imports from China and Vietnam, the EU took a good decision, albeit a long overdue one.
European footwear manufacturers know that they have to compete with companies that manufacture products while paying their employees lower wages.
With the imposition of anti-dumping duties on Chinese and Vietnamese leather footwear for the next two years, EU Member States trying to compete in the footwear manufacturing sector have won a temporary victory against those EU countries that have moved their production to Asia.
For this reason I believe that the introduction of anti-dumping duties is justified, as is the use of any other methods that would restrict the import of shoes that fall short of European requirements. (SV) Mr President, the introduction of duties on shoes from Vietnam and China is a splendid own-goal by the EU.
What we are doing at the moment, you see, is standing up for and defending those industries that are uncompetitive, at the same time as punishing those industries that have adjusted to globalisation, for example by moving their production to more competitive countries.
China and Vietnam have been responsible for particularly unacceptable commercial practices in the footwear industry and have gone so far as to increase the numerous competitive advantages they already enjoy.
These measures are not, therefore, to be understood as being opposed to free trade, but as being, quite the opposite, a vital factor in protecting free trade in the long term.
The adoption of these measures must not, therefore, be seen as an attempt to reopen the door to unwanted protectionism, but rather as a vital instrument for ensuring that international trade is fairly regulated. (DA) Mr President, Commissioner, in contrast to the previous speaker, I wish to say that if anyone believes that European jobs can be saved by placing duties on leather shoes from China and Vietnam, they should think again.
The latest figures from Eurostat show that, since the duties were approved in the spring, shoe production has moved from China and Vietnam to countries such as India and Indonesia.
If, therefore, the European Union wishes to safeguard its producers, it must impose controls on the products that it aims to promote in the internal market.
It is unthinkable to set off prices against production so long as the production factors are so unbalanced in favour of Asian industry - unbalanced in respect of costs not only of labour but also, for example, of administration.
The Council statement showed that governments are not interested in principle, but in concrete trade interests that differ across the north-south divide.
Shoes should be healthy, whether they are made by the Chinese, the Japanese, or anyone else. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if this debate were to be confined to weighing up the arguments for and against anti-dumping measures for leather footwear from China and Vietnam, it would truly serve no purpose.
European countries are divided on this issue because producers' interests are in conflict with those of distributors.
I would like briefly to communicate to the Council my relative satisfaction with the agreement reached on 4 October: satisfaction because it has finally been agreed that action should be taken to counter the sale of shoes from China and Vietnam below real costs prices.
We are not therefore talking about imposing protectionist measures that hinder free trade, but rather about taking measures to combat unfair competition. (EL) Mr President, the recent decision by the Council of Ministers to impose antidumping duties leads me to two crucial comments.
Unfortunately, yet again China, as a member of the World Trade Organisation, is continuing its dumping practices through its state policy, whereas the European Commission is continuing, for its part, to monitor this practice as a neutral observer.
In Europe there are not only consumers, whose interests we must of course defend; there are also workers who are losing their jobs and remaining unemployed.
There are imports, on the one hand, but there are also productive businesses and sectors of industry which must be able to compete in a secure international environment free from distortion.
Europe cannot become a jungle of uncontrolled imports in the name of the liberalisation of international trade. (HU) China and Vietnam are subsidising the export of footwear in an unacceptable manner.
With these tariffs, the EU has effectively levied a tax on consumers in a vain attempt to protect shoe manufacturers in certain countries who need to face up to the fact that they cannot produce shoes more cheaply than Asian countries.
I will convey the outcome of this debate to Commissioner Mandelson, and also, obviously, to all my colleagues.
Written statements (Rule 142) (PT) If we are to protect manufacturing and jobs with rights, the Commission and the Council must focus more on the industrial manufacturing sectors in each Member State and must not only take into account the interests of the large economic groups involved in world trade.
In Portugal alone, jobs have been lost in the footwear factories of C[amp]J Clarks in Arouca, Castelo de Paiva and Vila Nova de Gaia, of Rodhe in Tancosco and of Ara in Avintes.
This policy does not only affect the workers, and the countless micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; it also hinders regional development in huge areas in countries such as Portugal.
European manufacturers were suffering heavy losses in their export market and were victims of unfair competition.
It was therefore right to apply the trade defence instruments which the European Union has at its disposal, instruments that, I would remind you, were approved by the WTO.
The purpose of these instruments is to protect European manufacturers against unfair competition, by requiring compliance with the rules defined by the WTO.
I ask the Commissioner, Mr Mandelson, therefore, what the aim of this reform will really be: to adapt these instruments or to weaken them?
