It is not so much about the European Union's relationship with reforms in the Arab world as about a relational process of the European Union with the Arab world for the purpose of facilitating reforms.
We all receive vast amounts of information and hear complaints about failure to observe human rights, about often dictatorial governments, about huge, scandalous financial inequalities in the various countries and about the lack of economic take-off, even in places where there is oil.
There is indeed a malaise in the Arab world.
It is the League's resolutions that have brought about some progress in what is called the Middle East peace process, which is still not a peace process but from which it is hoped some results will emerge through the Arab League Summit.
In short, we have relationships with all these countries that are of the public, state, bilateral kind, but we ignore the fact of their Arab identity.
The question that this own-initiative report puts to the Commission and to the Council is this: is there not good reason to move away from that and to do a bit more, in the light of the observations I was making in my second point?
In this regard, I should just like to mention the meeting of the EU Troika with an Arab League delegation in Sharm el-Sheikh, and also to point out that Frank-Walter Steinmeier, in his capacity as President of the EU General Affairs and External Relations Council, has invited a ministerial delegation of the Arab League to a meeting with all the EU Ministers for Foreign Affairs in Brussels on 14 May.
The idea that standards and values are in principle attributable to an individual's culture runs counter to our understanding of universal human rights.
Our policies must avoid everything that promotes this reduction.
The year 2007 could certainly signalise our relations with a region undergoing radical change; a region with great expectations of a far-reaching partnership with the EU.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relations between Europe and the Arab world are the key to building peace in the Mediterranean area and in the Middle East.
The Rocard report - and I can announce that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote for it - defines a fundamental principle, which is that of reciprocity: just as everyone in Europe has the right to practise his or her religion, people should have the same right in every Arab country.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, my colleague and friend Mr Rocard will forgive me if I start by addressing a very important topic, one on which Mrs De Keyser has been working very intensively in recent months and years: that of the Palestinian territories.
Some governments may consider it acceptable, but the population of the Arab countries cannot approve of our current policy towards the Palestinian Government.
We must arrive at a different position, therefore - particularly in connection with this report, but also in connection with Israel's security, which is closely linked to the security of the Arab countries and of Europe.
We should do so by attempting genuine cooperation with the Palestinian Government - a government chosen by the elections demanded by us - if that government is at least as prepared as Israel to support the peace process.
This is all the more true when we talk about a primarily cultural - and therefore also political and institutional - effort, since in this case the talks must take place first with individuals, rather than with the Arab League or with individual States, not least because I believe that two of the major problems in the Arab world - nationalism and fundamentalism - now concern our European cities, too, which, from a demographic point of view, are also increasingly becoming cities of the Arab world.
That is why these problems must be addressed by our European Union itself.
This is a concept that must be reaffirmed very clearly, otherwise Europe will continue to pretend that it cannot see very serious dangers, including, for example, the television programmes broadcast by Hamas, in which Mickey Mouse teaches Arab children about the fight against terrorism, the fight against Israel and the sacrifice made by suicide bombers.
I have just come back from a parliamentary delegation visit to Palestine where we met Prime Minister Haniyeh and many of his ministers, and the message from all of them was the same: they have met the demands of the Quartet, they accept a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders and they are ready and eager for peace negotiations.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (NL) Mr President, the Rocard report contains many positive points.
The European Union can, and indeed must, play a part in promoting these principles within the Arab world.
I can go along with that, but I should like to stress that the Arabisation or Islamisation of Europe should not be an option either.
The European Union's reaction to this was rather - not to say very - feeble.
I should therefore like to say in all tranquillity and serenity that our freedoms and the right to remain ourselves in Europe and in all European Member States should remain intact. (ES) Mr President, it is not an easy task to produce a report on reforms in the Arab world, since that covers a fairly heterogeneous group of countries.
The Arab leaders also acknowledged this at the Tunis Summit in 2004.
First of all, it is not a well-meaning report, but a bold statement and a tremendous message of confidence in the democratic potential of the Arab world, in the diversity of its non-governmental actors, in the strength of its civil society and in its culture.
I believe that what the Rocard report is lacking, however, is a lucid analysis of the ills of European society, with regard not only to the need for reforms in the democratic Arab world but also to our policies.
I therefore believe that we must begin also with a criticism of how devastating and obstructive our policies in Iraq have been, for example in terms of hindering a reform process that is crucial not only in the Arab world but also to us, when it comes to changing our policy. (MT) Thank you, Mr President.
The subject of reform in the Arab world is an extremely complex one.
We also need to make better use of our interlocutors in the Arab world, such as the Arab League which, despite its own problems, has gained enough credibility to give a voice to the Arab world.
Malta took the initiative of proposing a structured dialogue between the European Union and the Arab League; a dialogue aimed at tackling the subject of the reforms that must be carried out on both sides of the Mediterranean.
I believe the need for this report can be seen from the way that in recent years, not only in the USA but also in Europe, there has been a certain blinkered tendency to view the Arab and Islamic world simply in terms of the fight against terrorism.
Whilst European-Arab relations must take account of the fight against terrorism, they must also take account of issues such as economic and social development, employment, the proper management of public affairs, the strengthening of civil society, the concept of human rights, and intercultural and inter-faith exchange and dialogue.
Dialogue and partnership with the EU could in my view be targeted more at cooperation with the Arab world as a whole.
They also offer a wider framework for analysis than that of the fight against terrorism imposed following 11 September.
But let me highlight the absolute need to limit the impact of any direct or indirect support by the EU or our Member States for authoritarianism in the region.
The point is to support a process that must bring Arab countries closer to the values of our democracies, without pretending and without accusing them of not sharing these values from the beginning of the process.
The people in Arab countries would also have hoped for a greater share in economic development than has been the case.
Mr President, I simply wish to thank Parliament and, of course, its rapporteur, Mr Rocard, for the work done on a subject that is important for all of us.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Pluralism, on the other hand, aims for dialogue on values and means that different value and belief systems need to be understood when decisions are being taken, for the simple reason that they are an important part of people's lives.
I will be supporting this report on EU strategy towards the Arab world.
Here EU efforts brokered a peace settlement and a peace process that ended a 30-year-long civil war at the cost of less than a few hours' spending in Iraq.
