When I read news from Germany that it is doubtful that the country's market surveillance is in a position to meet the requirements of the new Toys Directive, then there is only one thing I can say, and that is that the German Government is under obligation to ensure that the German market surveillance authorities can meet these requirements.
As a result, the limit values that we included in the new Toys Directive, which will be introduced in stages from 2011 onwards, represented the state of the art in terms of scientific knowledge at the time the directive was adopted.
However, we were aware that this is an evolving process - science is, of course, always progressing and there are always new research results and new findings - and, together, we deliberately framed the directive in such a way that new scientific findings that there are risks that we had not previously observed and that limit values have been set too high can very quickly be incorporated into the directive in a comitology procedure involving Parliament.
If their examination does indeed reveal new findings, we will immediately bring forward a proposal to tighten up the directive, which has not yet entered into force, so that it enters into force in 2011 with the more stringent limit values in place.
We cannot understand them because we have not received the relevant education.
However, I would like to say quite openly that I take this issue so seriously that any indication, however small, that there may be new findings available - and even if we only find out about them in a newspaper report - is taken so seriously by the Commission that the issue is put to the scientists.
I have listened to him heaping blame on the Member States, who are responsible for supervision.
That fact alone confirms that the Federal German institute has done its job properly.
As far as the directive is concerned, it is due to be applied in 2011 and, for chemical substances, in 2014, as you know.
And another thing: on 17 December, in other words, the day after tomorrow, each Member State will go to the Commission in order to present its draft in connection with the market supervision regulation.
Secondly, there is consequently a need for the Commission to examine whether this principle is also satisfied by the limit values laid down in the Toys Directive.
Thirdly, if this does not happen, we call on the Commission to ensure that, until the Toys Directive has been transposed by all the Member States in 2011, the limit values are laid down in the Toys Directive in such a way as to rule out any risk to the health of children from softening agents in toys.
Fifthly, this calls, in particular, for better and more efficient market surveillance, because it is usually toys that have been imported into the EU that exceed the limit values set by the Union.
Merely cultivating national popular opinion not only destroys confidence in the European Institutions; it also damages the German Federal Government, because it approved the Toys Directive.
It is presumably a question of price, but that cannot be regulated by the market alone when the safety of children is at risk.
If I have understood you correctly, you wanted to ensure that a study was started into whether there are, in fact, too many toxic substances in children's toys in Germany, as the study indicates.
If we have any reason to suspect that our children's safety is at risk, then we must act.
Furthermore, we would, of course, appreciate it if the Commission could get back to us here in Parliament very quickly to let us know whether or not there is anything in these claims.
Essentially, it should be said that, overall, the Toys Directive has brought a considerable improvement in the protection of our children.
It is a question of the protection of our children.
The moment that I receive an indication that there may be new scientific findings available concerning the safety of toys and the limit values that we have set, this information is sent to the scientific committee.
However, I must reiterate that you cannot expect me, and likewise I cannot expect you, to make a decision in respect of the disagreements among scientists regarding methods.
Mrs Rühle, you say that I should have gone to the press sooner.
Mrs Davidson, we have the most stringent legislation in the world.
Mrs Schaldemose, I can only agree with you, and say that the responsibility of the Member States for market surveillance must not be called into question.
Written statements (Rule 149) in writing. - I welcome the fact that the new Directive 2009/48/EC on toy safety will come into force in 2011, although it is regrettable that the directive will not be in force for the Christmas 2010 period next year, when the majority of toys made or imported into the EU, are sold.
I would like to ask that this matter be thoroughly investigated.
