Situation in Chechnya The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Chechnya.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the Russian military operations in the Russian Federal Republic of Chechnya resumed in September 1999, the situation there has been treated as a priority by the European Union.
Contrary to what some people predicted, this position has not altered following the attacks of 11 September.
The Spanish Presidency has been acting and will continue to act throughout this six-month period in a way that is fully coherent with this issue of concern to the Union.
The Presidency's work plan for the development of a common strategy for Russia included a paragraph which indicated our will to 'continue to express the Union's desire for an early peaceful solution in Chechnya within the framework of the principle territorial integrity, the Rule of Law and respect for human rights, to promote an improvement of the conditions for the safer and more effective distribution of humanitarian aid?.
Of these sums, EUR 40 million has been earmarked for 2001.
With regard to the current situation in Chechnya, I would like to stress certain aspects.
In the field of human rights, all the reports from the OSCE support group, from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and from the various NGOs continue to give cause for concern.
Lord Judd stated in the report communicated to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that the progress observed in this field over the last year had been scant.
The report of the support group of the OSCE for the early months of this year with regard to military operations carried out during this period spoke of civilian disappearances, lootings, the indiscriminate use of force and other violations of the human rights of civilians, all of this in contravention of what had been previously agreed.
We must acknowledge the steps taken by the Russian authorities to improve the situation.
These statements have also been repeated by other official representatives.
The Office of the Kremlin's Special Representative for Human Rights in Chechnya has carried out its work, condemning alleged violations of human rights.
The Russian authorities are cooperating with the organisations active in this area.
We also have to recognise that the Russian authorities have adopted different measures in the region: as well as the creation of the aforementioned working groups with the NGOs, which will provide a forum in which to deal with these issues, the Russian authorities have applied various measures to normalise life.
In view of the persistence of the problems I have just described, the European Union has exploited - and will continue to exploit - all channels of dialogue in order to communicate its position to the Russian authorities, and that position is based on the following points: firstly, the European Union recognises the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation as well as its right and responsibility to protect its population from terrorist attacks, which the Union condemns unreservedly.
This recognition is accompanied by a double consideration: firstly, the Union expresses its firm conviction that that responsibility to protect the population must be fulfilled within the framework of the Rule of Law and strict compliance with respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, which are enshrined in numerous treaties to which the Russian Federation is party.
The European Union requests that the Russian authorities try and punish the people responsible for human rights violations, thereby eliminating any risk of impunity, which unfortunately some people have enjoyed in the past.
I would like to acknowledge the contribution made in this area by the Council of Europe and the Office of the United Nations' High Commission for Human Rights, and take this opportunity to express the European Union's support for the work of these organisations and the OSCE in Chechnya.
An improvement in the human rights situation will undoubtedly encourage the return of displaced persons.
The removal of the restrictions which currently make access to the area for the media difficult will also contribute to increasing trust, both within the civil population and within the international community.
In this regard, the European Union is urging the Russian authorities to renew the contacts initiated last November.
Thirdly, the European Union believes that its position on this issue is level-headed, since, on the one hand, it has no hesitation in acknowledging the progress made and, on the other, it must continue to indicate those areas in which there are still serious shortcomings.
The Union is thereby acting fully in accordance with the values that underpin both its very existence and its relations with third countries, including the strategic relationship between the European Union and Russia.
The Union has informed the Russian authorities of its full willingness to negotiate a Presidency declaration that incorporates both progress and shortcomings in similar terms to those which I have expressed in this House.
In view of these reports, including from the Council of Europe, the European Union has continued to express its concerns on the matter to the Russian authorities through the appropriate diplomatic channels.
The EU supports Russia wholeheartedly in its legitimate fight against terrorism, in Chechnya and elsewhere.
Our calls for a political solution which, without prejudice to the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation, satisfies the majority of the Chechen people, do not in any way undermine such support.
Equally, there should be no doubt about the EU commitment to uphold human rights in the fight against terrorism world-wide, including in Chechnya.
In this regard, I am confident that the European Parliament fully shares the view that the fight against international terrorism cannot serve as justification or excuse for the violation of the most basic individual human rights, be it in the West Bank, in Afghanistan or in Chechnya.
This should not change - and has indeed not changed - due to the horrible terrorist attacks of 11 September last year.
Against the background of our joint efforts with Russia to establish closer political and economic relations, the European Union has repeatedly made clear to Russia that it expects her to act in full accordance with the values that Russia undertook to respect when it entered the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
As you are aware, the Human Rights Commission is currently meeting in session in Geneva, and Chechnya remains an important item on the agenda.
The European Commission is fully participating in the internal deliberations of the EU in this forum.
On the positive side, we have acknowledged some positive Russian steps towards a political solution that could guarantee long-term peace and stability in Chechnya.
Clearly, a lot more has to be done in all of these fields, but there has been progress and credit should be given where credit is due.
Also, we have noted that the number of reported violations of human rights that have been followed up by prosecutors has increased.
As you are aware, the European Union, through the European Commission Humanitarian Office ECHO, is by far the largest donor of humanitarian aid to the Northern Caucasus.
Since October 1999, we have provided some EUR 65 million in aid to the victims of the Chechnya conflict and last year alone more than EUR 40 million.
Our funding is crucial for the presence of international humanitarian NGOs in the area, as well as being crucial also for the work and presence of UN organisations, notably the UNHCR.
In our view it is essential that representatives of the international humanitarian community are present in Chechnya.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a very solemn debate here in Parliament about the situation in the Middle East, and I think that the debate on Chechnya deserves the same degree of solemnity.
We want to have a strategic partnership of this kind because it is important for the future of our continent.
We must not remain silent, however, when human rights are violated, and of all people, we in the European Parliament must not remain silent.
Our group believes that a Chechen life is of equal value to the life of a citizen of the United States or a citizen of the European Union ... (Applause) ?
and that the life of a Muslim in Chechnya is of equal value to the life of a Christian, a Jew, a Palestinian, a Hindu, a Buddhist or a person of no belief. (Applause) Human rights - and it is particularly because we are Europeans that this matters to us - are indivisible the world over. (Applause) The President of the Russian Federation is currently visiting a Member State of the European Union.
I am pleased that our debate on Chechnya has also provided an opportunity for them to contact our group.
Clearly we have to fight terrorism, but we must not do so in such a way that this has a disproportionate impact on the human rights and lives of the people in Chechnya, of civilians who want to live in peace. (Applause) If a study from the US State Department dated 4 March, statements from Médecins Sans Frontières - an organisation which we esteem greatly because of its commitment - and the organisation Human Rights Watch, which is based in New York, all say that the Russian soldiers have hardly any respect for human life, then this has to set the alarm bells ringing.
If the Duma representative for Chechnya, Aslambek Aslakhanov, says - and this shows that Russia is also on the road to democracy, and we do of course recognise this - that 80% of the aid which Russia provides for Chechnya is not even reaching the people, then this has to set the alarm bells ringing.
If Mary Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, says that the economic, social and cultural situation in Chechnya is very grave, despite some progress - which we have of course also noted - then this has to set the alarm bells ringing.
But it is our duty, as Members of the European Parliament, to debate these massive violations of human rights which are taking place in Russia and therefore in Europe, in Chechnya, for as long as they continue to be a reality.
In addition, we in the European Parliament should ask our delegation and the corresponding delegation in the Duma - and Parliament should as it were give the go-ahead for this - to establish a well-ordered procedure for attending to Chechnya properly on an ongoing basis.
For my part I would very much welcome it if you, Commissioner, were personally to travel there to speak to those affected on the ground. (Applause) Finally, we need to cooperate closely with Lord Judd of the Council of Europe, who is of course very involved in working on this problem, and overall we need a political solution.
It is our duty as the European Parliament to give hope to those who want to live in peace in Chechnya - within the Russian Federation, but with autonomous status of some kind - and to act as an advocate for human rights on this continent and throughout the world, including in Chechnya. (Applause) Mr President, it is strange to be debating Chechnya right now, as we are sending a delegation in a few days' time to learn about the matter we are now asking and speaking about.
The war is part of numerous conflicts in the region; even these terrorists seem to come from the same sources.
The Russian army has not withdrawn because it trades illegally in oil and arms in the region.
The Chechens' economy must be made transparent to avoid corruption.
It is important to devote special time to Chechnya and to discussing the situation there.
I have the feeling that the atrocities and the military offensive are taking place under cover of the events of 11 September and the situation in the Middle East.
Just like China, which we shall be discussing later, Russia is using the fight against terrorism as a kind of alibi for oppressing its own political opponents and minorities.
Lord Judd, for example, has pointed to certain modest improvements.
Terrible, systematic atrocities are quite clearly being committed against the civilian population of Chechnya.
The European Parliament has adopted quite a number of resolutions on this conflict but, now, action is required.
The truth, however, is that the EU's contribution to the UNHCR's budget has declined by a third in recent years.
The situation is drastic, and the conflict is in danger of spreading to the whole region, with devastating consequences for Russian democracy.
The problems in Chechnya cannot be solved by military means.
Mr Poettering was right to mention a few organisations, including Human Rights Watch, Médecins sans Frontières and Amnesty International.
It is obvious that daily life in Chechnya today is not that simple.
We can hardly label these organisations, these people who are mentioned in our compromise resolution, as agents of international terrorism, as representatives of Bin Laden.
I am therefore thrilled that we are repeating our request of sending an ad hoc delegation to Chechnya.
We decided on this in March 2000, but this has not yet been acted upon.
Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you that the delegation next Monday will do everything in its power to move the situation on by one little step and to enter into consultation with our Russian colleagues of the Duma and of the Council of Federations.
I think we should remember that there was no terrorism in Chechnya when, in 1991, the country made use of the law of 16 December 1966 - which said that countries within the Federation too were entitled to independence - to acquire independence from Russia.
Unless they have that sense, I do not believe we shall get very far either with the fight for democracy and human rights or with the fight against terrorism.
To continue to demand that the Russian authorities and military forces, which have waged war for two and a half years and have systematically breached the fundamental rights of the Chechen people for two years, bring an end to their deliberate acts of violence, is absolutely appalling.
Similarly, it is absolutely appalling to continue to demand that humanitarian aid be allowed to get through to Chechnya, when we know that the Russian authorities are doing everything to prevent humanitarian aid from reaching its destination.
The international forces which were and still are in Afghanistan looked day after day for Chechen fighters.
A failed state is a disaster for all citizens and for the international community, for what can happen in such a failed state always has international repercussions.
So a war ensues in which it is even difficult to distinguish citizens from the military and which therefore claims many civilian victims.
It was very often the case that, only 20 or 30 years after the event, was it possible in the Netherlands to mention war crimes which our own boys had committed in Indonesia.
Once again, we read recently that President Putin collects people around him and asks them to moot ideas for a viable policy to inject, where possible, peace and security into Chechnya once again.
Mr President, first of all let me say to the House that when we, as politicians, begin to trade insults on the issue of war in another place, we lose our purpose which is to drive forward the peace, and that must be our ultimate goal.
It is an ongoing war that has been almost unnoticed.
This war must end.
This is also true of the situation in Chechnya.
I was pleased to see in yesterday's debate on the Middle East that this is also the unanimous opinion of this Parliament.
In the case of Chechnya, as in all other crisis areas, the only things that will lead to a solution to the problems are negotiations, a willingness to compromise, confidence-building, the development of civil society and the rule of law, and reconstruction.
I welcome the fact that Parliament has drawn attention to these points in its compromise motion.
The Commission should support this development by providing more funds.
Mr President, previous speakers have referred to the parallelism between Chechnya and Palestine.
Today in Madrid the Spanish Prime Minister and the Russian Foreign Minister are meeting to tackle the most dangerous conflict of our time.
Mr President, while Chancellor Schröder and President Putin sit down together today in Weimar and do business as though there were nothing wrong, a secret genocide is taking place in Chechnya.
I use the word genocide advisedly because this is precisely what has been happening in Chechnya in recent years: a fifth of the population has been driven out of the country, tens of thousands have been systematically murdered, and there is no end to the killing!
These are not isolated violations of human rights or one-off attacks.
I have to say quite clearly that we must also take the opportunity in September to discuss the situation in Chechnya with the Council of Europe and the elected head of the Chechen Government - of whom the motion unfortunately makes no mention - and to work towards a political solution.
We have to remember one thing: courageous journalists, such as Thomas Avenarius of the Süddeutsche Zeitung, or his colleague from the Frankfurter Rundschau, have risked their lives to fight their way into the country.
We have cases of villages allegedly being cleansed 33 times - and another place 27 times - with around a seventh of the population being killed each time.
Mr President, it would appear important not to confuse the situation in Chechnya with the situation that has developed after 11 September.
Clearly, the Russians have a tendency to lump together what is happening on the various chessboards of the world - in Afghanistan, the Middle East, Chechnya and Georgia - as if it were all part of the same phenomenon, which it is not.
We will be able to measure the extent to which Russia intends to establish good working relations with the European Union from its willingness to accept these invitations.
Russia is linked to the European Union and, consequently, to other parts of the world, through moral and political undertakings, on which its credibility and reputation on the European and international stage depend.
One of these undertakings is the European Union's common strategy on Russia and the cooperation and partnership agreement compelling Russia to respect human rights.
Russia is supported in its difficult transition towards achieving Western economic standards by means of programmes, partnerships and funding, in which the Union plays a key role.
The enlargement of the Union will mean that Russia will soon find itself in a new geo-political situation which will force it to completely renegotiate its status and relations with its new European neighbours.
We must demand that medical and humanitarian assistance be sent, as a matter of extreme urgency and, above all, we must stop using statements to hide our lack of action and stop soothing our conscience by claiming that we are preserving fragile democracy in Russia.
I fully agree with the view that what happened on 11 September must not encourage anyone, especially Russia, to systematically violate human rights in the name of the fight against terrorism.
It is true that there are violations of human rights, very serious ones, but the Council believes that there are positive developments.
I therefore believe that we have to continue with our efforts: Parliament must make its voice heard and approve this Resolution - which I personally believe to be excellent - and the Council must continue to take every opportunity to communicate our position to the Russian authorities - the positions of the Council, the European Union, and the European Parliament.
I can tell you that the Council says the same things to the Russian authorities that it is saying here today.
We are present in Chechnya; and the level of humanitarian aid funded by the Commission of EUR 40million in 2001 is clear evidence of the priority that we give to this crisis and to the suffering in Chechnya.
Our field experts and ECHO staff are evidence of our presence there.
It is extremely difficult and that is one of the reasons why we have to continue putting pressure on the Russian authorities, both on the safety aspects of access to VHF radios and the work permits and general conditions for the international humanitarian organisations working in the area.
The effort of the Commission, the funding and the resolute support to our implementing partners is the only real effort to secure an international humanitarian presence in this theatre.
It may also be useful to say, in view of what has been said in this debate, that I find it both necessary and clearly meaningful to maintain the established division between, on the one hand, the broader political dialogue - a dialogue also accentuating the human rights aspects - and the clearly defined humanitarian aid effort.
This is important to keep in mind, and I beg Parliament to understand that it in no way indicates any weakening of the purpose and strength of our political dialogue with Russia on the political aspects of all this.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank all the groups for their attitude - something which I said in committee - which has been constant throughout the preparation of this sitting.
I must also acknowledge the cooperation and dialogue we have maintained with the Commission and the Council, which reflects the unanimous approval of this report by the 49 Members who were present in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
I would therefore remain opposed to these amendments.
However, I believe that Amendment No 3 on public services is positive and improves the report.
With regard to Amendment No 1, which I tabled as rapporteur, I believe that everybody would agree that to include the Security Council Resolutions in the recitals of the report makes great sense.
I am obviously referring to Resolutions 1397 and 1402.
Now, the Barcelona European Council established certain positions and measures which, although they do not move in this direction, neither are they contradictory with the possibility that in one year we could establish the bank.
I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 10.
Specifically, I believe that paragraphs 31, 32, 33 and 34 would express their ideas in a more organised fashion if they took the order 33, 32, 34 and 31.
I believe that this is the case, and therefore I hope the vote reflects this, in relation to the part that corresponds to us.
Secondly, I am thinking of the grave situation in the Middle East, of the debate we held yesterday, of today's tragic news from Haifa, of the meeting being held today in Madrid, which we hope will lead to a joint position.
In my view, the involvement of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is absolutely vital and provides the political backing the Presidency needs in these difficult times.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, first of all, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I would like to thank you for your praise of the committee's work just now and, of course, to applaud Mr Esteve for pointing out that this report was unanimously adopted and that it is the first time this has happened in our committee's history.
I was appointed rapporteur by my fellow Members of a joint resolution for the Euro-Mediterranean Forum, held on 6 November in Brussels, and I could see that the cooperation which had developed between our Palestinian and Israeli colleagues within the drafting committee could serve as an extremely valuable symbol of hope, despite the tragedy that is unfolding in Palestine today.
I therefore believe that it is not only the duty, but it is also in the interest of Europe, currently the leading global economic power, to help establish privileged partnerships with our Euro-Mediterranean partners.
It is on this basis that we shall continue our work within the framework of the own-initiative reports on the union of the North African Arab countries which will be submitted to the House at the May part-session.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I feel that today's debate is appropriate for it places the debate we held yesterday in a more general context: the Middle East, the Mediterranean, Europe.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his acceptance of contributions from all the groups to this report, which I believe will be a genuinely useful contribution to the Valencia meeting, and because he has used and accorded due importance to the contributions of all the political groups.
We are concerned - myself, in particular - because the more power the Commission gives to its offices in the Mediterranean countries, the more important it will be that it is efficient and capable of resisting pressure from those regimes.
Lastly, I have to say that we would like to strengthen the institutional dimension of this partnership, giving the Parliamentary Assembly a leading role, involving ourselves in the initiative too and strengthening the two institutions proposed by the Commission, namely the Bank and the Foundation.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I would like to pledge our total support for the Commission communication and the implicit decisions to reinvigorate the Euro-Mediterranean policy.
I therefore look forward to a more effective European Union policy on the Mediterranean; I welcome the idea of exporting the method of European integration, starting with the promotion of a genuine area of free trade facilitating as much south-south trade as possible, even above north-south trade.
This means concentrating now on recreating the necessary conditions and developing the dialogue between cultures and religions, a dialogue facilitating that mutual awareness and understanding which - we must realise - is no longer sufficient to avoid conflict between the Western and Islamic worlds, between Europe and the other Mediterranean cultures and between the Mediterranean cultures themselves.
Mr President, the conflict in the Middle East is today sending shock waves through all the countries of the Mediterranean.
That is why the desire for a dignified life where they and the law are respected is leading the people of these countries increasingly to take the dangerous path of anti-Western nationalism, be it Arab or religious.
The requirement for democracy is not only a necessity, which some people describe as neo-colonial, it is, in fact, a fundamental element of the relations that we must establish in this region.
As has already been stated, it is important to make it quite clear that respect for democracy and human rights must be re-established in several countries in the area.
We ought therefore to take these important issues into account.
In this connection, we believe that the proposal to set up a Euro-Mediterranean Bank could promote the dialogue and economic and financial partnership we are advocating.
This does obviously involve a greater capacity for absorption on the part of our Euro-Mediterranean partners and the decentralisation of those programmes.
Above all, however, it is in the political sphere that the situation arising as a result of the dreadful events in the Middle East means at least that Euro-Mediterranean relations are exceedingly delicate, if not that the whole process is in danger.
Re-launching the Barcelona Process is more necessary than ever in the interests of peace and stability.
In conclusion, the important role the regions in southern Europe are already playing and will continue to play with regard to Euro-Mediterranean cooperation should not be overlooked.
It is impossible to give thought to Euro-Mediterranean relations without contemplating concerted action to bring an end to the war in the Middle East, at a time when Israeli tanks are crushing the Palestinian population and Shimon Péres himself is speaking of massacre.
Sharon's aggressive, murderous and colonial policy is leading not only the Palestinian people, but also all the people of the region - and that includes the Israeli people - towards a bloody and violent dead end.
If the summit in Valencia can assist in achieving this, so much the better, but it would be totally unrealistic to think that everyone is willing to come around the table in a few days' time - even if the Palestinian leader were able to leave the territories - if the European Union has not adopted a clear position.
The situation that has come about since 11 September means that everyone, on both sides of the Mediterranean, must avoid any religion-terrorism equation and must work together to eradicate terrorism from its breeding grounds, which can only encourage the most violent forms of fundamentalism and nationalism.
Although one of the major objectives of the partnership is to improve the economic and social situation of our partner countries, it is now necessary, in addition to this, to satisfy basic and fundamental requirements in terms of health and education.
The presence of the President of the Council at the Arab League Summit was a first.
This process has to guarantee the security and viability of two states, the Palestinian State and the State of Israel.
If this is not achieved, the growth of fundamentalism will threaten the security of our southern borders, as Mr Morillon and other speakers pointed out.
The Barcelona Process is of tremendous significance for peace, stability and prosperity in Europe.
We even need to reinvigorate the Barcelona Process with the aim of making the Mediterranean a real mare nostrum for all of the countries on its shores.
The forthcoming meeting in Valencia - and I hope that it will be able to take place - should therefore be seen as a starting point for considering the creation of a new permanent and stable structure for cooperation and coordination.
I know that in many cases not even the existing agreements are sufficiently implemented, but it is precisely in the light of recent events - from the attacks of 11 September to the war in the Middle East - that a multilateral organisation embracing the countries and regions on both sides of the Mediterranean is essential.
Mr President, this report on the Commission communication to prepare the meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers in Valencia on 22 and 23 April is about furthering Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, the aim of which, in our view, is to impose the economic and political terms of the European Union on the other countries in the Mediterranean, using economic means and political blackmail.
There can be no doubt that the Euro-Mediterranean cooperation which we are constantly hearing about is not intended to contribute to the viable development of third Mediterranean countries and the prosperity of their people, let alone democracy and peace in the Mediterranean; its purpose is to promote the interests of the European Union's multinationals.
The involvement of regional and local society and the involvement of civil society and women in all three pillars of the Barcelona Process rather than just the economy, as the European Parliament recently pointed out in one of its resolutions, will put our efforts on a democratic footing, make our plans sustainable and offer protection for human rights, for which there is a dire need in the region as a whole.
Cross-cultural dialogue and a new Mediterranean Research Institute will provide a good basis for the mutual understanding, mutual respect between partners and greater mutual trust needed in order to face up to major challenges such as combating terrorism, managing waves of immigrants and resolving the Arab-Israeli crisis through dialogue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fifth Euro-Mediterranean ministerial meeting will meet in Valencia on 22 and 23 April and will adopt an action plan containing proposals and measures designed to promote Euro-Mediterranean cooperation.
Obviously, things had not reached today's tragic proportions when the Esteve report was drafted and the rapporteur has referred diplomatically to the need to settle the conflict in a way which highlights the new cultural, economic, social, political and institutional approach.
With this report, Europe has unambiguously defined the two priorities of its foreign policy: a policy concentrating on eastward enlargement and a policy focusing on the Mediterranean area as fundamental in the creation of a future of peace and prosperity.
This is not the occasion today to debate Europe's role in bringing an end to that conflict but the situation as it is, and the continuation of this dreadful violence, stresses even further the need to continue with the development of the Barcelona Process as a means for Europe to make its contribution to the peace, stability and prosperity of the region.
One can always discuss how strong an instrument the Barcelona Process really is, but it is beyond discussion that this process is part of the solution and definitely not part of the problem, so we had better strengthen it.
All Euro-Mediterranean partners are now used to having a permanent dialogue and to working together.
The Barcelona Process is the only place where we can hold a 27-member discussion and, more importantly, where the 12 Mediterranean partners can regularly discuss and meet.
Most of the association agreements are already ratified, signed or initialled.
The challenge for the Mediterranean partners is to unleash the full potential of their economic forces, and in this regard the Barcelona Process has become the framework of reference for all international donors to relate to and further pursue.
In the cultural sphere, substantial work has been accomplished.
The road is well-paved, despite some potholes on its way.
A clear example of this dialogue is the senior officials' meeting on terrorism just held on 27 March.
By the same token, the 27 partners have been able to come a long way towards an agreement around a set of priority actions on an issue as sensitive as Justice and Home Affairs.
Based on these priorities the Commission will launch this year a regional programme on judicial cooperation, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and migration.
The grid of association agreements is almost completed; South/South trade integration progresses, notably in the framework of the Agadir Process - even if not as fast as we would like.
The Meda programme has dramatically improved its delivery - though given the starting point one might say that improvement had to happen - but still, it is happening with a ratio of payments to commitments of 53% in 2001 compared to a mere 26% for the 1995-1999 period.
Yet the economic situation of the region remains uncertain and demands supplementary efforts from everybody.
As you know, the idea of launching a Euro-Mediterranean Bank did not receive the full assent of the Member States at the Barcelona European Council.
Nonetheless, a new European Investment Bank facility will be launched and a representative office of the EIB in the region will be created.
Finally, the social and human aspects of the partnership show today, more than ever, its relevance, creating bridges across the Mediterranean and promoting a better understanding of each other's cultures and societies.
The Barcelona Process allows a unique and structured framework that allows this social and cultural dialogue at regional level - not only North/South, but also South/South and indeed South/North.
The European Commission has put forward a set of new proposals.
I am happy to see that they are very well taken by Parliament, in particular the Euromed Foundation and the cooperation between universities (the Tempus programme).
However, some Member States do not seem to be as convinced as we are.
The Commission has also proposed the enlargement of the Tempus programme on university cooperation to the Mediterranean.
The approval of this extension will be obtained at the Council of Education Ministers on 30 May.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Similarly, the support that the People's Republic of China has so readily provided for the international fight against terrorism is evidence of an attitude that we should note and applaud.
There is a range of issues that have been on the table for a long time: the role of China in the Far East, its relations with the ASEM countries and other parts of Asia, its internal political situation and its political, trade and cultural relations with the European Union.
We must, therefore, deepen cooperation and dialogue whilst continuing to insist on the other objectives that go beyond the framework of economic relations and which could even, in some cases, have a harmful effect on them unless the People's Republic of China finds a satisfactory solution to certain issues that we consider to be fundamental.
Thirdly, whilst acknowledging that China seems to be making a degree of progress in the field of human rights, it should be understood that a vast area in which the situation is far from satisfactory is still wide open and this Parliament must, therefore, make this absolutely clear.
To conclude, Mr President, I am convinced that, by voting for this report, this House will be making both an institutional and a political contribution to the strategy drawn up by the Commission for the development of a comprehensive partnership between the European Union and the People's Republic of China.
WTO membership will also lead to social and political pressures in China.
We are pleased to welcome China's involvement in the international effort against terrorism and the rapprochement between China and India.
I believe that the values we hold to be important here in Parliament - democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality and pluralism - will also gain ground in China if we maintain a vitally interactive relationship and encourage China to open up in all respects and permit its citizens to enjoy the freedom of modern communications media and allow them the right to become unionised and freely express their opinions.
Mr President, Mr Graça Moura is entitled to more than the usual courtesies extended in the House.
I have been a member of the delegation for relations with the People´s Republic of China since 1986, and I believe it is fair to say that this is the most balanced text ever presented in plenary on the issue.
I have absolutely no doubt that, along with the introduction of the euro and enlargement of the European Union, the development of China will be remembered as one of the four or five milestones in the history of the world in the twenty-first century.
Hence the importance I attach to relations between China and the European Union.
For example, we speak out against the death penalty wherever it is in force, whether it be in the United States or in China.
Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur for a sound and well-balanced report which expresses the greater number of common interests there are between the EU and China today.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wants to see a democratic China that respects the principles of a free market, human rights and the rule of law.
We also believe that the European Parliament is the right place from which to send this signal, and it is therefore up to our governments to follow our advice.
That decision has been taken and is not to be altered, but let us take this opportunity to demand that China use this opportunity to demonstrate that it will comply with all the international standards and conventions relating to human rights.
At the same time, there are continuing protests by workers about the fact that at least 25 million jobs have disappeared in state-owned companies as a result of liberalisation and privatisation.
In the old industrial areas in northern China, unemployment is estimated at 40%.
The Beijing Government must fulfil its promise and initiate talks with the Dalai Lama.
The latest issue of the Far Eastern Economic Review reports that there is a relaxation of the rules governing mass demonstrations under way.
The CPN report says that the EU must be cautious in attempting to influence China.
Whenever the Union's relations with the People's Republic of China are assessed, economic interests are always to the fore.
The much lauded market of global capitalism is - whether you like it or not - amoral and not a suitable vehicle for translating basic values such as social justice and solidarity into action.
There is no other government in the world that bears responsibility for 1.3 billion people.
Seeking to establish a multilateral dialogue with China is all well and good, but in so doing nobody should put China under pressure or only have their own interests in mind.
A dialogue is only meaningful and successful if a consensus is sought in the interests of all parties.
Judging from the report on China and the Commission communication, a fresh start, appropriate to spring time, seems to be being made in relations between the EU and China.
Relations of the EU and its Member States with China are increasingly improving and being extended.
According to the Commission document on China, ten rounds of political dialogue have already been held.
The critical dialogue should not be there to ease our conscience, while we in the meantime keep a keen eye on our own economic interests.
We in the European Union cannot conceive of spring if in China itself it is still the middle of winter.
Thank you very much, Mr Belder.
Mr President, I rise to raise an important issue for individual Members of this House relating to Council Question Time.
I was informed yesterday by the questions office of this House that my question relating to the Middle East would not be taken by the Council today because the matter I was raising, the Association Agreement between Europe and Israel, would be dealt with by the Council in debate yesterday.
I have now been informed that the Council will not deal with my question or ten other Members' questions because it claims it has not had time to prepare its replies.
Your point is clear, well made and well taken.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 3.
As some of you will be aware, at first reading last year I proposed that this recommendation be strengthened to include a review which would lead to a further legal framework on coastal zone management.
The protection of our coastal zones is essential and I feel that stronger legislation is needed to ensure this protection.
I am delighted to say that we have reached a good compromise on the timetable of this recommendation.
Firstly, concerning the time in which Member States must report back to the Commission on their experience in implementing the recommendation - the Council can accept our suggested 45 months.
Secondly, the Council can further accept our suggested 55 months for the review of the recommendation.
I would like sincerely to thank the Council for its understanding on this significant point.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment who supported the compromise package and the Council for recognising the importance of this compromise and for putting the recommendation on COREPER's agenda at very short notice.
In Amendment No 73, the Commission can accept the first part.
In Amendments Nos 10, 20, 21 and 41, the first sentence can be accepted in full.
Amendment No 5 can be accepted in part - i.e.
This is Amendment No 4.
Thank you, Mr Blak.
It would read as follows: "Notes the Bureau ruling on budget line No 3701 following the answers from the political groups to the Court of Auditors' special report." That is the addition and it is also in the voting list.
Paragraph 43 orally amended is much the same in terms of content as my own Amendment No 13.
The Budget Control Committee requested information from the Council on the common foreign and security policy.
This amendment is almost identical to the oral amendment relating to Amendment No 3: "Is grateful for the answers that, in principle, the Council has agreed to provide to questions relating to aspects of the common foreign and security policy within seven days".
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we postponed the vote on this report from yesterday to today because we were waiting for an official response from the Council.
This group was not responsible for initiating a dispute with the Council on this issue; on the contrary in fact, we called for moderation.
Now we believe that, in order to bring this matter to a satisfactory conclusion, we must, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, refer this report back to committee, or at least the part of the report that concerns the Council, and vote on the rest of the report.
But we must refer back to committee the part of the report regarding discharge to the Council.
I wanted to say that we have played the sorcerer's apprentice in this area and we now find ourselves in this situation.
Therefore, I firmly support the referral back to committee and I urge you to forge ahead, because we have important votes on the Middle East and on Chechnya that must absolutely take place today.
Since this does not appear in the motion, but very many other remarks ... (Heckling and violent protests from the left, applause from the right) Loud shouts have never yet been an argument powerful enough to win me round, and if that is now the new argument of the left in the European Parliament then my group will not find it very persuasive. (Applause from the right) So, in summary, the vast majority of our group will not be voting in favour of this motion as it stands because we deem it to be imbalanced.
The decline of our coastal zones is often a result of this reprehensible wait-and-see policy.
Most of these amendments are unrealistic or call into question the national organisation arrangements which are perfectly satisfactory.
And by proposing a complex compensation process for ports which welcome vessels with difficulties, and disregarding the efficient national organisations that already exist, the European Parliament is heading for a dead end situation. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, I will do my best to be serious in today's explanations of vote.
The PvdA delegation warmly supports the directives on electrical and electronic waste.
The environmental objectives should be paramount in these directives.
Almost 6 million tonnes of waste are produced every year in Europe, an average of 16 kg per capita.
The second directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment concerns the ban on the use of certain extremely harmful substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium in the manufacture of electric and electronic equipment.
I fully support this directive too, both on my own behalf and as representative of the Pensioners' Party, and I am thinking not just of the citizens who could be harmed by these hazardous substances but also and above all of the workers in the companies that produce electrical and electronic equipment containing these harmful substances.
The directive is also right to mention the role that consumers must also play in disposing of electrical waste.
Mr President, I should like to explain my vote on the issue of the use of the official languages of the European Union in the European Patent Office.
I defend unequivocally the right of all the official languages of the Community to be used in all circumstances, particularly since in the near future there might be a tendency to renounce this principle, in light of the increase from 11 to 22 or more official languages when enlargement to include further states takes place.
This must be taken into account where patents and indeed any other issues are concerned.
Our reason for doing so is that we wish to keep down the costs of patent applications, and we therefore advocate a solution in terms of just one or two languages.
Since the fundamental aspects of this regulation relate to the linguistic arrangements, legal certainty and the role of the national offices do not meet the expectations of users.
The discussion surrounding the language regime has illustrated the fact that, unfortunately, political sentiments have carried more weight than practical arguments.
That is why my group has proposed that disputes surrounding the Community patent should fall within the central jurisdiction of the Community Intellectual Property Court, with the possibility of appeal to the Court of Justice (Amendments Nos 26 and 29).
In law and in fact, this principle is not respected in this text or in the institutions of the Union in general.
In addition to national patent schemes, the pursuit of a world patent and the existence of a European Patent Bureau which is not subordinate to the EU, there has been talk of a Community patent, which is still controversial within the European Council, for the past 40 years.
The Court of Auditors has, for the seventh time in succession, refused to issue a statement of assurance.
I have therefore, as in the two preceding years, voted against the discharge resolution.
I would, however, like to ask you, Mr President, whether you know how many pensioners there are at the moment who would like to go and work free of charge in these developing countries, to continue to feel useful through helping people who, through no fault of their own, live in countries so very distant from our own not just geographically but in terms of their standard of living too?
I therefore hope that provision for this will be made in the ECSC budget too.
Mr President, my group has abstained in today's vote on the discharge for the Parliamentary budget.
This represents a break with the traditional gentlemen's agreement, whereby the Council turns a blind eye to Parliament's budget - even when Parliament introduced federalist elements into the documents by including, for example, a heading for the funding of European political parties - and Parliament, in return, hardly looked at the Council budget - which, in any case, seems more natural, given that the Council has superior powers within the Union.
The official reason given is that the Council did not provide the Committee on Budgetary Control with sufficiently detailed explanations regarding the use of funds granted to the common foreign and security policy.
In reality, the European Parliament has convinced itself, over recent years, that it holds the greatest legitimacy in the Union, and it is pointing this out to the Council.
The Council must wake up and take this matter onboard since the Convention which is going to discuss the future of the Union is about to begin. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, before I give my explanation of vote I would like to congratulate you on your handling of the vote on the Middle East resolution.
Our group voted against the arms industry resolution because using more funds and resources to promote the arms industry in Europe goes against what the European Union should be about.
If we look at what has happened in Iraq, and even in Afghanistan, we can see that people still suffer as a result of the use of this weapon long after wars are over.
Mr President, pensioners and elderly people fought in the last war and their wives and daughters suffered the consequences of this.
However, they also know how important and necessary it is to have defence weapons and they hope - and are expressing this desire to Parliament through myself - that the European Union will have a defence army, a defence air force and a defence navy which are well-organised, well-equipped and capable of making people realise, not just in Europe but in places where there is conflict and war too, how important it is that there should be a European Union in the world with military equipment that gives it a genuine defence capacity.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party voted for this resolution, despite its opposition both to paragraph 8 and to the amendments to it.
The Brok resolution is a good outline of the issues surrounding the ESDP.
Its merits are spoilt, however, by paragraph 8.
I speak in my capacity as Secretary of the SOS Democracy Group to explain our opposition to the two resolutions on defence on which the Chamber has just voted.
My second point, which was illustrated so well by my colleague Mr Souchet in yesterday's debate, is that we cannot draft a common policy in conjunction with countries that have different, even conflicting, visions of this policy.
We must therefore break free from the rigid framework of the Community institutions and put variable geometry into direct action. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) In order to ensure lasting peace and international security, it is necessary and clearly feasible to move from a security programme determined by military considerations to a system of civil security that targets the economic, social, ecological, ethnic and cultural causes of conflicts, and to adopt a preventive approach to neutralise and deal with the causes of predictable and acute situations of conflict in Europe and throughout the world.
We have also voted against out of protest against the weak stance adopted by the European institutions on foreign policy in general and in the crisis situation in the Middle East in particular.
Finally, I regret the prejudice displayed by a majority of MEPs with regard to the situation in the Middle East which means, inter alia, that the fight against terrorism cannot be maintained adequately.
Having consistently criticised the United States for its one-sided approach which meant that it was exacerbating the situation by becoming part of the problem instead of part of the solution, I regret that the PPE-DE Group is putting itself in a similar position.
We must be consistent in our approach to terrorism.
Furthermore, how can Yasser Arafat exert any authority when he is humiliated in this way by Ariel Sharon?
In recent days, the Israelis have, admittedly, taken very harsh measures, but these have been in response to an extremely tense situation that has arisen as a result of cruel, indefensible acts of terrorism, which the Palestinian Authority has still not condemned in a clear and firm manner.
The underlying cause of this extreme situation is the failure to fully apply Resolution 181, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 29 November 1947, which provided for the creation of two states, one Jewish and the other Palestinian.
That is why we must revisit Resolution 181, which provides for two states, both of them secure and recognised, in order to restore a fair and lasting peace in the Middle East.
Europe has a moral duty towards Israel and cannot forget the responsibilities it has inherited from history.
There is no military solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Europe must make its voice heard and exert more influence in the Middle East.
If Europe wants to contribute to the triumph of peace, if it wants a peacekeeping force under the aegis of the United Nations to see the light of day and help to ensure compliance with a peace agreement and the Security Council resolutions, it must be more present, not less present, among the Palestinians and Israelis.
It adopted a resolution that goes beyond mere good intentions, vigorously condemning indiscriminate suicide attacks and calling for an embargo on arms supplies to both Israel and Palestine, for a United Nations international peacekeeping force to be sent, for the convocation of the EU-Israel Association Council to be convened and the possibility of suspending the EU-Israel Euro-Mediterranean Agreement to be examined.
We firmly welcome Parliament's expression of support for an arms embargo on Palestine and Israel, as well as its call for the Council and the Commission to consider suspending the Association Agreement between Israel and the European Union.
As many speakers stated in yesterday's debate, the actions of the US Administration have also been harshly criticised, because of its responsibility for the way in which the situation in the region has developed.
They will be talking about increasing economic cooperation between Russia and Germany.
We cannot remain indifferent in the face of attacks that terrify the children of Israel, and we cannot remain indifferent towards the suffering of the Palestinian people, a people that has been oppressed and humiliated.
When Mr Rabin was assassinated, Mr Netanyahu established further colonies, and hopes of peace grew fainter.
When peace was given a second chance thanks to Camp David, let us not forget that Mr Barak made more concessions than ever, but Mr Arafat did not accept the extended hand of peace.
It is clear that the attitude of the Israeli Government marks a turning point in relations between Israel and the European Union.
The resolution encourages desertion in the Israeli army.
The debate that our Assembly devoted to the events in the Middle East yesterday, including Commissioner Patten's contribution, was marked by a failure to put current events into perspective, the obvious imbalance in the positions taken and the absence of concern for the long term.
This was the message of numerous demonstrations of support for the Palestinian people all over the world, in which we participated.
To do so, it would have to continue to support the genuine development of the Palestinian territories, and of the Palestinian State in the future, laying down respect for fundamental rights as an absolute condition for its assistance.
While I was there, I listened very carefully to the Chechen Foreign Minister, Ilyas Akhmadov, who, like myself was a guest at the Congress too.
First, I see that, once again, the European Union, in general, and this Parliament, in particular, are getting involved in other countries' business.
As far as I am aware, the Russian Federation is not a member of the European Union.
The situation in Chechnya is certainly tragic.
Whatever upholders of humanitarian interventionism say, the operations carried out by the Russian forces in Chechen territory, and let us not forget that Chechnya is an integral part of the Russian Federation, are conducted by a regular army, under the authority of a democratically-elected president, and therefore concern the simple maintenance of law and order.
I have said this before and I repeat, today this Assembly is meddling in matters that do not concern it. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Since September 11 2001, in the name of the fight against 'terrorism', the Russian Government has stepped up its attack on the Chechen people.
The considerable importance of Russia on the world stage, the presence of oil and gas in the Caucasus and the fact that several oil pipelines pass through this area are perhaps the main reasons for the silence of the major powers with regard to Russia's policy in Chechnya.
The Russian Government has offered to allow the American forces to be present in central Asia.
The US army also has 200 military advisers in Georgia, with Putin's agreement.
The European Parliament must call on the Russian authorities to bring an immediate end to its 'cleansing' operation.
The Russian Government must resume negotiations with President Maskhadov's representative immediately and unconditionally.
The EU must let Russia know that the war in Chechnya is not compatible with the desire to build an open, transparent, democratic multi-ethnic society.
That is why I voted for everything that advocated this approach.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) The next item is the resumption of the debate on the report (?5-0076/2002) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Commission communication on an ?U strategy towards China: Implementation of the 1998 Communication and Future Steps for a more Effective EU policy [COM(2001)265 - C5-0098/2001 - 2001/2045(COS)].
For example, it covers topics such as the situation of fundamental human rights in the Communist dictatorship which China still is, the brutal cultural genocide in Tibet and the instances of torture and death penalties on a large scale, also directed against political dissidents.
The self-same conscience of the world falls silent, however, or only deals in words when China is involved, which is something I regret.
From my perspective, the most significant development in China of recent years is the move towards China becoming incorporated into the world trading system.
Not merely is this significant, as it takes China into the world community of nations, it also brings China into the evolving new system of decision-making in an increasingly interdependent world.
The same equally applies within the European Union.
How these aspects of life are handled domestically in China now has, and will continue in the future to have, repercussions on the way in which relations between China and both foreign countries and foreign businesses develop.
Mr President, we cannot overemphasise the importance of EU-China relations, which have developed significantly in recent years, as we all know, specifically in the areas of political dialogue, trade relations, and scientific and technological cooperation.
Along these lines, we also hope that account will be taken of the ideas put forward in the excellent report by our colleague, Mr Vasco Graça Moura.
Because of the limited time available to me, I shall emphasise only three aspects: in addition to cooperation in the fields of trade, industry and technology, made possible by China's recent accession to the WTO, cultural dialogue between Europe and China must be stimulated.
The success of these two autonomous regions will benefit China, but would also be important for Europe.
Apart from anything else, it could provide a good example of what can be achieved when international relations are geared towards peaceful interaction.
Lastly, the issue of human rights is still a matter of huge concern if we wish to deepen cooperation with China.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group shares the rapporteur's opinion that it is of the utmost importance for both the EU and China to strengthen relations between themselves.
The EU can help a country such as China, with a population of 1 250 million and the world's seventh largest GDP, find its niche in the international community in terms of political, economic, social and cultural relations.
As chairman of the Interparliamentary Delegation for relations with the People's Republic of China, I should like to underline that the European Parliament can play quite a substantial role.
The human rights situation in China has greatly deteriorated in the past year.
The increasing number of political executions spring to mind, as well as the ban on the Falun Gong movement and the recent escape of the Tibetan Karmapa Lama to India.
The European Parliament will continue to insist on democratisation and the observance of human rights in China and will also continue to devote attention to the problems involving Taiwan and Tibet.
In this way, the European Parliament will be able to do its bit towards further strengthening relations with China, for we can learn a great deal from each other.
The opening of negotiations between the central government and Beijing and within the government-in-exile in Dharamsala must be encouraged.
Human rights continue to be abused, political activity is suppressed and, according to Amnesty International, there were more State executions in China last year than in all other countries combined.
On the issue of Taiwan, I also condemn President Jiang Zemin's threats to use military force.
Furthermore, the cowardice of EU Member States in refusing a visa to President Chen Shui-bian to visit Europe is self-serving and counterproductive.
As the rapporteur for Hong Kong, there are a number of issues about which I have concerns but I feel it is inappropriate to raise those concerns now.
I hope that in the very near future - possibly in the autumn - the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy will take an initiative and we will have a much more comprehensive report to deal with the many concerns which this House and indeed I myself, as rapporteur, have relating to Hong Kong.
Mr President, whichever way you look at it, Mr Graça Moura's report is a good report, because it deals with questions of political strategy, leaving topical or daily issues out of the equation.
And that is what our political strategy should be geared towards.
China has worked with us in the fight against terrorism and that is a peak on its development curve.
China is a huge country of growing importance in the world.
It seems as if China, just like Russia in the case of Chechnya, is using the fight against terrorism as an alibi in order to commit atrocities against minorities.
It is only political dialogue of this kind that can lead to reunification, and then only if this is on the basis of human rights and of democracy in a constitutional state.
Commissioner, I hope that the Commission will soon set up its office in Taipei, so that the Commission, too, may support dialogue between the two states by means of its missions in Beijing and in Taipei.
Mr President, the rapporteur has, in my view, presented an outstanding report which, in all its comprehensiveness, indicates the importance of relations with China and the importance of a fruitful dialogue with China.
This situation is ridiculous.
This, while the Chinese leader is currently on a glorious tour of the European Union.
If that is the shape of things to come in Taiwan, should it form part of China again, then it is not very inspiring.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, on the other hand, do not welcome Commissioner Nielson.
In my opinion, Commissioner Nielson concerns himself too often with things which are none of his business - and I think he understands what I am trying to say - and so I do not know what he might have to contribute in this area.
Ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of this report, I want to say that, two hours ago, we adopted a document which is extremely critical of Israel and regarding which there were opposing positions in the House.
I voted against this document and I saw that, when it wants to, Parliament is capable of raising its voice.
Two hours later, Mr President, we are presented with a document on China, a country with 1.2 billion inhabitants which oppresses hundreds of millions of people, ethnic and cultural minorities and ordinary citizens who are advocates of freedom and democracy, yet Parliament is incapable of doing more than - in point 10 - timidly raising the issue of human rights, after making complimentary comments about China and its development, referring to trade with the European Union, of course.
We radicals condemn this approach, we condemn these double standards of the European Parliament, which is 'forceful' or tries to be forceful with those who are in a position of weakness, as Israel is now, under attack from a ferocious terrorism which, again this morning - and nobody has mentioned the fact - caused at least eight deaths, the deaths of innocent people, of course, in an Israeli bus, and then, the same day, expresses its satisfaction with the dictatorial Chinese regime which is oppressing hundreds of millions of people, rewarding it with a blank cheque.
The Commission welcomes Mr Graça Moura's report on the Commission's Communication on an EU strategy towards China.
I am very happy to note that overall Parliament and the Commission have reached similar conclusions on EU-China relations over the past three years and how they should develop in future.
He was extremely well received, as a representative of the EU, wherever he went and had intensive meetings with President Jiang Zemin, the Deputy Prime Minister, Qian Qichen, five senior ministers and other policy makers.
Some strong messages he received during the visit were: a recognition of the increasing role of the EU in the world, an appreciation for the recent, rapid progress in EU-China relations; and a genuine will and commitment to continue the development of EU-China relations and cooperation at all levels.
Returning to the report, I note that it rightly picks out the importance of the events of 11 September and the launch of the fight against international terrorism, and China's entry into the WTO.
The report congratulates China on its accession to the WTO and expresses support for China's continuing economic and social reforms.
It took China 15 long years of arduous negotiations to join the WTO.
It is therefore that it has joined the WTO, but we will now need to ensure that China fully adheres to its commitments.
However, while we are conscious that the way ahead will be a long-term process, we nevertheless believe that improvements in political and civil rights are needed in China, also in the short-term.
The report draws the attention of the Chinese Government to the importance of respecting and protecting the religious and cultural heritage of Tibet, and the identity of the Tibetan people.
Mr Patten also discussed these issues with Foreign Minister Tang and Vice-Premier Qian Qichen.
The future priorities of our cooperation in China will be support for the social economic reform process, sustainable development and environment, and the promotion of good governance, human rights and the rule of law.
However, I welcome the report's reconfirmation that the EU has a profound interest in a stable, prosperous and open China, which embraces democratic practices, free market principles, human rights and the rule of law, and that the EU must pursue policies which will help China further its endeavours in this direction.
That is what we fully intend to do through our increased dialogues and cooperation across the board.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
That said, I would like to inform you that this report places on the table the issues and the importance of elderly people in Europe.
Without a doubt, there will soon be as many as 100 or 120 million people in Europe and, in the near future, in the enlarged Europe, and so this report concerns a very large number of European Union citizens.
I have to say that, in the meetings and discussions held within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs with all the group representatives, there was complete consensus on the objectives: we all want Europe to do something, if possible, to improve the lot of pensioners.
I must also say, moreover, that I am totally against this decision; two amendments have been tabled by a group on the other side of the House, opposing this decision, and I personally cannot do anything but vote for these amendments, for I feel that citizens should be able to continue working on two conditions.
What I mean is, after they have paid enough contributions for a pension and have worked for a sufficient number of years of their lives, people must only continue to work on two conditions: the first being that the decision to work is voluntary, in other words that they are not forced to work for 45, 50 or 60 years of their lives - and the Commission states this in its report - and the second, I would add, being that there are no young people out of work.
As long as there is a young person who is unemployed, I feel that the elderly who have been able to work and can now draw a pension should leave their jobs for the young people.
I have now run out of time but I reserve the right to continue in my explanation of vote on this report.
In conclusion, addressing the Commission and the Member States, I will repeat that we must achieve definite progress on the problems that bear down on Europe's people.
It is very important that, when citizens reach pensionable age, they can count on a reasonable and fair pension scheme, whether they live in Finland or in Portugal.
In many of the current schemes, it is still too often the case that mainly older, single women live far below the poverty line.
I would therefore expressly call on the Member States to review their schemes in such a way as to ensure that women, but also men who, through family circumstances, are not active in the labour market, are nevertheless able to build up individual pension rights.
Finally, for the future of an ageing Europe, it is of the utmost importance for safe, adequate and affordable pension schemes to be set up which guarantee that retired men and women can lead dignified and independent lives and can take a full part in social and cultural life.
I hope, Mr President, that you will be able to inform the Presidency of this and that you will also find a solution to the problem.
After years, the silence has at long last been broken in an important debate such as that on pensions.
It is therefore a huge achievement on the part of the Commission, the Social Protection Committee and my own Minister, Mr Frank Vandenbroucke, under the Belgian Presidency, to have placed this issue on the agenda whilst adding the social dimension.
For let us be quite honest: if we want to safeguard our European social model, if we want to preserve the solidarity between, and within, the generations in pensions, if we want pensions also to form part of a strategy against poverty and in favour of guaranteed income, then this debate should clearly be placed on a social footing.
I hope that we will be able to demonstrate in our vote that this is what this is all about for us.
Here in the European Parliament, we have our open debates so that the public can hear and understand what the arguments are behind our decisions and so that special interest groups can make their presence felt in the debates.
It cannot be emphasised enough that efforts must be made to democratise open coordination, and I would urge the Council to address this subject.
Mr President, I also would to thank our rapporteur.
We see many severe disparities, especially in relation to occupational pensions and even State pension entitlements, where women are effectively penalised for taking on domestic responsibilities; for having worked part-time or flexibly.
Indeed, the cases of people playing by the rules and investing either in their companies - with the Enron example before us or indeed in Equitable Life in my own country - and making private pension provision, show that you cannot trust the markets any more than you can sometimes trust governments.
Mr President, the backdrop of the debate on the development of pensions systems is the new demographic context in Europe, a true challenge which has arisen due to the constant increase in the number of people reaching retiring age, which is linked to rising longevity.
In this context, the Commission and the Council have often called for pensions system reform in the name of the Stability and Growth Pact and combating state deficits.
It is also good that he proposes to strengthen the open coordination method by democratic will, involving NGOs, the social partners, the candidate countries and the European Parliament in defining effective indicators and mechanisms with a view to assessing reforms and achieving modernisation.
The development of the contributory system cannot be considered in the new demographic context without an increase in funds.
As long as rigid labour markets prevail in Europe, as long as employment rates, particularly among the youngest and oldest members of the active population, are prevented by corporate and protectionist policies from rising above their current low levels, as long as the labour market is organised in this way, it will be difficult or even impossible to guarantee to today's and tomorrow's pensioners conditions which are both dignified and sustainable in the medium and long term.
At this stage, it is the poorly represented younger generations who are losing the battle, and who should be represented differently in Parliament and, I feel, in this report.
The labour market and pension reforms were intended to avoid the explosion of this intergenerational dispute.
The forecasts for European demographic change are even more significant, as 40% of the European population will be 65 or over in 2025, according to Eurostat.
Therefore, the consequences for the balance of pensions systems, in particular, of this ageing of the population - which is in fact an undeniable sign of progress in terms of health and social aspects - give cause for concern, as the current proportion of four workers to one pensioner will only be two workers to one pensioner in 2030.
That is why the European debate particularly welcomes the Commission's communication, which aims to guarantee safe and sustainable pensions through an integrated approach to the strategies of the Member States, whose pension schemes, especially state schemes, are managed at national level.
Also from this perspective, unlike others, I am delighted that the Barcelona European Council of 15 and 16 March 2002 committed, on the one hand, to stepping up efforts to provide mature workers with greater possibilities of remaining in the job market, for example by means of flexible gradual retirement programmes and guaranteeing genuine access to education and life-long training, and, on the other, to gradually increasing the average retirement age in the European Union by about five years by 2010.
An entirely different goal would be necessary in order to achieve modernisation that takes in to account developments in work and life stages and to create a genuine right to gradual retirement.
Mr President, one of the central issues in the whole approach to the social security system is the need to ensure that the new method of open coordination guarantees the right to pensions that enable pensioners to live a dignified and independent life and does not impose reforms on the system that are designed to privatise it, albeit partially, and I am referring here specifically to pensions funds.
It is not acceptable that, on the pretext of the budgetary consolidation stipulated in the Stability Pact, we move towards laying down rules and recommendations which, in practice, threaten the right to pensions that enable pensioners to lead a dignified and independent life and to participate in social and cultural activities.
Hence the importance of expanding the base of contributors, of exploring alternative forms of financing statutory pension systems, for example, by extending social contributions to financial profits, and by conducting a thorough review of some legislative initiatives, specifically the directive on the activities and prudential supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision.
We are opposed to any attempt by the Member States to take the Council conclusion to be a starting point for increasing the legal retirement age or for extending the periods in which contributions are made in order to acquire full pension rights.
The issue of pensions, future contributions and necessity of securing pensions, is partly financial, no matter what anybody says.
I think that each of us has to come to this debate and to this argument from the basis of guaranteeing maximum opportunities for employment, maximum opportunities for social protection and maximum opportunities for forward-planning with regard to pension needs.
We do not have the same demographic problem in Ireland as there would be other countries, but we have taken that decision now, even though at the moment we could use the money for other things: infrastructure and so on.
The final point I will make, Mr President, is that I agree with the rapporteur when he says that the pension system should include individualisation of pensions, social security and taxation systems.
However, we should be opposed to a harmonised and uniform system across the Union.
Mr President, this Parliament is today debating a subject related to an issue that is of concern to everyone.
At this very moment, the second United Nations World Assembly on Ageing is taking place in Madrid.
The ageing of the population and the reduction in the number of people of working age requires innovative and effective policies to be drafted and implemented.
If it takes too long to implement these reforms, as the rapporteur states, the European social model and the growth and economic stability of the European Union will suffer serious consequences.
In this field, one of the most important measures is the promotion of policies that foster the idea of active ageing; in other words, every citizen must have the option to retire or to remain in the labour market on a full or part-time basis.
Legislation regulating social security systems falls within the sole competence of the Member States, as we all know, which explains the considerable differences between these systems.
The importance of this issue and its economic and social effects, however, require a global approach and global strategies.
The European Union must, therefore, play a leading role in supporting national strategies, by means of an open method of coordination, setting common objectives and working methods, and by promoting the exchange of experiences and of good practices in addition to undertaking an ongoing and coherent evaluation of the progress that has been made.
Another aspect that should be emphasised is the considerable proportion of elderly people in the Member States who are victims of poverty and social exclusion.
Lastly, I feel obliged to state that current pension schemes are particularly unfavourable to women, and the Member States must, therefore, give priority to gender equality and European legislation that effectively guarantees the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of gender in pension schemes must be promoted.
We maintain that these policies must be cohesive and must complement coordinated policies on employment, social exclusion and poverty.
I think the European Commission urgently needs to organise information campaigns in liaison with the national governments and social partners.
This is particularly important in Member States which have neglected or do not have the courage to implement suitable reforms and in order to prepare the candidate countries.
That, though, is the fault of - among other things - the over 200 amendments that our rapporteur had to deal with, the final result of which is the interminable resolution containing the relevant and the irrelevant along with, unfortunately, several contradictions and repetitions.
It is for that reason that one should also welcome the Commission's effort to monitor and promote these processes of reform through more in-depth cooperation between the Member States and on the basis of an open method of coordination.
We know that reforms of the pension systems have been introduced too hesitantly in various Member States, because they shrink from politically unpopular decisions.
As a woman - and, having been the youngest Member by far in 1965, I have since, unfortunately, become the oldest female in this House - I of course welcome the call, in the communication from the Commission, for pension systems to be examined with a view to their modernisation, with priority being given to the removal from all three pillars of all existing discrimination on the grounds of gender.
The Member States must of course ensure that women, and also house-husbands, who are for family reasons not represented in the labour market, as well as spouses who help out in family businesses, get opportunities to accrue individual pension entitlements.
There are such considerable differences between pension systems in the various Member States that the responsibility for regulating the organisation and funding of statutory pensions must be that of the Member States alone in the future also.
The guarantee of a secure old age has played a key role in different cultures throughout the ages and all over the world.
Mr President, I should like to bring a slightly different dimension to the debate and bring in the experience of Parliament's Committee on Petitions where pensions and social security issues constitute 20% of the petitions brought to the committee's attention.
In another case earlier this year we considered a petition from a British citizen, on behalf of 40,000 British pensioners living in Spain, who complained that the British Government was refusing to pay them the winter fuel allowance.
These citizens appealed to the European Parliament and I am delighted to say that as a result of that petition, the winter fuel allowance is now to be paid to British pensioners wherever they live.
It is quite beyond dispute that the EU needs to be active in this area as well as in others and to make its contribution to a possible solution of these problems, but it must do this within the framework of the legal bases in the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This procedure would lead to the European Union appropriating for itself, without any basis in the Treaties and, so to speak, cold-bloodedly, a legislative authority that belongs to nations.
The Council has announced the extension of open coordination to other highly sensitive areas such as health provision and care for the elderly.
It is therefore high time for Parliament to show the Council where the lines are drawn and take a position on this, above all in defence of its own interests.
Monetary Union and the increasingly integrated economic policies of the Member States of the European Union undeniably give all policies a European dimension, even policies which were strictly national until just a few years ago.
In December, both the ECOFIN and the Social Affairs Council agreed on joint objectives and working methods for pensions.
In today's report, Parliament has, I think, put an optimistic foot forward on the road to cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, a new, ambitious programme of cooperation on the subject of pensions.
The Commission presented its report on pensions in June 2001.
Let me reiterate what transpires from both the Commission report and the European Parliament report, because I think it is important.
It is extremely difficult for people over 50 to stay in or find work in numerous industries in the private sector.
So we need investment and specific policies in the employment sector to train these people and to ensure that the education system and the training system commit to specific quotas for older people.
This need appears to be met by the method of open cooperation.
Every year Parliament's presence is more keenly felt, greater account is taken of its proposals and it has a very important role in the application in question.
The second, as has quite rightly been stressed, is that enlargement and the candidate countries must be included in any plans.
The conference which you have organised in May with authorities from the candidate countries is a good starting point for cooperation, given that the candidate countries will have to take part in this joint exercise in two years' time.
I think the agreed joint report with its three basic lines of approach and eleven points which all the countries must use as a basis for reform contains two important victories: the first is that the economic and social dimensions sit side by side and the second is that it gives maximum European added value to national policies.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Commission rightly affirms the need to expand protection for workers who are subject to risks of asbestos and also the need to increase the effectiveness of monitoring and prevention, especially in the civil construction industry, for certain tasks, such as the repair and removal of materials containing various types of asbestos.
We also feel that this is, in fact, a public health issue, which should be looked at on the basis of Article 174, in another context.
I should like to draw your attention to the efforts made by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and to emphasise that my colleagues have helped to ensure that this report is today a more ambitious, more wide-ranging report, which also makes greater demands for the follow-up process.
This is the rigorous evaluation we needed in order to make a legislative proposal that can, once and for all, put an end to certain arguments, which have more to do with vested interests than with what should be guiding us, which must respect the primacy of people's integrity at work and in society.
This being the case, we would like the Commission to provide this Parliament with epidemiological studies that clearly show the consequences of each asbestos fibre for the health of workers, which groups are at risk, to supply statistics that will enable a reliable study to be conducted and also to prevent some countries in the Union, six to be specific, from maintaining higher limits than those now being proposed.
There are striking differences between the organisation that is proposed for this directive and the directive on building sites and others and, we hope, therefore, that the Commission supports this revision in order to establish best legislative practice in this field.
The proposals which I support are also aimed at making registers for all Member States and candidate countries compulsory, together with inspections of authorised scrapyards and a restriction on the transport of disposed asbestos to a distance of 500 km.
In addition, the European Commission is invited to make proposals before the end of 2003 for the compensation and protection of victims who are not exposed to asbestos through their work, also in those cases in which the source of contamination is unknown or the company responsible no longer exists.
On the other hand, we do totally agree with the rapporteur on the need to change the culture on risk prevention in the workplace in general and on prevention of risks related to asbestos in particular.
Mr President, we all know that asbestos is one of the biggest threats of all to the health of workers in the EU.
It is estimated, as a previous speaker has also said, that getting on for half a million deaths over the next 35 years will be directly linked to the serious illnesses caused by asbestos.
For many years, asbestos was used without a thought for the harmful effects it might have and, as a precise consequence of this, the asbestos problem will dog us for many years to come.
The proposal tabled by the Commission will ensure better protection of workers who are in danger of being exposed to asbestos in the course of their work, and it is on the whole a really sound proposal.
The 1999 directive bans chrysotile, which is the last type of asbestos it is permitted to use.
Is it uncertain whether the 1999 directive does in fact ban exports to countries outside the EU?
Mr President, every year 100 people die in my West Midlands constituency of asbestos-related diseases.
Manufacturing of asbestos has been banned in almost all Member States, but there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos left in Europe's buildings, industrial plants, railway carriages that were built in the 1950s and the 1960s, etc.
I urge you to vote for Amendment No 21 and for the last six words of Amendment No 42.
My understanding is that if Amendment No 21 is accepted then we can vote for the last sentence of Amendment No 42 which deals with asbestos cement, but we need clarification on that from the President.
It is one example of an EU directive where there is compelling scientific and medical evidence that it is needed to save lives across the European Union.
Prevention is what is desperately needed in activities of this kind, and we are all too aware of this.
These have, in fact, been mentioned by Mrs Smet in the past.
This was highlighted at the meeting of the Employment and Social Policy Council of Ministers on 7 March 2002.
A change to this directive so that it also includes a ban on production for, and exports to, third countries could be a good way to begin changing this state of affairs.
Mr President, it has long been acknowledged that asbestos is likely to cause serious diseases, including various types of cancer.
This material is a danger not only to workers who are exposed to it, but also to public health in general.
The Commission proposal, which is to be praised, and which seeks to amend this directive for the third time, has come about because of the need to strengthen existing orders so as to safeguard the health and safety of workers, especially in sectors where the risks of exposure are today acknowledged to be more dangerous.
The rapporteur, Elisa Damião, has adopted a balanced position on a sensitive and highly technical issue, on which I congratulate her.
Mr President, as the rapporteur has made quite clear, this directive does not require us to debate the hazardous nature of asbestos but to start from the certainty of that fact.
Although further scientific research is necessary to completely clear up the remaining doubts regarding the risks of asbestos exposure to human health, the number of victims of asbestos-related diseases in Europe is such that the majority of the Member States have implemented the ban on the marketing and use of products containing asbestos.
We must never forget that a high level of competitiveness is based partly on high quality social conditions and that quality of work is an important production factor.
Mr President, it should be noted that the Commission has been unable to suggest a maximum limit value on the exposure to chrysotile, mainly because it has been impossible to prove that any deaths have arisen from the use of products containing white asbestos.
Yet the inclusion of white asbestos in this directive is estimated by none other than our own Trade Union Council to cost GBP 80 billion for the UK alone and up to GBP 500 billion throughout Europe, without possibly saving a single life.
Secondly, it is certainly possible to require a reverse burden of proof in the case of suspected asbestos-related illness in the form of asbestosis and mesothelioma but, however, quite impossible when it comes to what may be a link between asbestos and bronchial cancer or cancer of the digestive system.
We have a worldwide system of diagnosis drawn up by the World Health Organisation, and the World Health Organisation ought also therefore to be responsible for assessing this system.
The original Community legislation prioritised this protection within the context of the manufacture and processing of asbestos.
This legislation has borne fruit, but a total ban on production has not yet been implemented in certain countries.
I would like to end with a clear warning to all those who do not wish to support all the minimum specifications proposed here, and who would therefore be willing to take responsibility for the significant health risks that would affect many workers in Europe.
This underestimation of the risks of exposure to asbestos and failure to apply the precautionary principle, a procedure which may well be costly but is less costly than human life, could lead to considerable responsibilities for employers.
It is precisely because asbestos is one of the most hazardous materials to work with that the most harmful types of it have been banned in almost every country in the world.
One important new essential is prevention, that is, education about the dangers of asbestos, and the greater responsibility of employers - not only the major employers, but also the small ones, including subcontractors, with atypical employment relationships of course included.
We ran out of time, but sometimes things are very difficult.
The Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 11, 17, 18, 19, 22, 31, 32, 34 and 39, since they improve on the quality of the text and/or clarify its meaning.
Although I can agree to the ideas behind Amendments Nos 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 14, the Commission cannot accept them for reasons of legal coherence and legislative technique.
The Commission has to reject Amendment No 16 and the second part of Amendment No 25, because the employers' responsibility is clearly established in the framework of Directive 89/391 and any further qualification would introduce legal uncertainties as regards where this responsibility lies.
As regards the limit value, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 15, 21 and 42, because they would introduce two different limit values, implying different protection levels for workers carrying out different activities.
In addition, the expression of the limit values as a time-weighted average in a period of four hours instead of eight hours has to be rejected because it would create confusion when compared to the same values in international standards which use a reference period of eight hours.
Amendments Nos 5, 10, 27, 38 and 40 cannot be accepted by the Commission because Article 137, on which the proposal for a directive is based, does not allow for the recognition of and financial compensation for occupational diseases and concerns only the protection of workers.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 30, 33, 35, 36 and 37.
Amendment No 29 cannot be accepted since Directive 89/391 imposes an obligation on the employer to provide adequate training for workers and not merely to make training available.
Amendment No 41, cannot be followed by the Commission because it would introduce, in the case of activities involving sporadic and low-intensity exposures, unnecessary additional bureaucratic burden on enterprises and national administrations without any additional benefit.
Before summing up, there is a real political question: will this directive as it stands now prohibit any export to third countries after 2005?
Finally, to sum up, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 11, 17, 18, 19, 22, 31, 32, 34 and 39.
It rejects Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 21, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41 and 42.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
Full understanding between our respective institutions and compliance with existing agreements between us are a prerequisite for Question Time to the Council to be properly conducted.
I thank the Minister for his consideration in undertaking to reply to the questions in writing.
I should like to point out to him that unfortunately I am not the master of whether I get the opportunity to put a question to him, or any other minister in this House, during the course of the debates - it is the group which decides who takes the floor.
The next item is questions to the Council (B5-0014/2002).
This declaration was made in the Polish Parliament, though the Spanish translation states it was made in a Polish city.
This situation seems to be as appropriate as any other for me to reiterate something the Council and certainly the Spanish Presidency have repeated ad nauseam, namely that the Treaties on which the Union is based are attributive in nature.
By definition, the acquis is to be found exclusively in the primary legislation agreed in the treaties, and in secondary legislation which must be based on primary legislation.
Mr President, the joint communication from Prime Minister Blair and Chancellor Schröeder refers to a whole raft of measures.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I see that you are not going to give me a straight answer on an issue that the European public has been debating for several weeks, and which concerns a political matter that must now fall within the competence of the Convention, the institution that will be addressing this and other fundamental aspects of the future Constitution of the Union.
It is an extremely serious matter that the Spanish Presidency, which has regrettably said nothing yet about the political future of the Union, is remaining on the sidelines of a debate that deals with an issue to which, furthermore, it is going to be difficult to find any democratic solution that respects national and European diversity except through the existence of a government of the Union and of a European Parliament with full legislative powers.
Let me say, however, that you are talking of the right of veto and I am talking of unanimous decision-making.
It will continue to exist, provided that it is politically necessary, in order to maintain balances, which I believe are a major fact of life in all the countries that make up the Union.
With regard to his second question, this is a matter for the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference and it is not a subject for debate in Parliament right now.
The Council cannot give an answer.
I am going to act as if I were a Finnish President who knew nothing about the history of my country and not intervene in any way.
Even though there was a debate on this subject yesterday which lasted more than two hours, I understand this question is being maintained.
I therefore do not mind answering that in its Declaration on 16 March the European Council clearly stated that the bloodshed must stop, that there can be no military solution to the Middle East conflict, and that peace and security can only be achieved through negotiations.
The Council is keeping in constant touch with the two sides and other important players, particularly through the High Representative for the CFSP, who has already visited the region three times this year.
In addition, it has expressed its support for the recent initiative by Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia.
The Council is delighted that this initiative has been backed by the Arab League Summit in Beirut, which the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union also attended; this was indeed an unprecedented action because never before has a President-in-Office of the Council been invited to take part in a meeting of Arab League Ministers.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
We have to be more vocal in our support for the right of the Palestinian people to have their own state, whilst at the same time guaranteeing the right of Israel to its security.
Mr President, my question relates to whether or not the Presidency-in-Office has on its agenda the issue of suspension of the Association Agreement with Israel.
With regard to the measures that may derive from our considerations on whether or not it is appropriate to apply or suspend any part of the Agreement, I should like to remind you also that these decisions are made unanimously by the Council and that therefore it will be the Council, in its wisdom, that decides whether the measures you refer to will be adopted.
At the moment I can only tell you what I said yesterday: the Presidency is actively working on convening this Association Council and, if circumstances permit, it might even be able to meet during the next General Affairs Council, to be held in Luxembourg on the 15 and 16 April.
I will say that, with regard to the Council, the Presidency cannot have a position, although I believe Mrs Díez González is well aware of the Spanish Government's position on this matter.
Question No 4 by Marie Anne Isler Béguin (H-0174/02): Subject: Community programme for environmental education The aim of the Spring Summits is to evaluate the degree of integration of sustainable development in Community policies.
I am very pleased to hear - although I do not know the details, I do know enough to say this - that environmental subjects are already included in primary and secondary teaching and, of course, at university level in most Member States.
The only institution that has the right of initiative to submit proposals is the Commission and, since it has no legal base to make proposals on this, it has not made any.
Mr President, I was half expecting your response as we are well aware that education is the responsibility of the Member States.
Although it is not the responsibility of the Member States, I believe there have been other requests on the history of the European Union.
I do not need to be convinced of the need to introduce an element of universality in education matters at a European level, in both history and the environment, but I repeat what I said a moment ago: in the Union attributions are made only by the Treaties and secondary legislation.
Primary law does not, therefore, recognise this Community competence.
You know that the possibility was raised in Intergovernmental Conferences of amending the articles of the Treaty, and this was rejected by several countries that I am not going to name, but you know which they are.
Therefore, all I can tell you is that the only instrument at a European level that can prick the consciences of the Member States is this Parliament, and so I encourage you to put forward a motion or a parliamentary resolution to get this subject on the table, so it can be a wake-up call for the Member States' governments.
Question No 5 by Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco (H-0179/02): Subject: Ratification of the Cotonou Agreement By 6 March 2002, according to information published by the Council itself, only four of the European Union's Member States (Denmark, Finland, UK and Sweden) had ratified the Cotonou Agreement signed on 23 June 2000.
The Council wishes, however, to correct the statement that only two Member States have begun ratification procedures.
The ratification procedures are following their normal course, although it is a long process, and we can expect that, if nothing untoward happens, all the Member States will have ratified the Cotonou Agreement before the end of this year, 2002.
As of today, 42 ACP states have deposited their ratification instruments.
This will of course be a priority issue at the meeting of ACP-EU Ministers to be held at Punta Cana -Dominican Republic - on 28 June, during the Spanish Presidency.
In any case, given the importance of this Association Agreement between the ACP countries and the European Union, and as two years have now passed since the signing of the Cotonou Agreement, I should like to know whether - apart from what the Member States that have ratified it - only four of them, as the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out - may be doing - the Council is thinking of organising a campaign to inform our public opinion in Europe, which hardly knows what this Cotonou Association Agreement is about.
The Monterey Conference on development funding has taken place, and in Johannesburg there is going to be a world conference on sustainable development in early September, at which development funding and all the actions developed under the Cotonou Agreement will be high on the agenda.
This is particularly important, especially when you take into account the fact that at Monterey we were reminded of the special duty that the more developed countries have to help the less developed ones.
The Council is concerned about the recent tensions between India and Pakistan, especially in view of the extent of their military build-up and the nuclear capability of both countries.
It hopes that, as a result of the firm measures taken by Pakistan against the terrorist groups that are based in its territory and operate in India, both countries will be able to resume bilateral talks in the spirit of the Shimla Agreement and the Lahore Declaration.
The Council also hopes that these talks will cover all subjects of interest to both parties, including the question of Jammu and Kashmir.
We need to pay more attention to it as a European Union and, if necessary, we offer the European Union's services as a mediator if that would be helpful to those involved.
Mr President, the Presidency is well aware that the Kashmir conflict is one of those conflicts that last or have lasted longer than would be desirable.
I think the Council has been extraordinarily appreciative of this spirit of conciliation shown by the Indian Government and the Pakistani Government, particularly over the recent months when very serious events have occurred, with terrorist attacks that could have destabilised the region, which was already unsettled enough with the conflict in Afghanistan.
The Presidency has, of course, been offering both sides its services since the very first day.
Question No 6 by Cecilia Malmström (H-0187/02): Subject: Visitor's visa for leading Taiwanese citizens Taiwan's democratically elected Liberal President, Chen Shui-bian has been invited to Sweden by a Swedish sister party to take part on a private basis in its hundredth anniversary celebrations.
Council Regulation 539/2001 lays down the list of third countries, identities and territorial authorities not recognised as states, at least by one Member State, whose citizens are required to hold a visa to cross the external borders of the Member States, and Taiwan appears on this list.
It is up to the Member States to adopt decisions regarding the granting or refusal of a visa in individual cases, based on the criteria laid down in the Common Consular Instructions on Visas, when said decision relates to the Schengen acquis.
There is no specific Council decision obliging Member States to refuse a visa to the person you refer to.
What I have to say is that Taiwan poses a political problem that you are aware of - and which, naturally, I am not going to go into - and so the Common Consular Instructions on Visas do not state that visas should be automatically issued to people from Taiwan, especially to someone as significant as the President of the Government.
Nevertheless, any European Union country that itself wants to issue such a visa exclusively for entry into that country may do so, and nobody will stop it.
As they deal with similar subjects, Questions Nos 9 and 10 will be taken together.
The question now asked is identical.
In the Commission's periodic report for 2000 on Romania's progress towards accession, the Commission expressed its concern in relation to the legislation and practice on adoption between different countries, which allow considerations other than the best interests of the child to influence decisions on adoption.
As a result of this, and other expressions of concern, the Romanian Government decided to suspend international adoptions.
In the revised Association for the accession of Romania, adopted by the Council on 28 January 2002, amongst the intermediate priorities and objectives, it is stipulated that Romania must maintain the moratorium on international adoption until new legislation is adopted which is compatible with the interests of the children and with Romania's international obligations, and the necessary administrative capacity to apply the new legislation is guaranteed.
As well as maintaining the general moratorium, the Romanian Government adopted measures in December 2001 to allow for the completion of adoption procedures in those cases which were already before the courts at the time of the suspension of international adoptions.
The Presidency of the Council believes that the adoptions of those children whose adoption procedures have already begun in the Member States, with all legal guarantees, should be completed within a reasonable period.?
Mr de Miguel, I do not want the Council to change its mind, and I also believe that we need to protect children, but, do you not think that our governments could at least be as effective as their American counterparts?
You are well aware that in February, after a visit from the Romanian President to the United States, and pursuant to this new decree and this new legislation, nineteen children were given up to American families for adoption.
Do you not think that, once this decree is in force and we have removed barriers to adoption, keeping a close eye, of course, on the children involved, but also asking the Romanian Government to ensure equal treatment for European families, the solution lies in properly exerted political pressure?
I think it would, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would ask him to do this.
I would remind you that the Presidency makes no exceptions for nationality - all children in the EU are equal, whether they be Spanish or from any other Member State.
Mr Crowley, my work takes me frequently to Romania and I have had the opportunity on several occasions to see the wretched and miserable lives led by children who are orphans or who have been separated from their parents in orphanages and children's homes.
This issue of adoption, however, is very emotional for Romania and states in a similar situation to it, and, because it is emotional, it is also highly political.
The Romanian Government is not finding it easy to put its house in order where this matter is concerned, because this issue has also been tainted by the unbelievable corruption that has tarnished Romanian public life.
I rise because, although the Council position has not altered, the Romanian Government has put in a great deal of work, and I want to commend to the Council the report that came out just a few days ago from the independent group for international adoption analysis, which the Prime Minister commissioned.
Baroness Nicholson has made a very significant contribution to relations between the European Union and Romania in her report, of which we are all aware and, with which the Romanians are, of course, even more familiar than we are.
Mr President, my question will be very brief.
However, I also said that I believe this is a serious political problem for the new Romanian Government, which is dogged by what has happened in the past.
Question No 11 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0193/02): Subject: Extension of scope of SIS 2 The Council is considering a proposal to extend the recording of details in the SIS 2 register to include 'troublemakers', for instance football hooligans or violent demonstrators.
Mr President, the question refers to the Belgian proposal to include details of persons known to have committed certain public order offences, who could become troublemakers in certain circumstances, such as at sporting, social or cultural events, or any kind of demonstration, in the SIS (Schengen Information System) register.
The intention was to match this information with descriptions provided under Article 99 of the Schengen Agreement, but with a different aim: that is to say, to actually prevent these people participating in certain events, instead of implementing specific or one-off surveillance operations, as has been the case recently.
Ministers debated this proposal at the meeting of the Joint Committee on 7 December 2001.
In the aforementioned draft decision, the exchange of police information between national football information points is anticipated but not the use of the SIS for this purpose.
I would thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer.
I think I have been explicit enough, Mr Sjöstedt.
The Council has not been receptive to this idea of adding to the SIS lists of persons known solely for their slightly unusual activities at particular events, because this would give rise to an absolutely intolerable surveillance of persons who have committed no crime.
In cases where public order issues are expected to arise, such as at sporting or political events, or demonstrations, as has been the case in the past, the discreet surveillance of individuals entering a country and of borders is far more effective than compiling such lists which are not only odious, but run counter to our civic tradition as a whole.
I believe there to be a certain amount of political filibustering at play here, in deliberately slowing things down, so there is not enough time to answer all the questions.
I think that this remark stretches courtesy to its very limits, and even more so today, since Parliament kept me waiting for half an hour before starting Question Time because of another debate.
I find it absolutely incredible that someone in this House should accuse me of wasting time when answering questions when it is Parliament itself that has kept me waiting for half an hour.
Mr de Miguel, I would like to apologise for the late start to Question Time.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0020/2002) by Mr Skinner, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission communication to the Council and the Parliament on implementation of the risk capital action plan (RCAP) [COM(2001)605 - C5-0015/2002 - 2001/2213(CNS)].
If we make a comparison of Europe and the US in the areas of business generation and equity financing, particularly amongst small businesses, then venture capital activity demonstrates a huge gap in Europe's readiness to compete.
There are varied and contrasting pictures across the 15 Member States.
At the institutional level, there is the possibility of quotation on the AIMS market in the UK, for example, and perhaps even the idea of using pension funds to allow for higher growth returns rather than with bonds and blue chip equities.
Let me also just mention pensions and the need for us to have a good quality directive on pensions - one that avoids the prudential plus approach.
If that prudential plus approach is used, then we may as well not have a pensions directive in Europe.
But now that the Lamfalussy issue is practically resolved, progress will be assured, leaving the regulatory framework requirement for the risk capital action plan well within our sights.
The impact of small- to medium-sized businesses has long been an issue raised by many parliamentarians who want to see nothing but the most positive advantages passed on to companies.
The Commission's benchmarking of its achievements in these areas has given the European Parliament and the Council the tool to measure Europe's progress.
These have been taken up by a number of Member States but some backbone still needs to be put into these issues.
Also, in terms of human resources, we have to have the kind of training or advice that is necessary to help these businesses flourish in the first place: life-long learning and initiatives in vocational qualifications can seen as the start of the spread of best practice, as is the introduction of business mentors in certain countries and developments in school curricula.
The Lisbon Summit of 1997 threw down the gauntlet of the risk capital action plan for Europe to pick up.
The expectation is to reach completion by 2005 in terms of a regulatory framework and 2010 for the knowledge-based economy.
The risk capital action plan is not in itself a master plan for increased growth or job creation, but it is the essential framework.
Mr President, I should like to begin by making two declarations of interest.
The first is that I represent Wales in the European Parliament.
I congratulate Mr Skinner for the work he has done on this report.
My colleagues and I in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have made some variations to the report which make it even more acceptable.
This report is set within the context - I believe - of some of the failures of the venture capital industry.
The venture capital industry has been too focused on areas where there is already significant financial activity.
The report we are considering here gets this balance right but we still need to get away from the idea that government, in some sense, can resolve all of these issues.
These organisations are the ones that we look to for the funding to create the dynamic economy that we want to develop in Europe.
That is a message that is not heard often enough in this Chamber.
It is, therefore, important that it is assessed and that its implementation is monitored, not only to record the progress that is made, but mainly to motivate all the relevant bodies in the Member States and to alert them to the need for the gradual and ongoing pursuit of a healthy entrepreneurial spirit underpinned by a culture in which risk is a factor that is permanently under control.
Nevertheless, as the rapporteur quite rightly points out, this requires a set of measures for legislative harmonisation and the acceptance of policies for fiscal stimulation drawn up by every Member State, but also some suggested by the Union, which will enable us to break down existing barriers in the field of capital provision and, specifically, with regard to the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to this financing instrument.
By accepting greater responsibility for the financing of risk capital through the European Investment Bank, Europe is demonstrating its desire to unequivocally shoulder its share of responsibility.
Nevertheless, without precluding access to this form of financing by the high-technology sectors, we must strengthen and develop the appropriate political, economic and institutional framework for the full use of the instrument of risk capital for small and medium-sized enterprises.
For example, Philips invented the light bulb at home and Bill Gates started developing software from his garage.
However, many small entrepreneurs do not have these investments at their disposal or have no access to the capital market in order to obtain these resources on favourable conditions.
We are glad that clear indications were given in Lisbon of the important role played by efficient risk capital markets in respect of innovative, fast-growing small and medium-sized enterprises and thus also in the creation of new and lasting employment.
It is, then, all the more regrettable that the Commission proposal for Europe-wide enhancement of occupational retirement provision in the Internal Market as part of the Financial Services Action Plan has to this moment still elicited no official response from the Council, so that we are at the moment unable to negotiate.
The Council's behaviour also goes against the Barcelona decisions.
Mr President, the Skinner report provides a sensible response to the October 2000 Commission communication to implement the risk capital action plan which dates back to the 1998 Cardiff Summit and dovetails neatly with the financial services action plan which Barcelona has made a priority.
SMEs in Europe face much greater difficulties than their US counterparts in raising loan or equity finance, which may help in part to explain the extraordinary success in US economic growth over the last ten years.
Although there is now rapid growth in venture capital funds in the European Union, there is enormous variation in performance.
Pension funds are the prime source of capital, and I have advocated UK-style self-select pension plans for the self-employed being permitted to make such investments on a pan-European basis, although this was rejected in committee, unfortunately.
Not radically tackling the language issue now will only get worse after enlargement when there are 40 million Polish speakers who also want their language to be given the same priority as, say, Italian or Spanish.
This excellent report enjoyed considerable cross-party support in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, in spite of originating from the other side of the House, deserves our full support.
It is therefore important to emphasise that state support can only be justified in exceptional circumstances.
It is because firms with under 250 employees account for two-thirds of jobs that we in the political world must always bear in mind the need to 'think small first'.
The so-called 'one man start up' is a very important area of concern.
In particular, we will have need of that when it comes to the new Member States.
The second major area is the transfer of businesses.
The report is clearly supportive of the Community strategy to develop the EU risk capital market.
As has been said a number of times this evening in this Parliament, risk capital provides a vital source of financing for new and innovative enterprises, and in that way it contributes significantly to economic growth and to the creation of jobs.
The development of a large and efficient EU risk capital market is a key element in the so-called Lisbon Strategy to create a more dynamic and prosperous European Union.
Investment almost tripled between 1998 and 2000.
But despite the real progress that has been made, there are still important barriers to development of the EU risk capital market.
As the report points out, these barriers affect both the supply side and the demand side of the market.
The risk capital action plan is designed to address those barriers, and in order to meet the deadline of 2003 for implementation of the RCAP a number of key actions are required.
Those measures include the proposed directive on prospectuses, the proposed directive on occupational pension funds, about which a number of Members have spoken tonight, and the proposed regulation on international accounting standards.
That is why I recently said that if the Council were to insist on further restrictions on those pension funds which operate satisfactorily - and basically they are found in the United Kingdom and Ireland, in the Netherlands and Denmark: together those countries account for maybe two thirds or 75% of total capital assembled and saved for the purpose of defraying pension fund obligations - why should the Commission place further restrictions on those pension funds?
Progress has been made but much remains to be done.
The Commission's broad economic policy guidelines for the year 2002/2003 will again call for intensified efforts in this area.
Measures to promote a culture of enterprise in the EU have been taken at Community and national levels, but Members of Parliament will appreciate that to change a culture is not easy.
Cultural barriers can indeed be particularly difficult to overcome but our efforts in this field must continue and, if possible, be intensified.
Based on that consideration the Commission has clarified its policy on state aid to risk capital activities.
I regard the report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs as another important building block in our efforts to develop the EU risk capital market.
It is encouraging that the recommendations from the committee correspond fully to the measures proposed in the risk capital action plan, and the Commission would very much like to once again thank the rapporteur for his work.
We are now entering a third consultation round.
Again, why would the Commission approve something which would harm the possibilities for small and medium-sized enterprises to get capital?
We therefore once again accept the fact that those three amendments will be approved by Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, The EU produces 20 million hectolitres of alcohol annually, of which 13 million hectolitres are of agricultural origin and the rest of the Union's production is what is known as synthetic alcohol.
The main reason is that, in principle, establishing a COM would entail dismantling national aid, as set out in Article 10 of the proposal.
This type of aid, linked to rural aid, however, can and should be maintained, not least because it does not distort the market in the current Europe of fifteen.
The arguments in favour of a Community legal framework are to improve the functioning of the single market, to ensure fair conditions of competition between operators and to help improve transparency and knowledge of marketing flows with a view to globalisation.
Alcohol imports from third countries are finding it increasingly easy to gain access to the EU market due to new openings arising from preferential systems, GATT tariff-cutting agreements or bilateral negotiations with specific third countries that produce a large amount of alcohol.
Other factors which might affect development prospects for the European alcohol market at this time include the substantial levels of alcohol production in the applicant countries, future tariff reductions in the forthcoming WTO negotiations and a possible increase in bioethanol production for fuel in the European Union, that could significantly alter the horizon for traditional uses of European ethyl alcohol.
Faced with such developments, the Council of Agricultural Ministers of 17 July 2000 asked the Commission to examine the possibility of introducing a regulatory framework for agricultural alcohol, in order to improve statistical information and market transparency, as well as introducing a regime for import and export licences, and to create an appropriate management committee for the sector.
The problem arises from the fact that a COM can apply only to products included in Annex I of the Treaty, which means it can apply to alcohol of agricultural origin but not to synthetic alcohol.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market established that the dual legal basis (Articles 37 and 95) is impossible, given that the procedures that correspond to the two articles are incompatible.
In that context, it would be necessary to find a dual legal base to deal with both together.
If the Commission were to abandon its dogmatic position on the Common Market Organisation, it could surely agree to the regulation providing for the purely statistical supervision of synthetic alcohol.
This way ahead would be possible even without extending the legal basis.
Although the Commission's proposal is by no means totally acceptable, my personal opinion is that it would make the situation better than it is now.
The end result is always the same: nothing is done.
Ethyl alcohol and synthetic alcohol are, in my view, an excellent example of why we must swiftly address questions about the Treaty, as after 2006, with the reform of agricultural policy, Parliament will have to take some very fundamental decisions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal to create a common organisation of the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is underpinned by a good intention.
This is to establish conditions ensuring that the market is better regulated and that there is greater transparency and fairer competition in trade both within the European Union and with third countries.
Its use in sectors such as the spirits industry and in the chemical, cosmetics and pharmaceutical industries, gives it a strategic importance in the European context.
Ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin, however, only represents around one half of alcohol consumed and produced in the European Union, with the rest being produced synthetically.
It is also worth adding that the Commission proposal also fails to solve the problem of the small and very small distillers which, until now, has been resolved by means of national schemes and national aid.
The European Parliament would be thereby clearly expressing its dissatisfaction with the scope of the Commission's intentions and would call on the Commission to submit a new proposal regulating the entire market in alcohol, of both agricultural and non-agricultural origin, and to resolve the outstanding problems with the various national systems in force.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I unequivocally welcome the favourable opinion the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has on Mrs Ayuso González' report.
Despite that, and with great zeal, it drew up a proposal whose substantial loopholes are evident even on first sight.
This gives rise to the danger that distortions in competition may result to the detriment of the market for agricultural alcohol.
Its production is also of great significance from an ecological point of view, and the by-products are, indeed, still used as agricultural feedingstuffs.
Any new regulation must cover all types of alcohol.
I believe that biofuels represent a great opportunity for agriculture.
There is still far more that we can do in this area than has been done to date, and that is through research into them, into the conditions to be imposed on them and how best to promote them, so that we can involve these alcohol products, too, in an ecological approach to our surroundings and thereby find new trade outlets for our agricultural sector.
She has spared neither effort nor trouble in trying to bring about a positive outcome in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, but that has unfortunately not been possible.
I am well aware, though, that for other Member States the inclusion of synthetic alcohol in the proposed COM is a central issue.
At this point I would like to make a more critical observation on the relationship between agricultural and synthetic alcohols.
As you know, this is another proposal to establish a set of common rules for the alcohol sector, after several attempts in the past that all failed for different reasons, as has been mentioned tonight by several Members.
Parliament's position would imply considering the proposal to be the result of a lack of reflection and lack of analysis of the real situation of the sector.
If, from an economic point of view, there are good reasons to extend the proposal to synthetic alcohol, there are legal and practical reasons why the Commission did not do this, when it established the proposal.
The Commission is well aware of the fact that the major part of the alcohol market is accessible to both types of alcohol, which therefore compete for the same outlets.
In order to realise its objective of better market information and transparency, the insertion of synthetic alcohol in the article on data collection to establish a yearly market balance of the sector and therefore to increase market knowledge might be considered.
The Commission is working on that.
This would also be defensible without a change of legal base provided that it could be shown that it was genuinely necessary, in order to manage the CMO for agricultural alcohol, that we should have the data for synthetic alcohol.
The case-law of the Court of Justice permits the use of Article 37 for provisions that have an ancillary effect on non-Annex I products, where this is necessary for the proper functioning of the CMO.
For the rest, the Commission is of the opinion that all other provisions proposed are necessary to establish a set of common rules for the alcohol sector, including the provisions on the application of the rules on state aid.
I should like to say something about the German market in answer to Members who have made reference to that particular aspect.
The Commission is well aware of the functioning of the German alcohol monopoly.
The purpose of this proposal for a common market organisation for alcohol is not to put an end to the existence of the German monopoly.
If, on the contrary, the aid in Germany is not given for such reasons but is simple operating assistance, paid for other reasons, then the application of the state aid rules would cause a problem.
Again I thank all Members that have spoken and others who have dealt with this subject.
Thank you, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, who presented those of Parliament's amendments that had not been taken up by the Council in its common position.
This timetable was adopted in plenary by the European Parliament, but was not taken up by the Council in its common position for second reading.
However, the United States has made a submission in IMO concerning the anticipated application of AIS carriage at the latest in 2004.
I would point out that the Council common position gives 2007 as the date for application by Member States.
I therefore welcome the fact that the House has reintroduced this request in today's vote.
