Lebanon (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Lebanon.
Apart from being the largest financial donor to Lebanon, the European Union has been making efforts through intensive diplomatic activities also to find a solution for the country's political paralysis.
Within this framework we support the efforts of the United Nations, Saudi Arabia and the Arab League.
In spite of everything, the plan of the Arab League is, at this point in time, still the only initiative which can contribute to the resolution of the political impasse in the country.
European Union Member States also support the establishment of the special United Nations Court for Lebanon in the Netherlands.
The deep political crisis continues: on 24 March, the parliamentary session to elect a President was postponed for the 17th time since November 2007.
Indications that Hizbollah has replenished its military capacity since 2006 are worrying, especially in the light of the recent threats against Israel, following the death of Imad Mugniyeh.
Moreover, the protracted crisis is having a very negative impact on the socio-economic situation in Lebanon.
We have been firmly supporting the Arab League's Initiative since it was launched in January 2008 and our Community instruments have allowed us to provide a targeted response to some of the major challenges.
An important date in the process will be 22 April, when the next presidential election session in the Parliament is scheduled.
We should also continue efforts to maintain momentum in the Middle East peace process, which has an impact on Lebanon.
We therefore want the European Parliament to call for the current opposition forces to find a solution, in order to put the higher interests of the country before these internal issues, so that we can continue working, as we did in the EU electoral observation mission promoted by the Commission, towards a sovereign, democratic, free, viable Lebanon that can be constructed in peace.
However, the social situation is very difficult.
A general strike has been called by the trade unions for 7 May, in a bid to raise minimum wages, and according to UN data, one million Lebanese out of a population of four million are living below the poverty line on less than two dollars a day.
If we want to help with finding a solution, let us ensure that 22 April is not wasted, not least because 21 August looks like it will be an impossible date to get through.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am in almost full agreement with what Mrs Napoletano has just said.
We need to support the Arab League initiative for a commitment to the election of a new President.
We cannot let up in our support for the International Court regarding the murder of Rafik Hariri.
The European Union needs to exert as much pressure as possible so that Syria and Iran cease to hinder the resolution of the political conflict in Lebanon and support the Arab League's proposal on the election of a new President.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lebanese people and democratic civil society in that country are the victims of a political crisis decided elsewhere.
On one side there is the United States, quick to play the Lebanese card against Syria and Hezbollah as part of its pro-Israeli stance to try to stabilise an area devastated by its illegal war against Iraq and to consolidate the military might of the State of Israel.
It cannot allow itself to lose Lebanon.
I believe that the European Parliament should be made to understand clearly that we in the EU must adhere to the commitments made in our partnership with Lebanon.
We must demonstrate our support through deeds.
We must also demonstrate our support for the Lebanese seeking the truth behind political murders.
We must also find possible resolutions and peace in the states in the area and in the Arab states.
The current political situation undermines the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) reform agenda, but the ENP can be a catalyst for political debate by moving it from power-based discussions towards issue-based discussions.
Since the murder of Rafik Hariri, who was well-known and respected, there has not yet been a presidential election and the country as a whole is incapable of finding a political solution to this complicated situation.
Members of the Lebanese Parliament whom I met recently, both at the latest Euromed meeting in Athens and here in Brussels, told us how terrible conditions for them are.
The feeling in Lebanon is that in practical terms Syria has political power over the country, specifically over southern Lebanon where Hezbollah puts the area in danger on a daily basis by firing rockets into northern Israel.
We seem to be making no progress, and I think Europe could play a much more significant part, not only in Lebanon but in the whole Middle East issue.
Please, Council and Commission, can we take a much stronger line on the whole Middle East issue from a European point of view and not just indulge ourselves in pious platitudes? (PL) Mr President, I would like to concur with those voices that say that Europe should come up with an initiative now, and ahead of the suggestion from Mrs Patrie, Chair of the delegation, that we should proffer an opportunity for the main Lebanese forces to speak in our Parliamentary forum and tell us what is really blocking the summoning of their Parliament and commencement of the process of electing a President.
We cannot separate our policy on Syria from our position on Lebanon.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the views of members during the today's debate, and I should first say that there is a considerable consensus, both in the Parliament and in the Council, that it is high time that the stalemate situation in Lebanon is overcome.
The Council has been making efforts in several ways.
Here I should like to express gratitude to Carlos Carnero González, who, like myself, in his introductory contribution emphasised the considerable commitment of the European Union in the area of security through its military forces, a commitment which has already cost lives.
And in making these efforts, the Council and the European Union remain committed to providing support for Lebanon.
I shall report its contents to my colleague, Benita Ferrero-Waldner.
The European Parliament has already made valuable contributions to our cooperation with Lebanon in the past.
Lebanon hosts 400 000 Palestinian refugees partly because Israel and the Palestinians have not yet reached a peace deal.
