Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 14 June 2001.
I therefore propose to confirm these mandates.
Agenda The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 28 June 2001.
Madam President, there were no flights at all from Amsterdam to Strasbourg this morning.
For the rest, I repeat what I have said once before in this Chamber: our neighbouring State has existed so far only because of the continued moral and material support of Greece.
First of all, Parliament came up with a pioneering proposal as regards which the Council then needed four years to establish a common position adopted by the 15 Member States which was characterised by exclusively national interests.
I therefore believe that we have, in this way, taken a first important step in the direction of more competition and more security in European art circles.
Furthermore, the resale right represents a fair return for artists or their successors, since it compensates for the fact that the laws of the art market dictate that a work of art usually only gains value over a period of time, whereas artists cannot wait for their twilight years to be able to live from their work.
This precedent would have been set at a particularly inopportune moment, at the very time when the Community is preparing for its enlargement to new members.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, having started in April 1997, we have now reached the third reading of the Resale Rights Directive.
The Commission has been unable to demonstrate that discrepancies in legislation in the Member States will, in the long run, have a direct, negative impact on the internal market.
They have a great many problems with the tax differentials, administration and insurance contracts.
If these smallest galleries have to buy works of art and are then - as anticipated in this proposal - unable to resell them three years later, and if perhaps, only after that period, have to sell them for less than their purchase price, they are bearing a risk and are losing out on two counts, namely in terms of both the price and of the resale rights.
It is important that this European decision, which will hopefully be taken by a majority of us tomorrow, should exert enormous pressure in favour of representatives campaigning for resale rights in Switzerland and also in the United States.
There is in fact a major market in the UK - mainly in London - and very little else in Europe.
Seventy per cent of the 'droit de suite' funds collected in France in 1996 went not to the artists but to the descendants of seven artists, including the relatives of Matisse and Picasso.
As is so often the case, Parliament and the European Union should leave things alone.
Partly in the wake of scientific investigations and, in addition, the conclusion reached by the conciliation committee, many believe that resale rights constitute a redistribution of resources from young, and often less well off, artists to older, successful artists and, above all, to their heirs.
Firstly: since the art and auction trade can only bear a very small part of the resale rights tax and since - thankfully, in my view - this tax cannot be fully passed on to the purchasers of works of art, resale rights might lead to a reduction in the purchase prices of works by young artists.
However, unlike the trade in consumer or other capital goods, the trade in works of art is not an end in itself.
Moreover, it will make a global agreement on 'droit de suite' less rather than more likely because there is no incentive for the beneficiaries of this agreement - New York and Geneva - to strike a deal with the European Union.
That means that an end will gradually be put to the distortion of competition affecting the internal market in this area.
The directive will give the Commission a basis on which to act in order to promote recognition of the resale rights at international level.
The debate is closed.
Better legal protection for accident victims The next item is the report (A5-0174/2001) by Mr Rothley, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, with recommendations to the Commission on a fifth European Parliament and Council directive on motor vehicle liability insurance to improve the legal protection of accident victims.
The court awarded the accident victim compensation of approximately GBP 9 million, some GBP 8 million of which related to purely financial loss.
Thirdly, there are still doubts as to who is obliged to assume liability for an accident caused by a vehicle without a number plate or with a false or stolen number plate.
The first is an important provision that not only benefits citizens, but also encourages in a practical way the development of the single market.
Cover can be extended for 30 days to encourage citizens to go and exercise their rights in a single market and shop across borders.
Mr President, firstly I want to make it absolutely clear that I have every sympathy with what our rapporteur wishes to achieve in taking forward this proposal.
The Fourth Directive made great strides in dealing with these problems.
There is no doubt that the Fourth Motor Insurance Directive needs updating after 15 years in force.
This period has afforded us sufficient opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the directive in contributing to a genuine single market for motor insurance.
This deprives consumers of the best that companies across Europe can offer in terms of choice, in terms of flexibility and, of course, price.
This must stop.
It is all the more welcome, therefore, that we in Parliament should take the initiative in matters such as this where we can make a real and tangible contribution to the rights and legal protection of our citizens.
That directive was also a remarkable development because it was the first occasion on which Parliament made use of its new powers under Article 192 of the Treaty.
This time the object of Parliament's requests is not to fill a gap in existing rules but to modernise and reinforce the single insurance market in this area.
Let me say on this point that the Commission is fully aware of the need to modernise the motor vehicle insurance directives - after all, the first of these directives was adopted 30 years ago.
For that reason, and in consultation with Member States, industry and victim support groups, in 1998 the Commission started a comprehensive exercise to review our insurance directives.
The debate is closed.
One of my greatest concerns about this initiative is its funding, both substantively and in terms of its publicity.
This brings me to the amendments.
We cannot offer our citizens a second-rate service.
For example, most of us would applaud the other sectoral initiative in this field, the FIN Net dealing with financial services for instance, but when was this initiative referred to Parliament?
The success of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is beginning to create a cultural shift away from traditional litigation.
Not in the first instance in court where the average cost for a cross-border case is EUR 2 500 and it takes between 23 and 29 months to resolve.
In reality, we know that consumers are not encouraged to shop on the Internet outside their own Member State and that national consumer organisations - including in my own Member State - are not advising consumers to go down this route because it is fraught with difficulties.
Mr President, it is very important that a framework is developed within the European Union in order to guarantee that the rights of consumers are protected at all times.
This entails putting into place systems which will allow the 370 million consumers of the European Union to access justice promptly, and to secure redress when consumer rights are infringed.
It is up to the 15 Member States of the European Union to implement the provisions of this recommendation.
Each Member State will have to put in place procedures which can deal with out-of-court settlements of consumer disputes.
Each government within the European Union will also have to set up central contact points, which will provide consumers with the requisite information about out-of-court resolution disputes bodies which are operational within their jurisdiction.
In conclusion, Mr President, this proposal is only part of a range of measures implemented by the European Union to protect consumer rights.
Consumers need to be protected, both in the off-line world and in the increasingly important on-line world where consumers are purchasing many goods and services over the Internet.
It is the natural follow-up to the 1998 Commission communication on access to justice and the notification by Member States of their out-of-court bodies applying the principles set out in Recommendation 98/257.
Member States, in close cooperation with the Commission, have already made substantial progress since this initiative was proposed in March last year.
In addition, both Norway and Iceland have expressed their wish to participate and have been attending meetings with Member States' experts and with the Commission.
In particular, one result of this work has been a Memorandum of Understanding, setting out the minimum functions and operational guidelines for the clearing-houses, which is now close to finalisation.
It is also provisionally agreed that the network should become operational on the 16 October of this year.
This coincides with the launch in Belgium of their Euroguichet, which will act as the clearing-house, and with the Annual General Assembly of the Consumer Associations that takes place on 18 and 19 October.
That is desirable and included in our proposal.
For instance, Amendment No 3 makes reference to the involvement of the EEA states.
The debate is closed.
COM in fruit and vegetables The next item is the Commission statement on the common organisation of the markets in the fruit and vegetables sector.
Mr President, the Commission would like to thank the European Parliament for the resolution tabled on the report of the Commission on the operation of the common organisation of the market in the fruit and vegetable sector.
As you know, the intention of this report has been to act as a platform for a wide-ranging discussion among Member States, the European Parliament and the sector.
The Commission would like to reassure Parliament that it is fully aware of the need to continue to work urgently on several aspects of this report and your current resolution.
I am sorry that the Commissioner responsible is not here, but I am very grateful to you, Mr Byrne, for joining us here today.
A year has passed since the Council instructed the Commission to undertake a specific study of the situation in the fruit and vegetable sector, which is currently suffering more than any other, in a report on the workings of the COM in fruit and vegetables.
The nut sector is of great social and environmental importance to the European Union, and to the southern countries such as Spain, Italy, Greece, Portugal and France, because these countries have many small farms that create a great number of jobs and which also have a considerable and direct influence on the environment.
Parliament has declared itself to be in favour of seeking a definitive solution for this sector, within the framework of the COM in fruit and vegetables.
What we need now, Commissioner, is for the Presidency and the Commission to speed up their work on finding a definitive solution for the nut sector in the European Union within the framework of the COM in fruit and vegetables and, until then, to extend the improvement plans.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for joining us today.
Commissioner, once again, the report submitted by the European Commission on the operation of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, with a view to a future reform, is a disappointment.
It is not only a disappointment to Parliament, because it adopts almost none of the recommendations of the requests contained in the Resolution of 26 October 2000, but it is also a disappointment to the whole production sector.
Are you aware, Commissioner, that out of every EUR 6 received by a fruit and vegetable producer in southern Europe, only EUR 0.012 comes from the European Union?
Leaving aside the fact that the issue of nuts has been included in three resolutions tabled by this Parliament in the last year, and that the Commission' s report was designed for the Council and not for Parliament, it would be appropriate to look at the background of the issue of fruit and vegetables.
He also declared that since the Commission was due to present a report on the matter in a few months' time, it would submit proposals to this effect.
The report in question is essentially descriptive.
In October, Parliament also put forward definitive proposals on this matter in order to resolve the problems.
We must, as a matter of priority, provide a definitive solution for this sector and until the Commission matches the proposals already presented by Parliament, we must extend the measures currently in force.
Mr President, I would like to say to the Commission that once again we are faced with a problem which relates to Mediterranean agriculture; an agricultural problem - fruit and vegetables - in which Mediterranean production in particular is directly involved.
This motion for a resolution therefore asks the Commission to present proposals to improve the functioning of the COM in fruit and vegetables, in particular with regard to the reorganisation of the producers' organisations and with regard to nuts.
Commissioner, you must be aware that the only aid not to have been given continuity by Agenda 2000 has been that intended for nuts.
Secondly, we must be aware that establishing the operational funds as the main agricultural policy instrument for the sector is not enough, because there are many regions, such as Spain and Portugal, where producers' organisations are almost non-existent, and where less than 10% of production passes through such organisations.
Mr President, the motion for a resolution on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, especially dried fruit and nuts, is most opportune and we should give it our full support.
The Commission is still in the process of listening to opinions and comments.
The Commission cannot issue a calendar of any steps ahead.
In this context, the Commission is in the process of evaluating whether and to what extent some further support may be available.
This evaluation process is taking place in the wider context of the report.
I would prefer to leave these questions to my colleague, Franz Fischler.
It has not been possible for Commissioner Fischler to be here tonight, but he has informed me that he would be very pleased to discuss these issues with you in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at the earliest opportunity.
International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO): Air transport and the environment The next item is the Commission statement on the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO): Air transport and the environment.
This communication is very explicit on the subject of reaching agreements within the ICAO, with regard to both the reduction of aircraft noise and measures for reducing gases which increase the greenhouse effect, as well as the restriction of operations of aircraft which only marginally comply with the acoustic standards of Chapter 3 and which are the greatest sources of noise at airports.
Another of our objectives is to reach an agreement as a result of this Assembly, with a resolution which allows the contracting countries to fulfil their obligations in the field of reducing greenhouse gases more easily and comfortably.
I am, of course, talking about the constitution of the new Chapter 4, with a reduction of 10 decibels on the maximum emissions authorised in previous chapters.
In this respect, furthermore, the ICAO Council has adopted rules which guarantee rigour in relation to the recertification of aircraft with the aim of preventing repetition of the current situation where recertified or reclassified aircraft have passed from Chapter 2 to Chapter 3, which is the source of all our controversy with the United States.
And, lastly, measures intended to limit the operations of aircraft from Chapter 3 which are the noisiest.
It is, above all, this last point which - as you know - presents the most difficulties in our discussions with the United States.
In order to facilitate an agreement within the ICAO on this point, we are holding parallel discussions with the United States and with the developing countries.
In this context, we note that, in some large airports, this type of noise disturbance is reaching truly critical levels and that, therefore, it is extremely urgent that we introduce measures to resolve this situation and allow these airports to continue operating.
In any event, I once again commit myself and the Commission services to maintaining an open dialogue throughout these months with this House and I hope that we will finally reach an agreement within the ICAO which will ensure that we resolve this issue of airports and the noisiest aircraft and, at the same time, avoid any type of confrontation with the United States, which would benefit no-one.
As Mr Sterckx has said, I was the rapporteur for Parliament's response to the Commission's proposals on air transport and the environment last year.
First, air transport is growing at a phenomenal rate, with global passenger numbers due to double in less than 20 years' time.
On noise reduction: at the Cape Working Group meetings over the past few weeks and months the EU has proposed phasing out Chapter 3 planes and upgrading Chapter 4.
If ICAO cannot do that, we will need to look at differentiation, as the Commissioner has said, in introducing operational restrictions on Chapter 3 at a number of noise-sensitive airports.
But the EU may also need to look at introducing an aircraft noise limitation directive in order to achieve that reduction of, at the very least, 10 dBA, in recognition of the particular problems of a densely populated area like the EU.
I hope that both Council and Commission will hear very strongly the strength of feeling which is shared by all groups in the European Parliament on this subject and seek to get the best possible deal in September.
Given that the noise certification standards have not been adapted since 1977 and that aviation has expanded so enormously since then, I believe it to be of huge importance that we agree on a drastic approach very quickly.
The European Union must be at the forefront by adopting a series of measures which do not only relate to the issue of this statement on air transport and the environment, but also to its effects on the quality of life of the citizens of the European Union.
I believe that the fight against congestion in general, but particularly in the field of aviation, must be given priority and that we must make efforts to acquire more efficient systems so that such congestion can be reduced accordingly.
I believe we need intelligent solutions that will help us guarantee the mobility of the population and, at the same time, get on top of the problems.
With a view to being able to offer the population convincing solutions in this area, we should therefore do more to initiate our own research programmes specifically for aviation in the context of the Sixth Framework Programme.
We need to know that is being done and we need to hear from you that it is being done.
Mr President, if I could echo other colleagues from all parties and indeed national groups who have said that the time for talking is now perilously short.
We heard many threats and some bluster from the United States last year, when it looked as though hushkitted aircraft and Chapter 3 planes would be leaving our skies, perhaps in the year 2002.
But Europe as a whole suffers problems, particularly those who live around airports who suffer not only noise pollution, but also aircraft emission pollution with consequences for the environment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us agree on one first thing: airports are a source of wealth and development.
The second issue is that of the responsibilities of the local authorities.
The regulation has been condemned by the United States in accordance with Article 84 and we succeeded in postponing the decision at the last meeting of the ICAO Council a week ago and leave until November, that is until after the assembly, the decision on whether the complaint from the United States against our hushkits regulation is justified.
There is not going to be an agreement on phasing-out because, until Chapter 4 enters into force, it cannot take place, as happened before with Chapters 2 and 3.
Of course, I am going to defend the positions of the 15 countries of the European Union.
However, I would like to remind you of the situation a year ago, when the pressure - which is now less, amongst other things because we are negotiating and it seems that we are reaching agreement on some points - from the United States was much greater and there were threats of trade reprisals against a number of countries.
That is what I am working on, but I am also seeking agreements with other countries, because the ICAO does not only include the 15 countries of the Union but also the United States and a number of other countries from other parts of the world which have rather different interests from ours and with whom we have to reach agreements.
A further two issues have been referred to: the issue of competition between airports, the noisiest ones and the quietest ones.
That is why we are proposing to take decisions on individual airports on a case by case basis, within a global framework in which the different levels of restriction of operations and noise-levels are reduced to two, three or four in accordance with the specific areas of sensitivity of the surrounding community.
A situation without special limitations and another two or three levels of specific operational restrictions.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
