Political situation in Honduras with a view to the elections on 29 November 2009 (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the political situation in Honduras with a view to the elections on 29 November 2009.
Four months after the removal of President Zelaya, the political crisis in Honduras unfortunately still remains unresolved, despite the agreement that was signed on 30 October by the committees representing the President and the de facto government.
In addition, the Congress has still not decided on his reinstitution, which is threatening recognition of the legitimacy of the general elections on 29 November - the key element for exiting from the crisis.
In addition, the foreseen electoral observation mission for the general elections on 29 November was cancelled.
We learned from our talks with the key political actors that the 29 November elections are not a consequence of the political change, but that, on the contrary, they were called by an autonomous decision of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal some time earlier, at a time when President Zelaya was still in power.
Under the current circumstances, the election of a new president at the elections scheduled for 29 November would be devoid of legitimacy from the outset, and its results cannot and should not be recognised by the international community.
The elections of 29 November cannot be recognised.
The elections in Poland in 1989 are an example.
Today in this Chamber, Václav Havel said we must not retreat in the face of evil, because it is in the nature of evil to take advantage of every concession.
The elections are an opportunity for change. (NL) Mr President, on 28 June, President Zelaya, the legally elected president of Honduras, was deposed by the army.
If MEPs state in advance that support for the elections will be forthcoming, neither Manuel Zelaya nor Roberto Micheletti will have any incentive to return to the negotiating table.
On 30 October, the negotiators of both sides made a commitment, it is true, by signing an agreement, to seek a solution to the crisis.
We are going to do precisely that, because the international mediator, Óscar Arias, is also requesting it. (PL) Mr President, I think the elections on 29 November are an opportunity for Honduras, and the European Parliament is obliged to send observers to the elections.
