The crisis in the fisheries sector caused by rising fuel oil prices (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council by Philippe Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the crisis in the fisheries sector caused by the rising fuel oil prices - B6-0162/2008), and the oral question to the Commission by Philippe Morillon, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the crisis in the fisheries sector caused by the rising fuel oil prices - B6-0163/2008).
author. - (FR) Madam President, I will allow Commissioner Borg some time to settle into his seat.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my father was born more than a century ago in a village near Saint-Malo, which in my youth I knew as a place full of life that was dependent essentially on agriculture and fishing.
This is why I am delighted, Commissioner, that your Executive Committee has now proposed a number of measures designed to come to the immediate rescue of those industries that are most threatened, including authorising Member States to grant special temporary exemption from the rules that have been imposed for the implementation of the European Fisheries Fund in accordance with procedures that are to be discussed, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in Luxembourg on 24 June at the next Council of Ministers on agriculture and fisheries.
I can inform you that yesterday the President of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, Minister Iztok Jarc, met with some fellow ministers in Venice, in order to discuss this issue.
As the Presidency has already stressed in the morning debate, this issue will be discussed also at the meeting of the European Council, beginning tomorrow.
The Commission understands the need for coordinated action at EU level to avert a serious crisis for the industry, and to ensure that the problem is not simply displaced but really tackled head-on.
I believe that it is vital to focus aid on the fleets which are most dependent on fuel and thus most affected by the current overcapacity.
Based on further economic analyses, possible modifications to the de minimis regime for fisheries will also be considered, so that the ceiling of EUR 30 000 per three years would be applied per vessel, rather than per firm - though with an overall cap of EUR 100 000 per firm.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party propelled this debate in the belief that our institution could not continue to show indifference in the light of the gravity of the crisis.
We thus welcome some of the measures that are a step in the right direction, but we have to wonder whether we might have prevented the sector from reaching this critical situation by reacting much sooner.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, we need to stress the fact that a very high proportion of our fishermen are engaged in running small businesses.
It therefore calls for solutions that will also endure, not just for the fisheries industry but for all the sectors concerned.
The situation is so bad that some crew in the UK now are earning less than GBP 100 a week, and that is driving hundreds of them to leave the industry at exactly the time that we need more young recruits joining the industry.
I think what the Commission is proposing will achieve that. (PT) I believe that, in this crisis, we have to understand that the rise in fuel prices is the catalyst for a situation that was already far from healthy and that was already raising some major concerns.
The huge hike in oil prices and the preservation of fish stocks are real problems.
If not, we shall be facing something of a crisis. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of uncontrolled fuel price rises there are increasing numbers of vociferous protests and signs of despair on the part of the fishermen of many Member States.
If you look at the price of CO2 at EUR 25 per tonne, there are opportunities there.
The recent rise in marine fuel prices - an increase of over 240% on 2004 levels, according to the Commission, over 30% in recent months - has only exacerbated the already well-documented devastation of our fisheries and fishing industry in Europe.
The economic entities within it are fragmented and widely scattered.
I welcome the proposals from the Commission, but I also think there should be further proposals in relation to dealing with the whole issue of discarded bycatches, and I think that has not been dealt with and needs to be dealt with immediately.
We need to make it more efficient and make it more cost-effective, but we also need to make sure that people are able to make a living from it: not only the people involved in the industry, but also people living in coastal communities. (PT) I should like to request that there also be good news on 24 June for small-scale fishing and coastal fishing in Portugal.
As my colleague Duarte Freitas has already mentioned, we have heard a lot of talk about diesel, about support for diesel, but 85% of the vessels in Portugal operate in the small-scale fishing sector and over half run on petrol.
The Commission will not reach these fishermen unless it also adopts measures for small-scale fishing on 24 June.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) In my concluding statement I would also like to emphasise that the Council is aware of the difficult position of the fisheries sector in the European Union, but two aspects need to be distinguished: one is the specific features of the fisheries sector, and the other is the high prices of fuel, which as already stated are affecting numerous, practically all sectors, including of course fisheries.
I would like to say that this is not the end of the whole process but just the beginning.
What I have presented represents, in my view, the limits of flexibility in addressing the short-term crisis, with a view to putting in place a medium- and longer-term perspective of restructuring, in order to regain sustainability of resources and the profitability of the sector.
I agree that these measures should not be seen in isolation but also within the context of the ongoing discussions concerning IUU, discards, eco-labelling and various other measures which we are in the process of having adopted.
On de minimis aid we are looking at making provisions so that if, on an economic analysis, it proves to be feasible, then our proposal would be to extend the de minimis aid from EUR 30 000 per enterprise to EUR 30 000 per vessel but with a maximum cap of EUR 100 000 per enterprise.
The price of fish does not compensate for the investment.
The main idea is to double the national threshold for de minimis aid to the sector.
