Situation in Pakistan (debate) The next item is the debate on the Council and Commission Declarations on the situation in Pakistan.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the European Union has observed recent developments in Pakistan with great concern, particularly the events leading to the establishment of the state of emergency on 3 November last, and consequently to great social unrest and numerous arrests, including the Chief Justice, who is currently under house arrest.
This is why the Presidency issued a statement on 6 November on behalf of the Union expressing our profound concern regarding the introduction of the state of emergency and the suspension of the Pakistani constitution and fundamental freedoms.
On 4 November, two days previously, the Heads of Mission in Islamabad and the High Representative, Javier Solana, had expressed their concern at the course of events.
We must therefore ensure that Pakistan remains committed to the battle against this global threat, in which international cooperation is an essential tool.
The imposition of emergency law by President Musharraf on 3 November in his capacity as Chief of Army Staff has sent a deeply worrying signal to Europe and the wider world and has damaged the course of democracy in Pakistan.
Before the emergency was imposed we had witnessed some encouraging developments, with hope for a more inclusive political process and stronger democratic institutions, but regrettably this has now been put in question and today we ask ourselves whether this situation is still reversible or whether it is not too late to restore confidence and conditions in advance of the parliamentary elections.
President Musharraf, in his televised address on the night of 3 November, told us that he was suspending the Constitution because of threats to the nation due to a visible ascendancy in the activities and incidence of terrorist attacks.
There is no doubt that Pakistan is currently facing a very serious threat of religious extremism and violence as recent events in the North-Western Frontier Province and the attack on Ms Bhutto's convoy on 18 October in Karachi have clearly demonstrated.
The statement by the Presidency, just mentioned also by our President on behalf of the EU, is therefore very clear, and this remains our position.
Last Sunday President Musharraf announced at a press conference that he hopes parliamentary elections can be held in Pakistan by 9 January 2008.
The European Commission's support to Pakistan focuses, I would like to remind you, on key issues such as poverty reduction and education, including in the North-West Frontier Province and Baluchistan, which are the most disadvantaged provinces in Pakistan.
Furthermore, Commissioner, I would ask you to marshal your considerable capacities and efforts to ensure that free and fair elections can be held and, on the basis of the guarantees you referred to in your speech, that the European Union is present and has a presence in the process in Pakistan which is so very important for the stability of the region and all relations between that region and the European Union.
Therefore, Commissioner, we have great confidence in your capabilities, great confidence in your diplomatic action, great confidence in your efforts and we hope that they will genuinely have a successful outcome which will allow the European Union to have a presence in the electoral process.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Council and the Commission, especially the Council for its tough declaration on 8 November.
Several Members here met General Musharraf some months ago, both in Brussels and later in Islamabad, and we received a number of assurances.
I welcome his announcement that elections can take place by 9 January, but I share the Commissioner's apprehension and beg the question: in the light of what has gone on and the present emergency measures - the suspension of certain television channels and other human rights - are free and fair elections possible in less than eight weeks' time?
Whilst I refer to the Commissioner, I would also like to draw her attention in particular to our paragraph 14 of this resolution where we invite the Commission to consider expanding aid to Pakistan for education, poverty reduction, healthcare and relief work, but channelling the funds through secular NGOs rather than directly to the government under these circumstances.
But we hope all of this will not be necessary and we hope that Pakistan can still come back from the brink, that the state of emergency can be withdrawn and that General Musharraf will step down as Chief of Army.
The President of Pakistan must - and these must be our baselines - end the state of emergency immediately.
President Musharraf should recognise that we have not turned our back on Pakistan.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I too recognise the importance of Pakistan to all of us in the fight against terrorism and it has been an ally to all of us in that fight.
It is a fairly trivial matter in one way and it seems that he has gone to extreme measures in his dealings with the people in Pakistan, with the judiciary in Pakistan, in the way he has dealt with it, which is extremely dangerous.
The state of emergency in Pakistan must be lifted immediately and the Government of Pakistan must respect the boundaries of its Constitution.
I fully condemn the wholesale arrest of political opponents of the General, which include 3 000 peaceful protestors and civilian and human right activists.
The European Parliament today must send a very strong message out to General Musharraf that his recent actions violate all respected international conventions and he is moving Pakistan in a very negative and very dangerous direction.
We are in a serious situation, not least because this is a nuclear state and the risk of a failed nuclear state is one that should make us all feel very nervous indeed.
We do need to have certain sanctions ready for use if the deadline of 22 November set by the Commonwealth and the UN is not observed and we do not see President Musharraf stand down as military leader or, indeed, an end to the state of emergency.
I propose that the EU should insist on securing Pakistan's considerable nuclear arsenal, if necessary through the UN, at least until the country returns to its former political and, if possible, democratic state. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, for years now we and the rest of the western world have thought of Pakistan as an important ally.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think it has been shown very clearly that we all feel that what has happened is very difficult to understand.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 15 November 2007.
Written declarations (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - Pakistan is a vital ally in the war on terror.
President Musharaff has responded to this situation by declaring a state of emergency.
