Demographic tendencies - Economic and social impacts (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on demographic tendencies - economic and social impacts.
The first is that the number of children per woman is low, with an Union average of 1.5 children, which is far below replacement rate, which needs to be slightly higher than 2 - 2.1 - in order to stabilise population size.
Having increased by eight years since 1960, life expectancy at birth - and this is the third factor - may well continue to increase, with an additional five years added between now and 2050, or perhaps even more.
We therefore find ourselves in a situation in which the level of dependence, in other words, the number of people aged over 65 compared to the number of people between 15 and 64 years of age is set to double, and will rise to over 50% between now and 2050, which means that the Union, which previously had four people of working age for every person over 65, will see this figure fall to just two.
The demographic change that I have just described, taking into account these factors, is accompanied by profound social change affecting family structures, all of which results in an increasing number of older people living alone and very old people being dependent on others.
This is the case for family policy, social security systems and, in large part, fiscal policy, and the Council, given these facts, believes that the Lisbon strategy and the open coordination method form the framework within which Member States should work in this area, and most Member States agree that no new structures should be put in place.
The Council is fully aware of all of these challenges and has adopted the recommendations of the social protection committee concerning views on demographic change in Europe and the challenges this poses.
In addition, the Council adopted, on 30 May, the conclusions concerning policies that are in line with families' needs, and established a series of initiatives to support family policies.
To conclude: the Council invites the Commission to view the first forum on the future demographics of Europe, which took place in Brussels on 30 and 31 October, as a starting point for a structured and lasting dialogue, within and between Member States, and to act so that the Commission may provide support to the relevant bodies to find the best strategies for responding to this demographic change.
This Friday, the Commission services will present their second demography report - in time for the European Demography Forum on 24 and 25 November.
All the Member States have seen life expectancy rise and fertility rates decline among their populations as a result of scientific, economic and social progress.
But it also stressed the need to act in five key areas: promoting demographic renewal in Europe, by creating the conditions for our fellow citizens to fulfil their desire to have children, in particular, by helping to reconcile work and family and private life; promoting employment in Europe, by ensuring that more and better jobs are created and people can work longer, in order to improve the balance between active and inactive people; promoting a more productive and more dynamic Europe, by optimising skills at all ages; taking in and integrating migrants into Europe, by attracting skilled and unskilled workers from abroad and facilitating their integration in order to alleviate labour shortages; ensuring the sustainability of public finances, by consolidating budgets and reforming social protection systems in order to guarantee adequate social protection and public services in the future.
The employment rates of older people have risen in recent years, reversing the past trend towards ever earlier retirement.
The next European Demography Forum - to take place in Brussels on 24 and 25 November - will focus on family policies and active ageing.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, the two opening speeches have rightly highlighted longevity as the most significant change in demography.
It means greater social support in new and innovative ways, more domiciliary services so that people can stay in their own homes for longer.
We need to do something about both sides of this problem in order to lengthen working lives and, above all, before we retire, to come up with flexible solutions.
We must do all this within the framework of the Lisbon process, so that we can meet these challenges over the long term.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, there are many issues that arise in the context of this evening's discussion, but I would just like to look at one of them: care and carers.
Carers form the foundation of formal care and social care, and are an indispensable part of long-term care provision.
Finally, there are approximately 100 million carers across the EU.
The number of people working in proportion to the number of pensioners is falling in all Member States.
We also ought to consider what is happening in the current financial crisis with regard to a lot of our thinking in this area.
So we also need to look at the demographic situation in the context of the current crisis and how we are going to use this opportunity in terms of increasing training.
The demographic tendency projections for a country or region should not be disassociated from the policies adopted in that country or region, given that these policies determine and condition the demographic development.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, we are facing a crisis in Europe to which we will not find a solution until we face the fact that the crisis is of our own making.
We destroy our future and then wonder why we have a crisis.
Japan is 20 years ahead of Europe in this, but it was also 20 years ahead of European countries in legalising abortion.
I wonder if the deflation we are now entering, in 2008, is here to stay, with the banking crisis being replaced by a demographic crisis, which will be with us until we learn to respect life again. (NL) Madam President, I am delighted that the Council and Commission are issuing a statement about the economic and social impact of present demographic trends.
Our demographic challenge is a vital problem in the long term, which also requires long-term solutions.
The population is ageing and we are having fewer children.
We in this House are faced by new infrastructure requirements, new requirements on public services and on business, education and social systems.
We may well find that if employment levels among women and those aged between 55 and 65 increase, by 2050, to rates similar to the best in Europe, we could make up for this shortage of labour.
The replacement fertility rate is 2.16.
This mainly concerns women over 55 and men in the age range from 55 to 64.
At the same time, trends in population can be made a more positive phenomenon. (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Jouyet, ladies and gentlemen, when this House discussed the effects of demographic developments before the summer, the full extent of the current economic crisis had not yet hit us.
The emphasis should now remain, as it should do in future, on flexible pension arrangements on a voluntary basis, combined with organising work in such a way as to ensure that continuing to work longer becomes a real option.
The sustainability of the pension system, aligned to both demographic and economic developments and based on risk-avoiding investment strategies in the long term, should be accorded high priority.
The fertility index in European countries varies between 1.1 and 1.3.
At the same time, although the infant mortality rate has fallen at Community level to 4.7 in a thousand inhabitants, there are still some Member States where this figure is 12 in a thousand inhabitants.
Europe needs to invest in health, education and social welfare.
On another point, given the increased average number of healthy years available to most of us, the compulsory retirement age - the traditional retirement age - of 65 must be revisited, and revisited urgently.
We must review this situation as quickly as possible. (PL) Madam President, we are all aware that European society is ageing, but are we all aware what consequences this will have for our economy and for our labour market?
We must take long-term measures, despite the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing at the moment, in order to ensure that these systems are viable, and we must also consider the future effects of this demographic change on various aspects of labour organisation.
We can understand the Lisbon Agenda in a simple way, going towards a knowledge-based society and being concerned about sustainability, whether it be in relation to social security, the environment or the economy.
When we have dealt with it, we have to come out of the financial crisis with a structure that is capable of dealing with all the challenges which the 21st century brings us.
The demographic forum to be held on 24 and 25 November - which I mentioned in my opening address - is certainly one good opportunity to do so.
