Draft general budget 2009 as modified by the Council (all sections) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Haug and Mr Lewandowski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2009 as modified by the Council (all sections) (16257/2008 - C6 0457/2008 -.
This also goes for the groundwork done by the entire team on the Committee on Budgets, the work of all the group staff and the support of the personal assistants, so thank you!
I should also like to extend my thanks to the Commission for its willingness to cooperate.
The impact of the financial market crisis and its repercussions on the real economy will be felt in all our Member States.
Therefore, Parliament is, by all means, prepared to free up funds for job creation or preservation, funds for providing economic momentum - in addition to the range of instruments already at the disposal of the European Union.
We are prepared to do everything necessary at the maximum speed possible - not indiscriminately, of course, but if it is clear what projects the funds are to be provided for and how appropriate they are, not one of us will be left in the lurch.
In the case of the Council, we respect our gentlemen's agreement and appreciate the Council's restraint in terms of budgetary spending for 2009, whilst acknowledging the additional need for resources in relation to the Reflection Group.
In the case of the other institutions, it is worth noting that the Court of Auditors' increased need for funding is due to the downpayments on its new headquarters (in the final analysis, this method for funding the new headquarters will be cost-effective for European taxpayers) and, in the case of the European Court of Justice, it will need funding for its new urgency procedure, which requires funding in order to employ additional staff.
As far as the European Parliament is concerned, we tested the pilot project this year.
In spite of this, we have made an effort and have achieved the goal which we had been working towards for a number of years, namely that of ensuring that, notwithstanding the specific needs of the European Parliament, its budget does not exceed 20% of the European Union's administrative spending.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to stress that the 2009 budget negotiations have been very specific, very important and difficult as never before.
The Commission shares this objective and, on 26 November, presented proposals for accelerating implementation and simplification of management of the Structural Funds.
Looking forward to the near future, we all have to recognise that we will shortly face other challenges in order to address the financial and economic crisis in Europe.
The recovery plan for the European economy presented by the Commission includes elements which will have an impact on the Community budget next year.
The European Council last week supported this recovery plan.
The Commission therefore presented a proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement.
To conclude, I would like to recall that negotiation on the 2009 budget has required compromise on all sides.
That would not have been possible without the constructive and responsible role of Parliament throughout the whole negotiation process.
I believe that, under the leadership of Jutta Haug, we have quite successfully resolved these difficulties.
The efforts of the European Commission to simplify these processes are commendable, but we must not allow Member States to create effects or enact changes that run counter to these endeavours.
That is to overlook the fact that the budgetary agreement is negotiated with the Council and that the Council, rather I should say the 27 governments of the Member States, in addition to their traditional problems, are facing the financial crisis that is threatening the European economy, but which is being experienced as 27 national budgetary crises.
The second challenge is the EUR 200 billion economic stimulation that has been announced.
Only EUR 5 billion of that amount is needed for new investments.
To conclude, we absolutely cannot continue on this course, since political Europe is falling apart before our eyes.
I would also like to thank our chairman, Mr Böge, and Commissioner Grybauskaité, because they have been so good at finding solutions.
The budget is, of course, highly inflexible.
I think that it is good to try new ways, and I would like to say that we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe wholeheartedly support this budget and the solution that has been found for the food facility, the one billion that has been found to create more food in developing countries.
What we are pleased about is that it was possible to find a solution that did not involve large cuts in other programmes, but that we found the funds in the Flexibility Instrument and the Emergency Aid Reserve.
However, I look forward to constructive cooperation on these matters and I would like to thank the Commission for the initiative.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the 2009 budget is no less, but also no more than a compromise.
Nevertheless, the 2009 budget sends out some important signals.
We shall also be spending a little more on small- and medium-sized enterprises - very important to economic development - and a little more on tackling climate change.
We need a revision of the European budget, and I should like to address this speech in particular to the Member States, including the government of my home country, Germany.
Europe must manufacture new, environmentally-friendly, high-tech eco-products if we want to see economic success in the next few years, on both the internal and world markets.
We must certainly change our agricultural policy; it must be linked to ecological energy generation.
We must also spend more on well-understood development aid - not as charity, but because it is an intelligent, strategic policy to introduce fair trade worldwide and to really develop a strategic approach to narrowing the prosperity gap on a global scale.
CO2 consumption must be taxed, and kerosene taxes must be brought in at long last.
Everything we are hearing from the Commission at present - that is, every couple of months - indicates, however, that internal logic is showing that we need a revision of the European budget to demonstrate to the public that we have indeed understood, that we want to change things, that we need new priorities, that we want to spend more on research and development, and that we need new propulsion technologies.
If we wish to behave responsibly, we must also do more in the way of preventive external policy, rather than reacting only when it is too late.
It is important to act in good time; which is why we need more resources for the Instrument for Stability.
It is difficult to judge who is right and we will not know the truth until the end of 2009.
It is fortunate that, following the approval of the budget, we will be able to implement changes at the very start of the year, as we do each year.
This might mean the same thing as Commissioner Grybauskaite's statement that, in the future, we should draw up a completely different budget, and not only change the budget headings, but ensure that they are better integrated.
This was the case with the 2008 budget, where corrections were already introduced at the first meeting of the Committee on Budgets.
The recent increase in funding by the Council in 2008, or the increase in budgetary funding for the forthcoming years by EUR 200-250 billion, proves that there is no point to these year-long debates on the details of the budget for the following year.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, the grand total for payment appropriations in next year's draft budget is lower than it has ever been.
Last week saw the Commission indulge in PR and propaganda in connection with the preparation of the budget in order to promote its programme for the economic recovery of the Member States.
These are not genuine recovery measures to put right the damage caused by globalisation.
The European Commission and the Council of the European Union are not prepared to decide on action of this sort.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, as usual, we have a document here that is an exemplary piece of parliamentary handiwork from those who have prepared the budget.
At the same time, we find ourselves in the absurd situation of being in the process of doing something that we should not be doing.
Not only is more than two thirds of the money spent on things that we should not be getting involved in as a parliament, but it is also used for completely the wrong purposes.
The EU countries use perhaps 40 to 45% of their money for public expenditure.
Thank you very much. - (SK) I would like to express my appreciation for the text of the resolution on the EU general budget for 2009 submitted by the Committee on Budgets and its rapporteur, Jutta Haug.
The most important initiatives will be aimed at sustainable development, employment growth and support for small- and medium-sized businesses, as well as support for cohesion between the regions, which is a key factor for stimulating economic growth in Europe.
The problem is that this draft budget was planned many months ago in March or April without taking into account the huge scale of the economic and financial crisis.
What I cannot understand is why, in the economic boom years back in 2005-2006, the financial perspectives that were approved were so pared back and limited that the annual budgetary policy could not be used as a countercyclical weapon.
We have now come to the same conclusion in the Committee on Budgets, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their exceptionally constructive cooperation in connection with the budget this year.
Now that we have removed barriers to trade, we must also acquire a common infrastructure, in particular, a common energy infrastructure, and common research so that we can take the lead worldwide.
The Commission's initiative in conjunction with the recovery plan is therefore welcome, even if it has been put together very quickly.
This also means that we can get away from the current state of affairs with continual ad hoc efforts to revise the budget plan.
As we have always said, and indeed repeated, the multiannual financial framework is tight and absolutely requires this fundamental reform since, in the future, even less than it does today, it will not enable us to meet the many essential needs of an enlarged Europe with 27 Member States.
In this context, the budget that has been proposed to us by the rapporteurs is basically as good as it can be, and I am delighted that the Commissioner announced this morning that it has been agreed to perform a vital review of the multiannual framework.
I am particularly pleased, in terms of the budget, by the efforts made in favour of lines on the fight against global warming, support of SMEs, tackling energy dependence, as well as measures that were adopted for a more humane, more humanist Europe that is better equipped to meet the fundamental challenges of migratory policies.
I would still like to express my concern regarding the appropriations allocated to rural development and I wish, once again, to condemn the emphasis that is placed on this policy in favour of rural territories.
Many thanks to Mrs Haug, her team, Mr Lewandowski and the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. - (PL) Madam President, I would like to draw attention to three issues in this debate.
In times of a deepening financial and, therefore, economic crisis in the European Union, this budget is exceptionally small.
Commitments amounting to just over 1% of gross national income, payments amounting to 0.9%, and especially the margin of EUR 3.2 billion, testify that the largest Member States do not want to fund the European Union's most important objectives.
Finally, in terms of efforts to overcome the economic crisis, individual Member States, especially the less wealthy ones such as Poland, have pinned their hopes on the initiation of advance funding of projects using structural funds.
I hope that this exceptionally modest budget will, nevertheless, allow us to fund large investment projects in this way. (PT) As we underlined in October, what should have marked the EU budget for 2009 was political measures and associated budget lines to effectively respond to the worsening economic crisis.
The proposed EU budget for 2009 supposedly supports the European economic recovery plan and what passes for European solidarity.
What we urgently need are budgetary measures providing effective support to small-scale and family-based agriculture, fisheries, the textile and clothing industries, the shipbuilding industry, and micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises.
For instance, paragraph 25 laments the fact that the funds available 'do not, as they stand, allow the Union to assume its role as a global player'.
Certainly no one in my country has been given a vote on the development of the EU as a global player.
We are playing, then, at having a tea party with the budget, dishing out a little for Galileo, a little for Kosovo, or a little for Palestine.
A financial and economic tsunami is sweeping across the automotive industry, across property, across services, and we are playing around with a budget of EUR 116 billion, which is the total of the Spanish budget for 42 million citizens, or rather 45 million, and we are dealing with 400 million citizens.
Firstly, when you cannot assess the price of a barrel of oil, falling from 100 to 40, while Goldman Sachs was predicting 200, and when you cannot make forecasts over a few months, how can you have a multiannual financial framework for seven years?
That was called a large European loan.
I would like to remind all Members to be careful not to speak too quickly as the interpreters cannot keep up. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteurs, Mr Lewandowski and Mrs Haug, and also the coordinators and staff of the Secretariat and the group.
I realise that the Presidency would have been prepared to go a bit further if the majority in the Council had allowed this.
Ladies and gentlemen, the 2009 budget is divided into three stages.
It is good that this is on track, but it must also be made clear that a review of the existing development instruments in both the development cooperation section of the budget and the European Development Fund is also part of the package if we are to achieve a better solution and better prospects in the long term, including for the security of food supply in developing countries.
If we do not then manage to exceed EUR 120 billion in payments during the year, there must be administrative and political consequences.
The third point concerns the economic recovery package.
The first is that it is right and vital for the European Investment Bank to become involved, but there should be no new shadow budget outside the European budget in the long term - that is unacceptable.
The second is that we are prepared to ensure the proposed revision on the basis of the right projects and the necessary procedures, including in conjunction with the priorities of linking up energy networks in the interests of the solidarity laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon in energy policy, and putting broadband connectivity in disadvantaged rural areas on track - as a supplement to all the other necessary measures already on the agenda. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to say that the absence of the representative of the French Government today shows another side of a Presidency that is otherwise warmly congratulated for its political successes.
The success is, of course, that we have managed, albeit at the last minute, to get food aid into the budget, which was well needed and shows that Europe understands the problems of the times.
The second problem (which several speakers mentioned) is the problem that has arisen with the Structural Funds.
It is unbelievable that so much money has come back from the Structural Funds from the previous year's budget and that nothing is being done in order to ensure that we shall manage to sort this out for the following year at least.
The third problem is the doubts which we have in the face of economic aid, the famous 200 billion, 30 of which are from the Community budget.
Again unfortunately, there is nothing to show us that this money will be found, and it must be found, because we need it. (NL) Madam President, I too should like to start by thanking all those involved for the role they have played in this year's budgetary process.
What is important is that it is adequate.
Financial support is being provided for the programme PEACE III and for the International Fund for Ireland.
I am also happy that the budget is giving financial support to the peace process in the Balkan region and in Palestine.
It also gives financial support to the poor countries and we are trying to maintain that custom.
We have today heard how the French Presidency has failed to respond to any of the approaches made by Parliament's rapporteurs responsible for the 2009 budget and, as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgetary Control on the granting of discharge to the Council for 2007, I can add that the Council has been equally unwilling to respond to my approaches.
As Parliament, we must demand openness, full access to information and cooperation from the Council. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the 14th consecutive year, the European Court of Auditors has refused to approve the budget of the European Union.
In the current climate, where households and Member States are having to tighten their belts, at a time when France is a net contributor of EUR 7 billion, we need to stop taking French and European taxpayers as Santa Claus figures for the European Union, since in June, they will become bogeymen. (DE) Mr President, in constantly repeating the dogma of the self-regulating market, the EU has not only omitted to set clear limits, lay down rules and carry out oversight, but also continuously failed to free itself from the financial markets of the United States.
An economic crisis is at the door and we have to think about how the European Parliament can send the right kind of signal to the public.
While the Commission prepares its Baltic Sea Strategy for next year, it is important that there is also a heading for this in the budget.
That is why I wish to thank everyone for the attention they have given to this issue and to one of the priorities for next year. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the difficult and complex budgetary process.
The world is going through a serious crisis, with its epicentre in the financial system, which has already contaminated the real economy.
A considerably speedier disbursement of the Structural Funds in the new Member States is essential under the new conditions, and the Commission's intention in this respect is more than welcome.
Donor countries might relish lower payments from the EU Structural Funds, with a view to the reorientation of these funds for other uses, but let us not deceive ourselves.
If new Member States get injured by this crisis more than their intrinsic weaknesses warrant, the effects would be bad for the Union as a whole. (PL) Mr President, today's debate on the budget is more significant than it has been in the past.
Much depends on the Union's budget, its size, and how it is allocated, especially in these times of serious economic crisis and in view of the looming food crisis.
We must also improve the way in which we manage our resources, including the management of restructuring funds.
The proposed budget is extensive, detailed and, as a result, not very readable.
It is high time that we thought about this problem and, in the future, adopted a different format. (EL) Mr President, the draft budget 2009 is proof that the conservative political priorities set by the European Union do not respond to the needs of the peoples of Europe.
Not only is the development sector not being used as a tool to address the problems but, in certain instances, the funds are operating in pre-crisis conditions.
In agriculture, the 2009 budget follows the agreed financial framework, the main feature of which is expenditure cuts.
For agricultural development, payments in 2009 will be equal to or less than the undertakings made in 2007, at a time when small- and medium-sized holdings are shrinking.
This would have led to the conclusion that one third, possibly even half, of the EUR 114 or 116 billion could now usefully be ploughed into this major crisis with absolutely no problem.
That is tragic for Europe. (MT) To begin with, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
I would like to refer to the budgetary area of justice and home affairs, especially that of immigration and here I would like to focus on two points in particular.
First of all, we have increased our budget for the FRONTEX Agency for the third consecutive year and this, I believe, is a positive sign.
Secondly, we have earmarked an additional EUR 5 000 000 towards the European Refugee Fund in order to set up a European-based programme on internal reallocation between the European Union countries, so that persons who arrive in countries that are already shouldering a large and disproportionate burden can get transferred to another country within the European Union.
This fund and this money will allow us to put this programme into action for the first time, and I hope that this programme will now begin to operate, because it is necessary to help those countries with a disproportionate burden.
The cohesion policy, with 36% of this budget allocated to it, is one of the main Community policies, a genuine tool for solidarity and economic and social equity, which we must strengthen, make more effective and better promote.
Indeed, it is the tangible expression of solidarity within the European area, which is the most visible on the ground, as close as possible to regions and citizens, in the areas where they live and where the European Union can speak directly to each one.
Simplifying procedures, providing better information, improving the training on this new cohesion policy for the national and local operators concerned, and sharing experiences and best practices could certainly promote better use of these appropriations.
That is the responsibility of all the Union's institutions, in the best possible partnership. (HU) Mr President, for years, a serious, recurring problem with our budget has been the significant gap between the funds committed and the actual payments made.
If we do not do this, it will be difficult to take seriously the European Union's ambition to be a global player. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European budget starts with a zero; 0.89% of gross national income is to be spent in the way of payments next year - EUR 116 billion.
However, we are currently experiencing a budgetary crisis, and I do not believe that the EUR 5 billion proposed by the Commission will suffice to provide the necessary momentum.
In the area of cohesion policy, it will be extremely important for us to show flexibility in securing the necessary resources.
For the national economies of the new Member States with relatively low levels of economic development, the cohesion policy creates the potential for gaining ground on the developed states more rapidly.
Analysts in some Member States have calculated the negative impact of payment delays on employment, on work productivity and on economic growth in these regions.
If we had managed to draw down financial resources at the rate expected in the multi-annual financial framework, the new Member States would be seeing work productivity levels over 2% higher than they actually are today, economic growth over 2% higher and employment levels 1% higher.
I am delighted to see included in this budget the amount of EUR 2 million for the Erasmus pilot project for local and regional elected officials, a project which I personally proposed several months ago.
Indeed, this inclusion in the budget follows on from the specific proposals in my report on governance, which was adopted last October, and by a very large majority in this House.
With this Erasmus scheme for local and regional elected officials, we can both strengthen human links and, above all, provide the means for more rapid and more effective use of the Structural Funds.
Furthermore, with the support of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy, we will be able to launch this new instrument and thereby apply the slogan: 'Think global, act local'. (LV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the European Union's draft budget for 2009 I would like to stress that the most important thing in this budget is not what has been done but what has not yet been done.
The draft EU budget for 2009 had already made provision for an amount of payment appropriations 3% lower than this year and, in addition, the European Commission has come forward with a proposal to reduce the amount of payment appropriations still further - by EUR 3.5 billion this year and by EUR 1.1 billion next year.
I doubt that the reduction in the amount of EU budget payments is the most satisfactory response to the financial and economic crisis.
In the European economic recovery plan, the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund measures laid down, the simplification of the rural development fund procedures and the speeding up of fund acquisition, the payment of EU fund advances and the increase in the share of EU co-financing have not yet been reflected in the amount of payment appropriations set out in the European Union's 2009 budget.
In general, we should welcome the European Commission's proposal to allocate an extra EUR 5 billion to increasing the European Union's competitiveness.
If there are EUR 5 billion to spare in the European Union's Common Agricultural Policy, then why is the European Commission doing nothing to ensure fair competition within the internal agricultural market and at least in part to even out the inappropriate differences between the levels of direct payments made to the farmers of various EU Member States?
Thank you for your attention. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, I must first of all congratulate the rapporteurs and coordinators and highlight the exceptional efforts they have made in managing the procedure for the adoption of the budget at a very high level.
We could regard this budget as an initial response from the European Union to the international financial and economic crisis.
The proposal to review the multiannual financial framework is no bad thing and offers additional resources for growth allocated in 2009-2010.
I would like to conclude by saying that we should adopt the budget, but with preventive measures to deal with the financial and economic crisis.
In Amending Budget Number 2, we reprogrammed EUR 2.8 billion, and in Amending Budget Number 9, we returned EUR 4.5 billion in unused payments.
Against this background, it is astonishing that the Commission is proposing a EUR 5 billion recovery package while, at the same time, it has not even used up the funds budgeted for structural policy.
The Commission and the Council did not want to go along with this resolution.
The European Council, however, has just proposed adopting virtually the very same position and, indeed, the very real need for simplification and greater efficiency needs emphasising. (EL) Mr President, this budget is the last in the current parliamentary term and the first budget we shall have voted on since the financial crisis came knocking at our door.
I personally certainly count among the successes the fact that we have managed, albeit marginally, to increase payments in relation to the Council's position, that we have found relatively more resources for competitiveness, the environment and security and that, for the first time, we have a discrete position for dealing with illegal immigration on the southern borders of the European Union, where countries such as mine receive a hundred thousand desperate people every year, who come knocking on the door of Europe via its southern borders.
Out of two hundred billion, we are still trying to work out how to spend five billion, which some Member States want back instead of putting towards competitiveness.
I am still hopeful that in the Council, the usual suspects who like to refund surpluses to the national ministries will make one more effort, so that next year at least, we have a more ambitious approach. (PT) Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, on her excellent work, and also several colleagues on their contributions.
The reduction in payment appropriations and the inadequate response to the needs and specific aspects of the outermost regions are also negative.
I welcome the adoption, as a preparatory action, of the initiative that I tabled to set up a fish price observatory in the amount of EUR 4 million.
I also welcome the increased support for fisheries resource management, the non-compulsory contributions to international projects, the strengthening of dialogue in the vitally important fisheries sector, as we noted during a visit by the Committee on Fisheries to Madeira, a Portuguese outermost region, the pilot project on networking and exchange of best practices, and the conclusion of the Sixth Framework Programme.
Lastly, I must welcome the creation by the Commission of a budget line, as yet without any appropriations, for an ad hoc financial instrument in order to adapt the fishing fleet to the economic consequences of fuel prices.
This is one reason ... (The President cut off the speaker) (HU) As I already stated at the time of the first reading in October, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I welcome the EU budget for 2009 for several reasons.
On the one hand, it is already a significant and positive fact that next year, there will be EUR 14 billion available for environmental protection, nature conservation and, among these, first and foremost, for the LIFE+ objectives.
On the other hand, it is worth noting that this amount is some 10% higher than last year's, which is a good indication that nowadays no one is calling into question the significance of this area, especially as regards climate change.
The substantive work, which includes drafting and publishing the tenders, can be expected early next year, but the Commission has indicated on several occasions how important it considers the implementation of these projects and has guaranteed its full cooperation.
We are therefore obliged to continue to recommend maintaining the 10% reserve, but I hope that this problem, too, will soon be resolved.
I wish to take this opportunity to congratulate Jutta Haug on the report.
Thank you very much. (NL) Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Haug.
In order to gain support, not only do we need to explain what we meant, but especially what we have achieved.
We welcome Parliament's support for these proposals.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
On development aid, I think it is important to point out that, while the process of finding the EUR 1 billion was fraught, it is positive that Europe is doing something in response to a problem.
I think we need to have close scrutiny to ensure that this money goes to where it is intended and where the need is greatest, namely on the ground, producing food in places where that food can be produced.
I know we will have time to debate this in the future, but it must be a rigorous and vigorous debate.
The framework of the budget is not very flexible, and it is difficult to reallocate resources.
The current budget does not, in view of the current situation, reflect the wishes of many MEPs, such as the need to counteract the growing economic crisis, or to fund new technologies which will be used to improve the environment and combat climate change.
The budget does not meet the expectations of young people, schoolchildren or students, with regard to financial support for youth exchanges, access to education and study abroad.
In the light of this, it is really incredible that we have been on an economy drive for many years, one that has involved not only the economical use of our funds but also, basically, the Finance Ministers reclaiming money and channelling it into their national budgets at the end of the year.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I wish to thank all the Members who have participated in the discussion in this House, who have delivered speeches, even if, in several cases, the 2009 budget was just the occasion for the speech rather than the subject of it.
Of course, we would not get by on our EUR 116 billion in payments, but the whole of Parliament would be standing by to guarantee the relevant payments in supplementary and amending budgets.
The 2009 budget is no different from its predecessors in that respect.
We have had to grant the Council these low payments, the Commission has had to grant us the EUR 700 million redeployment for regional development, and we have had to cut back our priorities.
Nevertheless, we have managed to preserve a good many of these priorities: more payments for action to combat climate change, more payments for the social dimension in terms of the creation of more and better jobs, and more for support for SMEs.
The speakers were so disciplined that we have finished in good time, and this is a good message for budget discipline in the future.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 18 December 2008.
The Union ought to maximise its efforts in facilitating the access to available resources - within the ceilings of the agreed multiannual financial framework 2007-2013 - for beneficiaries on the ground and we should therefore particularly improve and simplify measures in order to accelerate the implementation of structural and cohesion funds.
Cohesion Policy is the greatest instrument of solidarity in the Union and its role in tackling the negative effects of a global crisis of this scale is essential.
