I warmly welcome the High Representative, Javier Solana.
We are all sure that 2008 is going to be very exciting, to say the least.
Today we have a very important debate - a debate on an issue that is one of the most important issues on the agenda of the international community.
I am very grateful to the European Parliament for sending a delegation there to meet with their colleagues in the Iranian Parliament.
The European Union had, in the past, a human rights dialogue with Iran, but since 2004 the Iranians have been unwilling to participate.
It is the most important supplier of weapons to Hezbollah.
No other country in the world can supply a country that wants to deploy or to develop a civil nuclear programme without the cooperation of countries, or companies that belong to those countries, that are in the group of six countries plus Japan.
This idea has been played around with by many of our partners and many important figures in the international community.
From Teheran to Shiraz, to Mashhad to Alzahra, the web of Iranian universities participating in this consortium looks particularly promising.
The first academic batch has already allowed over 50 Iranian students and professors to study in Europe.
Beyond that, we are pursuing our cooperation with Iran in a series of sectors such as the support to Afghan refugees or the fight against narcotics.
This call is now open and runs until 11 February.
On another note, I welcome the decision taken by Parliament in plenary on 13 December last year to allocate a EUR 3 million envelope for a television news service in Farsi.
Last year Iran carried out at least 297 executions, according to an AFP account compiled from press reports.
The latest statement on the death sentences in Iran issued on 25 January is just another case in point.
I therefore feel - together with my Group - that Iran is actually betraying its own history when the current regime treats its people as it has unfortunately been doing for a number of years now.
We must also remember that every nuclear programme was hidden under the cloak of civil projects in the initial stages: such was the case in Russia, India, China and Israel.
We know that the leaders of the Ahmadinejad regime will be following this debate, which is why it is right and proper to say clearly to President Ahmadinejad and his supporters that the host of candidates for the 296 parliamentary seats - there are more than 7 000, of whom 2 000 are apparently being excluded - is a sure sign to us that he has his back to the wall in domestic politics.
There has to be dialogue, but the European Union must be steadfast in its attempts and desire to do more to promote freedom and stability.
