in writing. (DE) Thanks to the visions of some multi-cultural dreamers, a situation has arisen which is becoming increasingly difficult for the native population to endure.
However, I am anxiously waiting to see how we deal with the opinion that mercury should also be banished from dentistry, where mercury amalgams have been used for 150 years now and quite successfully at that.
I believe that if amalgam waste is properly separated in dentistry departments and if we dispose of it properly, safely and on a permanent basis, as proposed in the report, there will be no need for the time being to do away with amalgam as a filling material. (DE) Mr President, I wish to give the report my firm backing, and I have voted in favour of it.
Parliament's March 2006 resolution on the Community strategy concerning mercury urged the Commission to take action to implement OSPAR.
in writing. - (FR) The management of mercury is an important issue for the conservation of the environment.
Nonetheless, the other improvements in the text justify a vote in favour of the final report.
For these reasons and in the spirit of encouraging worker mobility in Member States, I have welcomed the draft directive designed to improve the portability of supplementary pension rights, and I believe that this will make it possible to reduce the number of problems associated with eligibility for pension rights, retaining suspended pension rights and with the portability of acquired rights. (DE) Mr President, the single market and mobility depend on social security, which must extend beyond a person's working life.
In the Baltic countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Malta, supplementary pensions have not yet been legislated, whereas in the Scandinavian countries and Slovenia, by contrast, the majority of workers participate in such pension schemes.
Our Parliament's urging to oblige EU countries to gradually seek easier portability of pension rights should provide a new impulse above all to the new Member States, and likewise to Greece, Italy and Portugal, to amend their legislation in such a way that the mobility of people in the European Union be encouraged, not penalised. (IT) Mr President, it is with pleasure that I take the floor to say to Europe: 'if you are there, let us see some action'.
The Directive on the transferability of pension rights is absolutely crucial for all European citizens and workers.
The problem is twofold.
in writing. - (PT) On the issue of the transferability of pension rights, there are at least two key aspects that must be taken into account: ensuring workers' rights and guaranteeing the sustainability of public social security systems.
These amendments propose, for example, to increase from 21 to 25 the age of access to supplementary pension schemes and to make the acquisition of pension rights conditional on a minimum five-year period.
Lastly, we are very disappointed at the rejection of the amendments we tabled, including the proposal to combine the Commission's original position on the minimum age of 21 with a two-year period of acquisition of rights, which would have been more favourable to the workers.
in writing. (SV) We have chosen to vote against this report.
We are thus critical of quite a few individual proposals in the report, such as the views on vesting conditions for policyholders in supplementary pension schemes, the views on minimum ages for earning pension rights or EU rules on the qualifying period for entry into a pension scheme.
The report aptly highlights the role of the Member States in providing consistent support for the transfer of acquired pension rights, especially in the event that new, supplementary pension systems are established.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against the portability directive, because it misses the real target of increased cross-border mobility of labour between Member States.
The rules on the transfer of company-pension rights only have the force of a recommendation for the Member States.
in writing. (DE) On the basis of economic criteria, the decision is no doubt justified.
I leave the sovereign decision on the abolition of the national currency in Cyprus and Malta to the citizens of these countries.
in writing. - (PT) It is well known that we opposed the creation of European Economic and Monetary Union and the euro.
in writing. - (FR) Our vote concerning the adoption of the euro by Malta and Cyprus will be identical to the one for Slovenia: we shall abstain.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to abstain in the final vote on these reports.
Nor do we recommend other countries to participate in it.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the introduction of the euro in Malta and Cyprus, because it is a matter of supporting strengthened integration of these countries in the sense given by the European Union.
Unfortunately, GALILEO will be developed 10 to 20 years too late, and in the meantime GPS, the American counterpart, has conquered the world market.
Paragraph 6 of the resolution states that, in the European Parliament's view, the Galileo programme should be funded entirely from the European Union budget.
I am not prepared to go so far and therefore choose to vote against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. - (PT) All it took for us to decide to vote against this report was the first recital.
We voted in favour of part one of paragraph 40 and against part 2 of paragraph 40.
Similarly, we voted in favour of the first part of paragraph 41 and against the second part.
in writing. - (PT) I welcome the fact that the report acknowledges the seriousness of the world situation.
Indeed, the figures have worsened in recent years: 854 million people (17% of the world's population) per day suffer from hunger and almost 16 000 children die every day due to hunger-related causes.
It is important to highlight the fact that, at the same time as 16 000 children die every day: The US Administration has earmarked USD 600 billion for military spending in its budget; The 691 richest people in the world have a net fortune equivalent to USD 2.2 billion, which is equal to the combined wealth of the 145 poorest countries; The 500 richest people have a combined income higher than that of the 416 million poorest; The 8 million richest people in the world have a net fortune equivalent to 80% of the GDP of all the countries in the world.
in writing. - (PT) In the space available in an explanation of vote, there are two points that deserve to be highlighted.
in writing. (PL) I was forced to vote against the report on 'MDGs at the Midway Point'.
It forces all European Union citizens to become indirectly implicated in this matter.
in writing. - (PT) The report clearly reveals how the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly - both in 2006 and before - is an excellent instrument for creating the crucial structures, relationships and dialogue necessary for the creation of sound foundations for good relations between both sides and for the development of genuinely useful projects.
