Support for refugees, support for the opposition and pressure on the ruling party are essential ways of achieving what Mugabe himself always claimed to want, namely political power for the majority.
Jacob Zuma, the ANC leader, has now called for action on Zimbabwe.
author. - (PL) Mr President, both the political situation and internal security in Zimbabwe took a sudden turn for the worse after the March parliamentary and presidential elections in that country.
author. - Mr President, following many years of British colonial rule and a period of apartheid dictatorship by Ian Smith, the then Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, was led to independence by a group of freedom-fighting persons, including Mr Mugabe.
author. - (ES) Mr President, in the light of events, I feel that the situation in Zimbabwe certainly deserves our consideration at this urgent sitting.
I would like to address the following to two people: the Commissioner-General of Police, Augustine Chihuri, and army commander Constantine Chiwenga.
Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment are prohibited absolutely under international law: for example, under Article 5 of the African Charter of Human and People's Rights and Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
In addition, life expectancy in Zimbabwe is among the lowest in the world: 37 years for men and 34 for women.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, on 29 March 2008 presidential and local elections took place in Zimbabwe.
Mugabe holds the opposition, the international community, and his own people in contempt.
The international community must follow this attentively.
The situation in Zimbabwe, notably following the 29 March elections, is a major preoccupation and, like the European Parliament, the Commission follows events very closely.
Therefore the Commission supports ongoing regional efforts and the conclusions of the SADC summit, held on 13 April in Lusaka, calling for the release of the presidential election results and, in the event of a run-off, the appeal made to the Government of Zimbabwe to ensure a secure environment.
The vote will take place after the debates.
