rapporteur. - Mr President, thank you for those kind words.
I would like to set three questions.
Our thinking in this report is that the Northern Dimension is based on three wonderful pillars.
The first is that we have the Finnish Presidency, which gives us an opportunity to push this issue forward, and the second is that we have an EU-Russia summit on 24 November.
The average depth is 58 metres.
It is time to react. 58 metres average depth!
It takes 30 years for a drop of water to go in, and then out of the Baltic Sea, so the circulation is very slow.
One could summarise the report in religious terms, saying that we want the Ten Commandments of the Baltic Sea.
The First Commandment goes to Mrs Wallström and her team.
But if you want to have a true Baltic Sea Strategy, you need policies, and for those policies you need money.
The Fourth Commandment is environmental protection, for instance the idea of protected areas.
Four amendments have been tabled.
As rapporteur, I will put a plus sign in my voting list on two of those, and that is the amendment by the Greens and the amendment by Mrs Jäättenmäki of the ALDE.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament plenary part-session is this week discussing several issues to do with the sea, as it is now with the Baltic Sea strategy.
The European Union, individual countries and international financial institutions have pooled their resources within a framework of environmental partnership under the Northern Dimension.
Northern Dimension environmental partnership projects mainly focus on northwest Russia, but their impact benefits all the countries in the region.
The Baltic Sea is one important sea area in Europe, and special attention should be paid to its special problems.
That is also true when it comes to developing the EU's maritime policy.
The EU's maritime policy will be a good opportunity for cooperation among the Member States.
It is beneficial and vital to the Baltic question that all the countries in the region are involved in the programme of cooperation and that they are genuinely committed to resolving the challenges that they share.
The Baltic Sea is a very important sea for the European Union, since eight of the nine countries with a Baltic shoreline are EU Member States.
The Northern Dimension will also have its own priorities: health and social wellbeing and the protection of indigenous peoples in the High North, as well as particular emphasis on the environment and culture.
A common new Northern Dimension policy implies that all the partners will be bound by the same goal: its success.
The Commission is grateful for the attention Parliament has paid to this policy, and particularly for its resolution of 16 November 2005 ahead of the Northern Dimension ministerial meeting.
The Northern Dimension is an EU external policy, but it is clearly important to improve the inter-relationship between EU internal policies and the Northern Dimension.
The Baltic Sea is now a Northern Dimension priority because we are concerned about its fragile environment and the increasing traffic through its waters, as is correctly highlighted in the report.
These are all important objectives to which the Northern Dimension can make a great contribution and which will be elaborated upon in the future.
In other words, there are now eight EU Member States, not four, around the Baltic Sea, not all of which see the Northern Dimension in the same light.
Secondly, I am very grateful to Commissioner Wallström for her comments and for agreeing to incorporate much of the report into the Commission's thinking about evolving and developing the Northern Dimension into the future.
So I think this debate should be taken out into the field, to the public, to show a real success story for the EU. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (LT) The Baltic Sea Strategy for the Northern Dimension is certainly a significant document.
The region, with its population of 85 million, is one of the economically and socially strongest in the EU; the welfare state model is implemented in many areas here.
However, differences in the standards of living among these countries are shocking, and the increase of social exclusion in some places is threatening.
All three elements of this triad are highly dependent on energy and energy security, which is violated when any one country exerts excessive potential or ambition.
Discussions and specific actions concerning nuclear energy are inevitable.
More than 60 tanker accidents and 400 illegal oil spills at sea are recorded every year.
Georgiy Boos, the governor of the region, is treating Kaliningrad as a Russian window on Europe, as well as the EU's on Russia.
I am convinced of its worth, since it may and must become a laboratory for new ideas, projects and innovations which are equally significant on a larger scale. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, the Northern Dimension is being strengthened in a way that is gratifying.
The Commission and the Council have themselves negotiated agreements with Russia, Norway and Iceland, whereby the Northern Dimension of the Union's external relations policy will be a policy common to these countries and the Union.
We are now amassing budget funds for neighbouring regions in the shape of the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
No good purpose will be served in splitting it up into new budget lines, and it would not increase funding for the Baltic Sea area; in fact it would more likely have the opposite effect.
The next step could be that the European Parliament might draft a new comprehensive report on the Northern Dimension that would take account of the Baltic Sea report now being discussed, on the one hand, and the agreements concluded with our neighbouring countries, Russia, Norway and Iceland, on the other.
In the formulation of new energy projects it is very important to involve all the European Union Member States that are stakeholders and to carry out an international environmental impact assessment, so that we may avoid a recurrence of the current situation with the potential construction of the North European gas pipeline.
The development of cooperation with Russia is one of the Northern Dimension's important tasks.
This would make it possible to develop highly necessary infrastructure projects, such as Rail Baltica, a Baltic motorway and others. - (LT) The Baltic Sea, as it has been previously mentioned today, is the inner sea of the European Union bordered by nine countries, eight of which are Member States of the European Union with the ninth being Russia, specifically its Kaliningrad and St Petersburg regions.
It is much more important to persuade the EU Member States, especially those outside this region, to support this Strategy, since better integration of this region presents potential not only for the whole EU becoming more dynamic and competitive, but also for resolving other EU issues, such as energy security, common energy policy and better relations with Russia. (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament's resolution supports the Northern Dimension policy and defines the North Sea region as a priority area.
Since enlargement in 2004, the Baltic Sea has virtually become an internal sea, the 'Mare Nostrum', of the European Union.
The Baltic Sea, which links the European Union, Russia, Norway and Iceland, should become an example of an area of peace and security.
These opportunities have been discussed in joint talks between the European Union and Russia.
It is also important to ensure close cooperation between the Member States in the building energy networks, and solidarity amongst the European Union Member States in their relations with Russia.
The Baltic Sea consists of water, its coast and bottom, just as other seas.
The bottom of the Baltic Sea is already dead in many places, and whether a new Dead Sea will emerge in Europe depends on us.
The Russian newspaper Независимая газета (Independent Newspaper) yesterday printed an article on the Baltic Sea gas pipeline.
I would like to bring to your attention to the fact that all of the conditions were favourable for the timely performance of an ecological assessment in the Baltic Sea, as well as the environmental protection organisation HELCOM and eighty years of academic cooperation.
In our opinion, it would be worth opening - for planned work with the Baltic Sea environment, and much more - a new line in the European Union budget for this sea, which is unique in the world. (SV) Mr President, as one of those who first mooted, and then helped to found, the Baltic Europe Intergroup network, I have for two years had the pleasure of contributing to the work that has now led to this report.
It is therefore fortunate that an agreement on a new political declaration concerning the Northern Dimension and a strategic framework document will be discussed at the EU-Russia Summit in Helsinki, on 24 November.
When tackling the problem of the Baltic Sea, we must remember that around 85 million people live on its shores and that it contains rich and diverse animal and plant life, including many already endangered species.
The Northern Dimension is implemented within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia.
Our strategic partnership and our collective EU needs for energy security, as well as cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the need to carry Russia in areas like preventing nuclear proliferation from countries like Iran and North Korea, transcend regional issues such as those addressed by the Northern Dimension.
There is currently financial support from Tacis and Interreg, but shortly Russia will be part of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, and the EU should have a proper budget line for the region.
The EU must also invest more in renewables and low-carbon energy, while encouraging as much diversity in supply as possible. (ET) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although this is a shared sea, we have given it different names, and we must admit that we have not as yet come to see it as a shared space, or used all of its possibilities.
A common Baltic Sea area will not arise itself or from individual projects; we need coordinated activity ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to congratulate Alexander Stubb on an excellent report and thank him for his excellent levels of cooperation.
Just one branch, the one in Poland, is located in the Baltic Sea region and in a new Member State.
By contrast, there are eight branches in total in southern Europe and the Mediterranean region.
Therefore, if the European Union as a whole fails to take an interest in these issues, there will be no common policy with respect to energy or to Kaliningrad.
As I said, 15 years have passed since the end of the Cold War.
I would draw your attention to its underlying ethos, which is not to create a separate region, but to open the Baltic Sea area up to Europe as a whole in the interests of all the EU Member States.
Finally, I would like to remind the Commission of the first commandment, which is that the Commission should now take the initiative on the basis of this report. - (LT) Mr President, I was prepared for a completely different speech, but I am captivated by the Commissioner's idea that we must focus on the issues of an unhealthy lifestyle in the Baltic region.
The geopolitical importance of this region has been ignored for years, yet the Baltic region acts as a driver of modernisation enabling development of Northern Europe to the Arctic.
I hope the Commission will keep this in mind as well. (PL) Mr President, I believe that the Baltic Sea will increasingly unite, rather than divide, the countries of this region, by establishing and promoting economic ties, whilst respecting the political rights of these countries, and preserving its natural heritage.
I would like to remind you that, last year, 60 Members of this House tabled a motion for a debate on the environmental aspects of building the gas pipeline.
This debate never took place.
On the Kaliningrad oblast, this has of course been a priority sector for the Northern Dimension policy and will remain so.
Also, although the transit regime is an important issue, we should not forget that the key to success in Kaliningrad will be strong economic development in the oblast, supported by the EU in a harmonious manner with the Russian programmes for this territory.
Furthermore, membership of the Northern Dimension as regards our EEA partners, Norway and Iceland, also provides a northern pan-European character to this policy, which we should welcome.
The European neighbourhood and partnership instrument would be the natural tool with which to accompany implementation of the Northern Dimension policy, but other financial instruments will also have a contribution to make.
The Baltic States are now Member States of the European Union, and the Baltic Sea is our internal sea.
