Conclusions of the UN Conference on Racism ('Durban II' - Geneva) (debate) The next item is the Council and the Commission statements on the conclusions of the United Nations Conference on Racism (Durban II - Geneva).
The preparatory process leading to the conference was particularly complex, with a significant number of countries having serious misgivings about the process in the light of what happened in 2001.
In fact the trend in a number of countries is even negative.
Within the OSCE framework, Member States coordinate their work so as to ensure that the commitments made by the 56 OSCE participating states in this area are respected and implemented.
The European Commission has followed closely the preparations for the Durban Conference and the search for a common European Union position on participation in this conference.
In this regard, we have taken into account the call by Parliament - by your Parliament - committing the European Union to active participation in the Durban Conference review in the framework of the resolution on the progress of the United Nations Human Rights Council - and especially the role of the Union - a resolution that you adopted on 19 January.
The consensual adoption of the final document by 182 Member States of the United Nations confirms the commitment made by the international community to fight against racism and discrimination.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Iranian President Ahmadinejad recently asserted at the UN Conference on Racism in Geneva that Israel is a racist country.
Israel should know that it does have friends in this Parliament, friends like me who cherish human rights and reject fanaticism.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I wish to begin by making a general remark.
Countries are not racist: people are racist.
Why are 27 European countries unable to agree on a strategy?
If and when the Lisbon Treaty comes into force, which is something that the Council has supported, then the 27 countries will have to make a stronger effort for a joint strategy.
I would also like to hear the Presidency speak about the efforts made or not made by the Member States to ensure that the European Union did not appear disorganised at this conference, a state of affairs that was particularly pitiful.
The final statement was delivered on behalf of 22 states.
The fact that five Member States out of 27 decided in the end not to participate in the conference itself by no means puts into question the EU's commitment to the fight against racism and discrimination in the future.
In this letter, Mrs Pillay recalled what she had already said in Brussels on 8 October, in a conference jointly organised by the European Parliament on the protection of human rights activists.
Mrs Pillay considers that it is important to restore a certain unity in relation to the protection and promotion of human rights in the world, especially in terms of the fight against racism.
