An international treaty prohibiting cluster bombs (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council on an international treaty to ban cluster munitions; follow-up to the Oslo Declaration, by Josep Borrell Fontelles, on behalf of the Committee on Development - B6-0319/2007); the oral question to the Commission on an international treaty to ban cluster munitions - follow-up to the Oslo Declaration, by Josep Borrell Fontelles, on behalf of the Committee on Development - B6-0320/2007).
We can no longer say that bombing one's opponents from a height of 10 000 metres and showering them with bombs that remain in the ground is an efficient way of maintaining peace or taking military action.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Borrell, I should firstly like to thank you for your three questions on this specific issue of the ban on cluster bombs.
In particular, at the Third Review Conference of States Parties to the Convention which was held in Geneva from 7 to 17 November last year, the European Union expressed the view that cluster munitions represent a particularly important element of the future work of the Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons.
The Group of Governmental Experts decided, however, to postpone any decision on a legally binding instrument until the 2007 meeting of the High Contracting Parties to the Convention which will be held next month.
In parallel with these efforts to address the concerns relating to cluster munitions, as you know, a number of EU Member States have subscribed to the Oslo Declaration and participated in a series of meetings organised within the so-called 'Oslo Process', aimed at a total ban on cluster munitions.
EU Member States have participated in their national capacity.
As regards your second question, I must say that, in relation to the forthcoming meetings in Brussels and Vienna, as already mentioned, EU Member States, including the Presidency, will participate in a national capacity if they so decide.
No EU common position is planned.
Through the two European Commission mine action strategies covering the period 2002-2007, over EUR 300 million have been committed worldwide in projects covering activities such as demining, stockpile destruction, mine risk education, mine victim assistance, rehabilitation and social economic reintegration.
The most recent case of humanitarian demining support has been in Lebanon, which received significant humanitarian aid following the conflict in December 2006, which I mentioned before.
If the Community is not a party to the disarmament treaties or conventions, it can then legally only encourage partner countries to engage fully in multilateralism, in particular via participation in treaties and conventions.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PT) Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
Take the case of the Iraqi boy, Ahmed Kamel.
Whilst I welcome moves by countries such as Belgium to establish national legislation to ban cluster munitions, all other EU Member States must follow suit.
We need an immediate moratorium on the use, investment, stockpiling, production, transfer or export of all cluster munitions by all EU Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Oslo Process offers an historic opportunity to achieve an international agreement - not just a declaration, but an international agreement - banning cluster bombs.
Now we have an opportunity to reach an agreement in 2008.
I was very pleased and interested to hear, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, that the Commission also supports this position, which is most welcome.
The Council now needs to follow the clear stance that has been adopted by Parliament and the Commission; that is very important.
There are 34 countries which produce cluster bombs, including 13 EU Member States.
I must make one point, however: on 21 September - i.e.
I can reconfirm what I said before, which is that we have already done our best to alleviate the problems caused by explosive remnants of war, including cluster munitions, in particular through our mine action strategies and the related horizontal budget line, which accounted for about one third of the funds spent in this domain.
