Conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on the Middle East peace process, including the situation in eastern Jerusalem (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the Conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council on the Middle East peace process, including the situation in eastern Jerusalem.
Mr President, the conflict in the Middle East was one of the issues we discussed here in Parliament right at the beginning of the Swedish Presidency.
Sweden's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Carl Bildt, was also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week, where he presented a report and held long discussions, including on the Middle East.
Last week, the Foreign Affairs Council discussed the situation in the Middle East and adopted conclusions.
We are pleased that all 27 Member States support these conclusions, which clearly indicate the EU's views on the peace process in the Middle East.
With these conclusions, the Council and the Presidency want to send a very clear and strong message from Europe that we hope may result in the negotiations between the parties being resumed soon.
We have therefore made clear our support for the efforts by the United States to achieve peace.
However, we note with concern the surprising decision by the Israeli Government on 13 December to make the settlements part of the National Priority Areas programme for the first time.
Over recent months, under the leadership of the Presidency, the EU has adopted a clear position with regard to the settlements and the continued closure of Gaza.
The Council has also called for the full implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1860 and for international humanitarian law to be respected.
It is important to prevent a permanent division between the West Bank and East Jerusalem, on the one hand, and Gaza, on the other.
Our diplomats in the region have followed the situation in East Jerusalem closely.
This causes us concern.
It is important to remember that settlements between Israel and Syria and between Israel and Lebanon are prerequisites for there to be peace in the Middle East.
Vice-President designate of the Commission. - Mr President, the Council adopted very substantive conclusions on the Middle East peace process last week.
You have invited me here today to talk about our political work, but also about the situation in East Jerusalem.
For example, there is a lack of 1 200 classrooms for Palestinian children in the city, so we are helping to reinforce education facilities.
That was 16 years ago.
We need to see a serious commitment and the political will from both Israel and Palestine to engage in serious and genuine negotiations.
Our assistance has enabled the Palestinian Authority to build the institutions of the future state of Palestine, so that it can deliver services to its people and be a reliable neighbour in the region.
The US remains an indispensable and crucial actor in the Middle East.
The Egyptian initiative for inter-Palestinian reconciliation - so that there is one interlocutor - is still pondering and the security arrangement in Gaza, with the liberation of prisoners, such as Gilad Shalit, is still awaited.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, firstly I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Swedish Presidency for this initiative.
If we, as Europeans, are to play an active role in this respect, it is essential that we continue to do so.
We have great sympathy for the situation in Israel.
However, we are equally concerned about and sympathetic towards the unfortunate position which the Palestinians find themselves in with regard to everything referred to in this statement and, in particular, the 1967 borders, the difficult situation in Jerusalem and the settlement activities.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mrs Ashton, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, firstly, Mrs Malmström, I should like to congratulate the entire Swedish Presidency on the Council's conclusions on the Middle East conflict in general and East Jerusalem in particular.
It is of the utmost importance, of course - including to my group - that both Israelis and Palestinians be able to live side by side in peace in two separate states, to benefit from all the available development opportunities and to guarantee each other's security.
We have heard the same words over and again that we need to ensure that Israel does this or does that, but we need the real leverage to make that happen, otherwise Israel will simply ignore us, as it continues to do.
Hamas seems to be embroiled in its struggle with Fatah and to be kept on a tight leash by Iran.
Mr President, Lady Ashton, we welcome the decision taken on 8 December by the Council of the European Union.
This confirms the European Union's support for the creation of two states on the basis of the 1967 borders.
Around 500 000 settlers are living in these settlements today.
More importantly, in East Jerusalem, efforts are being made to create a palisade by erecting settlements around the city, so as to force the Palestinians to abandon their homes.
In addition to advocating the solution of two states, the European Union should take specific measures against Israel.
The continuing violation of human rights is sufficient cause for the European Union to impose sanctions on the basis of Article 2 of the treaty, because if, on the one hand, it chooses to support the peace process but, on the other hand, continues to upgrade economic relations with Israel without limitation, the only thing it will achieve is to serve Israel's policy, which consists of forcing the Palestinians to abandon their land and expanding Israeli sovereignty to the whole of Palestine.
I consider the Council statement on the Middle East to be a serious diplomatic and political setback for the peace process, and hence am very disappointed in the Foreign Ministers for being led by the Swedish Presidency, of all presidencies, with its strained relations with the Jewish State.
In addition, the statement goes against the Quartet's principle, laid down on 9 November 2008, that 'third parties should not intervene in the bilateral negotiations'.
The official reaction of the United States to the Council statement of 8 December underlined this principle once more.
We must use access to our markets to incentivise Israel.
The Council's conclusions are very welcome.
I would also like to thank the Swedish Presidency for the resolution and for acknowledging that it will not be possible to implement the two-state solution in the long term unless we can solve the settlement problem.
Firstly, the courageous report by the Swedish Presidency, which you just mentioned, Mrs Malmström.
This strategy is aimed at cutting Jerusalem off from the West Bank so that the very idea of creating a Palestinian state is shelved.
However, at the same time, our Parliament must gives its support to the release of another European citizen, the young Franco-Palestinian, Salah Hamouri.
I would, however, like to add that we must now proceed to take action, since the situation in Jerusalem is deteriorating on a daily basis and cannot be tolerated any further.
We must therefore act by creating the right environment conducive to confidence building between the two parties, and to have two distinct and viable states which can cohabit peacefully.
I believe that in this regard, the High Representative, Baroness Ashton, should step in to protest on behalf of democratic Europe.
This interpretation that the Council adopted under the Swedish leadership therefore seems a bit odd.
Furthermore, Israel is the only democratic country in the Middle East.
It is also very important to remember that the idea that Jerusalem should be divided, making it a city in two countries, is quite inconceivable.
Of course, we need to ensure that Israel can preserve its democratic system and its rights in its own capital, and the European Union can be involved in the peace process, and it should be, but in a diplomatic role and not as a doctor or judge.
It is regrettable that Gilad Shalit, who is a French national - a citizen of the European Union - and an Israeli soldier, has not been released.
Here we have the scope to fight terrorism together and make it possible for Israel to exist as a nation. (NL) Mr President, in their report of 23 November, the EU Heads of Delegation in Jerusalem and Ramallah made very clear that Israel is actively engaged in illegally annexing East Jerusalem and completely isolating it from the rest of the West Bank.
It is high time and the right moment for the European Union to assume an active, visible role in the region, and this is only possible, of course, if we also show the courage to take a clear and unequivocal position, particularly on East Jerusalem. (EL) Mr President, the EU policy is to support the Israeli Government, together with the United States and NATO, in its criminal policy of genocide of the Palestinian people.
This is the conclusion reached by members of the European Parliament delegation which the Israeli authorities prohibited from entering the occupied Gaza Strip.
The mealy-mouthed talk by the European Union is out of keeping with the righteous global call for a viable and independent Palestinian state on the 1967 territories with its capital in East Jerusalem.
The European Union is not taking any practical steps in this direction.
We reject imperialist plans for the Middle East and stand side by side with the Palestinian people and all the peoples in their struggle. (SK) I have to say that the results of last week's meeting of the Council of Ministers were not entirely balanced and, moreover, I have the feeling, as I have been dealing with this issue for a long time, that they have not really advanced matters in terms of our efforts for the peaceful coexistence of these two nations.
I would therefore like to say that I know that we have more to do.
On the Goldstone report, I would like to congratulate Mr Bildt, on behalf of the Presidency, for praising the - and I quote - 'credibility and high integrity' of the Goldstone report.
I therefore believe that rather than a 'two states for two peoples' solution, a 'two democracies for two peoples' vision would be more desirable.
So yes, of course, a thousand times yes to an open capital, a shared capital, this form of sharing that, since the 2000s now, has been part of the Clinton Parameters for a negotiated peace, a principle that has been accepted by Ehud Barak in Taba, and by others too.
Furthermore, we also remember, in this very Chamber, the powerful way in which it was defended by Avraham Burg and Ahmed Qurei.
Mr President, I agree with the Israeli Foreign Minister, Mr Lieberman, that the final Council statement is a lot better perhaps than the earlier Swedish draft which I saw a couple of weeks ago, but it makes no mention of the accepted Quartet principles which Hamas repudiates as it carries on terrorising Palestinian Authority officials and civilians alike in Gaza.
The Goldstone report is a very important one.
The conditions for talks with Hamas are well-known and they have not been met.
The EU must be consistent and stand firm in its message with regard to East Jerusalem, borders, settlements and security.
The EU is continuing its European security and defence policy mission in the region, and the European Union Police Co-ordinating Office for Palestinian Police Support (Eupol Copps), in particular, has made a significant contribution over the last year to improving the social and economic conditions for Palestinians in the West Bank.
The EU also supports the preparations for the formation of an independent Palestinian state.
The solution must be comprehensive.
What is also very clear - and I pay tribute to the Presidency for the work that they have done on this - is the frustration in this House that things are not moving, frustration borne of views that are sometimes quite different, but nonetheless converge on a desire to see a solution.
The nuances are important.
I described 1 200 classrooms that were needed and I described our work in health.
What I want to do is draw those two things together, to find a way in which we can enhance what we do, to support the work that is going on, to make the Quartet more effective, to bring together what has been, in a sense, the Council and Commission operating side by side, and to meld it into one so that what we do on the ground really makes a difference.
But, on the way to the end, we have a significant role to play, and I am determined, on your behalf as well as on behalf of the Commission and the Council, that we play our full part in that.
Europe is thus outlining the conditions of a viable solution to the Middle East conflict that is acceptable to both parties.
The European Union has a major role to play.
The Council has set out a clear position on several key issues, including the 1967 borders, Israeli settlements, access to Gaza, and support for a two-state solution in which Jerusalem would be a shared capital.
