Three factors justify this exercise aimed at making the European consumer acquis, i.e.
Thirdly, the decision made in the past to opt for minimum harmonisation, thereby allowing the Member States to retain specific national provisions, has resulted in fragmentation of the legal environment, given that the rules in force lay down a minimum European standard but do not define a single method for meeting it.
Similarly, it is important for economic operators in that they will benefit from a secure regulatory environment and will be able to make the most of an internal market comprising nearly 500 million consumers.
Secondly, the horizontal instrument will guarantee consumers' right of withdrawal in the case of purchases made on the Internet or in a doorstep situation.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am really very pleased to be here today to discuss with you the very important issues raised in the Green Paper on the review of the consumer acquis.
I should like to start by thanking most sincerely Ms Patrie, all the shadow rapporteurs in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and Mrs Wallis, who gave the opinion for the Committee on Legal Affairs.
This support for full harmonisation across the consumer acquis - or targeted full harmonisation - is shared by the majority of respondents to the Green Paper, in particular by businesses and Member States.
The Commission agrees with Parliament that the mutual recognition clause should apply in these areas in order to make sure that additional requirements imposed by Member States do not create unjustified internal market barriers.
On more specific issues, such as harmonisation of withdrawal rights across the acquis, the definition of delivery of goods or the drawing up of a combined grey and black list of unfair contract terms at EU level, the majority of respondents to the Green Paper have expressed views which are largely in line with the report to be voted on today.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your commitment to helping European citizens to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market.
Draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Mr President, I would like to start, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, by thanking Ms Patrie for her cooperation and work together on this report.
They are inextricably entwined and, even if the Member States are reticent about the whole of the contract law project, this Parliament is not and will not be in the future, and looks to the Commission to pursue that work together.
That means that the consumer law that we all know in our national environment is a law that has some resonance between us and our citizens.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to start by thanking Mrs Patrie for her good cooperation and work on this report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would also like to express my particular thanks not only to Commissioner Kuneva, who has presented us with a very good text, but also our rapporteur, Mrs Patrie, who has done outstanding work and progressed the dossier in key respects, so that despite the many contentious points arising in our committee, we are, overall, on track towards good legislation.
Horizontal aspects, full harmonisation where possible, for example as regards the definition of the consumer or the definition of business, is what this is about, but it is also about implementing the European Union's Treaties, which allow the Member States to retain or introduce a higher standard of law, if they consider it right to do so.
We want class actions which help our citizens to assert their rights but respect the traditions and culture that we enjoy in the European Union.
It is about enabling our citizens to assert their rights.
The labour market available in the EU, regulating the acquis, is not efficient in practice.
I believe that the revision of the acquis should result in equal consumer protection levels, regardless of a consumer's country of residence or the country where goods or services are purchased.
In addition, I think that not only should consumer law be related to civil and commercial law, but that measures should also be taken to limit the penetration of low-quality products and services into the market.
I should like to thank Mrs Patrie very much for a thorough and business-like report.
The debate in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and the proposals, most of which came from Members of the PPE-DE and ALDE, in my view send the wrong signal to the Commission, which now has the task of developing the genuinely substantive further steps on the basis of the Green Paper.
However, that should not, in our view, go hand in hand with the principle of mutual recognition.
In the case of transnational contracts, that could ultimately mean that consumers are confronted with 27 different legal systems, which would be quite overwhelming, to my mind.
As regards the exclusion of unfair terms in contracts, we want the Directive on unfair terms in consumer contracts to be applicable to individually negotiated clauses as well.
Finally, I would ask you to support our Amendment 16 in which we make it clear that we would appreciate a legal and academic appraisal of the instrument of class actions.
This request has been endorsed by a majority in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for an ambitious work.
The GUE/NGL Group is opposed to the proposal in the report to combine minimum legislation with the principle of mutual recognition.
on behalf of ITS. - (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, dear colleagues, I appreciate Mrs Patrie's report.
That is why the revision process of the acquis in the consumer protection field should consider this issue in order to remove this delay existing in order to protect all European consumers, irrespective of the Member State they reside in. (PL) Mr President, the common trading market within the European Union is currently an uncontested fact.
That is why consumer protection in the nation states is perceived as such an important issue.
Consumer laws must be good laws and consumer protection and the internal market are so closely tied to each other, both legally and in respect of policy, that it would be good to coordinate these two reviews.
We are very grateful for the work that our rapporteur, Ms Patrie, has carried out.
The focus of our debate today and the central objective of our consumer policy must be the protection of consumer safety and health - particularly as regards vulnerable consumers and children.
The RAPEX report, in the case of the notification of dangerous products, shows that not all Member States are participating in the notification system.
I also support the view that harmonisation should lead to a comparable level of consumer protection across all the Member States, without full harmonisation of all national provisions.
The opportunity should also be taken to apply the rules on unfair terms to all negotiated contracts which contain unfair terms, even if they have been individually negotiated.
The Green Paper is a very good tool for identifying problems in, and seeking solutions to, the consumer acquis.
One of the solutions proposed by Mrs Patrie is a combined approach to the consumer acquis involving full harmonisation in the cross-cutting definitions and minimum harmonisation at sector level.
Consequently, I would urge everyone to vote in favour of our proposal No 4 during voting time later today. (FI) Madam President, according to the Eurobarometer survey, half of the citizens of the EU are warier of making cross-border purchases than domestic purchases.
The Commission says that the ideal situation would be if EU consumers could have the same basic rights wherever they were in the Union and wherever they did their shopping.
The consumer must be king.
Without consumers and their trust there is no trade anyway. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my warm thanks to Mrs Patrie and above all to our shadow rapporteur, Kurt Lechner, whose comments in this debate I completely endorse.
The proposal for a 'blue flag' for the European consumer, for the purchaser, may have its appeal, but I believe that it would of course be even more important and even better for the internal market if we could successfully guide the Member States along a unified course in their national legislation.
However, I also believe that we must proceed cautiously on other points and that we must make it clear to the Member States that if we want to have a single internal market and unified consumer protection provisions, this cannot work if we adhere to the notion that 'everyone can add a bit on top', as that is guaranteed to confuse the consumer.
This is a fundamental issue in the European Parliament and in the European Union, as in fact demonstrated by the very existence of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
We would stress that the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the EU in relation to consumer policy include not only the review of the Timeshare Directive but also the review of the consumer acquis which is being considered here today, in addition to the Community consumer policy strategy up to 2013 and the Common Frame of Reference on EU Contract Law.
However, to do this we need to ensure, as confirmed by Mrs Patrie, that consumers know that they can effectively assert their rights in the event of a dispute.
It is also supremely important that within this framework the issues arising from possible conflicts between the Rome I and Rome II Conventions are resolved, while respecting the rights enshrined in these Conventions and the Electronic Commerce Directive.
The examination of consumer protection issues is therefore extremely important, particularly when consumers sign digital content supply contracts.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude I must say that a clearer and more integrated legal framework is needed in order to consolidate the internal market and increase the confidence of European consumers. (SK) There are almost 500 million European consumers who can at present tap into a wider choice of products and services.
At the same time, however, these consumers must make decisions far more complicated than any in the past.
As long as consumers are sure of their rights, they will show the same confidence when making purchases in a shop or on the Internet whether they do so in their own country or in other countries of the European Union.
A set of standardised, common rules valid throughout the EU is therefore important both to consumers and entrepreneurs.
Consumers need accurate information in order to be able to defend their rights.
Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude I would like to express my pleasure at the participation of my group of visitors from the Slovak Prešov and Košice regions precisely in this debate, which is so important for European consumers.
We wish them a warm welcome here in our European House. (RO) While drawing up this report - congratulations to Mrs Béatrice Patrie- we had a lot of discussions on the harmonisation level and the nature of the necessary instruments for efficient consumer protection.
So, I could say that I have a vested interest in consumer protection.
You try to get in touch with someone in the shop but do not get an e-mail response.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Ms Patrie for a great report.
I would like to congratulate the new, dynamic Commissioner for great work on the acquis.
I think this is a good start, but we can go further. (SV) Madam President, I welcome the review of the consumer acquis and I want to thank my colleague Beatrice Patrie for her excellent cooperation.
I would also like to thank Mrs Kuneva for her work on the Green Paper.
Lastly, I believe that the aim of reviewing consumer legislation in the EU must be to strengthen consumer protection, not to increase trade between Member States.
We must put people before the market. (PL) Mr President, the development of an information society is one of the fundamental aims of the European Union.
This is true of all areas of European policy, and is a sine qua non of issues relating to consumer rights, their protection and the related matter of security.
The outcome of the consultation undertaken on the basis of the questions annexed to the Green Paper confirms this view.
The next issue is a particularly burning one that cannot, in my view, be left to self-regulation.
The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 forced us to review our ideas on Internet security.
Sooner or later these goods move around the market and are offered to all consumers.
Paragraph 49 is important and it recognises the need for ongoing consumer education.
So, there is, in this House, a gap between what we say and what we do, but this report is a very good first step in terms of improving consumer protection. (ES) Madam President, the review of the consumer acquis should improve the functioning of the internal market by strengthening consumer protection and competitiveness among businesses.
The opinion of Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has stressed the importance of applying special consumer protection rules in the financial services sector and the need for an integrated, comprehensive and systematic approach in this area throughout the European Union.
It is becoming increasingly frequent for European citizens to make purchases and use services in other Member States.
I agree with the mixed approach proposed, involving the simplification of the eight Directives on consumer protection.
Europa should be built on the citizen's social agenda.
I will show you the scoreboard on the implementation of the Directive on Unfair Commercial Practices and you will be surprised that even the champions of consumer protection failed in the transposition of this particular directive.
Concerning the common frame of reference (CFR), as Ms Wallis knows, this project is dear to my heart and the Commission agrees with the European Parliament on the need to ensure coherence between the work on the preparation of the CFR and the review of the consumer acquis.
I would like to draw attention to point 6; the application of the future instrument, once adopted, would have to be evaluated in order to assess its effectiveness.
I had a very interesting meeting recently with the Mouvement des Entreprises de France.
The Commission recently held a conference on financial capability issues to generate ideas on what it can do in this area.
The Commission will come forward with a communication on this subject later this year, in which it will set out its views and announce initiatives to encourage and promote the provision of financial education in the Member States.
Again, let me reiterate that I will join my efforts to Commissioner McCreevy's report on financial services and I will keep the agenda of consumer protection, the citizens' market, very close to the outcome.
This process will be separated from the general follow-up to the Green Paper.
This issue has been raised in Ms Patrie's report and by Ms Wallis as well.
I agree with Ms Wallis concerning the need to ensure coherence between the work on the preparation of CFR and the review of the consumer acquis, that we will maintain the same speed.
Concerning Ms Kallenbach's remarks on toys: I hope that, on 12 September, if I am not mistaken, at the next meeting of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I will have more opportunity to talk about the action taken by the Commission.
We have our RAPEX system, which is an excellent example of solidarity within the Union, to inform all 27 countries rapidly if a dangerous product is found on our markets.
I think that the toys issue and China could be used in explaining why it is so important to have targeted full harmonisation.
If we would really like to have a stronger voice in our talks with China, we need to remain absolutely united with a clear set of rules, not 27 different markets, and also to follow very much enforcement.
The acquis is definitely very important; it is the base and our foundation.
We have our consumer protection cooperation regulation, and at the end of September I invited all the consumer protection authorities to discuss some of the issues and the dangerous goods from the Chinese toy factories.
Just to refer now to European City Guide.
The directive on passenger car taxation follows the same route.
This paper is absolutely necessary as, currently, 16 Member States impose a tax at 16 different levels, and this is a barrier for buying a passenger car from another EU Member State.
