Now journeys from Brussels to Strasbourg for plenary sessions, which cost EUR 200 million each year, seem particularly absurd.
The latter include the very important matter of the Eastern neighbourhood policy and measures relating to Europe's energy security. (EL) Madam President, the European Court of Justice recently published its ruling against Greece which sets the same retirement age for men and women in the public sector, with the result that the retirement age for women has increased by between 5 and 17 years.
It is damaging to working women and is a step towards increasing the retirement age to 65 for both men and women, as already stipulated in the anti-insurance laws passed by New Democracy and PASOK for persons insured after 1993, in application of Community legislation.
The only way forward for working men and women is disobedience and insubordination towards the decisions by the European Union and its institutions. (PL) Madam President, according to data on the portal eudebate2009, only 52% of Europeans trust the European Parliament as an institution.
The proportion of voters that still have not decided whether to vote in this year's elections to the European Parliament is as high as 50%.
This is at least what is indicated by a study published in Bucharest, which mentions a significant growth in investment in Romania in the agricultural and forest land sector.
I would like to remind the Presidency of this Parliament that this House was instrumental in advancing the fight - we did this in the non-violent Radical Party - for the creation of the International Criminal Court.
The European Commission must organise targeted initiatives linked to the fight against the exploitation of child labour and call for the control mechanisms to be tightened up during this process.
One branch of our culture is now disappearing before our very eyes and we are witnessing the obliteration of one of its sources. (HU) After the January gas crisis, the common European energy policy has in recent days once again received a slap in the face.
Their plane was shot down between 15 and 16 March 1944.
Thank you. (RO) The Danube plays a very important role in economic and social cohesion, as well as in Europe's cultural development.
TEN-T priority axis 18 formed by the Danube and the Main-Rhein Canal provides the connection between the Black Sea and North Sea, cutting the distance between the sea ports of Rotterdam and Constanţa by 4 000 kilometres.
This project brings together citizens from the 27 EU Member States ahead of the European Parliament elections in order to discuss responses to the question, 'what can the European Union do to influence our economic and social future in a globalised world?' National consultations with Slovak citizens took place on 28-29 March.
At the same time I call on the media to be more objective and more active in presenting information on the European Parliament as this will be important in influencing voter turnout. (HU) A conference with a strange title was held at the European Parliament today on the defeat of the so-called Hungarian Soviet Republic.
This was during the sixth anniversary of the imprisonment of 75 opposition representatives.
