&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 27 January. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important for the President to make two statements on two events, one that has already taken place and one that has yet to take place, which affect us directly.
I would remind you that a month ago this House approved the European Constitution by a majority of 74%; the support of the Spanish people has therefore closely reflected, and in fact exceeded, this Parliament’s support for that draft.
We could say that the result of the vote in Spain on Sunday is very similar to the vote in Strasbourg when this Parliament debated the resolution relating to it.
The turnout was slightly less than that for the last European elections in Spain and also very close to the average across all 25 countries of the Union.
I believe that on the whole we can see the result of the process in Spain as being very similar to the vote of the Members of the European Parliament and, therefore, as President of Parliament and also in my capacity as a Spanish citizen, I am very pleased with the result.
Immediately after hearing it I congratulated the President of the Spanish Government and all the political groups who had participated in this process.
The visit by President Bush this week is being presented as a meeting with the European institutions.
Our group has always been very much in favour of the President of the European Parliament being present during this visit, whichever institution held the meeting.
I should like to express my wholehearted thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Juncker, for having made it possible to achieve such an outcome, but there should be no more discussions of this kind.
Regardless of the details of the process, tomorrow the three institutions will be present and I would like to make it very clear that the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission have always agreed on the need for that to be the case.
The final version of the draft agenda for the present part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 17 February pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has proposed including the issue of the situation in Lebanon following the assassination of former Prime Minister, Mr Hariri, in the Council and Commission statements on EU relations with the Mediterranean region. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not sure whether I have correctly understood the formal announcement you have just made.
Our group would agree to the situation in Lebanon being included in Wednesday morning’s debate on the Mediterranean region.
We would then be able to consider an appropriate way of discussing the issue in greater detail in March, perhaps on the basis of an oral question to the Council and the Commission.
This would allow us to leave the agenda as it stands, and then to discuss the issue in more detail in March.
I was somewhat surprised to have been given the floor, but I hope that I have been able to help resolve this minor problem. &#160;&#160; I understand then that the request has been withdrawn. &#160;&#160; If this is how the proposal now stands, we are also fully in agreement with this solution.
After all, we do not want to interfere in Lebanon’s affairs; our aim is to ensure that the country is able to act entirely independently when taking decisions regarding its future.
What I am trying to say is that we should leave the agenda as it stands, and set ourselves the task of including a separate item on the issue on the agenda for the March part-session. &#160;&#160; Alright, we will deal with it within the item on the agenda which has already been included on the subject.
The Socialist Group has also presented a request with a view to reversing the order of the oral questions, on the expiry of the WTO Agreement on textiles and clothing and on action against hunger and poverty.
No amendment to the Thursday sitting has been proposed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am not sure whether I have misunderstood something.
We have received two requests for urgent procedure: a proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 as regards a specific action for transfers of vessels to countries hit by the tsunami in 2004.
The second request relates to the proposal for a Council regulation imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities in view of the situation in Côte d'Ivoire.
I am telling you this so that you can come tomorrow duly prepared to make a decision on this. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have risen to speak because I am extremely concerned about the state of democracy in the European Union.
It is also coming to light that propaganda tricks were used during the campaign, for example that Spanish citizens were told that a vote against the European Constitution would be a vote against Europe, which is a blatant lie.
Finally, my third point: the decrease in export aid presents further problems.
I would like to ask Commissioner Fischer Boel to take effective measures towards solving the problems of the cereals market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with what has been said and I would like to thank the President of this Parliament for what he has said about the referendum held in my country yesterday.
Furthermore, an important radio station owned by the ecclesiastical hierarchy of the Catholic Church campaigned constantly for the ‘no’ camp and the results are there to see, but nobody stopped it from defending that position, which was as legitimate as any other. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a few days ago, the President of the Greek Parliament, addressing the new President of the Hellenic Republic, told him that, in the light of the referendum – in the light of the endorsement of the Constitution – Greece needed to restrict its national borders and its national sovereignty.
We want Europe to prosper, but not of course at the expense of the national borders of our country, at the expense of national sovereignty.
There was a very poor turnout ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, every professional criminal organisation in Europe must have jumped for joy at the European Central Bank's recent decision to double its printing of 500-euro banknotes.
She stated the obvious; that the economic borders have been lifted and that there is a single, homogenous economic area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ever since this Parliament voted by an overwhelming majority to endorse the European Constitution a month ago, some of those who were in the minority have sought to disrupt and discredit the position taken by the European Parliament.
Even when we have been invited by national parliaments to present our assessment of the Constitution, they have written to them and complained that we have accepted such invitations.
But the bottom line is endorsement by a huge majority, which I am sure will be repeated in other countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this House should wholeheartedly welcome the referendum held in Spain and the Spanish public’s clear ‘yes’ to the Constitution.
What Mr&#160;Pęk has said in this House is utterly absurd, and I am sure that only a small minority of Members share his views.
At the same time, however, turnout for the referendum demonstrated the need for the public to be provided with even more information.
We have no more time to lose, as the dates for the next referendums have already been set. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks.
I should like to ask whether the Commission intends to introduce a regulation making it possible for financial support ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, recently the impression has been created that certain antagonisms and divisions from the past are being revived, something which we hoped would never be repeated and never burden relations between nations in the united Europe.
And if the conciliatory meeting of the presidents of three neighbouring countries can contribute to this, then I also welcome it.
Twenty Member States of the EU have coastlines.
Most of the EU nationals have now been released – certainly all nine British citizens – but around a dozen people who have legal residence in an EU country, for instance as refugees, are still there.
There are five people from the UK whose names we know: Bisher al-Rawi, Jamil al-Banna, Jamal Abdullah, Shaker Aamer and Omar Deghayes.
Omar Deghayes claims that he has been blinded in one eye with pepper spray.
Out of a total of 74 dairy companies inspected, only two were authorised to export products to Russia.
In spite of the fact that nearly four months have passed since the inspections were completed, Russia has still not provided Poland with a list of companies that passed the inspections and are permitted to export products.
That is one more good reason for the British people to reject the European Constitution when they have the opportunity to do so. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament recently celebrated the 50th anniversary of UEFA, the Union of European Football Associations.
It is worth sacrificing another of the EU’s principles that is in any case frequently violated, namely the principle of free movement of workers, for the sake of this principle of solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like briefly to insist on something that the President said at the beginning of this sitting.
As you all know, tomorrow there will be an historic visit by George Bush, the President of the United States of America, to the European Commission, in the Berlaymont building in Brussels.
We are proud of our language: our Dante Alighieri is the envy of all.
Most of our Member States were represented with new productions either in the competition or in other sections of the festival.
The protection of our cinema heritage and the production of new films deserve more support, both financially and in terms of legislation. &#160;&#160; – The lack of rain in recent months in Portugal is causing a major crisis both in terms of autumn-winter crops and livestock feed, and in terms of the low expectations for spring-summer crops.
The shortage of pasture due to the drought is also causing problems and it is therefore necessary to authorise grazing on land banned under Community regulations, in order to reduce livestock deaths. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this week sees the third anniversary of Ingrid Betancourt’s abduction by Colombia’s FARC guerrillas.
Mrs&#160;Hübner stated, in fact, that, in her view, it was necessary to facilitate relocation within Europe so that European companies might reduce their costs.
What the Commissioner is proposing to us is that we rob Peter to pay Paul.
Might Mr&#160;Barroso be in favour of institutionalising social and fiscal dumping within the EU? &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
The latter divided the European continent into two spheres of influence, in so doing subjecting many of the nations of Central and Eastern Europe, whose representatives are sitting in this House today, to nearly half a century’s oppression under an inhuman totalitarian system.
I hope the European Parliament will support this motion for a resolution, which, , condemns the Yalta Agreement.
Mrs&#160;Karamoko applied for refugee status in France three years ago.
She is now seven months pregnant and suffering from hepatitis, and is at present in hospital here in this very city of Strasbourg.
In the name of respect for human rights and in accordance with our Charter of Fundamental Rights, I should like us to inform the French Government that it must respect human and fundamental rights by allowing Mrs&#160;Karamoko to obtain treatment here in France and, above all, to give birth in the best conditions. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I hope that this House has recovered from its infatuation with Ukraine’s ‘Orange Revolution’, and that the time has now come to look facts in the face.
National minorities in Ukraine are in danger, they are afraid and they are calling for help. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when this Parliament last met it quite properly condemned the Nazi atrocities epitomised by Auschwitz.
In the name of the peace-loving majority in Northern Ireland, I take this opportunity in this international forum to refute and reject that vile attack upon those I represent.
Finally, Mr Herrero-Tejedor, does your comment imply that your colleague, Mr Berlusconi, is controlling the media in Italy? &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
I have that right and I expect you to ensure that I can exercise it, Mr President. &#160;&#160; I simply asked you which Rule you are invoking and you mentioned a Rule that has nothing to do with the issue we are talking about.
That was not the case in any way, but despite that, the Presidency has given you the floor in order not to give you the impression that our interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is biased. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not have the rule book in front of me but I simply want to add a clarification to the statement on Northern Ireland made by Mr Allister who criticised President McAleese of the Irish Republic for remarks she made concerning the Protestant community in Northern Ireland.
However, in the future, all the honourable Members should generally have sufficient knowledge of the Rules of Procedure to be aware that the Rule in question allows Members to speak in response to personal accusations, not to references to a Member within the context of a debate on issues relating to third parties.
Please take note of the fact that the Presidency will not give the floor in future unless a Member has been affected by an issue that relates to them personally. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the Commission’s legislative and work programme (2005), a debate which began in Brussels on 26 January 2005.
The Spanish people have said yes to the European Constitution, a clear and resounding yes.
I would like to express to you the European Commission’s satisfaction with this result.
Spain has said yes to a Europe united in its diversity.
This has been a very important step in the process of ratifying the European Constitution, which the Commission believes to be the only instrument which will allow us Europeans to consolidate our ideas of peace, prosperity, solidarity and security in Europe.
Let me remind you of some of its most important elements.
The proposed initiatives are structured around the three strategic objectives and their external dimension, and represent a first concrete translation of the balanced approach pursued by the Commission.
In addition to this work programme, I announced that the Commission will regularly inform the Parliament about its planning agenda for legislative proposals in preparation.
On 2 February, I presented to you our proposals for a mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
I was pleased to hear that, broadly speaking, the Commission's proposals met many of the expectations and concerns of Members of this House.
I welcome the detailed motions for resolutions tabled today by the political groups on the work programme.
As in any partnership, the important thing is to have positions on the table clearly spelt out, and to work together to achieve common objectives.
The Commission is fully committed to this task.
Second, competitiveness and social cohesion need to go hand in hand.
I want the Commission to be helpful in this regard.
Let me assure you that we have taken due note of the concerns expressed.
On the other hand, we should also address the fear that certain elements of the proposal would put a key European industry in serious difficulty without adding real value in the fields of health and the environment.
With regard to the draft services directive, here too we are pursuing an aim which commands general support – the completion of the single market for services by 2010.
I am fully convinced that, via the legislative process, we will be able to settle upon an instrument which will tap the single market's hidden potential without jeopardising legitimate public interest objectives.
Let us do this on an informed basis and dispel the myths.
We want a better definition of the medium-term objectives of fiscal policy by taking into account elements such as the debt level and the up-front costs of structural reforms.
As part of this balanced approach, the Commission has made progress via its recently adopted proposal on the revised social agenda for the period up to 2010.
The new Member States are waiting for tangible proof of our solidarity.
This is why our proposals for a new generation of cohesion policies for the next Financial Perspective are of critical importance for the Union, both economically and politically.
The Commission is doing its work, but making these proposals a reality will very much depend on the terms of the agreement on the Financial Perspectives expected by June.
On 9&#160;February, we adopted a communication on sustainable development and another entitled ‘Winning the battle against global climate change’.
These proposals supplement those relating to the mid-term review of the Lisbon strategy.
Alongside the economic pillar, the sustainable development strategy and the new social agenda constitute two other supplementary pillars upon which our strategy for the next five years will be based.
Naturally, we must also look beyond our borders.
The situation is clearly disappointing.
The European Union can and must make a larger contribution to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
In doing so, our main priority will be Africa, and we intend to propose specific new initiatives for Africa.
When we meet President Bush tomorrow, we shall share with him our wish for effective multilateralism and our commitment to work for peace and provide humanitarian aid wherever required.
By providing people with simple and transparent information on the subject, they will be in a better position to understand what is at stake in Europe and to form opinions.
All the Commissioners – including, principally, Vice-President Wallström, whose particular area this is – have undertaken to exert themselves in this area.
Allow me, in conclusion, to explain how the Commission, of which I have the honour of being President, intends to meet these shared challenges and address these shared concerns.
I should like to repeat what I have already said on many occasions before this House, namely that I intend to develop a constructive rapport between the Commission and the European Parliament.
Vice-President Wallström will be present tomorrow at the Conference of Committee Chairmen, and this within the framework of what the Commission wishes to be a permanent and regular dialogue concerning the issues that have priority for us, from the points of view both of programming and of establishing political priorities.
The same applies to REACH, as you have just explained to us.
We must therefore concentrate on the key issues, namely growth and employment.
Fewer laws and better lawmaking will be the main thrust of our work.
These two policies are not contradictory, in fact quite the opposite is true; they are complementary.
They are assets and present an opportunity for our economy.
Europe must therefore opt for eco-innovation and cutting-edge technologies in order to meet a demand for high added value products that our competitors cannot satisfy.
I have in mind the development of renewable energy sources, including solar and wind power, of biofuels and of clean forms of transport – all sectors that offer our industries a real opportunity in terms of employment and exports.
Europe must also anticipate the possible threats from major scourges and combat the new epidemics and resistance to antibiotics.
It is therefore with great interest that we await the proposal for a directive aimed at putting Community measures in place to combat avian influenza.
Regarding demographic development in Europe, the Green Paper must quickly be followed up by practical measures involving, for example, lifelong learning, health systems that can be relied upon over time and research into neurodegenerative diseases.
As far as solidarity policy is concerned, it is only right that the new Member States should benefit from these programmes, but do not forget that the funds in question also convey the image of the European Union across all the Member States.
It is therefore vital for all the countries to have access to these forms of structural aid.
We also call for greater efficiency in the way in which Member States follow up each other’s judicial decisions, although, on this subject, we were still awaiting the results of the codecision provided for by the Constitution.
We wish to develop and improve working conditions with a view to putting practical measures in place and improving work-life balance.
The European Commission must be visionary in its initiating role.
What, therefore, we now need is political energy for kick-starting the engine that drives our efforts – efforts that are the basis of our work.
We shall be at your side in that spirit of constructive rapport you mentioned. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the speech we have just heard was not a speech from the European People’s Party, but from the French Gaullists.
Your presence here augurs well for cooperation between the Commission and the European Parliament.
I would like to make a serious proposal, however, with regard to the negotiations on the framework agreement.
I personally have no problem whatsoever with the principle that the Commissioners, or you as President of the Commission, have a set of political views and can air those views in public.
You presented a work programme with Socialist elements but then gave an interview in the which went in the very opposite direction.
As long as this is the main thrust of your Commission’s policies, the climate will never change in favour of the EU.
On the one hand, we need competition and flexibility, but this increase in competition and flexibility must serve to promote the achievement of the other goal, namely social stability.
If you read our resolution, you will see that we are willing to engage in constructive cooperation with you, but only if you, along with your Commission, are willing to build a social Europe.
My group welcomes the sharper focus of the work programme and its grounding within a clear political strategy.
For my own group, our priority is to complete the single market, especially in the area of financial services.
This will require a review and, perhaps, stronger scrutiny of the legacy of the Prodi Commission than the programme has presently enjoyed, certainly with respect to software patenting, but also access to port services.
Let me reiterate the common aims of both the American and the European negotiators and the EU Member States.
We must press on with the development of a political strategy for the wider Middle East on the basis of the European security strategy.
These are the prerequisites for the creation of a ring of security around every country in the region, including Israel.
Deportation to Iran in these circumstances – and we have opposed it in two previous resolutions – exposes a woman to the danger of stoning, persecution or even death.
I have no wish to see Iran succeed in playing off the Europeans against the Americans, because we both have the same objectives.
Let me also refer at this juncture to another issue where my group is in agreement with the President of the United States, namely the continuation of the embargo against China.
The operating profits of the large conglomerates in the European Union increased by 78% in 2004.
The ratio of profits to GDP is at what is nearly its highest level in the last 25 years.
At the same time, unemployment is rising.
Of course we need competition, but it must be compatible with the Gothenburg criteria, so as to minimise unemployment, maximise consumer protection and guarantee social security within a healthy environment, and so as to achieve social cohesion through solidarity and sustainable development.
Accordingly, we must make the following pleas to the Commission: abandon your neo-liberal economic policies and scrap your directives on service provision in the single market as well as the Working Time Directive and present replacements in the form of directives on improved health and safety at work or on the harmonisation of welfare standards.
Protect small and medium-sized enterprises by using the directives adopted by the last Parliament, such as the directive on software patents, as the basis for a new proposal.
Campaign for better protection of the environment, and remember that there is certainly still work to be done here in the European Union in fields such as biodiversity, the avoidance and recycling of waste and the sustainable use of resources.
The European Commission is the unelected government of the EU, but what other government anywhere in the world would have its legislative programme set out by its predecessor?
On 26 January Mr Barroso spoke to Parliament in Brussels about this programme, but Mr Prodi and his team put it together.
The new Commission's central policy objective is economic growth.
The document states that, due to the institutional changeover in 2004, a lighter procedure than usual was adopted for the European Parliament to consider the policy strategy.
That procedure was concluded last April – in other words, even before the election of the present European Parliament.
The European Parliament, the European Commission and the EU governments are going to have to work together closely if the objectives of the Lisbon strategy are to be met.
The key priorities for the European Union at this time include: the completion of the Financial Services Action Plan so as to guarantee a greater level of competition amongst the financial institutions operating within the 25 Member States of the EU, which includes ensuring that retail banking services are available to all EU citizens in the 25 Member States; facilitating the merging of European banks and the updating of asset management legislation so as to guarantee that fund managers can operate asset funds on a cross-border basis; the introduction of new legislation to reduce the costs of clearing and settling trading security transactions; and the introduction of greater competition in the insurance sector.
The European Union must promote a greater level of dialogue with America to streamline the rules governing the operating of the accountancy industry.
This year, 8&#160;000 companies will be listed on European stock exchanges, operating under the IAS system.
A greater level of dialogue will have to take place to hammer out these issues.
It must guarantee that the benefits of all technologies are available to communities in Europe, both urban and rural.
Mr Barroso, your recent statements on the Lisbon strategy and the economic way forward for Europe have been very positive, and I wish you well.
I hope that you are successful – Europe needs you to be successful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this programme offers real hope for the revitalisation and refocusing of the Lisbon Agenda.
In recent weeks, I have been impressed by the statements by the President of the Commission and his clear aim of putting growth and prosperity at the heart of his strategy for the period ahead.
Similarly, I am unimpressed by the rantings of Socialists, like Mr Schulz, on refocusing priorities within the Lisbon process.
Mr Barroso sensibly understands that many remedies for the lack of economic dynamism lie in the hands of Member States themselves.
The Commission must be as efficient as it is requiring our businesses and citizens to be.
He rightly talks about better regulation, but the priority must be less regulation and, crucially, that legislation must be subject to full impact assessment.
I look forward to, and am confident that I will see, some progress soon on all these issues in relation to the Services Directive, which I am so pleased he supports. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you in the Commission and we in Parliament – or at least the vast majority of Members of this House – want to win hearts and minds for the project of European integration.
We also need effective public services.
One final point: what Vice-President Wallström did very recently with regard to the rights of air passengers was a very positive step, in my opinion.
The fact is that we must go public and tell people what we have achieved in this Parliament, including our responses to proposals from the Commission.
If the Commission and the European Parliament can pursue this approach together in future, we shall win many, many hearts and minds for this European Union of ours. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I believe the President-in-Office of the Council has already made the point that this is a good day.
We have now seen the results from Spain, which put us all in a better position, not only as regards the referendum campaign but also by making it clear that a great nation has decided by a large majority in favour of this political project.
We also have something to show tomorrow, when you see President Bush.
Allow me also to express my thanks to you, President Barroso, for your own particular role in enabling the President of this House to take part in tomorrow’s meeting.
I should like to refer to another related point, namely our neighbourhood policy.
At the same time, such an option can bring immediate gains, as happened in the past with the European Economic Area, from which Austria, Finland and Sweden entered the European Union.
I ask the Commission to give this serious thought, because I fear that we shall otherwise become embroiled very soon in a difficult situation.
It has been made very clear this afternoon that we are providing these countries, which were victims not only of the Second World War but also of the dictatorship that followed it, with a prospect that enables them to build democracy while strengthening this European Union of ours without impairing its ability to act. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few personal observations on the Commission’s Work Programme.
Each Commissioner has done his or her best to decorate their own Christmas tree by hanging a few bits of tinsel of their own upon it.
If you had confined yourself to what was essential, the Members of this House would have been the first to say that you had forgotten this or that issue they considered more important.
Europe must defend its social and environmental models.
We all agree that Europe must carry out reforms and be more flexible in certain areas.
In its 2005 annual report, the Economic Policy Committee said that Europe needs a macroeconomic framework supportive of stability and growth and that such a framework is indispensable, but that governments will reap the full benefits of structural reforms in terms of growth and employment only in an appropriate macroeconomic environment.
The strengthening of judicial cooperation remains one of the priority measures to be taken in order to ensure that Europeans have the same rights and the same access to justice everywhere in Europe.
We call upon the Commission to maintain this commitment and to present proposals based on the principle of mutual recognition in the areas of the evaluation and use of evidence and procedural guarantees.
I also have a particular appeal to make in this matter, which is that the Commission must attach high priority in the framework of this legislative programme, as in other areas, to the implementation of its interinstitutional agreement with the Council and Parliament.
Among the reasons why things have not worked as well as they should in the past have been the lack of impact assessments of legislative proposals and the inadequate way in which the consultation of stakeholders has been conducted.
Moreover, we must not forget something that is even more important, Mr&#160;Barroso, and that is our partnership with the people of the European Union, with all of its 450 million inhabitants.
It is for them, and for no one else, that we make our policies. &#160;&#160; – In recent weeks, the Commission has taken decisions on two key themes: the strategic guidelines for its mandate and the reform of the Lisbon Strategy.
Both decisions emphasise the fact that the highest priorities for the EU, in the current circumstances, are reinvigorating economic growth and creating jobs.
For me it is simple.
Well, companies only grow and develop when there is a climate of confidence and a widespread desire to create an investment-friendly atmosphere.
I shall finish by saying that, to my mind, it is worthwhile looking into the benefits of escaping from the office environment and going out onto the street, and, as Members of the European Parliament, we should be the first to do this. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, we should welcome the fact that the European Commission intends to focus its efforts on three issues, namely economic growth, social welfare and environmental protection.
Only time will tell, however, whether and how these laudable plans will actually be put into practice.
Any kind of imbalance, in particular one favouring economic growth at the expense of social welfare and environmental protection, would pose a threat to Europe and its citizens, and in particular to the citizens of the new Member States.
There are other examples of such practices, and I would therefore call on Mr&#160;Barroso to ensure that the Commission monitors the application of legislation very closely as far as the principle of non-discrimination is concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, having listened to this debate, I cannot but repeat that we need to think more like Europeans and stop engaging in national and party politics.
We need more leadership – more leadership from political circles, more leadership from those in government and more leadership from the Commission.
All of us are here to make the four freedoms a reality in law and in fact, and everything that serves this purpose is good politics.
We must reflect on what we have enshrined in the Constitution.
In so doing, we are clearly stating that the market is not an end in itself but a means to an end, that we need an efficient market which fulfils its social and environmental responsibilities.
We do not need any more short-sighted populism; what we want is greater responsibility for the future.
Define the benefits in terms of growth, competition and employment.
Yet if we want Europe to be effective, if we want Europe to be closer to its citizens and if we wish to achieve the objectives, then we must act much more effectively than hitherto ourselves.
An important part of the European Union’s effectiveness is its administrative systems, its public administration.
So all of us together, not just those of us here in the European Parliament, but also our electorates, justifiably expect the new Commission to find, within the framework of the priority tasks you have set out, the energy, time and will to deal with its own administrative system, with its own bureaucracy.
In this regard I anticipate very clear answers.
I would do so whether the person in question was Mr&#160;Schulz or the chairman of any group or party, and I would do so regardless of whether that person was a Socialist, a Green, a Catholic or an adherent of any other political movement or religion.
I believe that Mr&#160;Schulz will acknowledge that this is the case, and indeed I can see him nodding in agreement.
I should also like to remind Members from the ten new Member States, and not only those from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but also those who are Socialists, Greens, Communists or non-attached Members, that it is thanks to the Pope and his actions that we are able to discuss a common Europe together today.
If Members are not aware of this fact, or have forgotten it, I should like to remind them most strongly of it, and encourage them to vote in favour of this grant, which will allow the meeting to be held in an appropriate fashion and ensure it will be a great success.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, allow me to congratulate Mr Barroso, the President of the Commission, on the legislative programme of the Commission and on the programme he has presented.
Europe today has grown to consist of 25 Member States, and I am one of those Members who come from one of the countries most recently added to it by enlargement.
A strong economy can be created by closer cooperation between the Member States, and this is where I would like to congratulate the Commission on the implementation of a new economic strategy that aims to create over six million jobs.
The Lisbon Strategy must be an absolute priority for all of us who work in the European institutions.
I have great respect for all the federalists, all the men and women who founded our great European project.
So, in reality, I criticised naïve federalism as contrasted with what I might consider to be a more sophisticated and more intelligent form of federalism, that is to say, an approach that does not seek to build our European Union – an increasingly close union between all Europeans, at the expense of the legitimacy of the democratic states.
Our countries are, in fact, democratic states with democratic governments and democratic parliaments.
I have had the honour of working in Geneva with a great federalist, Denis de Rougemont, who sometimes blamed the state for all evils, as if the state were not also a democratic institution.
I am in favour of an increasingly strong Union, but that strengthening should not jeopardise the legitimacy of the democratic states.
The second issue relates to security and justice.
We need to offer a practical response to people’s demands in terms of security.
That is why, in 2005, we are, in particular, going to present Parliament with the action plan aimed at implementing the strategy adopted in The Hague, in the form of proposals concerning the protection of the victims of organised crime, women and children in particular.
I would draw your attention to the fact that this is a new dimension to the action described in our programme: placing more emphasis on the protection of children.
Proposals can thus be presented with a view to strengthening mutual recognition and trust between the judicial authorities, and a proposal concerning a European strategy in relation to legal immigration and to the fight against people traffickers can be drawn up.
In certain cases, precisely because we are a Union, we need a degree of harmonisation or more legislation, sometimes in order to harmonise or simplify the existing legislation.
This is why – and I say this partly in response to Mr&#160;Goebbels – we have of course had to draw up a list of our main objectives.
You would no doubt criticise us if I only presented four or five priorities.
The political line is one dimension and, in this regard, we are talking about very clear and well-focussed priorities, defined when we presented the strategic objectives.
With regard to another specific question, namely climate change, I would like very much to say to Mrs Beer, who I am sure will put this question to President Bush tomorrow, that one of the subjects on our agenda is the possibility of cooperation with the Americans, partly in a post-Kyoto spirit.
With regard, now, to the issue of the Directive on Services, I would very much like to say, in response specifically to Mr&#160;Swoboda, that I agree with your concerns about services of general interest.
I have already said this on many occasions: services of general interest, or certain public services, are part of what might be called the tradition, or organisational culture, of certain states.
This is an objective we cannot abandon and on which, furthermore, there is consensus until 2010, but it must be pursued in a balanced manner.
The proposals I have put forward in this House are the result of a consensus.
The Lisbon Agenda was presented to the Commission by myself and Vice-President Verheugen, who is a member of your political grouping.
The programme I have just presented today has been presented by myself and Vice-President Wallström, who is also a member of your political grouping.
If it has been possible for the Commission to take all these decisions unanimously, although there may have been expressed differences; if Christian Democrats, Socialists, Liberals and Independents have reached a consensus, why might we not also achieve that here in the European Parliament and unite around an ambitious programme of reform for this Europe of ours, which takes account of social and environmental concerns?
On the contrary, we believe that the environment contributes to growth and increased competitiveness in Europe.
What we want is to make it clear that the status quo is no longer an option today, that Europe has serious competitiveness problems when compared to other regions of the world and that we intend to put this right by adapting and renewing our social model.
That is why the Commission has a President who wants reform, but also Socialist, Liberal, Christian Democrat and Independent members who all also want this reform to be carried out in a spirit of balance and proportion.
I would therefore like to ask the PSE Group not to set itself up in opposition to the Commission: on the contrary, I would ask it to cooperate, though not in an uncritical way, with us, just as all the other groups do.
Mrs Grossetête, who is a member of the largest political grouping in the European Parliament, has also expressed to us certain demands and requirements, and I thank her for that.
I believe it would be highly inappropriate, at a time like this when very important referendums are taking place, for people to look at Europe and see, on the one hand, the Commission and, on the other, a number of large groups such as your great European Socialist grouping, and thus to be presented with an image of division.
I have already addressed this very sincere appeal to some of you personally and I would like to repeat it.
We should not abandon our ideas, of course, since we are all very attached to them, but it is possible to look beyond these ideas and reach a dynamic consensus in favour of the reforms Europe needs.
The last issue relates to the criticism you expressed, Mr&#160;Schultz, of the statement I made about my country.
What would have been a real political event in my country is if I had kept quiet!
I would very much like to say that I am completely opposed to this idea, since our code of conduct stipulates that the members of the Commission may participate in an election campaign if they request authorisation to do so from the President of the Commission.
The question you raised is therefore about what happens in the case of the President of the Commission.
This is clearly laid down in the Treaty, Article 217 of which states, and I shall read it in English: The members of the Commission shall carry out duties devolved upon them by the President under his authority.
I would draw the attention of all the political families to the fact that we, the European Parliament and the Commission, must strengthen each other on a mutual basis.
The debate is closed.
Through our social agenda we must continue to fight exclusion and poverty; we must help more people find work in a dynamic and growing economy; and we must change attitudes and behaviour, supporting our goal of sustainable development by taking ambitious action.
Our unique model of cooperation is inspiring regional cooperation, for example the development of the African Union.
We must deliver effective action at a global level, but we must also drum up wide support for our proposed action among countries and civil society.
Both Porto Alegre and Davos stand as symbols of one real benefit of globalisation: our ability to engage in continued dialogue at an international level with regard to the type of society we want.
This possibility is giving more people a voice in shaping our future.
Let me elaborate on the events in Davos and Porto Alegre.
Fortunately, in Davos I was able to talk about Porto&#160;Alegre in detail with President Lula of Brazil, a good friend of mine.
Our discussions gave me a sense of the mood in Porto Alegre.
Davos was not a hotbed of neo-liberalism, nor was Porto Alegre simply an anti-Davos demonstration.
Among other issues, the discussions focused on the fight against poverty, the situation in Africa, the role of trade and economic dynamism in spreading prosperity and opportunity, the need for a sustainable path for global development and the challenges of global security.
First, we should not deny that, while the agenda are converging, the two audiences are looking at the issues involved from different angles.
First, we must act together to solve global problems ranging from poverty and development to climate change.
I was proud to see that European leaders such as Jacques Chirac, Tony Blair and Gerhard Schröder were ready to set the pace.
They took the initiative to propose some important ideas.
Second, we need to light the flame of economic dynamism to stimulate reform around the world, not as a goal in itself, but as the best means of offering more people the chance of a decent life.
European leadership is required to face the challenges arising from globalisation.
Finally, Europe can do a lot, but we can certainly achieve more if we are able to act together with other partners to address global challenges.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must find the means to ensure that the commitment of the participants in the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum bears fruit.
We, the European Union, are the largest provider of international aid and, as the tsunami tragedy has demonstrated, we are prepared to show solidarity.
We must continue to promote the development of a world order founded upon the rule of law, but that rule of law must not just serve the interests of the rich western countries.
This is why we are expressing our commitment to the United Nations, our determination to seek creative international solutions in order to improve prospects in Africa –&#160;as I have said, Africa will be our priority&#160;– and our desire to promote the quick completion of the Doha development round.
Finally, the European Union must mobilise a wide range of political instruments aimed at improving the fate of our neighbours in the world.
We must, however, also focus our attention on the priorities and achieve concrete results.
These objectives will be reflected in the initiatives we take, such as reviewing the European Union's approaches to sustainable development and preparing the review of the Millennium development objectives.
They are objectives that already form an integral part of the European Union's partnership for growth and employment, which I launched at the beginning of this month.
The European Union is a world player.
Europe has a very specific contribution to make.
We must ensure that the ideas of peace and democracy and the principles of the market economy are disseminated throughout the world: the principles of open societies.
We are facing challenges from China, India, Brazil and other countries.
In that context I want to say that we agree that the World Economic Forum was a tremendous success, as global representatives from governments, businesses and civil society managed to agree on a coherent set of principles for action: matching global trade with sustainable development.
We in the European Parliament respect diversity and want to hear the views of world social experts as part of our commitment to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
I believe that it is a sign of recognition by this House of the World Social Forum which, when it was created in 2001, was portrayed by many as an ineffective gathering for challenging globalisation.
In reality, social forums and the movements that promote them have revolutionised the debate on globalisation.
I believe that one of the other important contributions of the social forums has been to root the challenge to liberal globalisation, to the economic and social injustices it creates and to its often destructive consequences for the ecological balance of the planet, not in the false belief that national or sovereigntist solutions had to be found, and not in a rejection of the very idea of globalisation, but in the view that globalisation and its rules and institutions must be transformed, in order to allow for a different kind of globalisation, a globalisation of solidarity, of democratic triumphs and of human rights, a globalisation that guarantees the right of all peoples to development, justice and peace.
For the European Union, this new world civil society is a source of support, because its aspirations coincide with objectives that the Union has established for itself at international level.
So we must demonstrate that Europe can make a difference, as you have said.
We must demonstrate –&#160;and we are doing so in certain fields, such as with the Kyoto Protocol, which you have mentioned&#160;– that we really are able to transform international policies.
I am pleased about that, and many Member States have signed the New York declaration of September&#160;2004, but unfortunately the reticence of some nations is being used as an excuse not to take any decision.
It could be used in the fight against AIDS, because a recent Council document indicates that, if nothing is done between now and 2010, a fifth of the active population in five of the developing countries most affected is going to disappear.
Take the initiative, Mr President of the Commission.
The global elite from the business, political and academic communities made it clear that they are fully aware of their responsibility for the problems in the world and that they are willing to act.
What makes the Davos meeting so important and so useful is that it brings these very people together.
It may have surprised the critics to learn that the main topics in Davos were Africa, problems relating to the worldwide growth of poverty, how to shape the globalisation process in such a way that everyone derives some benefit from it and how to bring about fair world trade.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe are convinced that free trade is the best development aid.
Free trade is what helps countries that want to develop, and free trade is also what motivates developing countries to become increasingly competitive.
In particular, it should put free trade on the agenda, especially in areas where trade barriers still exist, namely areas covered by its agricultural policy.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe are also vehemently opposed to the introduction of any global tax on financial transactions.
Making ourselves poorer in this way would not help the poor to become richer.
No, the real way to create solidarity is through a worldwide change in people’s perceptions and, quite simply, through willingness to adopt other measures of assistance.
On the one hand, the World Social Forum was an enormous success this year – 155&#160;000&#160;participants, 135&#160;countries; that is considerable&#160;– and it has taken on a new tone since, on a certain number of issues – social, environmental, economic, financial&#160;– many networks have continued to be put in place and have done extremely serious work, in an extremely concrete manner, in order, specifically, to produce a number of proposals which have yet to be developed, but which are very real.
In reality, the World Social Forum has two aims.
Firstly, to explain that free trade cannot provide a response to the increasing social inequalities.
The second aim is to propose an alternative to the current development model and reject the presentation of world free trade as a panacea and a miracle cure for everything.
Finally, whether we are talking about Porto Alegre or Davos, what we need is practical action.
This sort of behaviour is quite typical of the World Economic Forum in Davos, and, indeed, the phrase I would use to describe this Forum was coined by the well-known academic, Elmar Altvater; he described it as a big show, and, unfortunately, a rather unproductive one.
It would be no exaggeration to say that it is increasingly the critics of the World Economic Forum who are setting its agenda; these critics met at the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, where 150&#160;000 people held debates and protested against neo-liberal and neo-imperial policies.
The Social Forum movement is of crucial importance in terms of opposition to both globalisation and war.
The World Social Forum saw a large number of very pragmatic debates held on issues ranging from human rights for all – not only for people in Western countries – to the protection of public property, as well as debates held in protest at cuts in social services, in protest at the war, in protest at debt – with particular reference to the question of when the debts of the countries affected by the tsunami will finally be cancelled – and in protest at poverty.
I should like to make it quite clear – and this is a point that must be stressed – that the participants of the World Social Forum levelled their criticism and protests not only at US policy, but also at the policies of the European Commission and the European Council.
By following a similar path to that of the United States – or in other words following in the wrong footsteps – the European Union is losing ever more credibility in these circles.
Mr Barroso, you said that the EU is a global player, but the key question that needs to be asked is what kind of a global player it is.
We support the counter-recruitment campaign and demand political asylum for deserters.’ The message could not be clearer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, globalisation would, in an ideal world, be the key to greater competitiveness, growth and improved living conditions.
If action is to be effective, principles must be thought through with crystalline clarity.
On a more positive note again, both the World Social Forum and the World Economic Forum are important platforms for inspiring debates.
I therefore believe it to be necessary that both the President of the European Parliament and representatives from our specialist committees should participate in these forums in future.
More than ever before, global elites need representatives of the people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was dismayed by President Barroso's contribution at the end of the debate on the presidency's programme – particularly his defence of his intervention in Portuguese politics.
Mr Barroso, you are no longer a Portuguese politician: you are a European politician, selected by this Parliament and by the Council of all of the Member States to represent Europe.
If you cannot see the role of the Commission as a body that can transcend national politics and parties in a way that will give a lead to the hope expressed in the World Social Forum, then we are wasting our time here.
Two fora have been held, an economic forum in the wealthy city of Davos, and a social forum in the poor city of Porto Alegre.
I therefore believe that in future, instead of two global initiatives competing with each other, there should be a single economic and social world forum.
This is where the European Union, and in particular the European Parliament and the European Commission, can play a role by pushing for such a forum in the future.
At the same time, 20 Heads of State and 70 ministers met in Davos.
We must stop demanding the liberalisation of water and other sensitive sectors in return for countries’ being well treated.
President Barroso, when you meet President Bush and the EU Heads of Government, you can remind them of their 30 year-old promise to give 0.7% in aid.
That aid would not even be needed if more of the profits from production in the developing countries were to stay in those countries.
It is precisely that joy and that spirit of cooperation, without hierarchical structures, which exist between everyone in the World Social Forum, that offer hope for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is an unfortunate fact that what both our first debate today and the one we are now holding have in common is that they appear to be dominated by confrontation rather than cooperation.
I would like to see the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum merge, thus enabling us to talk to each other, rather than about each other.
Although you said, Mr President of the Commission, that the EU is a global player, I do believe that we have yet to become a global player rather than a global payer.
Tomorrow will be an important step in this process, and I wish you the best of luck in this respect.
Our understanding of fundamental freedoms and human rights, our rejection of the death penalty, of child labour and of discrimination of any kind, our concept of what it means to be human; all these things know no borders, whether these be borders of countries or of continents, and it is in this sense that we also bear responsibility for what happens in the rest of the world.
I therefore believe that we should speak up in favour of multilateralism, that we should support the initiative for a global Marshall Plan and that the EU should hold a UN conference, and that this House should call on churches throughout the world to convene an international ecumenical conference and to agree common principles of action.
I believe that the European model of an environmentally friendly social market economy could become a worldwide hallmark of the EU, and that this would allow us to help change the unfair rules that currently govern the global economy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the World Social Forum was originally initiated as a counterpoint to the World Economic Forum in Davos with the intention of trying to force social issues onto the globalisation agenda.
These two institutions stand accused of imposing neo-conservative economic fundamentalism on the poorest countries in the world.
The two latest much-lauded success stories are India and China, neither of which has followed their prescriptions.
It is the G8 industrialised countries that make decisions, often led by their own self-serving agenda.
The World Bank is including poverty reduction programmes in its plans, and is expressing concern about countries such as Tanzania which spend more on debt servicing than either health or education.
China and India can force these issues onto the agenda and the fact that the European Union has more votes in the IMF than the United States suggests that the World Social Forum slogan 'Another world is possible' is achievable: with sufficient willpower and political commitment.
It is for the NGOs and civic society to give Europe's politicians the necessary backbone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whether gathered against the backdrop of the Swiss mountains or the Brazilian coast, I am convinced that all participants in the Davos and Porto Alegre conferences were united in the one goal of tackling poverty and economic development.
Economic growth is the cornerstone of development in developing countries, whether we are dealing with climate change or guaranteeing good education.
Finally, I am surprised at those who promote unconditional debt cancellation for the developing countries.
My group finds it simply unacceptable that this should be done without conditions being imposed.
It also allows us to pursue a more environmentally-friendly policy as a result.
I find your involvement very valid and I only regret that it did not benefit your Party more. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I had the honour of participating in the meeting of the World Economic Forum as part of the Young Global Leaders programme.
This was a seminar in which 700 decision-makers at Davos set priorities for the world’s problems using Gallup polls, and discussed the challenges they presented.
Global responsibility has progressed a great deal when leading businessmen say that to eliminate poverty people have to go beyond their normal way of thinking, extend the benefits of globalisation to the poorest regions and create global leadership to combat climate change.
The World Economic Forum has also proposed concrete action and a timetable to respond to the challenges.
We give you in the Commission our full support in this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commission President, ladies and gentlemen, some of us were in Porto Alegre a few days ago, either as part of our national responsibilities or, in my opinion more importantly, as part of the World Parliamentary Forum.
I would therefore firstly like to thank my fellow Members who were in Porto Alegre, and in particular my colleague Harlem Désir, for the work they have done over many years to enable Europe to take part in this large-scale civic meeting.
Neither the World Social Forum nor the World Economic Forum in Davos, however, is a political actor that can, on its own, turn demands into political decisions.
That is why a body like the European Parliament is duty-bound to pass on and lend powerful support to a number of initiatives, such as cancelling the debt of poor countries, increasing and improving public development aid, instituting a global tax, reforming international trade rules, combating tax evasion and tax havens and defending public services.
It is therefore down to us to keep the promises made by others a long time ago, by supporting these initiatives and this global anti-poverty campaign in order to emphasise and demonstrate our desire for a better distribution of wealth, in a democratic and peaceful world.
Politicians have let people down in the past.
At first it appeared that there were two extreme positions: one consisting of seeing only the negative side of globalisation and the other, initially expressed in Porto Alegre, something of an all-out rejection of globalisation.
Today’s globalisation has much more to do with the trends of international trade and, in particular, the technological revolution, which no government really controls.
Consequently, instead of just protesting against globalisation, many of these actors and protagonists have chosen, rightly in my view, to seek an alternative form of globalisation, and to try to incorporate some of their concerns into globalisation.
That is our position.
I am in favour of cohesion and the Commission is in favour of cohesion – economic, social and territorial – and I therefore appeal to you today, ladies and gentlemen, to help me and to help the Commission ensure that all EU governments are also in favour of cohesion and ready to offer their help with, for example, the financial perspective that we have been debating, because poverty does not only affect countries of the Southern Hemisphere, it also affects Europe.
We need more advanced programmes in Europe to fight social exclusion.
Then there is the external perspective: what can the Commission and the EU do on the external stage?
In this context, two areas that I think should not be seen as mutually incompatible or contradictory are those of international trade and development aid.
Let me tell you once again that, in my conversations with the leaders of developing countries, the first request that almost all of them make is in the area of trade – they want greater access to the markets of more developed countries – and so we must also help these countries with regard to trade.
It cannot therefore be said that trade and aid are irreconcilably incompatible.
It is clear to me that we can and must do more for developing countries, in both of these areas.
Yet we can also ask more of them, because when the EU and the EU Member States give considerable amounts of aid, as we do – worldwide, the EU is the biggest donor of development aid – we also have the right to demand good governance on the part of those countries and we want to know if the money given to them is being used properly and above board and if in fact the reforms aimed at better integrating those countries into international trade are being carried out.
We therefore intend to continue to work with the Member States and with Parliament in order to set a more ambitious agenda in the area of development aid, above all by placing Africa at the forefront of our priorities, because Africa has structural problems that other regions have, to some degree, already overcome, particularly because of their more successful integration into international trade.
I should like to assure you that the Commission and I would like to see an attitude of greater decisiveness and greater commitment to the aims of a global world, a fairer global world in which the EU must play a leading role in encouraging more responsible governance of our planet’s resources and creating a fairer society on a global scale.
The debate is closed.
The first concerns the quality of criminal justice and the harmonisation of criminal legislation; the second, tabled by Mr&#160;Di&#160;Pietro, concerns a proposal regarding the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record.
That principle obviously presupposes another, that is to say the principle upheld by those working on ‘mutual recognition’: a decision by a judge in one Member State can and must be recognised by the legal system of another Member State.
That is the essential condition for establishing a European area of justice.
The rapporteur, Mr Costa, proposes creating a European mechanism for the evaluation of the quality of justice, a mechanism based on a Quality Charter for criminal justice.
I think that is an interesting idea, since we know that in other, less sensitive areas, a mechanism for parallel evaluation and for monitoring the results of measures has worked and has helped to establish the principle of mutual trust.
By the end of 2005 we intend to issue a preliminary communication on judicial training – that is, the training of judges – and then, in 2006, a communication on the evaluation of the quality of justice.
My final thought on this topic is that no mechanism for evaluating the quality of justice should bear upon or have a detrimental effect on the independence of the judiciary, either directly or indirectly.
With regard to Mr&#160;Di&#160;Pietro’s report, mutual trust, as I have already said, is clearly an essential element in the quality of justice and is vital in making the mutual recognition of decisions and procedures work properly.
It is clear, then, that the proposal for a decision on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record – a Commission proposal made last October – is a good example, in my opinion, of the real importance of applying the principle of mutual trust.
In fact, such sharing was already provided for in the 1959 Convention.
In particular, as well as listening, I would ask you to state what you will do if a Member State shows that it has no confidence in the courts so that, for instance, there is a Member State which has not yet implemented the European arrest warrant.
In accordance with the Hague Programme, as is already the case with Tampere, the cornerstone in building the area of freedom, security and justice is mutual recognition, as Mr Frattini has just reminded us.
Accordingly, our evaluation will be the result of a broad range of views on the quality of criminal justice in each of the Member States.
The Charter should be created on the basis of the interpretation of the right to a judge in the European Declaration of Human Rights, on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and on the basis of both United Nations and Council of Europe recommendations.
This Quality Charter must act as an objective reference framework enabling evaluation of the different criminal justice systems in the different Member States.
In this way, we can spread best practice, we can have benchmarking exercises and we can ensure that all European citizens, wherever they may be in EU territory, enjoy high standards of quality.
We therefore propose four key areas: firstly, the harmonisation of standards relating to the gathering and assessment of key evidence, an issue that the Commission has said it is already working on; secondly, harmonisation enabling sentences to be served, and ensuring that any preventative measures applied are executed; thirdly, the minimum rights of detainees in any Member State; and, finally, the consideration of further conviction in respect of acts already subject to harmonisation measures.
In the political documents of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for example the documents from the congress and other documents of our party in the European Parliament, we stress the importance of the security of people and their property; after all, we promised this to our electorate.
We are somewhat surprised, however, that the Commission only intends to establish a new computer system for data exchange between 2008 and 2010.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main concern of European citizens is that the European Union should guarantee them a high standard of living and protect their rights.
We must therefore ensure that all European citizens benefit from the same rights, the same quality of justice and the same access to justice, wherever they are in Europe.
We must therefore now adopt the necessary mechanisms to meet the new challenges now facing European judicial cooperation.
Such mechanisms and practical measures must be put in place in order to improve mutual trust in Europe's judicial systems, which is an absolute necessity.
This is because the current lack of trust constitutes a major barrier to achieving mutual recognition of current practices and to reaching an appropriate level of approximation of judicial systems.
I also join with António Costa in calling on the Commission to put forward proposals based on the principles of mutual recognition of decisions and of minimum harmonisation.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express my pleasure at the proposal to extend judicial cooperation to certain aspects of family law, which is included in the legislative programme for 2005.
I very much hope that we will continue working along these lines. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Costa, on his report and on the excellent conclusions that he set out, which, by the way, have been approved almost unanimously by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
It bears witness to our desire to ensure a higher quality of justice for all European citizens, I would even say for anyone within the territory of the European Union, thanks in particular to the Quality Charter for criminal justice and to the proposed evaluation system.
Mutual recognition of decisions taken in criminal matters in the various Member States assumes that all the States have confidence in each other’s judicial systems.
If we manage to implement these recommendations, we shall genuinely succeed in making the European Union a State under the rule of law.
With regard to Mr Di Pietro's excellent report, I completely agree with the analysis and proposals that it contains, but I would like to stress the fact that the proposal put forward is modest, is limited to the current legal framework, which dates back to 1959, and therefore does not meet the need for the provision of information regarding criminal records.
I think there was a desire to respond to the emotions aroused by the Fourniret case.
The small step we have taken does not release us from moving rapidly on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this evening, we are once again discussing the magic word ‘mutual recognition’ as the cornerstone of European judicial cooperation.
It does, of course, presuppose that the Member States work together effectively, that they can look beyond their own borders and know how things are done elsewhere, that they are also agreed on a number of basic standards, for example in terms of law of criminal procedure and, above all, build on the trust in each other and on the reasons why they can indeed trust in each other.
There is a host of new proposals in the making, and they all constitute small steps forward, on paper anyway, for in my experience, Member States very often put the brakes on.
We all tend to be interested only in our own patch, and others have to respect the decisions that are made about it.
I can tell you that my group is not afraid of looking further afield, although we are a little hesitant about this enormous host of new rules, for such quantities often affect transparency, the defences of people who are forever being faced with changes, and also the clarity of what we are doing here.
I hope that we can all join forces in a major effort, including a financial injection, in order to ensure that everyone is well-informed about this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, both reports are expressions of the well-known ambition to extend the power of the EU institutions at the expense both of the Member States and ultimately, therefore, of democracy Of Mr&#160;Di Pietro’s report, I can only say that it concerns a matter belonging within the remit of the Council of Europe and not of the EU.
The report’s single ambition is to cultivate mutual trust in the principle of mutual recognition of the other Member States’ legal decisions.
The report’s second objective is to force the Member States to punish specific acts, as per Article&#160;271 of the Constitution.
If reality had had a role to play and if the criminologists had been asked, a clear answer would have been received.
The decision, concerning the activities of some people charged with terrorism (whose names were placed on both the United Nations and the European Union lists), makes a strange distinction, invented by the judge herself, between terrorists and guerrillas.
We are faced with Community laws on terrorism that have been stripped of meaning.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, when debates on accession to the European Union were held in the new Member States, including my country, Poland, the key arguments we put forward related not only to economic growth and national security, but also to personal security.
This issue is all the more important because crime is rising throughout Europe, unfortunately also in the new Member States, and radical measures must be taken to stem this constant rise.
It should not be forgotten, however, that the harmonisation of criminal law, or indeed of any other kind of law, must not merely mean that everyone is brought down to the same level, or that differences are eradicated to the detriment of national traditions, customs and needs.
Most importantly, countries should not have to bring their legislation into line with laws and customs in other countries where criminals are treated with particular care, where they are gradually transformed into victims while the victims are forgotten, and where criminals can in fact expect greater protection than victims.
It must not result in criminals enjoying greater rights than victims, even though this is something that is unfortunately becoming increasingly common in modern legislation and judicial practice.
I have finished, and there is no need for you to use your gavel. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the explanatory note to its proposal, the Commission states that recent tragic paedophile cases have brought to light major dysfunctions in the exchange of information about convictions among the Member States.
Commissioner Frattini mentioned the Fourniret case a moment ago.
Moreover, the proposal is inadequate and does not offer an answer to a large number of problems.
Once this House has voted on the present proposal, we must certainly not create the impression that the problems relating to the exchange of information have been resolved.
In other words, these measures will enable Fourniret, whom I have already mentioned, to slip through the net once again. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, both the Tampere Programme, and later the Hague Programme, identified the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal cases as one of the European Union’s goals in the field of criminal law.
It is for this reason that my political group welcomes the Costa report, which contains recommendations to the European Commission relating to the establishment of a quality charter for criminal justice, as the fundamental rights granted to defendants, victims and barristers by the proposed charter may at the same time be used as criteria for a mutual assessment of the quality of justice.
Although a specific legal basis for such an assessment will not be provided until the Constitutional Treaty is in force, I believe that a general legal basis can already be found in the Treaty of Maastricht.
In my opinion, it would therefore be a good idea for the European Commission to comply with the report’s recommendations by starting to develop the criteria and methods to be used in carrying out such assessments.
This task will be complicated somewhat by the fact that allowance must be made for the varying legal systems which are in place in the different Member States and which are based on different legal traditions and cultures, as well as for the different judicial systems.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, criminal justice in Europe needs to be independent but not beyond evaluation and beyond examination.
European citizens need to have confidence in the criminal justice system, they need to be confident that their fundamental rights will be respected, they need to be confident that transparency and quality will be present in any court in the European Union.
We recently had a very bad experience in Greece: the discovery of bribery and corruption in the judicial system.
As other countries in Europe which have faced similar corruption in their judicial system know, this is very, very difficult.
In view of the extensive range of the provisions in the Constitutional Treaty for Europe regarding the convergence of national legislations in the area of criminal, material and procedural law, we may conclude that the plan for a single criminal law area is taking on an increasingly clear outline.
Setting it down in the Constitutional Treaty is the result of legislative development since 1990, and not its beginning, and it relies in particular on the principle of mutual trust.
If we were not attentive to the balance between these two elements, criminal law would be effectively unified, but it would not necessarily be democratically legitimised.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have no difficulty with the sensible exchange of information about criminal convictions between Member States, but only the politically blind could fail to recognise the proposals in the Costa report as part of the harmonisation process that is under way in the criminal justice system across Europe.
That is not serving the interests of the British nation in my view and therefore I will oppose that report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes the case that the Commission, the Council or Parliament – or two of these institutions, or all three of them – are too many steps ahead of the public or a particular group; in such cases we act with too much haste and too much ambition, and are then forced to carry the weary upon our shoulders.
Commissioner, it is not merely that we are struggling to keep up with the real nature of crime today, given that for many years now organised crime has no longer been the only kind of crime that crosses borders; we are also struggling to keep up with individual crime.
Despite the numerous fears that have been expressed, this would not mean any reduction in the level of data protection; after all, information relating to certain types of specialised crime committed in Kehl is just as important in Offenburg as in Strasbourg.
The conclusion that should be drawn from this report is that everyone should state clearly whether they want genuine improvements to be made or not, and that in any case software problems should not be used as a smokescreen. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to add anything to the reports by Mr&#160;Di&#160;Pietro and Mr&#160;Costa, with which I am in absolute agreement.
Everyone knows that only a strengthening of judicial cooperation can make a significant contribution to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, and that implies mutual recognition of judicial decisions, exchange of information and harmonisation of guarantees relating to legal procedure.
Your mandate, therefore, in our opinion, also consists in standing up to the Council and making sure that all the European institutions firmly adhere to that objective.
In every Member State, every prison and every detention centre, there are nonetheless people who feel they were given unfair trials due to the fact that they did not know the language, that the evidence was not evaluated correctly or that they were brutally treated by the police or while they were in custody.
If people are to dare to make use of the four freedoms, we must also have rules governing the security not only of goods and capital but also of individuals.
In case there is any doubt – and I am happy to say this again – I wish to compliment Mr Costa on his excellent report, which states that European citizens must be guaranteed the right to justice, both by the Union, whereby they are guaranteed comparable treatment, regardless of the Member State in which they happen to be, and by the Member States, depending on their respective powers, whilst ensuring that the differences between the various judicial systems do not stand in the way of attaining high quality justice and protection in the area of freedom, security and justice.
I agree with the rapporteur that mutual trust must be strengthened in order that there can be mutual recognition of judicial decisions, thereby contributing towards the gradual development of a European judicial culture.
I endorse the idea of adopting a European Criminal Justice Charter, which would be the basis for evaluating how well the judicial systems in the Union work.
In other words, the current system of exchanging criminal record information is not effective.
It is essential that a computerised system be created for Member States to exchange information, offering quick access to this kind of information throughout EU territory, and I welcome Mr Frattini’s new ideas on the subject. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an important report because it emphasises two key areas which have not been emphasised enough previously.
If anyone in this House doubts this issue, they should look at the 'Copenhagen criteria'.
Nor should any of the existing 15 Member States be complacent that they have all the right answers and the highest quality of justice.
The Quality Charter for Criminal Justice in Europe should not be something that Member States fear.
However, the Commissioner's attention should be drawn to the fact that the issues addressed in the reports by both Mr Di Pietro and Mr Costa may be a step in the right direction but they cannot be seen as a daring step.
Mr&#160;Di&#160;Pietro has improved the proposal, but I should like to emphasise three points.
Secondly, the European Data Protection Supervisor must express his or her opinions on sensitive issues.
We have been given a Commissioner who, I know, listens and who understands these issues.
The criminal justice issue therefore goes to the moral core of European political culture.
It is therefore of pressing importance that we pursue an active policy aimed at enhancing the quality of criminal justice and at harmonising Member State legislation.
Criminal law is in fact material constitutional law and synthesises all fundamental constitutional values.
The absence of harmonisation in this area will imply non-compliance with the principle of equality among citizens, and, by extension, non-compliance with the Constitution.
The European Constitution’s system of values also implies that the harmonisation of legislation must cut across the entire criminal justice system.
By the end of April, the Commission will present a communication on mutual recognition and the development of the principle of mutual trust.
In that respect, I would also add that by the end of the year we will be putting out a Green Paper on the presumption of innocence: many Members of this Parliament have highlighted the need to reconcile the right to safety, and hence the right to have crime brought under control, with legal guarantees for the accused.
In early 2006 we will be publishing a second Green Paper dealing with the gathering of evidence, which will certainly be followed by more complete initiatives on the implementation of alternative sentences as well as an interesting – and, I hope, extremely useful – initiative: a framework decision, which we expect to draw up during 2005, on alternative control measures to temporary custody.
It is an opportunity for Parliament to place on record, as we should, our enormous respect for the outgoing Commissioner, Mario Monti, who was the Competition Commissioner at the time of this report.
It is inevitable that the report itself and Parliament's response draws upon the major programme for the reorganisation of competition policy for which Mr Monti has received so much praise.
The aim was to do away with a system that was in itself unnecessarily bureaucratic so as to redirect the resources of the Commission to cracking down properly on hard-core cartels.
I know our new Commissioner also shares this view in relation to the legacy of Mr Monti, because only recently she has been speaking at Bocconi University and making very similar remarks about Mr Monti's contribution.
It is also inevitable that we would direct our attention not just to this programme of work and the lessons to be learned from it, but also to the way in which that programme of work now affects efforts to improve Europe's competitiveness.
The purpose here is to act in the interests of consumers to increase Europe's competitiveness and develop growth and jobs.
The Commissioner has been very active in the course of the last month.
In our report we refer to this as an area where we are seeking further action on the part of the Commission.
We want to ensure that the whole way in which business operates within Europe is one that encourages free and fair competition and consequently enhances the competitiveness of Europe.
I welcome the support of the European Parliament, and I acknowledge the support you have given in the past to the European Commission, and especially to Mr Monti, as you rightly emphasise.
There is no doubt that I have inherited a great legacy from Mr Monti.
Under the leadership of President Barroso, the European Commission has recently proposed a new partnership for growth and jobs.
If we are to deliver on the fundamental social and environmental objectives which are at the heart of our European values, then economic growth is a must.
There are three ways competition policy can contribute to partnership.
I also wish to express my appreciation of Mrs&#160;Kroes’s contribution and emphasise that I am among those who look forward with high hopes to possible further contributions of hers.
Such competition releases considerable dynamism and energy into European society, and not only where development, growth and new jobs are concerned.
I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner to try also to include this dimension of the effects of competition in future competition reports.
That is what the internal market needs to be for, and it is with this in mind that competition should be developed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner Kroes, Mr Evans’s draft report did not give rise to any fundamental disagreements.
I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the spirit of cooperation that led to consensus on almost all of the amendments that I tabled as shadow rapporteur and on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I feel that liberalisation is not an end in itself.
Liberalisation must take place within a framework that guarantees the status of gas and electricity as a public good.
If the supremacy of the market means that the citizens will, on a long-term basis, be prevented from enjoying their fundamental rights ... &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the title, which refers to state aid for public services, is a misnomer, because this is aid for companies.
Unfortunately, too often competitiveness in the EU is too often taken to mean that every nation and every company has to suffer under the same regulatory burden or the same 'level playing field'.
Dare I extend Mr Hökmark's remarks and suggest that if the Commission is truly interested in promoting competition it should include regulatory competition.
Give nations some freedom to determine their own agricultural policies and to decide for themselves how they want to ensure their own health and safety.
Mr Barroso has made some cautious remarks about easing regulation but I fear it is unlikely to occur.
The basis for measures relating to the market for goods and services is coherent action in the field of competition policy.
The report on 2003 shows that good progress has been made in this respect, but that shortcomings remain.
In a number of Member States, the markets for certain services have been taken over by professional associations or organisations, which create obstacles restricting competitiveness.
The directive must also set out the conditions according to which financial assistance may be granted for public services or production, to ensure that such assistance does not end up amounting to long-term subsidies, as this would damage competitiveness.
Finally, there should be provisions allowing public services at town or commune level to be exempt from all requirements relating to competitiveness, provided that this would mean better solutions for local problems.
I wish you the best of luck in ensuring that the decisions you take over coming months stand up in court.
I also hope that you will be able to follow the previous Commission’s example and to take decisions that are in the public’s interest, as trust and authority are crucial as far as competition policy is concerned.
I should like at this point to draw your attention to the fact that, because of the cultural peculiarity of the audiovisual sector, which is such that this sector cannot be treated as a normal industry, the Commission must clarify the role which the main shareholders play on the basis of competition policy.
Commissioner, given that the Commission emphasises that competition rules, as you state in your report, are the rules on which the resolution of the problems which derive from the creation or the strengthening of the dominant position on the market will be based in order to address priority agreements, will a policy be approved under which restrictions on the basic shareholder act as a check on the competition policy of the mass media?
Concerning competition in technology transfer, there is indeed a way of developing this within our competition policy.
Regarding Mr Rutowicz's question about a market definition in merger cases, the Commission welcomes, and indeed promotes greater integration of markets.
As markets integrate, the relevant anti-trust markets will also become wider.
However, for the time being many markets remain national or regional and this must be reflected in competition analysis, including market definition, so that competition and consumers do not suffer.
Mrs Elisa Ferreira asked about gas and electricity liberalisation.
We are investigating the conduct of incumbents in certain markets and plan to carry out sector inquiries.
I could not agree more about having a positive attitude towards liberalisation.
Mr Rutowicz made a couple of remarks with regard to state aid reform.
With better focus and a better use of tax-payers' money we can concentrate aid where it really generates the greatest value; where it contributes to cohesion; where it boosts innovation, research and development, and risk capital so that small- and medium-sized companies can also play a positive role as an engine of innovation in stimulating the economy.
In early spring we will have a chance to present the action plan on state aid reform.
Mrs Ferreira said that the title was misleading.
Maintaining and developing media pluralism is a basic public goal of the European Union, together with the preservation of cultural diversity and freedom of access for the Union citizen to all kinds of media platforms.
The application of competition policy instruments in the media sector is limited to addressing the underlying market structure and economic impact of media undertakings' behaviour.
Nevertheless competition policy can and does make an essential contribution to the maintenance and development of media pluralism both in traditional television and other broadcasting markets and the new media.
Mr Schwab underlined that the European Union is a global player and that therefore it is essential to look at the price, at the quality, and also at the research possibilities to fall in line with our global competitors.
This will be explained in the new paper I am preparing which will also support greater efficiency and transparency.
Again, thanks for the opportunity and thanks again to Mr&#160;Evans and all those who have been involved in the preparation of this report.
The EU Treaty contains two objectives that are important to this report.
The first one is that on the one hand, we have state aid rules which must ensure that the internal market operates effectively, and on the other hand, the Treaty also states that those rules must not hinder the proper functioning of public services.
The internal market has brought us many benefits, in the area of public services as elsewhere.
We also find that we are all very much attached to the so-called European social economic model with good public services, which has, moreover, provided us with a high level of competitiveness.
The Commission’s proposals are very welcome and I am pleased to hear that Mrs Kroes’ words do no more than underline what we have written in our report, namely that we aim to reduce state aid on the one hand, and do away with unnecessary red tape, on the other, and that we are focusing on those things that really distort the internal market, which are, after all, detrimental to our economy and also, therefore, to the foundation on which public services rest.
The second point is the definition of what we term small services of general interest.
The Commission has proposed granting those small services exemption from the obligation of prior notification for state aid and has, more or less, suggested that we use the same threshold of EUR 50 million maximum by way of annual turnover as we do for medium and small enterprises.
Although the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has, at my proposal, followed this suggestion in the first instance, I do think that we should review the practical implications in a few years’ time, because we have no idea of how many businesses, how much state aid in total, and how many applications for state aid are involved.
For years, we in this House have been waging traditional trench warfare between Left and Right about the liberalisation of public services.
I would therefore like to echo the rapporteur in this and say that we can indeed gain the experience together and submit it in a report.
Another important consideration in our Group is subsidiarity: the decision should be taken at a level as close as possible to the citizen, which is compatible with a properly functioning single market.
We are therefore pleased that Mrs&#160;in't Veld's excellent report succeeds in accommodating these two priorities.
A clear decision was achieved in committee that gives the Commission a strong steer.
We wish Mrs in't Veld well with her report. &#160;&#160; Thank you Mr President.
Let me start by congratulating Mrs in 't Veld on her report, which I see as representing another step towards the abandonment, by the members of this Union, of the attempt at squeezing everyone into one size, which, in the long run, does not fit anyone.
Currently, in order for the citizens of the island of Gozo to cross over to the main island of my country, Malta, using a 12-minute helicopter trip, the market economy requires them to pay much more than they would pay for an airline ticket for a trip between London and Brussels.
I say: then let us change the laws. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her outstanding work, as she has brought a great deal of expertise and enthusiasm to bear on an extremely complex issue, and has presented a very lucid report.
There is a need, though, for great care to be exercised when using taxpayers’ money, and it must be used only in cases where it provides consumers with genuine added value.
We are opposed to the prevention of a possible liberalisation of services of general interest by means of derogations to the directive on services, such as has been attempted by the Federal Minister for the Economy in Germany.
This has been done to give Members the opportunity to ensure that the report clearly favours public service providers, particularly in the fields of health and social housing provision.
The report affirms our belief in the importance of high-quality services of general interest that are accessible to all.
It also recognises the right of local authorities to self-government.
However, recital E contends that 'the internal market, liberalisation and compliance with the rules on competition have on the whole led to improved access to SGIs, new services with more choice, better quality and lower costs for consumers'.
This would cause problems for in-house services within public bodies such as local housing authorities and health boards.
My Group cannot accept a lack of clarity on this point.
On the contrary, we would support an approach that clearly exempts from the prior notification requirement the kinds of local services that do not affect the development of trade, and do not conflict with the interests of the European Union.
State-aid rules have frequently led to difficulties and uncertainty for local authorities and other public service providers.
I particularly agree with the comments made by the penultimate speaker, Mr&#160;Klinz of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, namely that the priority for Brussels must be greater transparency in order to resolve this problem, and that there is a risk that the smaller Member States will continue to use subsidiarity to their own advantage, either by imposing artificially high prices or by helping their friends.
I am also firmly convinced that unless the Commission speeds up the procedures for assessing internationally comparable best practice models, we run the risk of having to submit a negative final or interim report in four years’ time.
The latter increasingly resemble private broadcasters in terms of their working methods and the way they market themselves, and I believe that their activities in many fields, for example online services, mean that what we are seeing amounts to additional subsidies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, one of the main problems encountered when applying European legislation on State aid to the provision of services of general interest is legal certainty, or rather legal uncertainty.
As has already been mentioned, the ruling by the European Court of Justice on the Altmark case is the legal basis that the Commission has used to put forward its proposal for an exemption decision.
Under this proposal, compensation that only has a very minor impact on the internal market will be exempt from State aid control procedures, which will mean a great deal more legal certainty for local stakeholders.
In particular, I do not think that we can vote again as we did in committee: hospitals and social housing must be clearly integrated in the scope.
I am one of those who suggest that there should also be autonomous services within local communities, which other texts are in the process of recognising, in particular the regulation on the public service obligation in transport.
As you know, it involves comparison with the reasonable profit of a comparable undertaking at EU level.
Consequently, perhaps this fourth criterion could at some point be abandoned, even at the risk of slight overcompensation, so that your aim of simplification can finally be pursued and achieved. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish first of all to congratulate the rapporteur and to say that I welcome this initiative, which clarifies the relationship between, on the one hand, state aid and, on the other hand, the provision by Member States of compensation for the cost of services of general economic interest.
The post office network will require a public service obligation in order to remain viable, and this proposal to exempt small-scale public funding such as this from the obligation of prior notification to the Commission makes absolute sense in that it allows sufficient flexibility at national and regional level without distorting the internal market.
Indeed, as the rapporteur and the Commissioner have both said, it also cuts down on red tape. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with those who say that the Commission’s proposals are a first step and that Mrs in ‘t Veld’s report is a first step as well as a sound report.
As for the fourth criterion in the Altmark judgment, that is totally unacceptable to us and also not feasible in practical terms.
I would therefore ask for this criterion to be deleted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs in 't Veld, Commissioner, the Commission is continually telling us that it cannot put forward a framework directive on services of general interest because the issue is apparently too broad and is covered by the subsidiarity principle.
With this ‘Monti package’ and the proposal for a directive on services, however, the Commission is dealing with the issue of public services.
Unfortunately, Mr Barroso is no Manet or Renoir.
The right of this Parliament goes even further, moreover: Mrs&#160;in 't Veld's report rejects the Commission's proposal to exempt the social housing and hospital sectors from the notification requirement.
In conclusion, we are observing, following the dismantling of the great national public services, the weakening of local public services.
This weekend, the Portuguese electorate showed their displeasure at this to their former Prime Minister, Mr Barroso. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you were right in saying that there are many ladies present in our group this evening, and I know that will be to the Commissioner’s liking.
I think that the first point is the in-house provision of services, in which respect, we would like to stand by what we said in last year’s Herzog report.
The contribution this report has made to the debate is really important, so I congratulate her.
One of the remarks made this evening referred to the need for predictability for those who have to deal with public services and public service financing schemes.
The question of the efficient functioning of services of general economic interest is of great importance for the Commission, and for Parliament, the Member States and for the consumer – the European Union citizen.
When we consider the Altmark court case, it is not that difficult to make a clear decision on three of the four criteria.
Therefore, as far as the fourth criteria is concerned, having implemented this court case ruling for four years we can take our experience into account.
The Commission's draft decision seeks to reduce the notification burden as concerns small services of general economic interest.
The Treaty establishes that the efficient functioning of services of general interest is a shared responsibility between the Union and Member States.
The proposals before you today form a part of the Commission's efforts to play its role in achieving this.
The draft decision excludes small public services from the notification burden, thereby matching the thresholds set for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
This is made quite clear, and is justified by the high amounts of compensation necessitated by the nature of these public services.
I very much agree with the idea that the Commission should review the application of new rules after a certain period, and after carrying out an impact assessment.
The Commission agrees in principle, but it is up to Member States and their regional or local authorities to define public services in practice.
The Commission can only recommend that Member States consult widely on that matter.
A benchmarking exercise, especially the benchmarking of public services and services of general economic interest, would be difficult to carry out.
In its White Paper on Services of General Interest, adopted in May 2004, the Commission announced that it would adopt a text on this issue in 2005.
Mrs De Vits asked about social health and care services, and these are already covered by the draft decision.
In the light of the amount of public service compensation generally granted to care services, most should fall within the thresholds for compensation defined in the decision and should therefore benefit from the exemption from notification.
On the points raised by Mrs De Vits, the Commission supports the recommendation that tendering processes should be used wherever possible, and in most cases in which the Altmark criteria have been met there will be no state aid.
I thank Mrs in 't Veld again.
