Negotiations between the European Union and the United States with regard to visa exemptions (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on negotiations between the European Union and the United States with regard to visa exemptions.
To begin with, I should like to say that, for the European Union, visa policy is an extremely important issue and that, ever since new Member States joined the European Union, both the Commission and all the presidencies have made huge efforts so that all countries and citizens would have to meet the same conditions for entry into the United States of America, and so that each of them would be included in the visa waiver programme.
On 18 April, at its latest session, the Justice and Internal Affairs Council also voted in favour of granting the Commission a mandate, so that now the Commission too can begin with such talks.
We hope that this twin-track cooperation will be transparent.
From the data which have so far been available, it is evident that at present the United States of America will not be requesting any additional information apart from the data which passengers already voluntarily provide on flights to the United States of America when filling in the I-94 form, which is green for those who have a visa system.
That is to say, the current situation is such that, for every agreement, these principles are repeatedly raised and repeatedly negotiated at all negotiations.
The United States has noted the two-prong approach required in the case of the European Union, in which competences in that area are divided between the Community and the Member States.
To achieve that objective, the Commission has proposed a mandate for the Council that would allow it to open negotiations with the United States.
The Commission will now be opening negotiations as soon as possible.
We intend to take particular care that any agreement between the Community and the United States is based on the principle of reciprocity, on respect for fundamental rights and individual freedoms, including data protection and the right to a private life.
We have to maintain solidarity between the Member States on this whole issue.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to welcome the President of the Council and the Commissioner.
As a Group we welcome the Council's approval of a negotiating mandate which will at last enable the Commission to negotiate the inclusion of all Member States - I repeat all Member States - in the new Visa Waiver Program as amended by the US Congress last year.
We wish at the same time to express our regret that the Washington Administration decided to launch bilateral negotiations with the countries having recently acceded to the European Union: that decision cannot be endorsed on grounds of either merit or method.
On that point, we need to know what is in the implementing agreements and I really wonder why we have no information on that so far.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission very much for all its efforts to ensure equal treatment for all European Union citizens at the US border.
Despite full support for the European Commission, notably on the part of the countries that acceded to the Union in 2004 and 2007, the talks have collapsed.
The United States is to sign bilateral visa agreements with each Member State in turn, once the country concerned complies only and exclusively with the criteria of US legislation in that regard.
My country is not one of them, but I have to say that I am not at all surprised that they acted as they did.
Although Greece was one of the first 15 Member States of the EU, Greek citizens still need a visa to travel to the USA.
Let me also remind you that the bilateral visa negotiations were simply the Czech Republic's reaction to the Commission's complete lack of results in the matter of visa exemptions for the new Member States.
On the contrary, it should criticise those countries that negotiate, without scruples, with representatives of Libya or Hamas among others. (PT) Mr President, Minister Mate, Vice-President Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, on 10 March I expressed in this House my fears on this issue.
I congratulate the Council on the negotiating mandate given to the Commission on 18 April.
I call on them to keep a close watch on the initiatives of each Member State, not to hesitate in resorting to the Court of Justice of the European Communities if Community law is breached and, in particular, to keep this Parliament informed of developments in this situation and the level of solidarity, or lack thereof, demonstrated by the various Member States. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in Office of the Council, we welcome the fact that the Council has finally given the European Commission a mandate to negotiate with the United States on the inclusion in the Visa Waiver Programme of the 12 countries that were currently excluded.
Finally, I should like to point out that the SIS and VIS were set up for specific purposes and that opening up access to the data in those systems to third countries would breach the principles of purpose and proportionality.
We are thus relying on you. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few brief observations.
First of all, I welcome the efforts by the Commission President and the Member States leading to the approval of a proper negotiating mandate on 18 April.
Although the negotiating mandate lays down very clear rules on data protection, I still believe that, on this sensitive issue, only a truly transatlantic agreement, and not just the setting of 12 principles, a truly transatlantic agreement, ideally, in my view, overseen by a joint data protection authority, can meet the requirements of both parties, and ours in particular. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the European Commission for representing the interests of the new Member States in the talks with the United States on the introduction of a visa waiver programme.
Thank you. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, my voters in the Czech Republic also wonder whether the amount of personal data and information required by the US for the proclaimed fight against terrorism in order to grant a visa is acceptable.
What is important is not who manages to remove the visa for the 12 countries that still require it.
In any event six Member States, and possibly now Malta as well, have signed memoranda of understanding with the Americans.
We can only stand up to the Americans if the 27 Member States act in the same way.
Unanimity is a sine qua non for the final settlement of visa issues to the advantage of all Member States of the European Union.
My country, Greece, is one of the EU's 15 original members.
For if we really believe, Commissioner, that in the EU each Member State can do what it believes serves its interests, there is no union. (HU) Mr President, on behalf of Hungary and the other new Member States I have to object to the criticisms and accusations that have been heard here.
We hope that this year Hungary and all the other new Member States will finally enjoy the same rights, such as travel without a visa to the United States, as the old Member States do.
Let us hope that such an approach will mean that a new visa regime allowing entry to the United States for all citizens of the European Union on the same conditions will finally be agreed at the summit on 12 June.
These new Member States, together with Greece, still need visas to travel to the United States.
The United States has divided European Union citizens into two groups.
Moreover, we come from a series of efficient meetings with American representatives, the latest of them being the European Union - United States Justice and Home Affairs Troika, on 13 March.
It is just that we are confronted with an option - either to wait for the multilateral negotiations between the EU and the US to take off and get it later, or to enter bilateral negotiations with the US and get it much sooner.
I do hope, however, that the Community approach to this matter and recourse to other instruments derived from the relationship between the European Union and the United States will result in some method of resolving the problem. (SK) We welcome the European Commission's initiative and see it as a step towards making the citizens of all Member States of the European Union equal, including those who in spite of being part of the European Union for four years this May are still subject to strict US visa policy.
I would also like to stress that this is not about our governments feeling wronged: we want the fundamental principles of the Community to be respected, and equality of all citizens is one of them. (RO) Romania is one of the European Union Member States whose citizens need a visa to enter the territory of the United States.
First of all, I should like to say that it is extremely important that at the last Council held on 18 April a consensus was achieved, and that the Commission has been granted a mandate to commence with negotiations.
It is imperative that we do not confuse the two systems, ESTA and PNR.
I have delivered two reports on this matter to the relevant committees, and today I have made a presentation about current affairs, also before Parliament.
I should also like to point out the matter concerning cooperation between the Member States, the Commission and the Presidency as regards the memoranda, the further talks and implementation programmes.
Several days ago, for example, I had very open talks with Jan Langer of the Czech Republic, about these talks and how they are proceeding.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, we need to remedy a situation that is unfair.
I want to point out even so that the PNR exchange of data is governed by the 2007 agreement between the European Union and the United States.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - I welcome the presidency statement about the equal treatment of all EU citizens.
Several colleagues have shown irritation about the moves taken by some Member States to speed up reaching visa-free agreements with the USA authorities through bilateral consultations.
