Adrian Ivanţoc, Tudor Petru Popa and Alexandru Leşko spoke tearfully about the torture they endured in the Transnistrian prisons, and about the repeated abuses and violations of human rights that occurred there.
This is a serious problem mainly affecting a number of countries of the so-called old Union.
The countries concerned should have dealt with the problem long since, yet the Community's leaders are pointing the finger at the new Member States even in the case of insignificant incidents. - (ES) Mr President, on 12 August there was a collision in the Strait of Gibraltar between the New Flame cargo vessel and the Torm Gertrud oil tanker.
To date we still do not know, and I feel the European Commission should demand to know, what the sunken cargo ship is carrying: 27 000 tonnes of scrap metal, possibly hazardous, contaminated scrap.
Two weeks later, on 17 September 1939, the Soviet Union also attacked Poland pursuant to the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact.
The territory on the right bank of the Danube, in North-Western Serbia and North-Western Bulgaria, including, the area from the Ratan Mountains to the Danube, and from Moravia Valley to Timoc Valley in Serbia, and the Vidin region until Lom in Bulgaria,, is primarily populated by Romanians.
The sole Romanian church in Mălăiniţa will soon be demolished.
I hereby call upon the European institutions to urgently investigate this situation and to intervene for the Romanian minority's rights in Serbia and Bulgaria to be respected. (RO) Mr President, Article 29 of the Treaty on the European Union defines terrorism as a serious crime.
I urge you, Commissioner, and the gentleman or lady representing the Council not in attendance, to step up your efforts in this direction. (RO) Mr President, on 18October 2007, the European Commission will launch the EU Anti-Trafficking Day.
However, until now, only 18 of the 27 Member States have signed up to this Convention and only 3 Member States have ratified it.
Mr President, dear colleagues, the Romanian Government decided that 25 November 2007 would be the date for European Parliament elections.
The Romanian Government unfortunately postponed the initial date for the European Parliament elections, that is 13 May, until 25 November.
Among the current 35 Romanian MEPs, 12 are women.
After the November elections, the political parties should be able to change the gender ratio and they should designate at least 18 women in the European Parliament.
The Commission is calling for the closure of two of the three slipways at Gdansk, if the shipyard is not to be required to return the State aid it has received from the Government of Poland since 1 May 2004.
Put another way, that is GBP 114 000 per minute gross or GBP 96 000 per minute net.
That would be the prudent thing to do. (SK) The prefab blocks of flats in the V4 countries and in Bulgaria and Romania were built 40 years ago and are in need of renovation.
Under this condition, without the approval of the European Commission, a single beneficiary is not allowed to receive from the State a grant exceeding EUR 200 000 (approximately 6.8 million Slovak crowns) over a three-year period.
The average cost of renovation is 580 000 Slovak crowns for one prefab house and approximately EUR 17 000 for one flat.
In the last four years, 60 people in Europe have died in fires in hotels where no sprinklers were fitted; no one in Europe has died in a fire in a hotel where sprinklers have been fitted.
In my opinion, this House should be pleased if for once questions to the European Commission have had such a tangible effect, and I believe that we should continue our support for this initiative. - (NL) Mr President, you may know that a peaceful demonstration against the Islamisation of Europe was due to have taken place on 11 September in Brussels.
The conference was held in the European Parliament, but the European Parliament was not responsible for it.
