We have one small problem: the Council representative, Mrs Yade, cannot join us yet.
The Declaration, with the perfect simplicity of its 30 articles and the universal vision it embodies, has not aged.
The first development I would like to mention is that the European Union has made good progress in 2008 in consolidating its external policy instruments, in order to tackle discrimination and violence against women.
The Council has just adopted a new overall approach to implement Resolutions 1325 and 1820, which applies both to operations relating to the European Security and Defence Policy, and Community instruments.
This will help us to improve integration of the gender perspective, from prevention and crisis management to consolidation of peace and reconstruction.
Similarly, this year we held two promising rounds of talks in our new dialogue with the African Union.
Lastly, we decided on the practical details of five new dialogues in Latin America.
These results, however, must not blind us to the increasing difficulty the European Union has in playing its role as bridge builder, in a UN environment that is more polarised, where countries act together in blocs.
I believe that we must ensure that we enhance the linkage between our various instruments to serve our priorities, whether it be our political dialogue, our diplomatic action and the European instrument for democracy and human rights, electoral observation or even integration of the human rights aspect in our other external policies.
It would be unthinkable for the European Parliament to discuss human rights in the world today without mentioning Hu Jia.
A few hours ago, we all participated in a moving ceremony which Hu Jia himself was unable to attend, but today people throughout the whole world will hear about his work and efforts to defend the rights of AIDS sufferers and to fight for environmental protection in China.
I was in China a few weeks ago and convinced myself how right Hu Jia is to fight for environmental protection.
Today, we must also mention former Sakharov Prize winners: San Suu Kyi from Burma, Oswaldo Paya and Damas de Blanco.
We are debating the 2008 Annual Report on Human Rights in the World.
On behalf of us all, I would like to urge all European Union institutions to work together in harmony to defend human rights in the world.
The only response to these demands and criticisms lies in there being consistency between the EU's foreign and domestic policies in the area of human rights.
We cannot have credibility around the world if the measures we adopt in the management of immigration, in particular, and in our policies in response to the tragic events caused by terrorism, are not exemplary in terms of human rights.
I see this as a highly significant political initiative, to be praised all the more for the fact that the support of 60 states has already been secured.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, it is a real shame to hold this debate in the Council's absence, just as it is extremely regrettable - since it is not 15 minutes late, but three and a quarter hours late - to have awarded this Sakharov Prize without the Council being here with us today, together with the European Commission.
Today, this network is formed in this 20th anniversary declaration and many proposals are now on the table, including a Sakharov Prize office, Sakharov passports, and a Sakharov fund to support our prizes and human rights defenders throughout the world.
It is unacceptable that the European institutions should launch appeals almost every month against those states that continue to persecute people whose only crime is to be homosexual and yet for there to be silence when such a serious and prejudicial position on human rights is assumed by the Vatican and its representative at the UN.
I welcome the big achievement of the year - the EU-backed resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty put forward by our Portuguese Presidency colleagues - but still, over 1 200 people were executed in 24 countries throughout the world, and this campaign must continue.
Of the 12 European Neighbourhood Policy action plans mentioned, two are for Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territory.
Madam President, the Sakharov Prize awarded by this Parliament to Hu Jia, on behalf of all defenders of the people in China and Tibet, puts human rights at the centre of EU-China relations, regardless of the wish of rulers in Europe or Beijing.
I hope that the new impetus that the inauguration of Barack Obama as President of the United States will bring will renew international efforts, cooperation and action - real action such as the support for the establishment of a no-fly zone over Darfur - and that in the new year, we will finally begin to live up to our fine words and to our moral obligation.
I would also like to underline that we cannot restrict our political activities in the field of fundamental rights to cases that attract most public attention.
This is particularly alarming 60 years after the proclamation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is a call to us to redouble our efforts.
The foreword is by Bernard Kouchner, Javier Solana and myself.
At this very moment, Member States and the Commission are currently undertaking a wide-ranging review of the EU's policy on standard political clauses in external agreements in general, in order to strike the right balance between key, 'untouchable' principles of the European Union on the one hand and, on the other, the need for a certain flexibility to negotiate on various parts, because we need to try and reach agreement.
Mrs Andrikienė, I agree that there could be many improvements and, therefore, we will have to insist on having special rapporteurs and perhaps also country resolutions; I think this could help.
Let me say a word on China and human rights.
This has been confirmed by what we have heard today and in recent days, such as the suppression of demonstrations in Beijing on the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights - there was a presidency statement concerning that; the blocking of foreign websites - for instance, the BBC website; and a very negative report by the United Nations Committee on Torture three weeks ago.
However, I would also like to take up the words of Zeng Jinyan, Hu Jia's wife, this morning, who said that China is moving in great steps towards an open and democratic society.
It is important that there has been some progress, but many other problems persist, particularly concerning implementation.
As regards Guantánamo, we have called repeatedly in the many debates held here, in which I also participated, for the closure of Guantánamo.
On the situation in the Middle East, particularly in Gaza, I very much regret the return to violence in recent days; the five months of calm achieved by the truce were unfortunately too short, but they were very welcome.
I clearly expressed my concerns about the question in Gaza.
Unfortunately, it is not at all easy, and in all our dialogues and consultations, we always mention these things.
These guidelines were adopted by the Council on 8 December.
In the same spirit, I would also like to welcome the adoption, by the Council, of new documents on the implementation of Resolutions 1325 and 1820 of the United Nations Security Council, which will enable foreign policy, security policy and defence policy operations to get a firm grip on the problem of sexual violence during armed conflicts, but also to strengthen the active participation of women in rebuilding societies emerging from conflict.
The 2008 report, which was produced by the Union and which mentions the action taken by the European Union and its successes, also concerns the fight against the death penalty.
And as regards the issues of Darfur, Burma or the food crisis, the Human Rights Council has managed to show that it is responsive, although there is still much to do to strengthen its credibility and its effectiveness.
I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that homosexuality remains a crime in 90 countries around the world, and is punishable by the death penalty in six of those.
That is why we can be proud of this initiative which, in the past, Norway had raised in 2006, and tomorrow I will therefore go to New York to represent us in order to finalise this text, and gauge our support in the hope that we will have more than we did two years ago.
in writing. - (HU) I welcome the Commission's latest report on human rights.
It is commendable that the Commission is now working on the draft of Council decisions concerning the adoption of the United Nations Convention of 8 August 2008 on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its optional Protocol.
With regard to its content, the Convention represents a significant change, since it treats disability not only as a social and health issue but also as a legal and a human rights question.
This document will make things easier for 650 million people with disabilities worldwide, 50 million of whom are Europeans.
The EU Annual Report on Human Rights, which has just been published, examines the Union's multifunctional work in the field of human rights.
The EU's human rights report for 2008 mentions the many positive steps that have been taken to establish human rights globally.
Unfortunately, these steps are still small ones in proportion to the situation overall, and there is a considerable amount of work still needed, so that fundamental human rights can become a reality equally the world over.
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon reminded us all last week, speaking on the 60th anniversary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that the Declaration of Human Rights is needed just as badly today as when it was drafted in 1948.
