Transatlantic economic relationships create jobs for 14 million people.
In April 2007 the European Union and the United States signed a framework agreement to strengthen transatlantic economic integration between the United States and the European Union.
The Transatlantic Economic Council was created to ensure that this cooperation will function.
The Transatlantic Economic Council has already proved a valuable forum for strategic dialogue on how to proceed in relation to China and in relation to state funds.
The product security of imported goods and the assertion of intellectual property rights in third countries are specific examples of practical cooperation in specific matters.
Non-tariff barriers to trade have been virtually eliminated in the eight major world trade rounds over the last 60 years.
The decision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to accept the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) was a historic step forward.
I recall that 30 years of economic and political integration paved the way for our European internal market project.
In fact I met with our congressional colleagues last week in Washington and, amazingly - I think a first here - I have been asked to present their viewpoint at the meeting that is to be held on 13 May.
I think that his commitment to this process is something I want to read into the record of our Parliament and to thank him on all of our behalf. (Applause) We too compliment Commissioner Verheugen on his commitment to cooperation between the EU and the United States and to the development and establishment of the Transatlantic Economic Council with the aim of strengthening economic cooperation, of creating one large common market - not only in the interests of the EU and of the United States, but also in order to tackle the problems facing both of us, such as the shaping of globalisation, the regulation of matters needing to be regulated at global level, and sometimes also deregulation where necessary.
Commissioner Verheugen is right in saying that political factors play a tremendously important role in this regard, and that the role of the political executive is also important here - which is an issue in itself.
It is also important to consider how we can develop a common trade agenda that also includes social and environmental aspects.
I think that what this is ultimately about is preventing the development of a Fortress Europe and a Fortress America as a reaction to all kinds of new economic developments; we must endeavour to act together in the international arena when it comes to our own economic future and that of the many other countries dependent on us.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen has reminded us of a number of very important elements in connection with today's topic: firstly, that trade between the United States and the European Union is worth USD 3 billion a day.
In other words, we are reminded that the development of a single market between the United States and Europe can only be a long-term project.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, some words of recognition for Commissioner Verheugen for taking up and involving himself in such an important matter.
We must diagnose, foresee and prevent crises, and economic freedom must not mean economic anarchy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is a need for greater consistency between bilateral trade agreements and WTO multilateral rules to ensure that international trade becomes more balanced.
The Council and the Commission must act in line with and in defence of EC legislation so that European citizens are guaranteed the right to secure food and a safe environment.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, I am pleased that there is political will on both sides of the Atlantic for the great partnership between our two continents.
It is high time that we set to work on reducing economic barriers at home and building a thorough partnership with the United States.
I expect a reaction to this jump in prices but also to the fact that this year tens of millions of people will die and a further 100 million will sink into deeper poverty.
It is still very early days for the Transatlantic Economic Council and expectations are, naturally, very high.
What we would still very much like to do - and that was the goal, after all - is to remove the barriers that we can remove.
Some barriers are ridiculous.
It is equally important to seek direct discussions between the European Union and the United States in these economic matters, however.
In economic terms, the United States and Europe have the best bilateral relationship of economic cooperation, trade and investment in the world.
Breaking down the barriers to transatlantic economic integration will promote mutual prosperity.
The adoption at the 2007 Summit of the framework agreement to enhance economic integration was a major milestone in restoring the spirit of the 1995 New Transatlantic Agenda of Madrid and giving fresh impetus to the Transatlantic Economic Partnership.
The United States and Europe are two giants of the global economy, and are therefore particularly responsible for shaping a globalisation with a human face.
Think of Google/Double Click, which we discussed back in January; the merger between Microsoft and Yahoo!, which has now been called off; and, shortly, Reed Elsevier and ChoicePoint.
After other attempts have failed, this one aims to improve our transatlantic relations on a case-by-case legislative basis.
We have high hopes of this Transatlantic Economic Council, although we must realise that it will be a long-term investment.
However, this Council must play an important role in regulatory harmonisation, bureaucracy reduction and the elimination of barriers to trade - so that our companies can do business more easily in the United States and our markets mesh better with each other.
The answer is because the work on technical product-safety issues and harmonisation issues in particular does have to have a political dimension.
I know I can count on you, Commissioner, with your political leadership to deal with that, but I think we all need to be engaged in that process, not to make those detailed decisions but to say to the people involved: get together and step up those efforts, because we all want you to succeed. (PL) Madam President, the Transatlantic Economic Council set up a year ago is a good idea for enhancing transatlantic cooperation on the economic front.
May I remind you that last year the European Commission published a Communication on enhancing the patenting system in Europe, in which an attempt was made to revitalise the debate on a Community patent.
Transatlantic cooperation is particularly important in this area.
I am counting on the Transatlantic Economic Council publishing a report in the near future on progress in cooperation in the sphere of the introduction of intellectual property rights, in which it will present the actions to be taken in the future to strengthen cooperation in combating counterfeit goods and piracy. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the Transatlantic Economic Council is an institution that exists in order to come up with better solutions for economic cooperation and an increase in turnover of trade between the EU and the United States.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first to thank you very much for the broad support this debate has shown for the transatlantic economic cooperation project and reemphasise that this project can be successful only if all institutions are involved.
It is very interesting to know that the economic regions already mentioned in this debate are already showing great interest in this work and have already asked, more or less outright, whether we could imagine doing something similar with other entities.
The second dimension involves looking much farther ahead to consider whether we could perhaps manage to work with common standards.
I agree with Erika Mann and would like to ask you not to overload the Council, apart from the fact that we have a framework agreement that prescribes what topics we can tackle and what we cannot.
When we eliminate the barriers that prevent us tapping our full economic potential, then we can do a great deal more to achieve our political, social and ecological goals.
