Patient safety (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Sartori, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a Council recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of healthcare associated infections - C6-0032/2009 -.
Of these risks, we can mention more particularly nosocomial infections, which affect one in every 20 hospital patients, in other words 4 100 000 people a year.
This gives an annual number of between almost 7 million and 15 million hospital patients, to which can be added the some 37 million patients who call on primary healthcare.
Nosocomial infections alone affect on average one in every 20 hospital patients, making a total of over 4 million patients a year.
In total, every year, nosocomial infections cause the deaths of around 37 000 people in Europe.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like first of all to thank the committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for its work on this dossier, and especially the rapporteur, Ms Amalia Sartori, for her efforts on what is a health-care priority of the highest order.
The total number of hospitalised patients acquiring at least one health-care-associated infection in the EU every year has been estimated at EUR 4.1 million - equivalent to 1 in 20 hospitalised patients.
Approximately 37 000 deaths are estimated to occur every year because of these infections.
However, we know that among the 27 Member States there are varying levels of awareness, resources and expertise available to counter the problem.
That is why the European Commission put forward its communication and a proposal for a Council Recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of health-care-associated infections.
Health-care systems, especially in the 12 newer Member States, need in many cases a complete overhaul, with attention required to the structural improvement of hospitals, the modernisation of equipment and up-to-date training of health personnel.
Minister Filipiová made a reference to the responsibility of Member States in this aspect.
