After your release on 2 June 2008 I had the honour of writing to you on behalf of the European Parliament and welcoming you back to freedom.
You alone know what you had to go through during those 2 321 days, but you have become a symbol of freedom throughout the world and a symbol of human resistance to enforced distress and the deprivation of fundamental human rights as well as a role model of dignity and courage for us all.
During your captivity, many members of the European Parliament worked tirelessly for your release and I know that many representatives of the various Ingrid Betancourt committees are here today - active champions of your cause, people who are working for the freedom of all hostages in Colombia.
This year we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948.
It is a miracle, I truly believe, to be able to share these moments with you.
Thanks to you I understood, more than five years ago, that we were no longer alone.
If I am alive, if I have rediscovered the joy of living, I owe it to you.
Through your generosity, the European Parliament has become a platform to tell the world about the scale of the barbarity we experienced and that more than 3 000 of my compatriots are still experiencing.
I can see here the yellow t-shirts of the FICIB. (Applause) (ES) I would like to thank the FICIB for fighting for all hostages in Colombia.
The only weapon we should believe in, you see, is the power of words. (ES) I would also like to talk about the extraordinary tool that words are, because today I am thinking, with a great deal of sorrow, about a woman who used words as her weapon and was fought against with violence and firearms.
A Colombian woman, Olga Marina Vergara, died on 22 September, murdered along with her grandson, her son and other members of her family.
It is here that the things that really matter to our people are conceived and expressed.
I was stunned to discover - and this is something quite personal, I am giving you a glimpse into my private life here - that my daughter had kept herself going during my absence on a store of words I had uttered without really thinking over the course of our lives.
Like our children, they are bombarded with information and they dream, like our children, of iPods, Playstations, DVDs.
This body of some 15 000 young people, who form the bulk of the Farc troops, would never be where they are if our society had offered them real prospects of success.
It is by drawing on the treasure in our souls that we can speak on behalf of everyone.
You know that since my release, I have constantly thought about the fate of my unlucky brothers, those who are today chained to trees like animals, who remained in the jungle when I left.
I also think of that extraordinary woman, AUNG SAN SUU KYI, who is paying with her life for her people's right to freedom, and who has begun a hunger strike to make herself heard.
She needs our words more than ever to lift her up. (Applause) Of course, I also carry in my heart the cross of another of my fellow countrymen, Guilad Shalit, who was taken hostage in June 2006.
Thank you. (Standing ovation) Ingrid Betancourt, you have shared your heart with us, the freely elected Members of the European Parliament and - ladies and gentlemen, I believe I can say this on behalf of you all - we have never before experienced such a deeply moving time in this Parliament as we did just now.
Merci, Ingrid Betancourt! (Applause) (The sitting was opened at 3.55 p.m.)
