Presentation of the work programme of the Swedish Presidency (debate) The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on presentation of the work programme of the Swedish Presidency.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SV) Mr President, honourable Members, allow me first to congratulate you on the election of your new president.
It is an honour for me to address the European Parliament as President-in-Office of the European Council.
I know that approaching half of you have been elected to this assembly for the first time.
I am addressing you during a challenging period.
Now and in the slightly longer term, we must continue to manage the economic and financial crisis.
If the Swedish Presidency is to succeed in the many challenges facing it, we must work alongside you - you who work at the heart of European democracy.
I would like to tell you that my grandfather was a Swedish soldier posted to the Norwegian border during the Second World War - a war in which Sweden was neutral.
A number of countries then set out on the journey that resulted in representatives of 27 countries sitting in this room today.
Sweden was one of these countries.
Sweden's foreign minister Carl Bildt played a decisive role in the work on bringing Sweden into the European community - in other words, accepting openness, globalisation and free trade.
We dared to be part of Europe.
It was a sign of Parliament's openness and accessibility - despite the fact that at that time Sweden was not a member of the Union.
In 20 years Sweden has gone from observing at a distance to being an active part of the European cooperation.
This has in turn had an effect on the Swedish population.
Ten years ago, one in three Swedes thought EU membership was good for the country, but just as many thought the opposite.
Nearly two in three Swedes believe that EU membership is good for Sweden.
In the elections to the European Parliament in June, more that 45 per cent of Swedes turned out to vote.
That is eight per cent more than in 2004, and it is above the average for Europe.
Today Sweden is a country that appreciates and takes a positive view of EU membership.
That is a victory for all of us who believe in European cooperation. (Applause) Mr President, honourable Members, we are facing the question of the fate of our generation - a social problem which, unlike many others, is growing slowly - and only in the wrong direction.
If the sea level were to rise by just one metre around the world, a hundred million people would be forced to leave their homes in Asia alone.
The most vulnerable are those in Bangladesh, eastern China and Vietnam.
The weather will change, with the risk that many species of flora and fauna could become extinct.
Although time is short, it is still on our side.
Moreover, measures to counter climate change have very useful side effects - effects which in themselves justify the measures.
In January, many EU countries were affected by the gas crisis in Ukraine.
At the same time, it is important to be able to turn the viewpoint around.
If Ukraine invested in energy efficiency so that the country reached the same level as the Czech Republic or Slovenia, the amount of energy saved would correspond to the entire country's gas imports for its own use from Russia.
Ukraine could then become completely independent of gas imports from Russia and save a great deal of money besides - simply by improving its own energy efficiency.
It is not enough to limit emissions in a group of countries that voluntarily agree to reductions, but which together account for just 30 per cent of emissions.
The responsibility of the few must now become the responsibility of all.
I know that the European Parliament will accept its responsibility.
In a global world, problems also spread quickly to others.
President Sarkozy and the French Presidency played an important part in this work, but I would also assert that the European Parliament was a driving force.
Now we need to devote the autumn to discussing continued measures to take us through the crisis.
The economic situation remains difficult, and public finances are now stretched in all the Member States.
According to the Commission's forecasts, the deficit within the EU will exceed 80 per cent of GDP next year.
In the middle of all this we must not forget either that behind these figures are people who are concerned about their jobs and who are wondering how they will manage to pay for their homes and to maintain their standard of living.
It is our task to answer them.
We are living longer, while at the same time we are working less and having fewer children.
We must restore confidence in the financial markets.
The Swedish Presidency will work towards agreement on this in the Council by the end of the year.
Our citizens will not accept the repeated use of tax revenues to rescue financial institutions that have acted irresponsibly.
I know that this is an important matter not least here in the European Parliament.
Our aim must be an active labour market policy that, together with well-functioning social security systems, is able to manage change effectively.
A review of the EU's Lisbon strategy could contribute to a necessary reform agenda.
Consequently, I welcome the L'Aquila agreement on restarting the Doha round - in order to ensure that the countries of the world again take the free trade-friendly path that we know benefits us all in the long run.
Nonetheless, the institutional framework is important because it defines what we can do and in which areas.
The Treaty will make the EU more democratic, more transparent, more effective and more influential in the international arena.
The Swedish Presidency is prepared to carry out all the preparatory work to ensure a smooth transition to a new Treaty, but naturally that requires the Treaty to have been ratified by all the Member States.
At the same time, the freedom to move freely across borders is fundamental to our community - to study, work and live in another EU country.
Consequently, this autumn we will draw up a new programme in this area that we will call the Stockholm Programme.
At the same time, we will create a better balance between these instruments and the measures that ensure legal certainty and that protect the rights of individuals.
It will also ensure that those seeking asylum in the EU face a common, legally certain system - with greater consistency in the way they are received and the way their case for asylum is examined and greater consistency as regards repatriation policy.
The dream of a future in Europe is a strong one for many people.
A flexible system for labour immigration could bring together these two realities.
Mr President, honourable Members, just over 50 years ago six countries laid the foundation for European cooperation.
Otherwise we jeopardise our progress towards our aim of continued European integration.
The EU must work for peace, freedom, democracy and human rights.
We also have a responsibility to support the work of the UN in other areas, to work together with our strategic partners, to become involved in the world's crisis hotspots - whether it is the peace process in the Middle East, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, North Korea or the great challenges on the African continent.
However, we also have a responsibility for regional initiatives such as the Mediterranean Union and the eastern partnership that are creating stability and cooperation between neighbouring countries with different circumstances.
Parliament presented a draft strategy for the region back in 2005.
Today the EU is involved in 10 or so crisis initiatives around the world.
Let us together meet their expectations. (Applause) Mr President, honourable Members, as a result of European cooperation, today our continent lives in peace and prosperity, in freedom and stability.
Our citizens also want to know, however, that Europe is borne by ideas for the future and that our cooperation not only has a historical purpose but is also forward-looking.
That is why we, as their elected representatives, have a responsibility to say what we want to do with Europe.
I want to see a Europe that acts forcefully for democracy, peace, freedom and human rights in the international arena and which dares to act on the foreign policy stage.
I want to see a Europe that develops its social model further, a Europe that combines a well-functioning welfare system with growth - with social cohesion, a Europe that through work, enterprise and healthy public finances creates room to maintain and develop our welfare models, in the best interests of all our citizens.
I want to see a Europe that does not allow itself to be lured by the short-term crusades of protectionism, a Europe that safeguards the internal market that formed the basis of our EU cooperation and that allows goods and services to flow freely across our borders, for the benefit of ourselves and of the rest of the world.
There are many challenges, and we must prepare for the unexpected.
Many ask whether a country the size of Sweden can shoulder this responsibility.
Not alone - but together we can face these challenges.
Today I want to highlight two of the biggest policy challenges facing the European Union in the next six months: dealing with the economic crisis and negotiating an ambitious international agreement on climate change in Copenhagen.
The worst financial and economic crisis in living memory continues to have devastating effects within our communities and families, with unemployment in particular continuing to rise.
We have also shown solidarity amongst Member States, for instance by doubling the ceiling for balance of payments support for non-eurozone Member States to EUR 50 billion.
Here we can build on the results of the employment summit held in May as part of a Commission initiative with the Czech, Swedish and Spanish Presidencies.
Of course, responsibility for labour market policies lies with Member States, but we can and should use existing European instruments to help Member States keep people in employment and train them for the jobs of the future.
That is why the European Commission is about to make a proposal to simplify Structural Fund procedures and waive the need for national cofinancing from the European Social Fund for 2009 and 2010.
We will also redeploy resources in order to fund a new microcredit facility for employment and social inclusion.
I hope this Parliament will support these proposals.
With the proposals already made - many of them already approved by this Parliament and by the Council, some still in our decision-making process - we are indeed taking the lead globally in the reform of the financial international system.
We need to rebuild our economic model and put the values back at the heart of our social market economy, where they belong.
I am proud of the way the Commission worked with the last Parliament and the Council to put this legislation in place, and I want to work closely with you and the Presidency in the run-up to Copenhagen.
Our leadership role was very much appreciated in the meetings last week in L'Aquila in the G8, and in the Major Economies Forum.
This is certainly a welcome step forward, but we should not delude ourselves: our ambition and our commitment are not yet matched by others.
Europe is far ahead of the curve in relation to the rest of the world and, frankly, 145 days from Copenhagen, that worries me.
In the coming weeks we will step up our work with international partners to secure clear commitments in Copenhagen.
For most of this decade the European Union has been engaged in internal institutional debates.
It is important to discuss procedure, but I believe it is even more important to discuss substance.
The Swedish Presidency, as well as the next Spanish Presidency, will have to oversee - hopefully - a complex transition to the new Treaty in which the Commission and Parliament will have to play their full part.
Furthermore, the economic crisis - I would insist on this point - requires not a national response but a European response.
Moreover, our fellow citizens are convinced of this, one need only look at the opinion polls in the various countries: more than 66% of Germans and more than 70% of Europeans are convinced.
To do more, and faster, Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso, that is also what the PPE Group expects of you where the fight against global warming is concerned.
The task now is to capitalise on this, to make the other world powers join us.
I am of course thinking of the United States, which must turn its words into deeds, but I am also thinking of the emerging countries, be it China, India or Brazil, which can no longer ignore the fact that they are heavily responsible for global warming.
I shall conclude by saying that, in order to act strongly on these two fronts, Europe must be equipped with appropriate institutions.
The last year has shown us that, with the same treaty and with the same outdated principle of unanimity, it was possible to make progress with Europe but that it was also possible to reach a deadlock.
It is a question of political will, Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso.
Speed things up: that is what the PPE Group is asking you to do over the next six months, and we have faith in the Swedish Presidency.
Speed things up: that is what Europeans asked for in electing this Parliament and that is what we must give them if, in five years' time, we wish to see more of them turn out to vote. (Applause) on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister Reinfeldt, ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish Presidency comes at a time of new beginnings for the institutions.
It is not only this Parliament that is starting anew; Europe is in a period of transition between the Treaty of Nice and the Treaty of Lisbon, and - as we all know - it is a time of uncertainty in which we nevertheless need clarity with regard to economic, financial, labour market and climate policy decisions in the European Union and its Member States.
Therefore, we ask you during your Presidency to urge the Member States to take the investment plans and the economic recovery plans more seriously than they have done so far.
What we need above all is the safeguarding of jobs - now, not next year, as the threat to jobs is present here and now.
We therefore expect you to give the utmost priority to jobs and job security in whatever form, for example by combining environmental protection and industrial policy, which is a highly intelligent solution.
As you have just said, you travel a lot in Sweden and in Europe.
We therefore need initiatives from the European Union. (Applause) We need these initiatives as a consequence of the rulings of the European Court of Justice in the Laval, Viking, Rüffert and Luxemburg cases.
If we appoint the President of the Commission on the basis of the Treaty of Nice, we will have 20 commissioners.
The law in force is the Treaty of Nice.
I would therefore like to state very clearly what we are expecting.
My proposal, Prime Minister, was that you should not take the formalisation decision straight away, but first send your candidate to Parliament so that he can tell us what he wants to do to restore the economy, safeguard jobs, combat climate change, introduce an employment pact, an initiative for a public services directive and an initiative to improve the Posting of Workers Directive and establish a guarantee between the Commission and Parliament regarding an evaluation of the social consequences of the Commission initiatives.
Then you could have made a decision regarding formalisation.
However, you took a different route.
Mr President, just for you I have kept to my speaking time exactly.
Furthermore, and this is the subject of my speech, Mr Reinfeldt, I should like to refer to an issue that is addressed in every speech in this House - the fight against the economic and financial crisis - in order to say to you that you are assuming the leadership of the European Council at a very precise moment in time.
It is a good thing that it is Sweden that is chairing the Council because you have specific experience in this area.
In the 1990s Sweden experienced exactly the same economic crisis that we are experiencing now throughout Europe and the world.
My message to you is that you must act in exactly the same way today at European level because that is what we are lacking.
We are trying to combat the economic and financial crises using 27 different approaches in the various countries, and that will never work.
Sweden came out of the crisis because you immediately tackled the problems in the financial sector, something which is not being done for the time being in Europe.
In Germany, work is under way to create 'bad banks'; in the Benelux countries a bit of everything is being done at the same time.
The second point is that we hope that you, together with the Commission, can also present a new recovery plan, because 27 different recovery plans will not produce the necessary results in the coming years.
It is your responsibility, Mr Reinfeldt, to say to your colleagues that a better way to deal with this is, together with the Commission, to devise one single recovery plan and to invest in sustainable energy and in the new economy.
However, Mr Barroso, I would like to take the opportunity to explain the political reasons behind my group's doubts and its belief that you are not capable from a political point of view of doing what we feel to be necessary in the current situation in Europe.
In our experience, Mr Barroso, you are not in a position to set forth this Green New Deal.
In summary, I can only say that, with regard to climate protection, Europeans have been conspicuous on the international stage in recent months as a result of their new-found hesitation - how far do we really want to go with the reduction targets? - and new tight-fistedness, and that, unfortunately, also applies to Sweden.
We will also support you if you wish to do more with regard to Eastern Europe and Russia, but the focus on a genuine climate policy must not merely be a matter of headlines, it must also be corrected in the small print of the Swedish programme. (Applause) Mr President, I would like first of all to offer my sincere congratulations on yesterday's election, the election of a splendid president - the new head of Parliament.
The European Conservatives and Reformists Group listened carefully to your speech, Prime Minister, and I am glad to be able to say that we share your views on very many matters.
These are a recipe for the economic growth of our continent, of our European Union.
The issue of climate change shows very clearly that today we live not only in a single Europe, but in a single world, where the threats are shared by all and must be dealt with effectively.
I am very glad that you referred to the fight against crime as a serious problem of our European Union.
I am convinced that, because Sweden is already a powerful force in the area of crime novels, we will also achieve success under your leadership in the area of the fight against crime.
It is extremely important, and I am glad that both you and your Minister for Foreign Affairs have mentioned recently that you want to look carefully at our neighbours and take what I hope will be a sympathetic view of the idea of enlargement of the EU.
I regret to say that there is just one point on which my group is not in agreement with you.
It should be remembered that it was in a democratic referendum that the people of Ireland rejected the Treaty of Lisbon.
The heads of government in the EU Member States seem not to have had anything to do with the crisis.
Transparency is in vogue in casino capitalism.
The European Union ought to take advantage of this new opportunity for disarmament.
The Swedish Presidency wants to further harmonise asylum law and make the European Union more attractive to migrant workers.
I particularly welcome what you said about Cyprus and I wish you every success in implementing your ambitious climate targets.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciated the fact that the Swedish Presidency emphasised issues that concern our fellow citizens, our electorate, namely the environment and climate change, the financial crisis, the safeguarding of jobs and the fight against crime, because, in order to do a good job, we need to be in harmony with those who voted for us.
We are no better or worse than our electorate, but I do believe that it is important to act in accordance with what they are asking of us, and these points seem to me to be along the lines that I mentioned.
The poor turnout at the elections of this Parliament is a symptom of this, and to overcome it, we must act fully in accordance with the will of our electorate.
We must also perhaps avoid making comparisons: your country borders Norway; I live near Switzerland.
They are outside the European Union, but they live well all the same; they have the same problems, but they are no worse off than us, and here it is important to see and to demonstrate that it is worth having the European Union.
I believe that this is a great challenge but I also believe that, with everyone's help, we can show that Europe should not be suffered, but should be an opportunity for those who live there and are citizens of it. (NL) The Dutch Party for Freedom has come into this Parliament in order to stand up for Dutch citizens and in order to wrest back the money that has been overpaid by the Netherlands to this cash-guzzling and bureaucratic Europe.
Mr President, this Parliament spends its time regulating matters that should be determined in the Member States themselves.
As far as our party is concerned, the European Union should only be involved in matters relating to economic and monetary cooperation.
Turkey can be a good neighbour, but it does not belong within the European family.
We therefore hope that the people of Ireland will have the courage to vote 'no', once again, to the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Irish population has the opportunity, here, to act as the voice of the people of Europe, and I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Party for Freedom, what conclusions the Swedish Presidency will draw from the result of the Irish referendum.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SV) Mr President, allow me first to congratulate you all collectively on having been elected as group leaders.
I know, for example, that Martin Schulz was re-elected with very strong support in the social democrat group.
A number of the matters that you touched upon are the main issues that I want to work on during the Swedish Presidency.
Having low or no pay is not a good starting point from which to try to face the competition; rather, it is only with good conditions that we can face the competition of the future.
I have seen how the Commission - and I myself think this is important - has managed to defend the principle of the internal market at a time when many are attempting to compromise it and bring in protectionism.
It is very easy to listen to those who are saying 'Why did you not save the jobs in this particular country?' without seeing the consequences of this if everyone acted in this way.
I believe that safeguarding the internal market and free movement is an important starting point for securing jobs.
I also have great faith in other things mentioned by some of you, such as investing in human skills and ensuring mobility in the labour market.
Where the climate issue is concerned - which will be the main issue we work on ahead of the Copenhagen summit - I want to say that it is true that there is still a lot to do.
I want to tell Rebecca Harms that it is unusual for us in Sweden to be criticised for our aid commitments.
For me, these matters are related.
You cannot carry on development work without at the same time looking at climate change and how it is already affecting poor parts of the earth.
Where the Treaty is concerned, I would like to say to Martin Schulz that my role is to ensure that there is effective European leadership in a difficult period.
We are all politically active and know that in the political domain, when we are inward-looking and discuss names and leadership our citizens perceive this as us having turned our backs on them.
I have been tasked by the European Council with ensuring that our cooperation and our respect for the integrity of the European Parliament are united by clarity - whether under the Treaty of Nice or the Treaty of Lisbon - in our nomination of a candidate to the post of Commission President.
All of you who are sitting here were elected under the Treaty of Nice.
I believe that it is important to link the election of the President of the Commission to the democratic election that has taken place, your election.
You have been elected by virtue of the Treaty of Nice, and it is my view that the President of the Commission should also have this legitimacy, which should in a way result from this democratic election.
Furthermore, in view of the economic and financial crisis - and I believe that those who are in favour of a strong Europe and who want a strong Commission will no doubt agree - the matter of Presidency of the Commission should not be left unresolved now pending the final ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which we all want - at least the majority of us do - when we do not know when that treaty will come into force.
Leaving the European Commission and its Presidency in a state of suspense when there is an economic crisis, a financial crisis and a social crisis, and when we have very important negotiations ahead of us in Copenhagen, does not seem very wise to me.
On the second question about finance and the economy and what Mr Verhofstadt said: we can all have more ambition, and on that matter let me tell you that I share your ambition.
But we cannot say that we did not adopt a European economic recovery plan, and that was the maximum that our Member States accepted.
The European Commission proposed more, but that was what our Member States accepted.
I want to draw your attention to the fact that some Member States - no less influential at the beginning of this crisis - suggested not to have a coordination plan.
Apart from that, we took those important decisions in terms of balance-of-payment support to some non-euro-area members and also some initiatives at global level.
We have to have a common approach but with specific national responses, because that is the reality we are facing in European and will face in the near future.
So I share your approach to have a more coordinated European plan, namely to get out of this crisis and to build this kind of smart green growth we want; but at the same time we have to accept that we have 27 national budgets, we have 27 finance ministers, we have 27 national banks apart from our European Central Bank, and it is very important to reinforce the euro and to have economic policies and financial policies that are sustainable.
But for me it was very important that Prime Minister Reinfeldt was with me recently in L'Aquila, when we heard the Secretary-General of the United Nations say: 'You are the locomotive of the world'.
We can always have more ambition, but the European Union is leading the fight against climate change in the world.
No one is being more ambitious than we are, so of course I would expect at least a word of recognition in terms of the work done by this Commission, together with our Member States, to put forward ambitious proposals.
With your support I believe we can achieve success at the Copenhagen Conference. (Applause) (SV) Mr President, as a Swede it is with pride that I listen to the Swedish Presidency's priorities and I am also proud to be able to welcome the Prime Minister of Sweden back here again.
It is ideals such as democracy, freedom, the rule of law and the market economy that have given us 20 years of fantastic development.
We are now living in a time of change with a new treaty, the climate issue which demands a consistent policy capable of global impact, and the economic crisis.
It is this openness that will be crucial to Europe's ability to be a leading force for the values that 20 years ago began to change Europe, and to which we can also contribute out in the world. (Applause) (SV) Mr President, I would first like to thank the Swedish Prime Minister for his presentation of what he and his government want to do in the coming six months.
This is not only wrong, but also worrying.
The last conservative Swedish Government led Sweden into economic disintegration, and it was a social democratic government that had to devote 10 years to sorting out our public finances.
John Monks, General Secretary of the European Trade Union Confederation, has also expressed concern that the social dimension of the Swedish Presidency has been given such low priority.
My group shares these concerns, and they also include the trade union rights of workers, as Martin Schulz stated in his speech.
Workers' terms have deteriorated following the Laval judgment and following the Viking, Rüffert and Luxembourg judgments.
Their rights have been weakened.
What I and my group want from the Swedish Presidency is a definite commitment that the EU's workers will have their full trade union rights restored.
Trade union rights must take precedence over free movement.
As everyone knows, we need a consistent and common response to the economic and social crisis and thus a European recovery plan to increase investments and to support employment.
You also have remarkably good rhetoric on climate change.
Let it become a name that is associated with the EU's transition from terror paranoia to human freedoms and rights and with a strengthening of asylum law and the protection of privacy.
The capital, the talent and the individual enterprises are highly fluid.
I welcome your commitment to work alongside the G20, because if we get out of step and go unilateral in the EU we risk not only putting borrowers and investors at a competitive disadvantage but also causing industries to relocate outside... (The President cut off the speaker.) (SV) Mr President, firstly of course I would like to congratulate you on your appointment as president and at the same time thank you for the interesting exchange of views that we had during the election period.
I am convinced that in organisational terms the Swedish Presidency will be a great success and that it will be taken care of truly excellently by the competent Swedish state administration.
Where the Stockholm Programme is concerned, it is said that it will create security, but in practice what is emerging is a 'big brother' state that threatens personal privacy.
We can never accept restrictions on asylum rights or restrictions on our rights as free citizens in this programme.
The Northern Dimension has been missing in all this, however, and I hope that you will do a lot to promote it, although you made no mention of it. (DE) Mr President, we need a revolution in democracy.
We need bold democrats and in this new period we urgently need an exciting, democratic and genuinely effective Europe.
Creative artists and, in particular, freelance writers, will have a role in identifying the values of this new Europe.
This is how I deliberately worded the final paragraph of my new book at the beginning of this last election campaign, which brought about major changes and which is linked to a great deal of hope that you in particular from Sweden with your great democratic tradition and transparency will now recognise the signs of the times.
I therefore firmly believe that together we democrats must stand up for genuine transparency and in particular we must stand together in the fight against the extreme right. (NL) My heartfelt thanks for the ambitious plans that you have laid out for the coming six months.
I can tell you that we have high expectations of you, as you have had the reputation right from the very beginning of having gone into bat for European integration and for our European values.
It is important that the solutions that we put forward and that you are working on to get us out of this economic crisis reinforce our social market economy.
It is also important that these solutions do not only benefit our citizens today and tomorrow, but also provide for our children's future.
It is therefore so very important to continue to build towards a sustainable economy and towards preventing climate change.
I sincerely hope that your efforts in these areas help to bring the Member States closer together and that, in the run-up to the Copenhagen Conference, you also manage to induce the biggest players on the world stage to really play their part in finding a solution to climate change.
Mr President, the social market economy is also important when it comes to sustainable government finances, since government deficits form a burden for future generations.
I hope that the Swedish Presidency is welcoming towards Iceland, but that it is also strict in ensuring that Iceland complies with the requirements for accession and that it meets the obligations relating to European legislation and towards the Member States. (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope you will allow me in this connection to speak in particular to Carl Bildt, because I would firstly like to touch on the subject of enlargement, particularly in the Balkans.
However, it is very important to give clear signals.
It has already been said that you have our full support in this.
It is true that in this regard we are very much at the forefront, but we still have a lot to do.
The level of unemployment that we are seeing today in Europe has not yet reached its maximum.
The Nordic countries in particular have a lot of good examples of an active labour market policy.
That is what we mean by a social Europe - this active labour market policy that we need in the individual Member States, which the European Union and the Council in particular must give out a clear message about.
This is what we are calling for. (SV) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, good to see you here!
The strength of the EU lies in its open borders and free trade.
The rule of law must also apply in the virtual world.
I had hoped that during this session Parliament would approve the appointment of José Manuel Barroso as President of the Commission for a new five-year period.
Thank you, and as we say in my party: good luck! (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sweden now has a huge responsibility for the future of the human race.
Prime Minister Reinfeldt, you spoke quite rightly of the climate crisis.
Unfortunately, the negotiations that are currently going on are more like a combination of hide-and-seek and a competition in self-congratulation.
The European Union must have the courage to put forward a proposal regarding not just the EU's own emission reductions, but the principle of burden-sharing, where all industrialised countries accomplish emission reductions according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines.
The most important thing is that we achieve the emission reduction targets for 2020.
Secondly, it needs to be realised that the developing countries will not be able to adjust to a system of adequate emission limits unless we assist them financially at a completely new level, and the EU should be in a position to make proposals on that too. (PL) Prime Minister, we listened to your speech with great care and would like to express the hope that the most important points of the programme will be put into effect successfully.
I would like, however, to draw attention to three challenges.
The first of these is European solidarity, which is especially important at a time of financial crisis.
We cannot accept a situation in which some are allowed to subsidise their banking sector and others are condemned for attempting to strengthen their shipbuilding sector.
This is an important area of macroregional cooperation.
The Baltic ecosystem should be protected from hazards such as the very unsafe, and also financially absurd, Nord Stream project.
I am sure that the Swedish Presidency will be equal to these challenges.
It can count on our support. (DA) Mr President, there are two things that struck me when I read the Swedish Presidency's work programme.
The second thing is that there is no mention of the fact that 2 October will be one of the most significant days in the entire history of the EU, and this will be during the term of the Swedish Presidency.
However, I would like to ask you to consider whether Sweden would have the courage to take the step, particularly after the experience of the financial market crisis, of joining the euro - especially as you said that the Stability and Growth Pact must be complied with.
The programme combines the achievements of the area of freedom, security and justice over the last five years, which have been very significant in terms of harmonisation, mutual recognition and the principle of trust in relation to fundamental rights and legal protection, but also in relation to active cooperation.
I invite you to be ambitious in this area: firstly, from a substantive point of view, as in all areas related to managing external borders, immigration, asylum, refugees and combating illegal trafficking, organised crime and terrorism it is easy to drift towards reactionary positions that contradict the acquis of fundamental rights that should set the European Union apart and which Sweden identifies with so much, as a country that respects transparency and democratic principles.
This means that what has so far often been seen as a deficiency of Brussels or of the Council will also be the responsibility of Parliament. (SV) Mr President, naturally I am very pleased and proud to see my government in the Swedish Presidency and I also think that the programme contains a lot that is good as regards solutions for the climate, jobs, the financial crisis, the Copenhagen Conference, the Baltic Sea Strategy, Community policy, enlargement, Iceland, Croatia, Turkey, etc.
Today the ministers are meeting in Stockholm to discuss the Stockholm Programme.
We can make something really good come of this, but there are also downsides; namely the threat to the open society that the Stockholm Programme contains.
It gives me particular pleasure to see children taking an interest in European issues and in our institutions because it is important to grow up as Europeans from an early age. (RO) I wish the Swedish Presidency every success and I believe that the priorities set out are those we have been expecting.
The next six months are crucial for Europe's citizens and for the European Union.
They are crucial in terms of whether our countries are going to emerge from the economic crisis next year or whether, on the other hand, a large question mark will continue to hang over the economy for another year.
However, I think it is time for us to assess the impact which the economy recovery programme launched by the European Commission at the start of the year is having, if any at all, and for us to take a close look at the European Union's budget for this year to see which activities have stopped and what resources we can continue to use to come up with new measures.
We also have investment projects planned for the energy sector which have already been approved from that amount of around EUR 3 billion.
Already the financial institutions are resisting the regulations we need to prevent a future meltdown.
We need a breakthrough in the climate change summit in December.
We need, more than ever now, a recommitment to the Millennium Development Goals and, more immediately, Mr President-in-Office, I regret you did not call for an immediate lifting of the siege of Gaza or indicate any wish to re-energise the search for peace alongside President Obama.
Jonathan Swift, the author of Gulliver's Travels, once proposed to the British Government that the way of solving poverty in Ireland was to encourage us to eat our babies.
Well, I do not think the historical irony of the United Kingdom Independence Party proposing to come to Ireland to campaign for the independence of the United Kingdom from the European Union will be lost on the people of Ireland as a subject for a good belly laugh.
I am confident the Irish people will tell this particular circus what they told Libertas: get lost! (Applause) (EL) Mr President, the programme of the Swedish Presidency does indeed include all the important issues which have to do with our times, both present and future.
The social market economy needs investments in the real economy and not simply in financial products such as those which put us in the situation we are in today.
The issue of climate and sustainable development, which also includes social development, and the issue of work, are obviously extremely important issues.
A market economy which tries to move towards a laisser faire - laisser passer approach is not what we need in Europe.
I think what is most important is that we also examine, in relation to the large number of immigrants from third countries, whether the European Union's development policy really did succeed and on which points; in other words, we need a real evaluation and to examine what could or should have been changed in order for illegal immigration to be dealt with in the right way, because we are actually dealing with people and not just political or administrative acts.
The programme of the Swedish Presidency is truly very ambitious, especially, among other things, on trans-Atlantic dialogue.
However, on this issue too we must examine whether it is expedient for the European Union to be concerned solely with development and for the United States to be concerned solely with security. (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of Estonia, one of Sweden's neighbours, with which it is connected through the Baltic Sea, I would like to draw attention to one of the Presidency's priorities, namely the Baltic Sea Strategy.
I would like to call upon the Swedish Presidency to implement the Baltic Sea Strategy, for which there is now a rare opportunity.
I hope the strategy is passed in the European Council during the Swedish Presidency.
There are two other areas that are important to me: as a former Minister of Finance, I consider dealing with the economic crisis and the implementation of transparency in the financial sector to be of great importance... (Speech interrupted) (LV) Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Reinfeldt, firstly I would like to congratulate the Swedish Government on the objectives it has set out for its presidency.
Of the many important priorities that Sweden has set out for its presidency, I would like to draw attention to the European Union strategy for the Baltic Sea region, and particularly that part of it relating to energy market security.
For historical reasons, this problem is particularly pronounced in the Baltic Sea region.
The foundation stones of such a policy must be not only energy efficiency and renewable resources, but also the creation of a common electricity and gas market with operational interconnections.
The European Union's strategy for the Baltic Sea region is a step in the right direction.
Thank you for your attention. (SV) Mr President, Prime Minister, if we are to get a good international climate agreement we must also listen to other countries.
If we do so we will realise that firstly what is required is that the EU and other countries take greater responsibility for reducing our emissions at home, and secondly that the EU and other industrialised countries state in concrete terms how we will contribute economically to the climate work of poorer countries.
The fact that up to now the Swedish Government has worked against this has unfortunately undermined the opportunities to get a good agreement in Copenhagen.
I would like to make three points.
To come out of the economic crisis and to create new jobs, we need more than ever a strong, independent and innovative Commission.
However, there is also a special budget line for this strategy which is still empty.
We cannot expect a positive change in the environmental situation in the Baltic Sea by relying only on ad hoc projects.
It should also include a programme for using modern IT.
Expectations have really been raised, but I dare say that if not all the groups are satisfied with the result then it will not be the end of the world.
Europe's largest inland sea can and must be saved.
The Baltic Sea Strategy can also help to check the crime trend and trafficking.
We will also, I believe, gradually see the Nordic region enlarged here in the EU to include Iceland and, I imagine, also Norway within the not too distant future.
I believe that we must concentrate on the essentials.
It is crucial that we concentrate on one of the top priorities, namely an aggressive plan for the future of the automotive industry in the European Union.
The rescue plan for Opel is in full swing and the world, and even Europe, is not rid of the demons of protectionism.
They are slumbering beneath the surface, and Swedish society is just as affected as we in Belgium are, just as they are in France, Germany and Slovakia.
Mr President, I think that you have a unique opportunity here to work with the President of the Commission - this also sends a clear signal to the Commission - to draw up a joint plan, a joint plan, Mr Barroso, for the future of our car factories, thereby steering them into the 21st century.
We believe that the energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly car can be realised in Europe's existing car assembly factories and we are counting on you, Mr Barroso and Mr Reinfeldt, being on our side. (HU) In our view, Sweden is synonymous with Europe.
Then we have the parliament of an EU Member State which adopted a language law on 30 June 2009 stipulating that if anyone, including all of you, does not call that country's capital city by its name in the country's official language, Bratislava, but uses its German name, Presburg, or Hungarian name, Pozsony, they may very well end up paying a fine of EUR 5 000.
I ask the Swedish Presidency to do its utmost to ensure that this law is repealed and that the Slovak head of state does not sign it. (HU) I would like to draw your attention to two of the Swedish Presidency's priorities which I was delighted to see on this list.
I think that the importance of this issue is particularly underlined by the fact that we saw how evident the level of support was for the far right in several European countries during the European Parliament elections.
In particular, we must do everything to ensure that there is no cooperation between those parties professing to be democratic and the extremist parties.
The second priority which I would like to welcome is the series of European measures to be adopted, aimed at the integration of Roma communities. (PL) Mr President, continuation of enlargement of the European Union and the future of the Treaty of Lisbon are among the objectives of the Swedish Presidency.
In this context the Swedish Presidency should initiate a Europe-wide debate on the subject of the role of the national parliaments of all the 27 Member States, and should develop a new model of cooperation between sovereign European nations.
The second priority is the implementation of the Pact on Immigration and Asylum.
You have a great deal of work ahead of you Prime Minister, and we, together with our President, will be monitoring you closely to guarantee that this work is carried out. (PT) Since Dag Hammarskjöld, Sweden has distinguished itself as a member of the United Nations (UN).
It is regrettable that the Swedish Presidency is resigning itself to the informal and disputed framework of the G20.
Mr President, why is the Swedish Presidency refusing to lead Europe into forcing reform of the UN Security Council, by demanding a seat at the table for the European Union with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon? (GA) Mr President, the referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon, which will be held in Ireland on the second day of October this year, will be one of the most important events to occur during the period of the Swedish Presidency.
Now, it is incumbent on those of us who believe that a vote in favour of the Treaty will be to the benefit of Ireland to work to progress this new arrangement in my country.
In this context I would like to point out that in the next six months, we as the European Union and Sweden as the Presidency will have to face up to problems relating to the disregard of human rights in Belarus.
Of 12 young activists who took part in a demonstration in January 2008, 11 were given custodial sentences, and several days ago one was sentenced to a year in prison.
Prime Minister, in the next six months please pay attention to the question of breaches of human rights in Belarus.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SV) Mr President, I hope I can return a little of the time I borrowed earlier. (The President briefly cut off the speaker) I know that you are waiting for a vote.
I note your eagerness and the expectations that there are of the Swedish Presidency, your desire for us to be more of a driving force in climate negotiations and to take action to combat the financial crisis and economic recession.
You have noted our Baltic Sea Strategy, our Stockholm Programme, our continued efforts to drive forward the matter of enlargement, and I would like to thank you all for the support we are experiencing in this.
A number of the ministers in my cabinet are here with me today.
It is very important for the European Parliament.
It is the beginning of our term of office and we must do many things, and this is a very good starting point: the Swedish Presidency.
in writing. - The incoming Swedish Presidency has many challenges but the greatest is the need to ensure that the EU respects the sovereignty of the Member States and does not ride roughshod over the democratic rights of the peoples of Europe.
Looking to changes ahead, the preparations for the reform of the common agricultural policy in 2013 will be an issue during this Presidency.
The voice of areas heavily dependent on farming, like Northern Ireland, must be heard during those discussions and in the debate on reform of fisheries policy.
We have a great duty to help and protect our constituents at this time of great financial turbulence.
in writing. - (PT) The anti-social programme of the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the European Union represents a dangerous step forward in the expansion of neoliberal policies.
It reflects the relentless pursuit of these policies, despite all the evidence, by the leaders of capitalism in the European Union, who are forgetting that their policies are the main cause of the economic and social crisis.
It also did not forget to insist on a new referendum in Ireland on the draft Treaty of Lisbon, already planned for 2 October, in a continuation of the blackmail of the Irish people in order to move forward more quickly with the destruction of public services and the reduction of social rights, including in the areas of social security, health, water, social protection and workers' rights.
In fact, the Roma Platform held its first meeting in April in Prague, while, in June, the European Council strengthened its general objectives in terms of offering Roma equal opportunities by calling on the Commission and Member States to combat the poverty and social exclusion affecting Roma.
In the same document the Council adopted the common basic principles set out in Prague for achieving Roma social integration, with a call to public policy-makers to take these principles into consideration and comply with them.
For example, I hope that the forthcoming conference on the inclusive labour market to be held in October and the Equal Opportunities Summit due to take place in November will deal with the issue of Europe's largest minority as a main priority.
The Stockholm Programme, which is a priority for the Swedish Presidency, must provide support in reinforcing the area of freedom, security and justice, as well as in promoting economic activity during the current crisis, especially in view of the possibility of the Treaty of Lisbon coming into force.
The success of the Stockholm Programme will help make Europe more accessible to its citizens.
This success will be reflected in the enforcement of the right of freedom of movement for all European citizens and the comprehensive implementation of the mutual recognition principle in civil and criminal matters at EU level.
The EU is facing huge challenges nowadays: the economic and financial crisis, the alarming rise in unemployment and climate change.
The unemployment rate in the EU is 8.9% at the moment, while 19% of young people under the age of 16 and 19% of elderly people are exposed to the risk of poverty.
People are losing their jobs, many businesses are going bankrupt, while national budgets are in major deficit.
The EU's Swedish Presidency has a huge responsibility towards its citizens.
Sweden is renowned for its social policies and high standard of living.
The Stockholm programme is endeavouring, in the name of combating terrorism and organised crime, to reinforce the bourgeois political system still further, so that they can combat grassroots reactions and step up repressive measures against immigrants.
