Mid-term review of the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 (debate) The next item is the report by Frédérique Ries, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the mid-term review of the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010.
It is therefore anything but a coincidence that, according to the latest statistics put out by Eurostat, six out of every ten Europeans believe it highly or relatively likely that environmental pollution is affecting their health and also, and this is important, that the European Union is not sufficiently active in this area, which is the whole object of our debate this morning.
First and foremost, I would like to thank my colleagues and most particularly the shadow rapporteurs of this report, Mrs Ferreira, Professor Trakatellis, Mrs Breyer, Mrs Belohorská and Mrs de Brún, for the excellent collaboration that we have maintained since the start of this particular project, which dates back to 2003.
While it is impossible to list them all, they include the recent legislation on ambient air quality - which owes much to your vigorous efforts, Commissioner - the pesticides package, which is about to be completed, and of course the REACH initiative, which places controls on more than 10 000 chemical substances and proposes to replace those that are causing the most problems.
The second subject of concern, and of no less importance, is that which is covered in points 23 to 25, namely the issue of climate change.
The European Union's new strategy to promote sustainable development, as adopted by our heads of state or government in June 2006, quite rightly includes public health as one of the key challenges we face, the aim being to promote health without discrimination and to improve protection against the health risks that are now being posed, and all this has to be achieved - and I will come back to this - by means of robust preventive measures.
There is the need to improve the quality of the environment, and that is what we are doing, especially with our work on the IPPC Directive and the proposal for a directive on soil quality, which we shall speak about presently, as well as the need currently facing us to improve Community expertise in this area.
We need to act according to the principles of prevention and according to the principles of precaution, which certainly means developing new tools capable of anticipating and analysing potential threats as soon as they appear or as soon as any suspicion arises, and then being able to view these various problems against a different background, such as that of climate change or biosecurity, for example, which are both areas that are connected with human health.
This review is a report on the implementation of the Action Plan to date.
As you know, the aim of the European Action Plan for the relationship between the environment and health is to improve the provision of information, and to encourage research on the environment and human health, in order to better understand the threats and risk factors posed to human health by the environment.
In the Action Plan, emphasis is laid on the vital importance of close cooperation between environmental, health and research departments, at both national and European level.
This cooperation is key in dealing in the best possible way with the mutual impact that the environment and health have on each other.
I am therefore glad that these issues are included in the European Parliament's report.
The Commission is now adopting a broader approach to the issue of air quality in indoor areas.
This approach also corresponds to the European Parliament's 2005 resolution.
In any case, a new call will be published this month to submit proposals on human biomonitoring.
Finally, let me thank the rapporteur, Mrs Ries, for her report, her excellent work and the enormous interest she has shown in the issue of the relationship between the environment and health.
I should also like to reiterate the firm intention of the Commission to continue its efforts on the Environment and Health Action Plan.
The Commission is determined to shape effective environmental legislation and ensure the correct implementation of existing legislation in order to protect both the environment and the health of European citizens.
While we can certainly recognise the efforts that the European Commission has made since the launch of the Environment and Health Action Plan in 2004, it is a matter of some regret that this initiative is not based on a genuine prevention policy that is aimed at reducing diseases linked to environmental factors and one that pursues a clear and properly costed objective.
We know that this subject, this link between environment and health, is a particularly important and sensitive issue and we need to find a proper response to it as soon as possible for our citizens' sake.
It is therefore essential to move forward so as to update our knowledge in this area and, more especially, to implement actions designed to limit the negative impact of our environment on human health.
I am also gratified to see that the report contains a reference to the 2007 document produced by the European Environment Agency showing that atmospheric pollutants, and particularly those associated with fine particles and ground-level ozone, represent a considerable threat to the proper development of children and are reducing life expectancy in the EU.
For example, I read in the Commission's 2007 communication on the objectives for 2004-2006 that the intention is to examine the possible effects of nanoparticles on health and the environment.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, as I take the floor on behalf of the UEN Group in the debate on the mid-term review of the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010, I should like to draw attention to the following issues.
This puts public authorities and economic entities in the new Member States in a particularly difficult situation.
This led to electricity prices rising immediately by between 10 and 20 per cent.
As I conclude, I should like to thank Mrs Ries for a very comprehensive and detailed report on the impact of the natural environment on human health.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, we are at the half-way point in this Action Plan, and it is time for a review.
It is clear that the potential new risks have not been taken into adequate account in the Action Plan.
The Commission cannot continue to ignore this issue.
This area of work must not be allowed to come to a standstill, and we believe that we can take this issue forward.
I call upon the Commission and Member States to recommit fully to the goals of the European Environment and Health Action Plan and furthermore to step up the plan by making it more ambitious and more in tune with our needs.
The Commission has taken some important action but we need a comprehensive policy on indoor air quality given the extent of respitory illness in the EU.
We must also provide support for our SME's to ensure that they can comply with environmental health regulations and to take steps to improve the impact they have on the environment.
The new threats to our environment and our health caused by climate change must be met head-on and in an effective way.
Bearing in mind that we spend 90% of our time indoors, the European Commission must proceed immediately to the drafting of a strategy for this, focusing on both establishing guidelines and protecting citizens who are exposed to multiple sources of biological and chemical pollution.
Particular emphasis must be placed on the condition of public buildings, offices and schools, so that we can protect the most vulnerable. (PL) Madam President, the link between health and the environment is obvious, as is the link between the environment and agriculture, because sensible and rational farming helps to protect the environment.
I support the report by Mrs Ries who deserves to be congratulated on her excellent work. (FI) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my sincerest thanks go to the rapporteur, Mrs Ries, for her excellent work.
In some countries, such as Italy, there is a 500 metre safety zone between base stations and schools, while in Finland there are base stations even on the roofs of schools.
The plan is ill-founded, both financially and in particular from an organisational perspective.
I believe that the Commission should immediately terminate the implementation of this plan, cooperate more closely with the World Health Organisation and definitely not announce a further phase of the health plan at European level. (PT) I want to start by congratulating Mrs Ries on her work.
There are now more diseases associated with environmental factors and climate change, such as respiratory diseases, allergies and cancers.
Poor air quality in schools and health establishments also causes serious problems.
Measures need to be taken to prevent future problems. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mrs Ries is absolutely beyond reproach, especially since the rapporteur monitors the implementation of the Commission's planned actions with close, unstinting attention, as well as by asking questions, and demands further efforts in the hoped-for preventive strategy which must characterise European policy action.
Nevertheless, it is important to monitor their implementation and the results achieved. (RO) The international "BioInitiative” report on electromagnetic fields and their effects on human health raises concerns and finds that the existing limit values as regards the protection against non-ionizing radiations are out-of-date and immediate actions are required in order to reduce people's exposure to the radiations generated by the equipment used by the mobile telephone operators.
We need to continue the research in this field and the fields related to mental health, such as stress and depression, in order to determine if they can be truly associated with non-ionising radiations. (PL) Madam President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report on this subject, which is of such importance for all of us Europeans.
I believe that the European Union must do more in the area of environmental diseases and take more effective action in the interests of the citizen.
I expect the Commission to do so too. (SK) I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Ries, on her report, which describes the extent of implementation of the Action Plan and puts forward many recommendations for the next stage.
I therefore support the proposal to publish a Green Paper and to adopt a proper European strategy on this topic.
The European Community must therefore become more actively engaged and adopt a position with respect to this modern threat as well as taking practical steps. (RO) I would like to add the fact that the Union's population is ageing and I consider that the European Environment and Health Plan should deal with the problems that old people have.
Nevertheless, the perspective of the year 2010 is not very near.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the fact that many of the Members who have spoken in this debate have chosen to tie in other environmental problems and it seems to me that they are right to do so, and that this being the case you are in fact calling on us to apply greater coordination and greater integration between the different environmental policies.
Mrs Ferreira wanted to know if there was a link, for example, at national level in France between the environmental Grenelle and the European Action Plan.
Within the context of the environmental Grenelle we have done a lot of work on environmental health issues and have come up against the same problems as those that you have been commenting on in one way or another.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the constructive discussion we have had on the important issue of the relationship between the environment and health.
The Commission recently asked its scientific committee for the emerging and most recently identified health risks, with a view to revising its opinion to take account of the most recent information in the report.
This topic is to be covered in the White Paper on adaptation to climate change, which is to be approved soon.
The Action Plan is an effective means of marshalling all the agents involved in the sectors of the environment, health and research at Member State and Community level, with a view to taking the environment-health relationship into account even more effectively when formulating environmental policy.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to congratulate every single one of the Members here present for the high quality of today's debate.
Mrs Kosciusko-Morizet mentioned the Interphone study, but we are very focused on this problem: the findings from this study have not been published in full precisely because some consider them to be contradictory, whereas a number of experts who have been involved in it and are working in Israel have now highlighted the link between exposure to GSM waves and the emergence of cancer of the parotid gland.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The Ries report relates to important questions about the mid-term review of the European environment and health action plan.
in writing. - (RO) I consider opportune the inclusion in the report of a reference to the Commission's and Member States' obligation to support the Children's Environment and Health Action Plan in Europe.
The issue of the European child health needs to receive all the attention due, taking into consideration the serious problems that all Member States are dealing with.
