During the Austrian Presidency, a great many issues have been addressed, and a great many such issues and problems have been solved – very often together with you, the European Parliament.
I am not claiming to cover everything, as I naturally wish to avoid encroaching too much on the speaking time of the Members of this House.
Secondly, this approach has involved reviving the continuous debate on the future of Europe.
This dual approach combining specific issues with the future of Europe will also shape the agenda of the European Council.
Therefore, the Council agenda will contain first and foremost a number of issues that all participants agree require European solutions.
These are issues that present our societies and citizens with problems that, in a globalised world, cannot be sensibly addressed without a concerted effort from all the EU Member States and, I would add, by all the institutions of the EU.
The first large group of issues concerns the area of security, freedom and justice.
All the surveys on this, including the one by the Commission – and Commission Vice-President Wallström has also said this time and again – show that the public wants more Europe, expects more from Europe, in this particular field.
We have also invested a great deal of time and energy in a Strategy for the external dimension of Justice and Home Affairs in the last six months – including making a start on developing a security belt, as it were, around the EU – and initiated a security partnership between the EU, our neighbouring countries, Russia and the United States.
This Vienna Initiative, agreed at a tripartite Summit between the EU, Russia and the USA, will also be reflected in the conclusions of the European Council.
Migration has been and remains a particularly important issue and will also be dealt with by the Council, on the basis of a number of specific cases.
This important issue warrants its own debate, where it would have to be examined from various points of view: not only from the point of view of the fight against illegal immigration and of judicial and police cooperation, but also from a development perspective.
As the person responsible for development matters in the last six months, I can say that we have been doing considerable work on the issue of migration within the framework of the EU’s development strategy, too, and that this is an important approach that we must not forget, including in our public presentation of the problem.
Everything I have mentioned up to now is of course work in progress, and so the European Council is likely to invite the parties concerned to continue the momentum of work in all these fields.
The European Council will be presented with a report on this listing progress to date and making recommendations for further action.
Former Commissioner and French Foreign Minister Michel Barnier has presented a very comprehensive, stimulating, forward-looking report, which will undoubtedly be examined closely by all the institutions of the EU in the coming weeks and months.
It contains a number of good ideas for solving this problem to the benefit of public security.
Another very important issue that cannot be sensibly solved without pan-European solutions is sustainable development.
As we know, the EU has had a strategy on this since the Gothenburg European Council in&#160;2001, whose objective is for all decisions to reflect the responsible management of natural resources.
This guideline has now been completely renewed under the Austrian Presidency and further developed into an ambitious, comprehensive new strategy for a whole range of key fields such as climate change, clean energy, transport, and emphasis on sustainable consumption and production patterns.
The issue of the Lisbon Strategy is, of course, another important topic for the European Council now to be held in Brussels.
This Directive is a good example of how the institutions of the EU, cooperating constructively and efficiently, can achieve tangible progress to the benefit of our citizens.
The Austrian Presidency is particularly obliged to Parliament for this.
It goes without saying that the issue of energy policy will be another important topic for the European Council.
This issue has been examined and discussed on a large number of occasions, including in relation to third countries – and yesterday I had the opportunity to report to this House on the Summit with the Russian Federation.
On the instructions of the European Council, the Commission and Council Secretary-General Javier Solana have prepared a strategy paper that will be presented to the European Council.
Another issue on which, according to surveys, the public expects more Europe is the issue of external policy, of the EU’s external relations.
The majority of the European public wants the EU to play an important role on the international stage.
I am sure that the Commission President will also report on this.
The issue of improving the functioning of the Union is also on the agenda of the European Council, of course.
This rather grandiose title covers the efforts of the European Council to achieve tangible progress that is also measurable by individual citizens.
One initiative that is very important to the Austrian Council Presidency – and, I should add, to me personally – is the issue of transparency in the Council.
These efforts are nothing new – progress has already been made in this direction – but the Austrian Council Presidency has attempted to find a global approach intended to create a new conscience about transparency, as it were.
The core of this proposal consists in making the whole codecision procedure in all its stages open to the public.
We have not yet resolved all the reservations, but our Presidency is resolute in its intention to work towards this up to the last possible minute.
Subsidiarity has been an important issue, as, in addition to a conscience about transparency, we undoubtedly need greater awareness of subsidiarity.
I wish to make clear that our Presidency has been guided by a different objective.
It is important to us that this issue now be a fixed item on the agenda and that it be borne in mind even more consciously than before.
If the proposal drawn up yesterday between the negotiators can now be pushed through – both in the Council and Parliament – we shall have achieved progress that, although on a rather dry issue, is nevertheless important for our cooperation.
I should now like to move on to the last part of my speech: the future of Europe, the constitutional process, and the period of reflection.
The period of reflection on which the European Council decided last June has meant that many Member States have taken more or less intensive initiatives to set in motion a real debate about the European project.
I would remind the House of the ‘Sound of Europe’ conference at the start of the Austrian Presidency, and also of an event that, in my opinion, can definitely be called a success – the (European Café) event that was held at the same time in all the capitals on Europe Day.
We have had a good working relationship with the Commission, to the benefit of greater transparency and a better response to citizens’ demands and expectations.
Moving on to the subject of the Constitutional Treaty, we have succeeded in breaking the silence that reigned at first.
It was not a foregone conclusion that this debate could be revived, but we worked hard at it and, in late May, succeeded in holding a discussion of this issue between Ministers for Foreign Affairs for the first time in more than a year.
One thing is clear as far as the Austrian Council Presidency is concerned, however: we must work together with all the Member States and all the institutions to make progress on the key issues surrounding the future of the European Union.
Finally, there is EU enlargement, another issue that will be given prominence at the European Council.
I do not wish to go into detail on individual countries.
The Heads of State or Government will continue this discussion and determine how to proceed in the coming months.
It has emerged that, in the second half of this year, the Commission will be working out, among other things, a contribution to the debate on the European Union’s capacity to cope with enlargement – for which, as you know, there have been calls from Parliament, too.
As you know, this has been a particular priority for the Austrian Council Presidency.
This issue is to be seen in the context of a policy of peace and stability in the Balkans.
This shadow has raised doubts about Europe and about Europe’s ability to define a project for us to live together as Europeans.
That is one of the reasons why we need to find a solution to the constitutional issue.
We lose a clarification of the powers between the various levels, we lose an extension of the codecision procedure and an extension of qualified majority voting, we lose a legally binding Charter of Fundamental Rights, we lose an EU Foreign Affairs Minister who would also act as the Vice-President of the Commission, and we lose more effective action in areas such as public health, food safety and even energy, because the Constitution was extending the powers in that area.
We also lose an extra degree of consistency in external matters.
On this point, I should like to say to you – and my one and a half year’s experience as President of the Commission confirms this – that we, in Europe, genuinely need what the Constitutional Treaty was providing us with externally: more effectiveness, more democracy and more consistency.
The current Treaties do not allow us fully to achieve all of these objectives.
Firstly, the trap that consists in saying, as some people would have it, that the Constitution is dead and buried and that we should only do practical things: that would be dangerous for Europe.
Moreover, it would also be dangerous for Europe, I should point out, if, at this point, we were to let ourselves get caught up in a purely institutional or constitutional debate, if we were to claim that we are being held up now while we await a solution to the constitutional issue.
That is why we must progress on two levels, as is explained in our document of 10&#160;May concerning the twin-track approach.
The first level relates to a Europe of results, a Europe of practical projects, but – and we are coming to the second level – a Europe of results that is not in opposition, that is not an alternative, to political Europe, and that is, in contrast, a prerequisite for gaining the citizens' support for Europe as a great political project.
Despite everything, we have already achieved certain things.
The truth is that, even after the two ‘No’ votes in the referendums, we were able to settle the budgetary issue for the next seven years, and to do so for 27 countries.
Thanks to the European Parliament’s contribution, we were able, despite everything, to find a political solution to the very controversial problem of the Services Directive.
We were able, despite everything, to relaunch the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment.
We have launched a common energy strategy in Europe, something that was unthinkable two years ago.
Let us therefore carry on making progress on the basis of practical projects.
In our document of 10&#160;May, we make some practical proposals.
To see what is not working in the single market in order to protect consumers in Europe.
To see what obstacles still stand in the way of fully completing the great European market.
At the same time as making progress on the issue of the market, we must make progress on the social issue.
On the basis of the existing Treaties, to make progress in relation to justice, cooperation and the fight against terrorism and crime.
It is possible, on the basis of the current Treaties, to do more in terms of immigration and of the fight against illegal immigration, at the same time as dealing with issues concerning legal migration.
If the Member States want to do more, then they can do so on the very basis of the Treaties.
Let us therefore make progress in relation to justice and security.
A great deal more can be done, too, in relation to the external dimension.
The right solution is the one included in the Constitution: a Foreign Affairs Minister, Vice-President of the Commission.
We must pool our skills and our resources in external matters, but, in view of the fact that there is still no Constitution, the Commission presented a document a few days ago that contains practical proposals designed to increase the effectiveness, consistency and visibility of the European Union in external matters.
Moreover, we have made some important proposals regarding subsidiarity, transparency and better regulation for Europe.
We have there a series of practical projects, and that is without mentioning the two major areas that, in my opinion, will project Europe into the future: energy, following on from the Green Paper that we presented, and research.
These are two key priorities.
The truth is that our research budget will increase by 60% for the next seven years compared with the previous period.
We also need a symbolic project designed to harness our abilities in the field of research.
Thus, let us rally around certain practical projects that can restore people’s confidence in Europe: this is the Europe of projects.
We are proposing to move on now from the so-called period of reflection and enter into a commitment period.
There are two possibilities: either we make a declaration focused solely on the past, in other words a simple commemoration, or we make a declaration focused on the future, a way of renewing our commitment for the sake of our common project.
As President of the Commission, I believe that I have the duty to ask the Heads of State or Government, who are the stakeholders of our projects, to renew their commitment.
I believe that you too, as Members of the European Parliament, will have a right to ask our Heads of State or Government whether they wish to invest in this project for living together as Europeans, which is needed now more than ever in this globalised world.
That is why I have proposed a declaration that is not simply a new Messina Declaration.
If we succeed in this undertaking, by putting all of our energy into it, we will have an opportunity next year to relaunch the European constitutional process and the process of building a Europe that is an enlarged Europe, and that involves a debate on enlargement.
I believe that it is our duty to do everything possible to make Europe, in its enlarged form, work.
Let us hold a debate on the issue of absorption capacity, but let us do so by highlighting the added value that enlargement has already represented for Europe.
An enlarged Europe, an open Europe, a more competitive Europe, a Europe that is much more than just a market, a Europe that has a political project, and a political project that is based on the idea of solidarity because, without solidarity, the very idea of a Union does not exist.
That is the great project for the Europe of the 21st century.
That is the great project for Europe.
If it is to be achieved, it is vital that politicians emerge from the vicious circle of Euro-pessimism and can start to build the virtuous circle of trust, with practical results, of course, but also with this great vision of our great Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission have conveyed the good impression that the European Constitution is not dead but very much alive, and that there is the common will to bring this important European project to a successful conclusion.
I believe that this Parliament can support wholeheartedly what we have heard.
The Austrian Presidency has revived the constitutional debate.
In our resolution, we ask the Commission President to present the people with a study showing everything we stand to lose by not having this new Treaty.
The number one message to the Summit is that we once again need a declaration from all 25&#160;Member States that they support this common project and are also willing to continue the ratification process.
This declaration is necessary because other public statements have occasionally given the impression that the Member States concerned are distancing themselves from their commitments, and that would be a real crisis of confidence and a breakdown in loyalty among the Member States.
Thirdly, it is music to our ears that the Summit is to decide on a timetable.
The EU has always been successful when it has been working towards a clear objective and a fixed date.
That was the case with the internal market and with the euro, and must now also be the case with the Constitution.
It remains an open question how and under what circumstances these two countries could continue the ratification process.
The moment of truth will come following the elections in the Netherlands and France, if not sooner, and their partners need to know what the specific problem is with the Treaty.
It is about time we saw a commitment to examining this issue more closely – it cannot be resolved by others; no one else can hold the debate in their place.
The effort needs to come from the two countries themselves, but they do need to be asked.
Some countries are still silent and are not becoming involved.
This process requires the participation of not only the executive, but also the legislative bodies, the parliaments, and we, Parliament, are willing to continue this interparliamentary dialogue.
As President Barroso has already outlined, we have set a Citizens’ Agenda with these concrete projects and the things we want to achieve.
The Commission, as you have already heard, remains wholly committed to the principles, the values and the efficiency gains that the Constitutional Treaty would bring.
To begin with, the Commission intends to implement the ambitious policy-driven agenda to address citizens’ expectations and restore public confidence in the European project.
At the same time, the Commission remains fully committed to debating and engaging in dialogue with citizens at European, national and regional levels.
We should use that to explain the added value of the European project.
Our two institutions may not always agree on every detail, but there is one fundamental belief that we share: our commitment to becoming a more democratic, transparent and effective Union.
We must involve citizens more in the policy process at all levels, particularly young people and women.
I have said it before and I will say it again: Plan D is not a rescue operation for the Constitution.
It is a starting point for a long-term democratic reform process.
I see and hear of lot of nostalgic harking back to the good old days of the European Union, but nowadays it is no good having a few men shut themselves away in a castle somewhere trying to solve the problems of the European Union.
Today we need to engage citizens; we need the support and trust of citizens and the confidence of citizens to be able to build a future for the European Union.
As you pointed out in your motion for a resolution, we need a special focus in Plan&#160;D for the coming year, until the June 2007 Summit.
After all, Europe will make progress only as a result of day-to-day efforts, of hard, specific work, and not as a result of brilliant feats of rhetoric – there is no shortage of soapbox speeches in Europe.
This dual path – defence of the principles of the substance of the European Constitution on the one hand and specific projects for taking Europe forward on the other – has our strong support.
I wish to stress on behalf of our group that this has our emphatic support, and it would be good if the other group chairmen were to join me in stating that quite clearly.
When we celebrate the anniversary of 25&#160;March&#160;1957 next year – on 25&#160;March&#160;2007 – our group will insist that this event not be a celebration of those Heads of State or Government who engage in mutual appreciation under or in front of pretty flags, but rather that it express Europe’s democracy, and that there be European Parliament involvement in the declaration and the establishment of our objectives for the 21st&#160;century.
I would call on the General Secretariat of the Council to give Parliament due involvement from the outset, as the Commission President has proposed – for which we should like to express our appreciation and thanks to him.
My second comment concerns security in Europe.
A further point concerns the Lisbon Strategy.
On the issue of the Services Directive, we have proved our good will, our capacity for action – and compliments to the Austrian Presidency for taking this path.
Speaking of the concept of solidarity – and looking here at Mr&#160;Kasoulides – I consider it unacceptable for us to negotiate with Turkey at the present time – and that is a decision, and taking a decision means the Treaties must be complied with – when Turkey does not recognise one of the Member States of the EU, when it does not extend the customs union under the Ankara Protocol to Cyprus.
My last comment concerns the debate on the Fundamental Rights Agency.
Of course, the Council of Europe has been presented with a report by Jean-Claude Juncker on this subject.
We have 25, soon to be more, and the activities of each community must complement the other’s sensibly.
If the Council Presidency takes that into account at the Summit, my praise for the success of this Presidency will be even greater.
I therefore wish the Presidency every success for the Brussels Summit tomorrow and the day after. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start with a comment for the benefit of the President-in-Office of the Council.
The day before yesterday, this Parliament adopted an interim report on the Temporary Committee on the CIA.
The voting in my group was fairly consistent, that in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fairly inconsistent, but nevertheless a majority recognised that the EU is founded upon the rule of law – and I would ask the President-in-Office to convey that message to the Council in preparation for the meeting with George Bush.
The existence of the EU and its Member States is based on the philosophy of the rule of law.
The EU is a place where the rule of law prevails; Guantánamo and the CIA flights are places of lawlessness.
A community based on the rule of law such as the EU, which defends its values, must say a clear ‘no’ to the abuse of our institutions by the US secret services and an even more emphatic ‘no’ to the existence of legal vacuums such as Guantánamo.
We say ‘yes’ to the need for this Constitution, and ‘yes’ to the reforms that the Constitution must bring in order to replace the inadequate Treaty of Nice.
We need to ask those whose referendums are responsible for throwing out this Constitution what they are actually proposing, how we can surmount this obstacle.
One thing is clear, however: the EU’s crisis is also a crisis for some governments, and that is the reason time and again for the inability of the European Council to move forward on most points, as some governments do not want this Constitutional Treaty and others are hiding behind those who do not want it.
Incidentally, that is true of Denmark, Portugal and all those with a difference of opinion from the three present and future Council Presidencies.
The Prime Minister of Finland, Matti Vanhanen, is courageous in symbolically ratifying and declaring his support for the Constitution during the Finnish Council Presidency.
Although the proposal he has made for this referendum is not a new one and has already been discussed by the Convention, it does show that Austria wants this Constitution.
The German Government, which will then hold the third successive Council Presidency, has declared its firm support for this Constitution, which is a good sign.
The Council’s proposal, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, to demand a solemn declaration from leaders of whether they do indeed wish to further European integration, whether they really support the principles of deepening integration, whether they still support the spirit of the Treaties of Rome 50&#160;years on, is a good idea.
After all, one thing is absolutely clear – and I say this on behalf of our group and of all its members: we want EU enlargement.
Without the constitutional reforms and the associated division of powers, however; without the clarity of action or the democratising potential that the Constitution holds, this enlargement is impossible – unless we want to destroy Europe, which we do not.
For this reason, we are all required to continue to fight for this Constitution, so that Europe retains its basis in the rule of law and acquires the economic strength it needs to meet the challenges of the 21st&#160;century. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the success of this week’s Summit rests, first and foremost, on delivering on one concept: democratisation.
Europe will be built with the support of the citizens or not at all.
Key initiatives, particularly in justice and home affairs, are often hampered by the absence of qualified majority voting and they end in stalemate.
The time has come to apply the clause of Article&#160;42 and shift policies from the third to the first pillar, as proposed by the Commission in its Communication of 10&#160;May, for our reputation – indeed our influence – rests on upholding values like democracy, liberty and respect for human rights.
But it is also time to recognise that the sixteenth and final Member State likely to ratify the Constitution in its current form is Finland.
We must recognise that France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom will never ratify the 2004 text.
My group thanks the Austrian Presidency for its good work thus far.
We wish you success with other important items on your agenda: migration and other aspects of the Hague Programme; social and economic policy; the fundamental rights agency that we so badly need.
Firstly, if the declaration must be ready in March and if the European Parliament intends to contribute to it in some way, I believe that we ought to say something different regarding the matter on which we are due to vote tomorrow, which is simply that we need to retain this text and that this Constitutional Treaty is the only thing that the European Parliament can accept.
The Member States have not succeeded in doing this but, unfortunately, neither have we.
Secondly, on the subject of sustainable development, we find a number of very interesting statements in the final declarations that we have received.
A more decisive measure is needed on climate change, on transport and on biodiversity, and the European Union’s funds need to be used in a more environmentally friendly way.
Thirdly, I wanted to address the issue of the external dimension.
I believe that, on this point, over and above hoping, you ought to be more specific.
I shall conclude by addressing you, Mr&#160;Winkler, because when you spoke about Tunisia yesterday, we were very disappointed and surprised.
The first part of the Brussels Summit’s draft conclusion is dedicated to this and is charmingly entitled: ‘Europe listens’.
Strangely enough, however, the issue that is at the heart of the crisis of confidence plaguing the Union, that is to say the social issue, is, for its part, completely sidelined in the European Council’s draft conclusion, which, in the course of one sentence, merely calls on the Commission to draft a report on the situation by next spring.
That is what we must discuss first in order to draw the necessary conclusions from it.
All of that reinforces our idea that the famous period of reflection and Plan D will only be useful if they represent an opportunity to hold a trouble-free debate in the open on the structural changes to be promoted so that Europeans might once again see a reason to be positive about Europe in the world today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council, as well as the Vice-President of the Commission, for their presentations and contributions.
The Austrian Presidency has proven over the last few months that when you deal with a particular issue in a certain way you can achieve success.
First of all, there must be a restatement of commitment and idealism in respect of the Lisbon Agenda, establishing the genuine goals and targets of having, by 2010, the most dynamic economy in the world and creating the investment, research and development that we will need to create new jobs and new opportunities.
With regard to energy, the President of the Commission has come forward with a good policy for a common energy policy in Europe, but we should also look at the alternatives, including the opportunity to use fuel crops to produce energy.
Last year, the EU adopted more than 3&#160;000 acts.
The majority of EU laws will, however, continue to be adopted by officials in 300 secret Council working parties after having been prepared in 3&#160;000 other secret working parties under the auspices of the Commission.
The real progress made at the Summit is in terms of its support for the Commission’s proposal that, in future, all proposals should be dealt with in proximity to the people, that is to say in the national parliaments.
It is a constructive proposal, and the initiative now lies with the national parliaments.
Use your many means and your sensory mechanisms to find out what the European public really wants.
The field of justice – which can only be the product of the two last-mentioned fields, namely democracy and control – is sadly lacking.
He is right in saying that the two referendums with a negative outcome have plunged us into a crisis that is partly reinforced by our calling it one.
That is why we want to salvage the political project of the Constitution.
To the President-in-Office of the Council I would say that I most definitely expect this Summit to put an end to any talk of the death of the political project of a new Treaty, and to result instead in all parties declaring their support for the decision on this political project, concluding it in this parliamentary term and continuing the ratification process.
Let us increase transparency and make Plan D more specific.
Last month, we debated here with Commissioner Rehn Romania’s and Bulgaria’s accession further to the Commission’s progress report on the preparations of those two countries.
This week, the Heads of State or Government will be addressing the same subject during their meeting.
The Commission shares our ambition to hold firm to 1 January 2007 as the accession date for both countries, provided they apply themselves to addressing the outstanding reforms.
Like the Commission, we are convinced that this should be possible without any problems.
Both candidate countries have demonstrated recently that they both have resolve in what they do, which gives my group the confidence that preparations will be completed in time.
In adopting this attitude, we all have our own role to play.
In the past, we have asked the Commission to make an extra effort in order to help Romania and Bulgaria in their preparations, and to be clear about what they expect of the candidate countries.
The Council, too, has the responsibility to reach an even-handed verdict, but it also has the responsibility to ensure that the EU countries finish the ratification of the accession treaty on time.
As was agreed last year with the European Commission, Parliament too will remain involved in monitoring the accession process right to the end, and I am convinced that this will result in a positive outcome. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I would say to the President-in-Office of the Council that, at the end of the Austrian Council Presidency, his country’s government has another chance to rescue the Council from its helplessness, as his country’s Presidency has produced very mixed results so far.
As Mr&#160;Watson said, the Presidency really has passionate supporters of this in the shape of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
As regards the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, however, the Council must understand that this Treaty has failed in its present form.
In this context, I was very pleased to read an interview with the boss of the President-in-Office, Wolfgang Schüssel, in the German newspaper – for two reasons.
Secondly, however, he took up the proposal to hold a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty on the same day in all the Member States of the EU.
Yet if he succeeds in putting the idea of a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty on the same day throughout Europe in front of the other Heads of State or Government and in winning support for it among them, he will be able to say, in all modesty, that he has produced epoch-making decisions.
The failed referendums are the result rather than the cause of Europessimism.
The Governments have been standing in the way of Europe.
They are not able to come up with a social response to globalisation.
I hope that this understanding plays a role in the Council, too. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the last year has been marked by numerous popular protests against the Services Directive, but also by campaigns against the dismantling of social services and the weakening of democracy.
It is time for not only governments, but also the Commission and Parliament, to realise at long last that, outside the European institutions, the EU public started long ago to develop its own conception of a different Europe, a different EU.
Admittedly, if she were to understand the requisite measures of which she has just spoken in the sense of these corrections, she would have our wholehearted support.
In my view, a further demonstration of this is the recent proposal by the Austrian Council Presidency to put the old text of the Constitution, without amendments, to a direct vote in the EU Member States.
It is difficult to imagine that any French or Dutch leader would be willing to put the same document to their people again.
One of those countries is now in the European Union and the others are knocking at the European Union’s door.
In Spain, the separatist tendencies in Catalonia are hard to overlook, while in Belgium it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain unity between Wallonia and Flanders.
Let us therefore stop flogging this dead horse and deal with issues that are really important to Europe and its citizens.
We need to support entrepreneurship and create new jobs, we need reforms to accelerate economic growth and increase tax revenues in order to allow greater spending on social programmes, education, public healthcare and pensions.
If the European Union is effective in resolving these problems, then Europe will also function well without the Constitutional Treaty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Council is once again returning to the issue of the draft Constitution for Europe, in spite of the fact that the text which it is stubbornly attempting to resuscitate is dead.
Some commentators have referred to these actions as political necrophilia.
However, she did not say how the Constitution would resolve the specific problems of the citizens of the Member States or what would happen to the citizens of those countries which have already rejected this Constitution in democratic referendums.
The Constitutional Treaty is a threat to democracy as it has nothing to do with the participation of citizens in deciding the fate of their countries or with the accountability of politicians to their electorate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the people of France and the Netherlands are sticking to their guns.
It is also a show of dissent for those who wanted to make the people of France and the Netherlands vote again on the Constitution, a Constitution accompanied by a social protocol designed to reassure the French and by a protocol on subsidiarity designed to reassure the Dutch.
It never rains but it pours for the Euro-federalists: according to the same poll, 63% of French people and 68% of Dutch people want to take back a number of powers from the European Union or to leave it altogether.
It is also the return of the right of the peoples and nations to follow their own destiny and to defend their sovereignty and their identity.
They rejected the Schengen Agreement and a Europe overrun by massive influxes of immigrants granted residence and work permits on the initiative of Mr&#160;Zapatero and Mr&#160;Berlusconi.
They did not grasp the fact that the nations of Europe did not want Turkey in Europe and that the Turkish advance imposed by Brussels was creating an irreparable split. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this Summit is scheduled to be, in part at least, a stocktaking exercise on the European Constitution.
The longer this issue drags on, the more out of touch the European Union appears to be with its citizens.
I personally also want to see a Europe of real reform, because without reform there can be no results.
Progress has been made in economic reform and I congratulate President Barroso and his colleagues for the work they have done there.
However, we need to do much more and be more focused, as Mrs Wallström said, on achieving the concrete results.
Nevertheless, it could give out a very important twofold signal, namely ‘yes’ to enlargement, but also ‘yes’ to strengthening the institutions of the European Union, particularly in the context of the Union’s capacity to cope with enlargement.
It never ceases to amaze me when some of our British fellow Members say that we do not need a constitution but we do need a lot of new Members.
Equally, some Polish fellow Members – particularly on the right – are opposed to the Constitution, but believe that Ukraine must join as soon as possible.
This is not because we want to detract from the USA or from the fight against terrorism, but because we want to conduct the fight against terrorism alongside the USA – on the basis of these common values. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have an appeal to make to the EU Heads of State or Government when they meet in Brussels tomorrow and on Friday.
In, for example, Germany, France and my own country, Denmark, we are currently debating what economic reforms are needed to secure welfare in the future.
I would therefore call on all the Heads of State or Government to open up the meetings of the Council of Ministers so that everyone can see how they proceed, can hopefully see that there is nothing to hide and can see whether ministers have actually been present.
That brings me to my second point, which concerns the instruments designed to promote social solidarity or social justice.
That is the contradiction between those who are reluctant to pursue enlargement and those who want more social justice: maintaining unanimity on all fiscal matters amounts to standing in the way of a possible European fiscal policy.
To conclude, Mr&#160;President, the European Union’s political project does not amount to a single market, which we need, but to a form of competition among national models.
We need a more proactive approach and more common policies at European level in order to guarantee fairness and a European social model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if we did not have a European Union, there would certainly be a need for a Europe-wide cooperative that contributes to a better life for those living in the border regions, to cross-border aspects of the environment, energy supply, consumer protection and to the protection of health against internationally tradeable dangerous substances.
People want a Europe that helps remove the barriers for peace, social security, public services and international solidarity.
People want a Europe that helps them solve their problems, rather than a Europe that causes inconvenience.
Voters in two countries have given us a signal that things must change.
We will need to use enlargement and the increased involvement of our citizens creatively in order to make a new and better start possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the majority of the reforms required can be carried out without the new treaty.
We not only need to reflect on the new treaty, but also on the political will of Member States and their citizens in relation to carrying out common tasks.
The problem is not the lack of a new treaty but the lack of shared beliefs concerning the future.
We announce common interests in energy matters, yet on a daily basis we are conducting an utterly selfish energy policy.
We claim to espouse the principle of subsidiarity, yet we are funding a framework research programme which will be cofinanced by all European taxpayers, even though some of the research concerned is illegal in many Member States.
While one Member State declares the document dead, another Member State ratifies the Constitution as if nothing was wrong.
I would prefer a treaty document to a constitution, a manageable document that combines the previous treaties, a treaty in which the Union, within a defined space, demonstrates its added value in the area of cross-border policy challenges.
I would particularly call on the Austrian Presidency to show leadership by finally removing the confusion that has come about and to give the emergence of a new treaty framework a shot in the arm.
Austria is finally leaving its mark on this programme, something which I have waited for for six months. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we like to claim that the EU is a Union of values based on democracy and the rule of law.
So, press ahead with the EU Constitution if you must, but be warned: you are fuelling public resentment, which will blow the European construction apart. &#160;&#160; Mr President, illegal immigration has become one of the European Union’s major challenges.
I would therefore have liked to have heard the Austrian Presidency say something more decisive, more ambitious and more concrete about the progress you expect from the next European Council in this field.
I am well aware that some people will say that certain governments take decisions against the wishes of their European partners, ignoring the Commission, and then, when problems arise, they want them to be resolved amongst all of us.
Moving on to other issues, the Presidency referred in passing to the document requested of Michel Barnier.
One detail remains to be resolved, Mr President, so that Parliament can vote for it during the first week of July.
The fact is that the energy issue is going to become a key element of all European policies.
The economic, environmental and social policies of our countries will be governed by it.
In its resolution on the Lisbon Strategy, Parliament called on the Union to consult with the US, the Japanese, the Chinese and the Indians, with a view to preventing a form of competition that would end up ruining everyone.
Everyone knows that Europe’s future energy supply will be neither 100% nuclear nor 100% renewable.
We need as intelligent an energy mix as we can possibly have, bearing in mind the differences in geography and climate within the Member States, as well as their resources in terms of primary energy, biomass and so on.
Then, above all, Europe must become more united and more vigorous in defending our common interests. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the purpose of this debate is to provide President Borrell with something interesting to say when he speaks at the European Council tomorrow.
I fear that if Parliament simply agrees the line proposed by the PPE-DE and PSE Groups, we will be signing up to the same paralysis that exists within the Council.
I expect it is going to be possible to ring-fence the classical constitutional provisions that we find in the first and second parts of the Constitution, around which consensus still exists.
However, it is Part&#160;3 which contains the common policies that have so greatly disappointed public opinion in France and the Netherlands and in several other places, notably as regards social and economic policy and the issue of borders.
We either try to improve the product and market it effectively within the court of public opinion, or we consign the whole project to oblivion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the main mechanisms for the integration of Europe is the enlargement of the European Union.
Bulgaria and Romania are at the doors of the EU, Turkey is already negotiating its accession conditions, the new state of Montenegro has expressed its hope of becoming a member of the European Union, and other states in the Balkans may follow suit.
In this context, I should like to focus on the issue of the Copenhagen criteria and the policies related to minorities.
Many states are still following the old-fashioned French model and trying to assimilate those who have a language and culture different to that of the state.
That is to say as a way of respecting human rights, because fulfilling minority rights is absolutely essential to respecting human rights.
A year ago, the referendums in the Netherlands and France sent clear messages to the EU.
The draft Constitution was rejected by large majorities.
If the EU had listened, that decision would have been respected.
If the desire is for an open debate on the EU’s future, the democratic ground rules must be respected, and it must be made clear that the Constitution has been rejected once and for all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are to have an extended period of reflection, are we?
But all we have heard this morning is, ‘We were right.
As regards enlargement, I shall highlight the importance of the compatibility criterion and of absorption capacity, which I am afraid has not been strongly supported by my country in the debates within the Council.
This is disgraceful when we consider that, in Italy, the terrorism of the and groups has affected not only police officers, judges, politicians and industrialists, but also trade unionists and exponents of the best Labour culture, such as Professor Biagi. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Winkler, your Presidency can already boast of a positive track record.
As for the European Council that is due to take place, it is not in a position to take major decisions, but it may have a decisive influence on the future fate of the European Union.
From now on, we must regard the European Union’s absorption capacity as a key parameter.
There can be no further enlargement without an improvement in the decision-making mechanisms, without a sufficient budget, without new resources and without a genuine agreement on the nature of the European project.
This is what it is basically about: constructing a political Europe by setting out the timetable for implementing the main reforms contained in the Constitutional Treaty, which we refuse to forget about.
We want the governments and our Parliament to draft the policies that we need: on immigration, energy, economic coordination, research, security and foreign relations.
Contrary to what is claimed, Europeans want more Europe, but they want a Europe that creates forms of solidarity, that guarantees security, that makes an impact on the world and that does not just police the market.
They want a Europe, too, that respects its most sacred commitments: Strasbourg as the seat of the European Parliament.
We trust that you will provide evidence of this at the end of June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have been saying that Europe is a citizens’ Europe, because the European Union exists through them and for them.
The political effect of the enlargement is making itself felt behind the will of those who voted against, and solidarity has not become second nature to our operation, but, like you, I do have hopes for the future.
On the other hand, we are, at times, at a loss as to why the old Member States, during the Council session, abandoned their former initiative concerning the creation of the Fundamental Rights Agency, when we, new Member States, are continuously proving ourselves in matters of democracy and respect for human rights.
But when it comes to human rights, why do we prefer to examine others rather than ourselves, the Member States of the European Union?
We believe that defining preferences for the European Social Fund is particularly important in the course of the determination of social policy objectives.
Finally, when it comes to catching up, some are travelling in a high-speed elevator to the designated floor, while others have to struggle on the stairs.
Let us think of those who have started the painstaking process of climbing the stairs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Poland supports the Constitutional Treaty.
The Austrian Presidency can be proud of its many achievements, three of which I would like to point out today.
Secondly, I think that the heeding of Parliament’s call for Council debates to be more transparent was a very important step and I congratulate the Austrian Presidency on this achievement.
Finally, we need to ask what can be done to make the constitutional text possible?
The third part of the Constitutional Treaty largely repeats treaties that have already been ratified.
The European Commission should carry out a legal analysis and only the 25 or so amendments that have already been tabled should be included in the first part of the treaty and be subject to an immediate decision.
This is a great task for the European institutions and I would like to express my faith in the Commission and the Presidency of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there are two issues here: do we have and to what extent do we respect democracy in Europe and who is ultimately in charge.
In Turkey and you tolerate it.
These are the facts, Mr President of the Commission, and I propose that your next meeting with Mr Bush should be held not in the Azores, but at Guantánamo.
Austria is, from a historical perspective, in the best position to alter this process.
Less than a hundred years ago, the Austro-Hungarian Empire united 21 European countries.
Politics must not fail the great challenge of building a Europe that is aware of the role it must carry out on the international stage, that is to say, a Europe that exports peace, a Europe that is capable of taking a leading role in the Mediterranean, in the Middle East, in the Balkans and in the fight against terrorism and against counterfeiting, a Europe of strong transatlantic relations.
We want a political Europe, a Europe of values, a Europe of the people, a Europe of subsidiarity, a Europe of solidarity and a Europe of freedom.
Like all those who campaigned for it to be ratified – and I was one of them in France – I remain convinced that it contains some crucial advances with regard to the functioning and the democratic life of the Union.
However, we must dispel the myth that, in time, it will be possible to present the same text, accompanied by a simple annex, in the countries in which it was rejected.
We must also do away with the hypocrisy of the Member States that have so far been unable to ratify it and that, in actual fact, are quite simply unable to secure a majority, particularly when the people have been promised a referendum.
I will mention six of them, and I believe that we should more or less stop there.
Firstly, to strengthen the powers of the European Parliament, whose legitimacy is being recognised more and more by Europeans.
Fifthly, to review the rules on qualified majority voting on the basis of what was agreed in the Treaty of 2004, in such a way that they are based on the population.
I am convinced that, in all of our countries, the majority of people would be willing to support these reforms.
Let us attach importance to the substance rather than to the form. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Zeus should declare his feelings for his lover Europa: that was my plea six months ago at the start of the Austrian Council Presidency.
Europe urgently needs a new master plan with projects focused on the citizen.
This is impossible when the Council Presidency rotates biannually.
If it does this, even the public will give the green light for the Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, typical statements contained in the Presidency’s draft conclusions concern the EU’s need to listen to people and need to conduct a dialogue with them.
Europeans cannot vote for their own parties and, at the same time, communicate their deep euroscepticism.
That is something we must change in the future so that we do not continue with this undignified game.
An establishment must listen to the people and be prepared to conduct a dialogue with them.
The establishment must represent the people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have the growing impression that the discussion on the future of Europe has reached a dead end.
I have the impression that the discussion on the Constitutional Treaty is precisely such an obstruction.
I nevertheless lamented the fact that, as a result of the ambitions of certain politicians, it came to be known as the European Constitution, which led from a pragmatic discussion of what should be included in the treaty to a referendum for or against the European Union.
Although I lamented this label and these ambitions, I also acknowledged that such a treaty was necessary.
It is not possible to vote again on the same document in these countries.
I appeal to you to remove this obstruction, allowing fresh blood to reach the heart, so that we may deal with serious problems such as the real liberalisation of the European economy, something which still has not taken place. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the subjects for the forthcoming Summit is the attempt to define the European Union’s exact absorption capacity with regards to potential new members.
Today, in Belarus, we support civil society.
However, the Union should pay particular attention to defining clear European prospects for Ukraine.
The behaviour of the Kiev Government when attempts were made to use energy as a tool for blackmail in December, its solidarity with Moldova, for example the close monitoring of the Transnistria region and its good relations with Georgia show that Ukraine can be a real stabilising force in the region and can guarantee the growth of democracy.
It is an invaluable ally for the European Union.
I will now move on to the second issue related to the European Summit, which is the creation of a Fundamental Rights Agency.
This is supposed to be an important institution whose work should support respect for human rights.
However, I would like to express my concern about the fact that there are attempts to limit its scope to activities in the Member States of the European Union.
The historic mission of the Union is that of supporting and promoting democratic ideas and governments.
Worldwide, many threats still exist outside the European Union.
That is why the setting up of a Fundamental Rights Agency should be used to send a clear message to the global public that the Union possesses an effective instrument to support all those who fight for human rights and basic democratic freedoms.
The Agency needs to act in other countries as well, most importantly those which are covered by the European Union neighbourhood policy or by partnership agreements, as is the case with Russia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is an old saying that if you do not fight, you do not count.
I recognise that you are fighting for a new treaty.
If we do not have the people with us, we will not have a new treaty.
We cannot combat terrorism, trafficking and cross-border crime without a new treaty.
My last point is that we need Bulgaria and Romania.
First, I do wonder, when we hold our debates here in Strasbourg, whether we should really be setting up the Fundamental Rights Agency in Vienna in competition to the Council of Europe, a tried and tested instrument that is able to take on this task not only for the EU Member States but far beyond our borders.
Secondly – and in this I almost completely agree with what Mr&#160;Rasmussen said before me – we obviously also need to defend our own values in the context of the enlargement negotiations.
The Austrian Presidency of the Council could have sent out a clearer signal in this regard, too.
Thirdly, the European Union is founded on the Member States.
That really does need to be taken into account, otherwise this project will ultimately founder. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we complain that, in spite of our successes and achievements during 50 years of European integration, the European Union has become stuck in a rut.
After all, the European Constitution is a fundamental document which will allow the Union to deal with new challenges.
We are all aware that the Union cannot develop further on the basis of the existing Treaties, and not because these Treaties are ‘too restrictive’ for 25 or more Member States.
However, these words must be backed up with actions and the most important task at the moment is to win back the trust of the citizens of Europe in the European project.
We have to do this in the old Union where Europe has become very commonplace because the citizens have had it for too long and also take advantage of pro-European feeling, or rather enthusiasm, in the new Member States.
In my country, Poland, 80% of citizens want more Europe and 60% want a Constitutional Treaty.
This is a good sign and I hope that during the European Summit these countries will make the right decisions, showing the way for Europe and the place of the Constitutional Treaty, so that we may overcome this impasse. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President of the European Commission, you have made a good speech today and I would like to congratulate you on it.
In fact, if the two countries that failed to ratify the Constitution did so for reasons quite different to those regarding the constitutional text, then it is really a question of moving more quickly on practical policies capable of changing Europe’s image for the better.
There can be no single currency without common economic and social policies and without a genuine form of socio-economic governance.
We must therefore clearly state that social and economic problems are resolved by a form of institution building that is in keeping with the Community approach.
If we do not want to destroy Europe, then we must state, as Mr&#160;Schulz did, that Europe needs the Constitution immediately. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Euro-pessimism that President Barroso spoke about seems to be a much more contagious disease than avian flu.
I think people can easily differentiate between far-sighted, compassionate and courageous leadership and the petty and patronising approach of those whose main aim is to retain control of the situation.
If the name of the Constitution is an obstacle, then I am prepared to change the name.
We could streamline the format, but we need to retain the substance of the Constitution, otherwise we cannot successfully apply the common policies of enlarged Europe.
We cannot apply the solidarity which is a guiding principle of all our efforts. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I shall talk about the PNR agreement with the United States, which the European Court of Justice has rejected, and about the framework decision on data protection, which unfortunately the European Council rejects every day by default.
It is a very serious proposal and it is time you started working on it.
Keep the promises of the Danish Presidency to the European Parliament and pass it because, if you do not, I worry that the European Parliament will be forced to halt other important activities, even though they require first and foremost a European law for the protection of rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Parliament has been a consistent supporter of enlargement and, in particular, the timely accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
I trust, therefore, that the European Council this week will confirm its commitment to the accession date of 1&#160;January 2007 for those countries.
As the rapporteur for Bulgaria over the past six years, I have seen at first hand the progress that has been made in transforming the economy, the political system and the administrative structures of that country.
People want a better life and now believe that it is achievable.
People want more control over their own lives.
They want accountable national and local government; they want security and prosperity and they want a Europe that differs from the outmoded project that unfortunately is still on the table. &#160;&#160; Mr President, those who claim – on one side of the House, notably – that the French and Dutch have said ‘no’ and that this whole debate must therefore come to an end and we should never again consider changing the treaties are guilty of being far too simplistic and of only wanting to hear one answer.
When they say, as one of them did, ‘which part of the word ‘no’ do you not understand owing to the French and Dutch results?’, we could easily turn round and say ‘which part of the word ‘yes’ do not understand from the 16 to 18 – if you include Romania and Bulgaria – other countries that have said ‘yes’ to this constitution?’ We are not faced with an issue of overwhelming rejection or of overwhelming acceptance, but we are facing a problem of divergence.
And what do we do in the Union when there is a problem of divergence?
It is also right to address not just the question of the text, but also the context – , the Hampton Court agenda, the issues that are close to people – and then, in due course, in a new context, we can decide what to do about the text.
The issues that Treaty was intended to address have not disappeared.
It may be that in a year’s time and in a new context it will be possible to retain this text as it stands, or with certain additions clarifying it, or with interpretations, or with additional protocols, or by rewriting Part&#160;3, as some have suggested.
We will take that decision at the end of the period of reflection, and rightly so. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, one year on from the 'no' votes in France and the Netherlands, it is high time for Europe to pull itself together and to put forward some solutions to make the most of the content of its draft European Constitution.
Our Heads of State or Government will need to discuss some key issues for our future: energy independence, immigration, the future of the Constitutional Treaty and enlargement.
The humanitarian situation amongst the immigrants flocking to the southern shores of the EU needs to form one of Europe's highest priorities, and it calls for a joint response in terms of reception of immigrants and asylum policy.
It also demonstrates the need for an in-depth re-examination of our development policy, which is evidently failing to meet the urgent needs of people in countries that we want, but are not managing, to help.
With regard to enlargement, I welcome the European Commission's wisdom in deciding to postpone the decision on the accession of Romania and Bulgaria until next October, depending on the progress achieved by each of those countries.
Finally, I would like to remind you that the criterion of absorption capacity has not simply been invented by certain Member States, but is one of the Copenhagen criteria.
We would be deceiving both the people of the current Member States and those of the countries that are working so hard to join the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are talking about the period of reflection and debate on the future of Europe, but given what we are discussing this morning, I believe that this a debate on the present of the European Union.
We must continue with the process of ratification and eventually find a solution that can unblock it, but on the basis of this text, which is a good text: it is a text based on a consensus.
If you express the same arguments outside of this House, I shall continue to do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too agree that measures should be taken to bring the European Union closer to the citizens.
The failure of the referendums in France and the Netherlands did not just reflect domestic political issues, but also the fact that some citizens do not sufficiently understand or value the process of European construction.
We must increase the citizens’ faith in the Union, show them its added value, through more effective action on issues such as security, the effective control of migratory flows, job creation and so on.
These are issues to which the European Council must pay the greatest possible attention.
We must also better explain how the Union operates and the objectives it pursues.
We must also explain another great success: the enlargement processes.
In recent times, these countries have been making spectacular progress in many areas.
If they continue with these reforms, I am convinced that both countries will join the Union on 1 January 2007 and I am very pleased that the next European Council will encourage them to focus their efforts on achieving that common objective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we need a Constitution in order to respond to the challenges which the new millennium has brought for cooperation.
A Union of almost 30 countries cannot be successfully guided by rules established in the last millennium for a Community of what was originally six countries.
A Constitutional Treaty will be a rational response to the challenges that the public have set for European cooperation.
They have called for transparency in decision making, clarity in agreements and treaties, and power in matters which need to be dealt with together so that the measures taken are sufficiently effective.
As the next country to hold the presidency, Finland deserves our appreciation for implementing this principle. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make three points.
Right now we are getting involved in this vicious circle of Euro-pessimism and what we need is a heavy-duty injection of Euro-optimism.
We need to take a look at what we have achieved over the past 10 to 12 years and the results are overwhelming – everything from enlargement to justice and home affairs, CFSP, and, of course, the single currency.
The second point I want to make is that right now I think we are facing a new generation of what I call ‘EU whingers’ or ‘EU whiners’.
Perhaps this could be the reason why the UK Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett does not want to see much transparency, because then people would see that some of the British positions are actually pro-European.
The problems are not going to go away and we have heard that in the debate today.
Nice is not enough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to mention three key issues regarding the enlargement of the European Union.
That is, is the European Union going to ensure that the conditions for the enlargement of the Schengen area are in place by next year as far as the European Union is concerned?
In countries where, for instance, there is no registration of the Roma or of land ownership, or where there are tens of thousands of abandoned babies?
I welcome, of course, the fact that Bulgaria and Romania are on track to join the European Union in 2007, even if there are still issues to be resolved, such as the system – or lack of a system – for the protection of children in Romania, and the level of organised crime in Bulgaria.
Nevertheless, even those of us opposed in principle to a constitution, with a foreign minister, permanent president and binding charter of fundamental rights, accept there is a need for treaty adjustment in order to accommodate future enlargement beyond the Nice formula and to settle the increasing imbalance between small and large Member States in terms of voting rights in the institutions.
I would also be in favour of retrieving the proposed powers to increase the influence of national parliaments and of more transparency in the co-legislative process in the Council of Ministers, whose current behaviour is far too secretive.
That is why I particularly deplore the U-turn by the British Foreign Secretary, Margaret Beckett, which completely contradicts both the views of her Prime Minister and the general thrust of reform and transparency in the European Union.
I would therefore say ‘no’ to Mrs Beckett on her views on transparency in the Council of Ministers. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, in view of the integration problems we are now experiencing in many EU Member States, and in view of the population trends and the huge problems we are having with illegal immigration and the associated problems of organised crime and trafficking, I welcome the fact that you want to put the focus of the forthcoming European Council on migration.
What we need is a comprehensive strategy that must include the following elements: aid in the countries of origin, information campaigns via the mass media – including in the countries of origin – explaining the consequences of illegal immigration, and the establishment of a common external border protection mechanism using the visa information system, the Schengen information system and EURODAC, so that we can achieve the objective of maintaining the stability and security of the European Union over the long term. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all my warmest congratulations to the Austrian Presidency on the work which it carried out and on the fact that it put the European Constitution back into the limelight during its six- month term of office.
My warmest congratulations also to the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso, on the historic speech which he gave in the European Parliament today.
No Member State can meet the challenges of globalisation alone.
That is why those talking with because the Constitution is dead need to tell us how they will meet these challenges under the present circumstances.
This is our job, the job of all the institutions.
This public debate that Mr&#160;Corbett wanted, and the debates that have taken place in this House over the last few months – I would remind you of the highly constructive report from Mr&#160;Voggenhuber, the discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the discussions you have held here today – are actually taking place, and, when he says 'we must talk it through', I absolutely agree with him.
The President of the Commission has very clearly stated, just as I and many of you have, that we need to walk on both legs, that we need to continue with this twin-track approach of both producing concrete results and actions for our citizens and discussing the future of Europe and the future of a Constitutional Treaty.
Mr&#160;Poettering and others have mentioned the Fundamental Rights Agency.
I would just like to go into that very briefly, because it is a subject very close to my heart, and I have the impression that there are some misunderstandings in this regard.
We think that this human rights agency would be a worthwhile institution, and, of course, that it would not compete in any way with the Council of Europe or any other institutions.
I really would ask you to take a close look at the proposals on the table, because it is precisely this competition that we are trying to exclude.
Mr&#160;Schulz also talked about human rights, about the issue of Guantánamo Bay, about shared values, and about the CIA.
The Council, many Member States and the President-in-Office of the Council have all made that very clear, and, of course, it will also be an important subject at the forthcoming Summit with the United States.
Mrs&#160;Frassoni and a number of others – to whom I am very grateful, because this was an important issue for the Austrian Presidency – mentioned transparency.
Mr&#160;Voggenhuber, I cannot agree with you that, over the last few months, the Austrian Presidency has been holding these debates behind closed doors with experts and elites.
There are a huge number of issues on which we need to work with our partners in Europe to draft a policy that is in everyone's interests.
The issue of minorities has also been brought up, and, on that subject, let me say that this was a particularly important point that the Austrian Presidency has also tried to address.
However, we also need to be able to count on all the Member States, and, at the moment, not all of the Member States are with us.
We need to rally together all the Member States.
Thinking back to the past, I sometimes wonder whether the single market or the single currency, all the progress we have made, could ever have been achieved if we had had a referendum at each stage.
That is why I made this comment in my introductory remarks: we must not add to the traditional Euroscepticism of those who never wanted Europe the Euro-pessimism of those who want to move Europe forwards.
That is why I think it is essential to have a programme that is able to unite the people around real results, and around projects with the aim of consolidating the great European project.
Indeed, we must say quite clearly that the Member States, who want aims, who want objectives, also need to give us the resources.
Very often, all the Member States agree, one day, that we need to do more at European level in terms of security and justice.
We must not simply extend the period of reflection, but move into a commitment period consisting in defining specific results for the near future in order to demonstrate the added value of Europe to our citizens, and at the same time to show them, as Mr&#160;Leinen, Mrs&#160;Méndez de Vigo and others have said, what it costs us not to have an institutional solution.
We need an institutional solution, and that touches on the issue of enlargement, because the European debate very often sets those who favour enlargement against those who favour deepening.
In fact, enlargement is one of the fundamental reasons for deepening, one of the fundamental reasons that justify institutional reform: an enlarged Europe requires institutional reform as a matter of greater and greater urgency.
In such cases, Europe must stand up for its values and its convictions.
When we talk to our partners in Russia, China, India and elsewhere, they show great respect for an enlarged, powerful Europe.
Let us be proud of our values, and I think that, in showing this confidence and this spirit of togetherness, those of us who truly believe in European values will be in a position to resolve our current difficulties and to make progress with our project for Europe: a competitive, open Europe, but also a Europe founded on the idea of solidarity, a Europe that wants to master globalisation, not suffer it.
That is our great project for Europe. &#160;&#160; I have received seven motions for resolutions(1) tabled to wind up the debate under Rules 103(2) and 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.30. &#160;&#160; – The statements delivered by the Commission and the Council are evidence that the next European Council will still fail to implement the much-needed measures to change what Mr Barroso has referred to as Europe’s ‘crisis culture’, and that they do not want to understand the causes of the criticisms voiced by citizens of the Member States.
They sidestep the fact that the main reason for people's discontent is the current social crisis, which is dealt with only marginally in the proposed Council conclusions and postponed until a report is submitted by March 2007.
The Council’s sole interest is to press ahead with liberalisations, the directive on completing the internal market in services and the common energy policy.
He stressed that the Commission believes we stand to lose by not moving the process forward, overlooking the fact that the democratic process led to the rejection of the European Constitution by the people of France and the Netherlands, which is something that the Community's institutions should respect.
By announcing new forms of propaganda, including the proposed Declaration on Political Europe, to be submitted next year, which all of the Community's institutions are to sign, the Council is following a path that fails to address existing problems. &#160;&#160; The future of Europe is a very important matter.
An extended period of reflection should be used to consider what Europeans really want, how a balance can be achieved between the large and the small Member States, between the new and old Member States, between richer and poorer regions, between the desire to be competitive and the dogma of the European social model.
I am concerned that we will not be able to resolve these issues if we limit our reflections to the existing text of the Constitutional Treaty.
I hope that this wish also applies to the debate on the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; The European Union’s Constitutional Treaty projected ambitions which the Union has not been able to realise to date.
The EU has failed in the strategy which was supposed to turn Europe into the world’s most competitive knowledge economy, in the cooperation to combat bird flu and in the implementation of common foreign policy.
It is quite understandable that the people of Europe are questioning our aspiration of a fully-fledged Constitution if we cannot even manage to make sound agreements in all those other areas, or if we contravene the agreements that are in place, such as the Stability Pact.
Let us first carry out the institutional reforms that are really necessary.
Those changes, described in Chapter 1 of the Constitutional Treaty of 2004, would then have the character of an ordinary treaty and would obviate the need for a referendum in each Member State.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must also become a treaty document in time.
In that way, though, we would at any rate solve the most urgent problems and support both the European Parliament and the national parliaments. &#160;&#160; I should like to extend a warm welcome to Mr K.P.
Sharma Oli, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nepal, who has taken his seat in the distinguished visitors’ gallery.
Mr Sharma Oli has held meetings with the chairmen of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development, and this afternoon will participate in a meeting with Parliament’s SAARC Delegation, whose chairwoman, Mrs Gill, is sitting here today in a wonderful shade of green.
We trust that this visit will further enhance and develop relations between the European Parliament and Nepal. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I must point out an error.
The amendment deleting Article 14, which was adopted in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, has not been included in the versions of the report for plenary, but the Tabling Office assured us that it would be inserted into the final version following the vote.
I just wanted to draw your attention to that. &#160;&#160; – Very well, we will certainly take note of that. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the intention of the oral amendment is to replace the word 'commitments' by the word 'agreements' in Article 8d(5). &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, this is a very important vote.
The report has just been adopted by an overwhelming majority in plenary.
The Commission has paid close attention to our work and has given us its support, as it reaffirmed yesterday evening.
I would note that it is once again absent and that we are still waiting for its opinion on the report.
I would therefore ask Parliament to postpone the vote on the legislative resolution in accordance with Rule 53(2) of the Rules of Procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is important for everyone to be made aware of the event that took place yesterday within the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Perhaps you could raise it at the end of voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Brok — who has been one of our political group's negotiators for this joint motion for a resolution — has asked me to table an oral amendment which has in principle been negotiated with the representatives of the other political groups.
My second point – and the most important point to me – is that the European Constitution is unconstitutional in terms of the British Constitution in relation to Magna Carta, the Bill of Rights and various other acts of ... &#160;&#160; – Mr Batten, I must cut you off there, because you are starting from a false premise: this is not a text of a legislative nature. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, may I just point out that the interpretation was slightly behind you with regard to taking that vote.
You then closed the vote before we had an opportunity to correct our own votes.
I would ask you to allow a little more time for this. &#160;&#160; – The vote has taken place and we must now continue, but I certainly take note of what you have said.
The automatic transfer of sentenced persons from one European state to another is presented to us as being a big step forward.
The June List also believes that legal and police cooperation should be intergovernmental.
These issues must be decided on in the Council by unanimous decision and be subject to the scrutiny of the national parliaments, rather than being decided on by supranational institutions such as the European Parliament.
The June List has therefore voted against the report as amended by Parliament – – a report that, amongst other things, contains wordings promoting European criminal law. &#160;&#160; We wish to emphasise that the June List is opposed to engaging in propaganda in favour of a liberal approach to drugs.
Just how effective, however, has this ultra-European tool been at a time when drugs are a scourge that continues to destroy families?
Although a certain improvement in our knowledge of the drug phenomenon in all its many aspects here in the European Union is to be observed, no positive effect on drug use is to be seen.
In reality, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction is no more than a simple data base, devoid of any operational value.
Although a great deal of progress has been made, there remains much to be done in terms of enhancing the monitoring instruments and developing a genuine ‘common language’.
I voted in favour of this report on the Commission’s proposal on the EMCDDA.
The EMCDDA must obtain more objective and comparable data and must channel its efforts into a thorough evaluation of drug-related policy and of trends in drug use.
I also wish to highlight the importance of improving the exchange of information on best practice in addressing drug issues and making that exchange more flexible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, even though the vote on Mrs&#160;Roure's report has been postponed, this has given me the opportunity to express my opinion on it.
In my opinion, the European Union encourages people's fears regarding the transparency of their personal data, for example when it approves the transmission of personal data to the United States, a country with poor data protection security by European standards.
The main responsibility should, however, lie with the Member States.
Many people and authorities, he says, ‘seem to equate the arrival of A/H5N1 in Europe with the arrival of a pandemic virus’.
He emphasises, as I did in a previous report, that the EU must lend technical, scientific and economic assistance to countries already affected and, in particular, contribute to raising global awareness and a global master plan coordinated at international, regional, sub-regional and national level with a proper road map and timetable.
The rapporteur has sought to improve upon the Commission’s proposal and to clarify a number of points.
We therefore voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; This report concerns an eminently cross-border issue.
There are thus good reasons for the EU countries to coordinate the measures adopted and the political decisions taken.
We have thus chosen to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
We wish, however, to emphasise that isolated measures on the part of the EU are inadequate for meeting the challenges posed by a global influenza pandemic.
We question individual points in the report, such as the need for the Commission to devise a comprehensive communication strategy together with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC).
In the same way, we are opposed to the setting up of a common emergency supply of pandemic vaccines in the Community.
As political decision-makers, we must honour our duty to protect the citizens.
We must ensure that the resources are in place to provide an effective response to any public health threat that our societies may face.
This should include, as the report says, a targeted plan for coordinating action at all levels and accurate, accessible communication for all citizens so as to ensure that they are prepared for any eventuality.
I accordingly voted in favour of the Amadou report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in his book ‘The Constitution of Europe’, Joseph Weiler wrote extensively about how, in the past, the Court of Justice would systematically increase the field of competences of the European institutions without there being any democratic legitimacy for it and without the Court having been given a mandate by the Member States’ governments in this matter.
The conflict is not about the content but about the form.
The Court of Justice could be put in its place by the parliaments of the Member States each deciding that this judgment is of no legal effect in their countries.
It recognises that environmental protection requires concerted action to punish the most serious breaches.
Accordingly, its objective and its substance fall under the competence of Community action programmes on the environment (EC Treaty) and not under the provisions of the EU Treaty on police and judicial cooperation on criminal matters.
In recognition of the fact that, broadly speaking, the Community does not have any powers on criminal matters, a useful precedent has been set whereby matters under the third pillar are communitarised and parliamentary control is strengthened in an area as sensitive as criminal law.
The consequences are enormous, in terms of both adopting future legal instruments and the legal instruments already in force.
A framework decision on the environment has been annulled but its consequences will be felt beyond this area, throughout Community policies and in fundamental freedoms when it becomes necessary to make use of criminal law measures to ensure their efficiency. &#160;&#160; The European Court of Justice’s judgment of 13&#160;September 2005 constitutes a veritable legal revolution in what is usually called the Community legal system.
Indeed, this is the first time that the Court of Justice has pronounced on issues of competence in penal matters and that it has decided that, for the purpose of protecting the environment, the European Union can demand that the Member States provide for criminal sanctions in the case of serious offences.
In principle, penal legislation, just like the rules of criminal procedure, falls within the strict competence of the Member States.
This also amounts to a harmonisation of penal law that the ‘no’ vote delivered by the French and the Dutch in their referendums on the Constitution had implicitly rejected.
In view of the considerable importance criminal law has for the sovereignty of the Member States, the implicit transfer of this authority to the Community should not be permitted.
What is more, Articles&#160;135 and 280 of the EC Treaty state explicitly that the Member States are responsible for the application of national criminal law and the administration of justice.
In spite of this, the Commission has stated that there is no limit to the degree to which criminal law might be brought within the competence of the Community and that, in principle, all the areas regulated by the EC Treaty might be subject to such transfers of authority.
The Council tried to sidestep the involvement of Parliament in the legislative process by using a different legal basis from the one laid down in the Treaty.
Although the ECJ proceeded very cautiously and reiterated the principle that the EC has no primary competence in criminal law and therefore that the EC Treaty only provides supplementary legislative competence in criminal law for very specific matters, the Commission seems to think that it can derive a general competence in criminal law for the EC from the Court's judgment.
In the Council's wake, now the Commission, too, wants to take from the European Treaties competences that the Member States never gave it.
We believe that more time is needed to consider what, if any, steps should be taken on the specific and immediate ramifications of this judgment before seeking to use it as a pretext for usurping national competence in criminal justice matters. &#160;&#160; – The report is in keeping with the ruling by the Court and the relevant Commission communication.
Like the European Commission, the report interprets this ruling as granting the authority to introduce criminal provisions in all Community policies containing binding rules, in order to ensure that they are applied.
Paragraph 4 in particular basically proposes the adoption of common criminal law in the EU, thereby depriving the Member States of their exclusive sovereign right to determine for themselves what sort of behaviour they consider to be a criminal offence and of their right to determine the type and limits of criminal sanctions.
That is why we voted against the report. &#160;&#160; I am voting in favour of Mr&#160;Bonde’s proposal for an alternative resolution, because he criticises the fact that the European Court of Justice is trying to use environmental law as a springboard to enable the EU to assume power over large parts of criminal law.
I am not, however, categorically opposed to all types of rules under criminal law designed to combat cross-border environmental crimes.
There is, in this House, an apparent lack of common sense if we fail to realise that true racism in Europe is fortunately a very marginal phenomenon, but that, on the other hand, our citizens are anxious about the undermining and erosion of safety, welfare and the cultural identity to which they are entitled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted against the Ždanoka report because we are yet again being faced with a list of proposals that do not offer a solution to the problem, but are, in fact, part of it.
We must finally stop seeing minority groups, such as immigrants, as pitiful.
We must emphasise personal responsibility and the need for immigrants to adapt to our rules, our language, our standards and our values.
The very fact that we in this House continuously talk about discrimination weakens the impulse for immigrants to integrate.
The main proposals in this report bring into question three fundamental values of the European democracies. - ‘Positive action’, which is the European Parliament’s version of the ‘positive discrimination’ dear to Mr&#160;Sarkozy, breaks with the principle of equality between citizens of the same country.
The measures proposed, such as ‘priority access’ to certain professions, constitute discrimination against our countries’ nationals, who do not have the opportunity to have immigrant status. - The ‘involvement of … non-citizens in elections’, that is to say foreigners’ right to vote, destroys the very principle of nationality. - The desire to give the same rights to homosexual as to heterosexual couples in all the Member States amounts to demanding the right for homosexuals to marry and to adopt children.
The fight against discrimination must be based on education, the promotion of best practice and campaigns targeting the general public and those areas and sectors where discrimination takes place.
Given that discrimination largely stems from ignorance as regards other people, the report highlights the fact that the problem should therefore be tackled at source, by means of targeted actions designed to foster tolerance and diversity from early childhood; programmes such as Socrates, Leonardo and Jeunesse have a crucial role to play in this regard.
I regret that the Commission is not planning at this stage to draw up comprehensive legislation to combat discrimination given that traditional national minorities urgently need a framework policy standard to create effective participation in decision-making processes concerning their identity, not only to overcome the double standards established by the Copenhagen criteria but also to combat a lack of any rules in the Member States. &#160;&#160; Legislation to combat all forms of discrimination is another example of would-be progressive legislation adopted by the EU in the social sphere.
In response to a Green Paper from the Commission, Parliament is today adopting an own-initiative report offering its vision of the measures to be implemented to combat discrimination, both in society and in the workplace.
As long ago as the year 2000, the EU was adopting two directives (2000/43 and 2000/78) forcing the Member States to provide themselves with legislative and judicial apparatus capable of curbing this phenomenon.
The European Union needs a strategy to promote equal opportunities in order to put an end to all forms of discrimination.
I believe, however, that, as is explicitly stated in Article 2 of the report, positive action differs from any kind of positive discrimination.
Indeed, we would not be encouraging the fight against discrimination by creating a new form of discrimination.
Positive action, in contrast, makes it possible to draw certain disadvantaged groups’ attention to specific measures of relevance to them, for example where recruitment policies are concerned.
Finally, Parliament again points out in this document that discrimination against same-sex couples, whether married or registered, must be prohibited in the same way as any other form of discrimination and, in particular, when the people concerned assert their right to move freely within the territory of the European Union. &#160;&#160; In spite of there being points in which the rapporteur wishes to give the EU too much power and in which national legal practice is brought into question, it is the positive aspects of this report, relating to non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all, that predominate.
The report as a whole is constructive, and I am therefore voting in favour of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although we take the view that Romania and Bulgaria undoubtedly belong to the European family of nations and need to have a European perspective, we do not expect that the two countries will be able to resolve their many problems with regard to corruption and organised crime within a few months.
Particularly with regard to Bulgaria, you are very much mistaken if you cherish the hope that the country will be able to take more effective action against corruption and organised crime within its borders as a Member State of the EU.
The problems in this area may even get worse, and increase the burden on the other Member States.
I cannot accept that, and I have therefore not approved this resolution. &#160;&#160; I abstained from voting on the joint motion for a resolution on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania because I am unclear as to the point of adopting a position on the matter at this stage.
I personally should have preferred it if, before expressing an opinion, the European Parliament had waited for the follow-up report to be presented by the Commission at the beginning of October of this year.
What concerns me is that the former two still have some way to go, in my opinion, before they can join the Union.
I realise that on the basis of Parliament's position, we can only delay membership from 2007 to 2008.
On the one hand, there is the consistent will, readiness and ability of the Member States to bring in new partnerships into the project at any given moment, with all the benefits and the extra burdens that any round of enlargement implies.
The history of Europe of the past 50 years has largely been the history of a continent that has gradually adopted western democratic values on account of the expectations of accession.
We must accordingly draw two conclusions regarding the prospects for Bulgaria and Romania's accession.
Firstly, the EU’s desire to proceed with this enlargement should be absolute and the final timetable should be established at the next European Council.
The continual adaptation of accession conditions to the for the purposes of the Lisbon Strategy, the reform of the CAP, capitalist restructurings and the EU's more general anti-grassroots and anti-labour policy is resulting in extremely poor terms for the workers, with sweeping changes to fundamental employment and social rights.
The people of these countries are realising day by day that they cannot expect anything positive to come out of their accession to the ΕU.
He said that the European Union could not be enlarged and deepened against the will of the European citizens.
Allow me to list them for you: the lack of democratic legitimacy for the European project, the big questions about spending European money wisely and, above all, those accession negotiations with Turkey which our citizens do not accept, and never will, and for which we will never find a democratic majority among our citizens.
The degree of energy wasted by the political leaders of Europe in trying to foist an unwanted Constitution on our people is quite staggering.
In my view, this runs counter to both the free movement of persons in the EU and the Treaty of Maastricht.
If we do so, the European Council will, as we know, have to tackle the issue.
It will then have rather more issues to puzzle over than it does at present, and in particular: - that of whether and, if so, under what conditions, ratification might again be sought in those countries that rejected the Constitutional Treaty in referendums; - and that of how to safeguard at least those parts of the document that make the Charter of Fundamental Rights legally binding, those that enable the enlarged Europe to operate more efficiently and, moreover, those that accentuate the EU’s social role.
We also object to the propaganda campaign in the form of a series of parliamentary fora to meet the deadlines, in which they call for a ‘constitutional solution’, as the motion for a resolution confirms, when the 2009 elections to Parliament are called.
Greater attention should have been paid to social problems and to finding an across-the-board solution for the aspirations of the people, with a view to improving well-being, development and economic and social cohesion. &#160;&#160; We have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Leinen’s draft motion for a resolution on the next step during the period of reflection and analysis in relation to the future of Europe.
As a defender of the Constitutional Treaty, I expect all 25 Heads of State or Government to honour their signatures and submit the draft for ratification by their respective countries.
Before asking these Member States possibly to reconsider their votes, it is necessary that, after Finland, the other dilatory Member States express their opinions, beginning with the United Kingdom, Poland, Sweden, Portugal, Ireland and Denmark.
The European Union cannot do without this debate. &#160;&#160; How many times will it be necessary to repeat in this House that the European Constitution has twice expired: once on 29&#160;May 2005 in France, and again on 2&#160;June in the Netherlands?
You are encouraging those Member States that have not already done so to ratify, preferably through parliamentary means, a document that no longer has reason to exist and to do so in order that the debate might really only take place between the initiated and in order that the two ‘renegade’ states might be constrained into voting again on a Constitution.
Plan D, whose implementation you call for, is in reality a plan for disinformation and is a denial of democracy.
It is referendum democracy, and that is what frightens you: giving back to the nations the voice that you took from them. &#160;&#160; With the referendums in France and the Netherlands, the draft Constitution was rejected.
Two countries said ‘no’ in referendums and did so by large majorities and with high turn-outs.
The fact that the EU’s power-wielding elite is now trying to explain away this state of affairs is a democratic scandal.
They have the cheek to come up with their own interpretation of the results in terms of dissatisfaction with existing governments in the two countries.
They are beginning to count how many countries have said ‘yes’, in spite of its being clear that all the countries must approve the draft.
Everything indicates that there would have been a ‘no’ vote in Germany too if there had been a referendum there.
Propaganda has been spread to the effect that the peoples of France and the Netherlands made a mistake and that the values of the capitalist EU come first, in other words the values of the free market and the interests of capital.
Voters, however, decided on the basis of their life experience and stood up against the anti-grassroots, reactionary policy of the ΕU and its governments, a policy which favours the plutocracy.
The European Constitution is dead and to attempt to resuscitate it is to ride roughshod even over those principles of unanimity of the bourgeois pseudo-democracy of the ΕU.
Aside from meetings aimed at examining the status quo, there has been no reflection on the Constitutional Treaty involving the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, aiming at considering the reasons and the criticisms of those who, in the wake of the ratification by some Member States, the rejection by others and the silence of other countries, highlighted the inadequacy of some parts of the text and the muddled nature of the text as a whole.
Europeans have growing doubts about the legally binding aspect of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which lacks important references such as protection of the family.
The issue of our roots also remains unresolved.
Uncertainty gives rise to increased external and internal threats to the Union, as a result of international terrorism and uncontrolled illegal immigration.
The crisis in a society that is losing its reference points and values is causing many young people to adopt apathetic or violent attitudes.
It should certainly take place in full view of the citizens.
In my opinion, however, what is really needed is to update and consolidate the structural decision-making model of the EU within a framework that is democratic and that respects national identity and diversity, given that the EU in its current configuration finds it difficult to cope with the realities of life with 25 Member States, let alone 27, 28 or 29.
I feel therefore that the solution lies in a fresh debate when the societies that are most hostile to this proposal show that they are ready.
This may also take the form of restricting the ‘constitutional’ impulse to a more modest and realistic institutional reform that is vital to the EU’s new life.
Most importantly, though, there needs to be a response to what actually concerns the citizens, especially economically speaking.
There is a lack of policy, a lack of results and a lack of growth and jobs in an economy that is irrevocably in the throes of change.
We have abstained on this resolution, however, because we believe it attempts to prejudge the outcomes of the period of reflection and because it could be seen as showing insufficient sensitivity to the democratic outcomes of the French and Dutch referenda.
We believe it more important for the EU to be delivering tangible benefits to its citizens before returning to the structural reforms for better decision-making. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order and to clarify what I said earlier on, during the vote on the period of reflection, in the split vote relating to paragraph&#160;2 of Amendment 2, you requested a roll-call vote but then changed your mind and said the first part of that split vote would be checked.
Unfortunately, the interpretation did not come through in time, so the vote that I cast for the first part should have been for part two.
I was against part two, but was in favour of part one.
I and many of my colleagues were caught in this dilemma.
Therefore, you may, of course, change your vote; but, that being said, I consider matters to have proceeded perfectly normally. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the following: - the oral question to the Council (O-0041/2006 B6-0209/2006) by Anders Wijkman, John Bowis and Karl-Heinz Florenz, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0042/2006 B6-0210/2006) by Anders Wijkman, John Bowis and Karl-Heinz Florenz, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0043/2006 B6-0211/2006) by Chris Davies, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0044/2006 B6-0212/2006) by Chris Davies, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0045/2006 B6-0213/2006) by Satu Hassi, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0046/2006 B6-0214/2006) by Satu Hassi, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0047/2006 B6-0215/2006) by Adamos Adamou and Jonas Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0048/2006 B6-0216/2006) by Adamos Adamou and Jonas Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0050/2006 B6-0217/2006) by Johannes Blokland, on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0051/2006 B6-0218/2006) by Johannes Blokland, on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0052/2006 B6-0219/2006) by Guido Sacconi, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Commission (O-0053/2006 B6-0220/2006) by Guido Sacconi, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy; - the oral question to the Council (O-0056/2006 B6-0222/2006) by Liam Aylward, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy and - the oral question to the Commission (O-0057/2006 B6-0223/2006) by Liam Aylward, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the Sustainable Development Strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what we are debating today, then, is the review of the Sustainable Development Strategy, an extremely important document from the European Council’s meeting in Gothenburg five years ago.
The truth is, of course, that, in many areas, we have not made any clear progress in comparison with how matters stood in 2001.
I wish to thank the Austrian Presidency for having involved MEPs in a meaningful way.
One of the main issues in this connection is the relationship between the Sustainable Development Strategy and the Lisbon Strategy.
We think that the Sustainable Development Strategy should not, in the first place, be seen as an obstacle to, or problem for, growth and development but, rather, as an opportunity.
Another logical consequence of the international perspective is, of course, that we must let the sustainability dimension influence our development aid very much more than we have allowed it to do so far.
We need more indicators.
Five years ago, when the Natura 2000 programme was being prepared, Commissioner Wallström, the then Environment Commissioner, used the fact that structural funds could be withheld unless the Habitats Directive was properly complied with as a means of encouraging the process.
That threat of withholding money from Member States brought about a dramatic transformation in performance and the submission of new ideas.
If we forget that, the basis of our economy will also disappear.
It is a misconception that economic development and environmental protection would be in conflict with one another.
Ambitious environmental protection promotes economic development, and this applies to both countries and sectors of industry.
When, for example, analyses showed that the REACH chemicals legislation is economically viable, industry did not believe it.
Aid for fossil energy in the EU amounts to more than EUR 24&#160;billion a year, which is four times more than that for renewable energy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I wish to express our disappointment and displeasure about the lack of progress in developing and monitoring the sustainable development strategy.
We agree that the sustainable development strategy must include three core, interconnected objectives which have not only environmental, but also social and economic repercussions.
And yet the Council and the Commission appear once again to be more concerned, as far as sustainable development is concerned, with promoting the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, despite its environmental and social repercussions.
The objectives being formulated by the Commission are extremely general in nature and therefore difficult to assess.
That should also be the message to the Council.
If we want to make sustainable development a success, then there are many examples of measures we could take straight away.
As a consequence, we will really have to change our way of living if we want to secure an existence for our children and grandchildren.
Five years later, the time has perhaps come to integrate them more, maybe even with a buzz word, with a new word such as , in such a way as to overcome this contradiction and this distinction between competitiveness and environment.
We genuinely need to give a strong boost to the Member States and, I stress, to what is actually taking place at a local and regional level, so that everyone, across the board, might play a leading role in implementing this strategy in practice.
Finally, the third word is monitoring.
This is vital if we are to win over the citizens, who must have the opportunity to ascertain in practice the progress made or the difficulties encountered in pursuing our objectives.
I believe that this bottom-up form of monitoring is very important. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, economic theory based on sustainable development abandons the approach grounded only in an analysis of GDP and employment in favour of an interpretation of a country’s cyclical position.
Work is natural capital, the capital produced by people.
The European sustainable development strategy and the Lisbon Agenda must integrate the economic dimension with the social and environmental dimensions in order to guarantee long-term development.
For this strategy to be successful, it is essential to act at all levels of governance, from the largest international and national organisations to the local Agenda&#160;21, which in Italy too is at last becoming one of the most important forces driving the spread of a sustainable management model.
Acting at a local level is the key principle that makes it possible to pursue major objectives like preserving what natural capital is left, reducing human pressure on the world around us, and improving the efficiency of the end uses of products, for instance by promoting energy-efficient buildings and environmentally friendly urban transport systems.
That is the only way that all the actors in the sustainable economy will be encouraged to adopt an ecologically and socially compatible model.
There is still a great deal to do in Europe to ensure that our energy supplies are based on renewable sources, in order to protect the environment from pollution and from the excessive, irreversible exploitation of natural resources.
In this context I consider it essential for sustainable development indicators to be developed and improved: they need to be easily understood and accessible to the general public.
In the past few months, 10 different Council configurations have dealt with the subject of assessing and implementing the sustainability strategy for Europe, in order to strengthen the quality of the strategy across the board, including with our own working group, 'Friends of the Presidency'.
We want the European Union to act as an international frontrunner, and to demonstrate its capabilities as, so to speak, a 'sustainable union' at international level.
We have the impression that, following the discussions, in general a text could be negotiated that is both balanced and politically significant.
The document that the European Council will adopt in the next few days has no annexes, and is clearly structured, comprehensible and consistent.
This constructive cooperation, in particular from the Member States, and the intensive dialogues between the various parties involved have led us to the success that we hope will be achieved in the days to come.
We in the Presidency have tried very hard and quite consciously to include the central points brought up by the European Parliament in the negotiations – and, as far as possible, in the compromise as well.
You have frequently talked about how we need to view the issue of the link between the Lisbon Strategy and the EU sustainability strategy from the aspect of qualitative growth.
We want to send a clear political signal that sustainable development will not, as some intend, put the brakes on economic growth, but will actually support and enable intelligent growth in areas for the future.
Growth cannot be an end in itself, but just a means to an end, and that end is improving the quality of life and of the environment in Europe, whilst maintaining long-term competitiveness.
If the people and the environment are doing well, then the economy will also do well.
Europe has always particularly distinguished itself in the past, and will continue to do so in future, by the way in which it runs its economy according to different criteria from other national economies in the world.
Regarding the relationship to the Lisbon Strategy, the two strategies, each with its own priorities and timescales, should continue to exist separately from one another, but support and strengthen each other.
The two strategies should therefore be further developed and implemented in close coordination in content terms.
The EU strategy for sustainable development provides a comprehensive framework within which the Lisbon Strategy, with its new focus on growth and jobs, can act as the engine of a dynamic economy.
In our opinion, both strategies underline the fact that economic, social and environmental goals can strengthen each other and should therefore be designed, developed and promoted together.
Both strategies aim to support the necessary structural changes that will allow the economies of the Member States to face up to the challenges of globalisation, which affect all of us in Europe.
The aims and main content of the sustainability strategy, including in comparison to Gothenburg 2001, which will become the key challenges for sustainable development, are clearly laid out in the paper and in the strategy, and are also translated into concrete terms through targets and actions: climate change and environmentally-friendly energy, sustainable mobility and transport planning, sustainable production and consumption models, which will be an important guide for the future, management of natural resources, health, social integration, demographics and migration, which is probably one of the greatest challenges facing the continent and a major challenge in relation to the fight against poverty and for sustainable international development.
One major success that has been mentioned by several speakers here is certainly the creation of a separate chapter in the strategy setting out implementation mechanisms for effective follow-up and for evaluating and assessing the progress made.
European value and quality of life surveys tell us that citizens want prosperity, but they also want a clean environment, good health, social protection and equality.
The Commission put forward its proposal for the review of the European Union’s Sustainable Development Strategy in December.
This has been the subject of in-depth debate in the Council, culminating in the adoption of a review of the Strategy at the European Council scheduled for tomorrow.
The Lisbon Strategy and the Sustainable Development Strategy are complementary.
The much-needed economic growth must be decoupled from environmental degradation and must better safeguard social cohesion to ensure it can be sustained.
By achieving results on sustainable development, we improve our chances of regaining citizens’ confidence in the European Union.
The SDS addresses concerns about our prosperity, both in economic and quality of life terms, including issues that are more slow-burning, where time-lags mean that actions now have impacts into the long term.
A good example is climate change, but also unsustainable modes of transport, social exclusion, health and how we use our natural resources.
It also looks at broader global challenges and impacts beyond the European Union’s borders.
There have been more than 20 years of debate on sustainable development, but progress in addressing unsustainable trends is too slow.
We must move from words to action.
The Commission’s revised SDS provides a new political drive for sustainable policies that apply to all policy areas.
We also welcome the priority given by the Austrian Presidency to the revisions of SDS and the draft conclusions that will be discussed at this week’s European Council.
We are talking about a new drive aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are necessary for sustainable development.
The European Union institutions cannot achieve sustainable development alone.
The new strategy addresses some of the weaknesses of the previous strategy: unclear priorities, little ownership and absence of a clear monitoring mechanism.
It confirms the main challenges, but clarifies the objectives and sets out a new and more rigorous monitoring mechanism.
The new strategy is about all of us assuming our responsibilities.
It is also about all European Union institutions and Member States working for the implementation of the Strategy.
Furthermore, it ignores problems such as the relationship between the economy and sustainable development.
If we talk about climate change, we must talk about nuclear energy as well, as a replacement for 30 or 40% of what is produced.
There needs to be a proper action programme for sustainable development as part of EU policy.
Sustainable development must be genuine and be capable of measuring the principle of penetrability, which relates to all the European Union’s political goals.
The decisions already taken should also be implemented.
We know that their introduction will require consensus, but we need a step forward in the right direction.
The Council has also taken decisions that Europe-wide energy taxes should be introduced.
The Sixth Environmental Action Programme, which the Council and Parliament adopted in the codecision procedure, will provide an opportunity for the introduction of Europe-wide environmental taxes.
A condition of a genuine environmental policy is that the economic policy instruments in legislation and other legislative acts go hand in hand.
The need to have better coordination with other cross-cutting strategies like Lisbon is well established, but we also need to have better coordination within the sustainable development strategy itself.
We need to think clearly and recognise that some of our sustainable development policies could potentially conflict with others.
For example, we are committed to a European target for biofuels and I very much support this, but the sustainable development strategy also includes a commitment to sustainable forest management and to halting the loss of biodiversity.
A badly thought-through expansion of biofuels could result in virgin forests being destroyed and habitats lost.
A properly thought-through biofuels policy would mean European vehicles running on biofuels from certified sources only.
So I would beg the Presidency in this regard simply to use the strategy as a starting point for much more detailed work on sustainability. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have only borrowed the earth from our descendants.
We all know that any form of politics that lacks responsibility towards this principle imposes a hurdle on the next generation that cannot be overcome.
Jacques Delors declared as early as 1993 that in order to meet future challenges the European Union has the urgent task of restructuring the economy in a way that is ecologically and socially fair, and of orienting it towards a sustainable strategy; Mr&#160;Pröll has confirmed this once again.
In 2001, the Swedish Presidency responded to these findings with the Gothenburg Strategy.
This is evident from resolutions in which unimpeded growth is invoked as being the key to solving all the problems of today, while the third dimension - the preservation of ecological foundations - is no longer mentioned and the necessary balance between three dimensions is negated.
The earmarking catalogue in the regulation on the Structural Funds includes, for example, a total variable of 71 for the environmental dimension.
The Commission’s new slogan, that the Lisbon Strategy must be pursued in the direction of unimpeded growth, is simply wrong, because it is short-sighted, it lacks solidarity and it is irresponsible, because acting in this way shifts incalculable costs onto the next generation.
We hope that this will be adopted in the next few days and that it will genuinely be implemented in terms of concrete political action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the website on sustainable development that was started by the Commission on the 30&#160;May is well-meant and very interesting - the same goes for the two other websites on climate change and climate control - but that does not lessen my criticism of this Commission communication.
I also agree with this network that the cardinal problem here is the definition of political priorities.
However, the European social model is a mishmash that pleases no one: a bit of free market here and a bit of welfare state there, mixed with a little green posturing.
I am free to say that my party, UKIP, can never support the Lisbon Strategy, because it is the failed strategy of a Commission that has no legal right to dictate economic policy to my country.
It is for this reason that the EU can never impose a sustainable development strategy on Britain.
Last September, David Cameron was quoted in the as ‘fighting to end the EU’s damaging social role’ and leaving it to focus on ‘making the single market work properly’.
It will be essential to make the management of the new development instruments consistent with the Lisbon Strategy by providing for short-, medium- and long-term planning in order to achieve the objectives that have been set, namely efficiency, effectiveness and economy, focusing particularly on growth but without forgetting environmental protection.
In our opinion, Europe’s sustainable development policies have a vitally important role to play abroad, especially in developing countries, since in many cases it is precisely in those countries, where, unfortunately, there are no economic alternatives as yet, that the indiscriminate exploitation of resources occurs.
The new policies must therefore be based on a feasible project for sustainable development that all peoples in the world can enjoy without distinction.
These two tools are more than complementary; they are inseparable from one another.
As for the content of the action platform presented after considerable delay by the Commission, I have to say that I was disappointed in it.
Commissioner, I may be somewhat jumping the gun and anticipating our institutional agenda, but your work programme for 2007 will have to take up this challenge.
I would ask you to be firmer, more incisive and more audacious in your dealings with the Council.
As for the Council, I am inclined to tell it to rationalise the instruments available to the EU: the Cardiff process on the integration of environmental aspects into other policies, the Gothenburg sustainable development strategy and the recently revised Lisbon Strategy.
Frankly, hand-to-mouth policy needs to take a back seat in favour of visionary policy that considers tomorrow and makes sustainable development a key factor for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my main problem with the Commission’s environmental proposals is that they do not correspond with the objectives of the Sixth Environmental Action Plan.
Listening to Mrs Grossetête, I also hope that the PPE-DE Group will support my amendments and my report about having binding measures and targets concerning the urban environment and traffic. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to rural development.
This means that in financial respects too we must ensure that sufficient means are available.
Unfortunately the so-called second pillar of rural development for the period 2007 to 2013 has been reduced by EUR&#160;20&#160;billion in comparison with the proposal by Parliament and the Commission, and that reduces possibilities of development.
We also have to ensure, however, that we give our support to the international development of rural spaces.
Only in this way will there be a chance to develop rural spaces as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sustainable development is a nice idea.
The stone age did not come to an end because of a lack of stones, but because of the invention of bronze.
The oil age will also come to an end, not because of a lack of oil, but because we will move on to the age of fusion or of hydrogen.
The resolution originated in Gothenburg five years ago and emphasises certain components needed for turning the Sustainable Development Strategy into a reality.
More emphasis could have been placed on the way in which strong economic development can increase the opportunities for creating smart technology.
I say this in my capacity as the person appointed by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to take responsibility for this issue in the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
The fact that the motion for a resolution extends sustainability to include areas in addition to the environment also constitutes great progress.
Any strategy on sustainable development must take account of this inequality and of the fact that social problems affect men and women in different ways.
The common goals of both the Lisbon Strategy and the Sustainable Development Strategy cannot be achieved unless the issues of inequality and of the better use of both men’s and women’s potential are addressed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we all know that it is no longer a time for lamenting the consequences of our mistakes.
The world ecological crisis is hitting us full in the face and I will not list the problems arising within this context.
I shall take the example of biodiversity, the common theme of our very survival, as you know very well, Mr&#160;Pröll.
Since we have waged a real battle here to obtain budgets for biodiversity in the financial perspective, since we have said that the Natura 2000 programme would be taken into account in the Structural Funds, an argument used to justify not creating a new budget line, could you tell us –&#160;and this question is for the Commission, which is not listening&#160;– why biodiversity has not been included amongst the priorities of FEDER and why biodiversity has not been provided with any budgetary contribution?
I would therefore really like to know who is sabotaging sustainable development in these institutions?
The document rightly points out that energy production and consumption is one of the key factors in achieving sustainability.
We are also right when on this basis we reformulate – like we have done so many times in the past – our goals in respect of increasing energy efficiency, reducing the proportion of greenhouse gases or even supporting renewable energy resources.
Therefore, it is worth considering why we are in this situation.
In Hungary, where the extent of utilisation of renewable energy sources is, unfortunately, one of the lowest in the European Union, the long term operation of polluting energy production facilities is protected by monopolistic situations and contracts that contradict market logic.
As a result of these contracts, coupled with the unpredictable regulations concerning the compulsory electricity acquisition quota of the state, which also contradicts market logic, the utilisation of wind energy, for instance, is rendered practically impossible.
And while this practice is in use, the chances of achieving our goals concerning sustainable development are very slim.
Therefore we need to develop an efficient, competitive and cost effective energy market, because without this, an environmentally sustainable society remains an unattainable dream.
In this hope I support the motion for resolution, and trust that we will be able to return to this issue when Parliament debates the development of the Common European Energy Policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Lisbon Strategy’s objectives are mistaken.
We must listen more to our audience and less to our lobbyists.
Then, we shall obtain sustainable development. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, since last December the Commission communication and other contemporary publicity channels have been confirming the speed of global changes and the new dangers, as well as the opposing trend towards permanent and balanced three-dimensional development which links economic growth and quality of life with social integration and environmental protection.
Therefore, by proposing the framework of the basic principles of the European Union sustainable development strategy in a manner which supplements the Lisbon Strategy and is divided into six basic sectors, an attempt is being made to integrate sustainability into European policymaking, both in the form of an internal dimension and by including the external repercussions of decisions and choices on the planet as a whole.
Today, we in the European Parliament want our motion for a resolution to exert an effect on decisions by the other institutions.
The resolution is clear.
We welcome the Presidency's interest, but we are calling for a single, cohesive and concise framework which will rally public opinion and policy-makers around common aspirations.
Economic prosperity, high living standards and the ecological repercussions from the uniform dissemination of objectives on the potential of the natural world only make sense if they serve present and future citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, at the end of this debate I would like, as a summary, to give an overview of the items and goals that we have tried to coordinate with the Sustainable Development Strategy during our Presidency and on which we now want to reach a decision in the next few days.
We have been keeping all the Council configurations busy, and in recent months we have tried very hard to work through the essential points with the European Parliament and now to present them as a strategy.
This strategy is, in our view, the result of very wide-ranging discussions and ambitious negotiations.
Seven key challenges with goals and measures have now been clearly set out in the strategy, and this will enable the European Union to confirm even more clearly our role as a frontrunner in international cases.
We want to demonstrate, too, that quality of life and high levels of environmental quality and social cohesion are important factors in safeguarding long term competitiveness.
Sustainable development is a central factor in innovation: it creates opportunities and the potential for intelligent growth and better jobs.
Sustainable development is anchored in the treaties; it is an overarching objective for all European policies.
This institutional question concerns all EU institutions equally, and it would give me great pleasure to encourage a dialogue between institutions, one that goes beyond the decision on the Sustainable Development Strategy.
We regard the Sustainable Development Strategy not, as it were, as the end of the debate on sustainability in Europe, but as an important starting point in conjunction with the Lisbon Strategy in moving towards sustainable development in Europe.
It goes towards improving the economic, social and environmental dimensions of our way of life.
The Commission’s proposal has emphasised and given added relevance to the underpinning principles of our sustainable development policy.
Investing in new targets may not be too difficult.
However, it is much harder to get people to make and accept the changes needed to achieve those targets.
We are therefore proposing a new approach aimed at making the difficult changes across society that are needed for sustainable development.
Having said that, I agree that setting new targets is also important.
However, any new targets need to be established through a proper process involving impact assessments and full stakeholder consultation, so that we have the acceptance and the commitment of those who need to work in order to achieve those targets.
I would also like to say something about the integrated approach frequently mentioned during the course of this debate.
Eurostat has made good progress in developing indicators and this work will continue.
The aim is not to name and shame, but to assess where we are, how much more we need to do, and in which areas, in order to enable us to determine where we need to act and to allow clear communication to electors and stakeholders on where we need to change and on our approach to this.
Concerning the international dimension, sustainable development requires a global approach.
The European Union should maintain its position as a world leader in sustainable development through its action at home and by addressing the effect of this.
In conclusion, the Commission hopes that the interaction between us in this area can continue and intensify in the months ahead. &#160;&#160; To wind up the debate, a motion for resolution(1) has been tabled under Rule&#160;108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is a statement by the Council and a statement by the Commission on the increase in racist and homophobic violence in Europe. &#160;&#160; . () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this issue that we are now dealing with in this plenary is one that we consider to be particularly important.
The credibility of our Union and its principles and institutions are at stake here.
The Union – and this was made very clear in this morning’s debate – is based on the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and basic freedoms and constitutionality.
This is anchored in the founding treaties, and since then it has been restated in numerous institutional agreements and in numerous legal acts.
We must therefore consider acts of racist and homophobic violence as direct provocations, and we must take decisive steps against them.
We must not allow people who are citizens within our own Union to feel like outsiders, and neither can we allow it, if people from other parts of the world who come here have experiences that contradict our values completely.
On the basis of these two directives, the Community Action Programme to combat discrimination 2001-2006 was set up.
In doing this, the European Union makes it very clear that in dealing with this matter it will not limit itself to passing legal statutes, but will take sweeping measures in order to implement anti-discrimination policies.
For those in positions of political power, its findings provide an important basis for decisions.
Allow me to continue here a point that I already made this morning.
We believe that it would be a fair acknowledgment of these efforts towards equality and against discrimination and racism, if we were to create a fundamental rights agency, a separate agency that tackled these issues.
The concern of this agency would be to ensure that we, in the Member States, in the institutions and in official bodies, observe the rules that we have in the European Union, rules that have become part of the .
This is not about carrying out general human rights investigations and setting ourselves up in competition with other institutions, in particular the Council of Europe.
I repeat what I already said this morning, namely that in my opinion this planned human rights agency would fulfil this task.
These initiatives are striving to promote awareness, to bring different groups together in order to remove prejudices or, in the case of young people, using educational means to prevent prejudices from ever arising, which I regard as particularly important.
Where we have to recognise, however, that positive initiatives, education and awareness are not enough to stop violence or its precursors – intolerance and incitement – then our Member States must make use of legal proceedings in order to protect their citizens.
The States of the European Union have criminal law procedures that are thoroughly appropriate for dealing with the challenges of racist and intolerant patterns of behaviour.
The Austrian Presidency of the Council believes that a European framework decision on the combating of racism and xenophobia would be an important signal and an important step towards the completion of the relevant European instruments.
The President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs&#160;Plassnik, I myself, and other representatives of the Austrian Presidency, have been and are trying to provide this leadership.
On 5&#160;May, the national Austrian day against violence and racism, the President-in-Office of the Council commemorated the liberation of Mauthausen concentration camp as well as the people from over 30 European nations who were brought by the Nazis to Mauthausen, where they were degraded, tortured and murdered.
The Commission is bitterly disappointed that the Member States have yet to adopt the Commission’s 2001 proposal for a Council Framework Decision on combating racism and xenophobia.
The aim of this proposal is to ensure that all forms of racism, including racism on religious grounds, are subject to punishment under criminal law in all Member States.
The Commission is once again urging the Council to adopt the proposal without watering down its effectiveness, and is striving to reopen the debate on the proposal, the adoption of which would be a major step forward in combating racist and xenophobic crime.
The Commission hopes that the seminar on the fight against racism and xenophobia, organised together with the Austrian Presidency and the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC) and to be held on 20 to 22&#160;June, will lead to reopening the debate in the Council under the Finnish Presidency.
The Framework Decision is not the Commission’s only initiative in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
For example, the Commission supports the EUMC’s work by gathering data on the extent and development of racism in the EU.
The fact that the EUMC is becoming a Fundamental Rights Agency will not have a detrimental impact on current activities, given that the fight against racism and xenophobia will remain a fundamental goal of the new agency.
On the contrary, I am convinced that this fight and our efforts will in fact be strengthened.
The Commission is also striving to ensure that the Member States fully and correctly implement the anti-discrimination regulations that have been adopted, and it is heading a series of programmes and initiatives such as the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (2007), which will contribute towards the fight against racism and xenophobia.
The Commission would like to mention its statement of January 2006 in Parliament.
A key element of that fight is combating discrimination and the EU has already taken steps in that direction, for example with the adoption of Directive 2078/EC.
All things considered, the Commission is convinced that the EU, which at its core strives for deeper solidarity between nations, must set an example in the fight against discrimination and must take a lead in the fight against all forms of racism, xenophobia and homophobia.
By coming together, our countries decided to uphold and to promote these values.
It is appalling that we still have to point out publicly that racism in our societies is intolerable.
Numerous racist, xenophobic, anti-Semitic and homophobic attacks have taken place in recent times in our countries, and that is unacceptable and intolerable.
While as citizens we must remain vigilant, as elected representatives we must stand firm and vigorously condemn this behaviour; to stay quiet would be tantamount to accepting it.
I shall repeat what I said yesterday in this House and what I have been saying for some months in committee.
The Council must immediately stop blocking the framework decision against racism and xenophobia, otherwise fine words and good intentions will serve no purpose.
Our respective governments must offer an example and move forward in this fight for equality, respect for others and tolerance.
As for the current situation, it is unfortunately necessary to point out that we are seeing a rise in far-right parties in many of our countries.
Although I personally am fully committed to this fight, I understand my group’s reasons for not signing the joint text: this text clings on to ideological positions that have become obsolete.
It is unacceptable to confuse individual cases of aggression perpetrated in Member States fighting against racism and homophobia with extreme positions openly adopted by some governments.
We must separate this issue from the debate relating to any particular motive.
The fight against racism, xenophobia and homophobia is not a matter for the left or for the right; that is something we must accept.
That is why the joint resolution that will be put to the vote tomorrow seems to me to be a balanced compromise.
I shall end by saying that I very much regret that Parliament is reluctant to speak with one voice on this subject.
We were considerably more advanced in Europe then than we are today.
That is why I, as leader of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, am making a statement in the name of all of the members of our group.
European social democracy – Christian Democrats in Europe, Conservatives, Liberals, democratic forces on the left and on the right – those who stood at the cradle of the European Union: they knew why there had to be a supranational solution to the conflicts at the end of the first half of the 21st century.
A solution based on integration, on a community of values and laws, and on basic rights for all: no matter what religion they have or whether they believe in God or not, no matter what race or skin colour they have; no matter where they come from, no matter what convictions they have or do not have, no matter how they wish to live their individual lives, whether on the basis of family, alone or in whatever partnership they choose, that is up to them.
We do not direct our criticism at any one country, because unfortunately we have the same phenomenon in all the Member States of the European Union - not only in the new Member States, but in the old ones as well.
The criticism that we are adopting here is not directed against peoples or states; it is directed against the intellectual deficiency of those who propagate such ideologies - no matter where they are in Europe.
They have no place anywhere, not in any society, and, I hope, not in this House either! &#160;&#160; Mr President, unfortunately this debate is indeed still necessary.
In the 21st century in Europe that is barbaric and we should be ashamed.
I therefore welcome all the mass demonstrations we have seen all over Europe in favour of tolerance and equality and, most recently, the very successful equality march in Warsaw.
If it is anything, the EU is a community of values, and if we are a community of values, then we should be discussing these matters at European level and we will not accept that Member States hide behind the argument of subsidiarity, because that is only a pretext.
As I said in the debate yesterday evening, the EU needs an ambitious strategy to become the world champion of fundamental rights.
We should be just as ambitious in this area as we are when it comes to the economy and things like the Lisbon Strategy.
I am therefore very happy to hear that the Council will speed up the work on the framework decision and the Agency on Fundamental Rights.
That has been mentioned before in this House.
This week, we took a very brave stance on Guantánamo; I think we should be doing the same thing when we come to look at what is happening within our own Member States and be absolutely clear that we are not going to tolerate that either.
The political response of governments and other institutions to racist and homophobic attacks is crucial and sends very strong signals.
It took numerous deaths in the United Kingdom, and one in particular, before our police services realised that they were institutionally racist and set out to change that.
If we are going to speak out, we also need to be critical of some of our media, which is also determined, it seems to me, to sow hatred rather than information and integrity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the continual homophobic attacks in Europe are a symptom of a crisis in democracy that this Parliament needs to address, above all when they take place in European Union Member States such as Poland.
The recent gay pride march in Warsaw was only authorised because of pressure from Europe.
Poland must understand that, if homophobic attacks continue, my group will not hesitate to call for possible political sanctions for breach of Article&#160;7 of the Treaty on European Union and of the fundamental democratic principles of the Union.
It is also crucial that the 2001 framework decision on racism and xenophobia be extended also to cover the crime of homophobia, a legal category that already exists in France and Belgium.
I am disconcerted by the Austrian Presidency’s failure to move on these issues and I wonder whether it may not be due to the fact that Mr&#160;Haider’s neo-fascist party forms part of the government in Vienna.
I challenge the Council, which is present here today, to say something in that regard.
The motion for a resolution on racism and homophobia contains too many contradictions and unjustified generalisations and this can have just such an effect.
That is mixing real discrimination based on race or religion with an opposition towards ideology, which is justified in democratic political discourse.
In ratifying paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 11 in the current version, Parliament would simply lose credibility in the fight against racism and discrimination.
However, let us for God’s sake not allow it to become another weapon in the political campaign conducted by the left and the European liberals against the political parties that lean towards the right and countries where right-wing parties have come into power.
They are deadly serious allegations from a moral and political point of view and include xenophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia and a lack of tolerance in Poland.
It is a country that will never allow its good name to be dragged through the mud with impunity.
This Parliament would make itself a laughing stock if it were to protest against a statement that was never made.
Yes, we are against promoting homosexuality in Poland.
He would be better off fighting intolerance in his own country.
There are still examples of lamentable intolerance in Germany today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to support the statement made by Mr&#160;Gaubert, my colleague from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that this House has missed the opportunity to speak with one voice and to support the resolution he has drawn up.
This document highlights the kind of mechanisms that should be introduced in the European Union: constant monitoring of racist crimes, the introduction of a framework directive and the creation of an Agency for Fundamental Rights as soon as possible.
These should be priorities in our debate and in our resolution, rather than the slinging of mud at certain countries and cases, as seems to be happening here.
In four European countries, including Italy, Mrs&#160;Agnoletto, there is a lack of publicly accessible official data on incidents of racist crime and violence.
Amongst the new Member States, the report states, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia collect official data on racist violence and crime on a broader scale than other countries.
Over 52&#160;000 incidents of a racist nature have been registered in the United Kingdom, thanks to an efficient system for recording such statistics, 6&#160;400 incidents have been registered in Germany, 1&#160;565 in France and 209 in the Czech Republic.
It is therefore our duty to say ‘that is enough’, that we will not tolerate any more such acts of violence, that these horrendous attitudes are contrary to our values and the foundations upon which we have built our Europe.
Furthermore, we must stand firm against the incitements to hate expressed by Polish leaders against homosexuals.
We will not be able to say in the future that we did not know what was happening.
I would therefore call upon the Member States to reach an agreement on the framework decision on racism and xenophobia as soon as possible.
The time has come to act. &#160;&#160; Mr President, here we have yet another resolution condemning racist, anti-Semitic and homophobic acts, a resolution which is unfortunately justified given the exceptional and alarming levels of hate and intolerance that we have been seeing in the European Union for some years.
The facts are horrendous and they have been mentioned by previous speakers: racist attacks – all forms of racism taken together – are increasing dramatically.
We could spend days discussing the causes of these barbarous acts.
In 2004, in France, the advisory committee on human rights stated that anti-Semitism was the cause of half of the physical and verbal attacks in the country.
I could, for example, mention Recital&#160;I and say that we must work towards educating people to respect others, to hold dialogue and to show tolerance.
I would echo calls for the Finnish Presidency to restart work on this with all urgency and, as we have heard today, for the Council to adopt the decisions without watering them down.
National governments and other institutions must respond adequately. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe it is important that we all use this opportunity to highlight the unfortunate rise in racism at football matches in Europe.
FIFA has stated that there is a deplorable trend in the increased level of racist attacks in Europe.
It is unfortunate if people pick one place or country to highlight this.
However, I believe it is important for our own Commissioner for Sport, Mr Figeľ, the Finnish Presidency, the EU and the European Parliament to look carefully over the coming months at how we can highlight this unfortunate trend.
Racist violence and other discrimination due to social background, old age, illness or religion cannot be combated using racist methods, especially here at the European Parliament.
Poland was, and is, one of the most tolerant countries, where for many centuries those persecuted in other countries have been welcomed.
That is why adopting the resolution stating that there is anti-Semitism, xenophobia, racism or homophobia in Poland is a scandal, and would indicate that there is racism and xenophobia in the European Parliament.
This is something that should not be happening, particularly here in the European Parliament, which prides itself on respecting the ideas of tolerance, democracy, respect for diversity and freedom of belief. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to join in the emphatic and unqualified condemnation of any kind of violence, of course.
Secondly, I should also like to point out, though, that violence committed by isolated individuals must not ever lead to a witch hunt on people and parties who have nothing to do with that violence and who, using only peaceful means, flag up the dangers and enormous problems of immigration that is on far too large a scale and that has grown, in fact, out of everyone’s control.
Second, it is clear that racist violence has increased in Europe and we cannot just sit down and watch it.
I am still trying to believe that it should not do so, but if someone wanted to put the country of Poland into this resolution, I think that after hearing this debate there is no question as to why it was done.
This responsibility weighs especially heavily on the shoulders of the governments of European Union Member States, which should guard the rights enshrined in the European Treaty.
Roman&#160;Giertych is considering the need to shut down this institution, which has been in existence since 1991 and which is an important institution in Poland responsible for drafting and implementing educational programmes based on humanist values.
Fortunately, these actions by the government have roused another part of Polish society.
Teachers and pupils are protesting, and a new civil society is on the rise. &#160;&#160; We have defined homophobia as an irrational fear of otherness, a fear of something that one is not familiar with or that one does not want to become familiar with.
In the case of homophobia, what we are faced with is a traditional form of prejudice, often stimulated by the media and misused by populist politicians.
The European Parliament can identify the dangers of homophobia, and expose its protagonists, but it is ultimately the responsibility of individual Member States to take measures to stamp it out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, unfortunately, cases of racism and violence are increasing, both in terms of intensity and frequency, not only in Poland, but also, unfortunately, throughout Europe.
The legislation and daily administrative practices of the various Member States foster intolerance and discrimination to such a degree that we can talk of institutionalised racism.
The Member States need to apply practical measures to combat racism.
Public opinion-makers must not create a climate of racism.
We need to combat both racist perceptions and the social exclusion that fosters the development of racism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we should take this opportunity and, at the same time as acknowledging the rise in racism, xenophobia, homophobia or any other kind of oppression, we should avoid putting a premature end to the discussion by stating that it should not be taking place at all.
I think that all Europeans in the European Union are being oppressed by having enlargement, in the form of Turkey’s accession to the EU, forced upon them.
We have heard family and religion used as a reason or an excuse.
President Barroso enjoined us this morning to be proud of Europe and its values.
Nothing suggests that paedophilia is more prevalent among homosexuals proportionately – indeed it is probably the contrary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to draw up a joint response to the rise in racist, anti-Semitic and homophobic violence in our States, and to its consequence, the increasing expression of extreme-right views.
It is our duty to hammer home, day after day, this message that we must combat all forms of hate and discrimination on the grounds of ethnic, racial or religious origin or sexual orientation: a duty of tolerance, a duty to teach our children, a duty to remember our history.
We need strong responses, we must strengthen the legal instruments and rigorously apply those that already exist.
In response to our Polish colleagues: it is possible to believe in God and not be homophobic. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, if you have been subject to racial or homophobic violence you will never forget it.
What I would say to my Polish colleagues, and to anyone else who doubts that action can be taken here in this House today, is that we want action.
Let us do something about it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is with some dismay that I have studied the news that has reached us recently from countries both within and outside the EU.
It goes to show that there are very unpleasant and dangerous trends directed against homosexuals among the peoples of Europe.
It is enough to take a look at Poland, where, from right across the political spectrum, there is an ever-renewed stream of homophobic statements directed against Gay Pride parades and the like.
If, irrespective of the country we come from, we are to call ourselves democrats, we must vigorously condemn what is happening right now and do everything in our power to bring the oppression to an end.
The issue is so important, however, that it should be asked whether the European Parliament is the right forum in which to debate it.
It seems important to me and even vital that the institutions of the European Union, above all the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, are speaking the same language.
We had a EuroMed conference in Vienna ten days ago at which, amongst other things, we discussed the role of the media.
We cannot aim for a code or law to regulate what the law should or should not do.
As far as I am concerned, in a democracy the independent media plays probably the most important role in conveying everything that has been said here in favour of tolerance, in favour of the fight against racism.
There is absolutely no doubt that victims of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation are considered victims of Nazism.
I recall a Papal bull from the beginning of the 10th century, which opens with the words: ‘Does the sun not shine equally on all?’ Despite the existence of this concept, Europe has very often endured times of brutal intolerance, which have led to millions of deaths and people’s destinies cut short, not to mention those who have not been physically destroyed but who have lived under circumstances of intolerance.
In my view this is the most important value that forms part of the European project, as all the others are rather instruments.
This fight is not only a matter for Europe, for the Member States or for the various levels.
I therefore feel most encouraged by the ideas which have emerged in this debate, and which show that in Parliament there is a strong desire to support the effective, proactive implementation of the ideas of equal opportunities, tolerance and the fundamental rejection of racism, anti-Semitism and homophobia. &#160;&#160; To wind up the debate, six motions for resolution(1) have been tabled under Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
This is unprecedented at this level, and it demonstrates the need to strengthen the mechanisms for dialogue amongst the three institutions and offers a perfect opportunity to establish a more coherent and more efficient European policy on arms control.
At the preparatory meetings that we have held so far, we have noted, on the part of the Commission and of the Council – and I have always expressed my desire for institutional cooperation – that there is a great shared interest in what I believe to be a very great and increasingly close cooperation amongst the three institutions.
I would therefore like to focus my questions on the following points: firstly, how does the Commission assess the preparations for the conference and how does it intend to ensure that the European Union’s strategy on light weapons is taken into account within the European Union's foreign policy?
I would repeat that I am pleased to note that, in the talks we have held, there is a very high level of agreement as to the issues that should be discussed at the conference: the inclusion of ammunition in the scope of the programme, a better definition of the control of transfers, the monitoring and marking of weapons, brokering, the relationship between development and disarmament – something which I know not just we, but also the Commission, are particularly concerned about – and finally the establishment of guidelines for following up the conference.
With regard to this final point, although you are well aware of this, I must point out that this Parliament has insisted on many occasions that we would very much like the Union to take the lead, at international level, on the adoption of an international arms treaty.
In fact we are allies, since the objectives of the European Parliament and the European Council are in line with each other.
As for the first question, on how the Council plans to cooperate with the Commission on preparations for a coherent and successful implementation of the Union’s strategy, in connection with appropriate funding: the strategy to combat illicit accumulation and trafficking of small arms and light weapons and their ammunition, adopted by the European Union in December 2005, concentrates on extending the capacities of the General Secretariat of the Council so that it may conclusively apply the strategy to combat illicit accumulation and trafficking of these weapons.
The strategy also provides that the General Secretariat of the Council will proceed in this matter in close coordination with the Commission and the Member States.
In our view this is very important, because the strategy calls for coherence and complementarity between decisions of the European Union in the framework of GASP and measures taken by the Commission in the field of developmental aid, so that there is a coherent underlying approach to all projects and interventions by the European Union in the field of small arms and light weapons.
The relevant Council departments have checked and approved the participation of Members of the European Parliament in this Conference, and I am pleased that Members will indeed be taking part in this Conference.
As for the third question – as to whether the Council is to propose the European Union’s 1998 code of conduct on weapons exports as a possible blueprint for the future Arms Trade Treaty, I can tell you that the Council’s publicised support for the Arms Trade Treaty is not intended as an attempt by the European Union to impose its own standards on the rest of the world.
One could point out, however, that third states that strive towards modernising and completing their national export controls regard the EU code of conduct as an important reference document.
In the framework of the Arms Trade Treaty, which represents an important project in humanitarian terms, as well as in terms of human rights, developmental policy and disarmament policy, the European Union is directing its efforts towards mobilising the widest possible supranational support for this.
One of our main concerns is to improve inspections of transfers of small arms and light weapons for the European Union as a whole.
Other major concerns are to make small arms and light weapons more traceable, so-called ‘marking and tracing’, tighter controls on the arms trade and punitive measures against illegal trafficking of ammunition.
We are very grateful for the support of the European Parliament in this matter and for the very close cooperation of the Commission, too; and I believe that at the Conference in New York the European Union will indeed give a good account of itself. &#160;&#160; .
Some countries have a political interest in implementing the Treaty but lack the resources to do so.
We are therefore channelling all our efforts into supporting practical implementation.
This formed the political framework governing the work of the Council and the Commission on this issue.
The Commission’s contribution to the 2002 Annual Report on joint action in the area of small arms and light weapons includes more specific coordinating measures.
The Commission’s ability to honour its commitments for 2007 will depend largely on the outcome of talks between the Council and Parliament on proposed instruments for funding Community actions.
To this end, the Commission has tabled some sensible proposals.
Whilst the Commission awaits a positive verdict on the main thrust of these proposals, its departments responsible for the policy on small arms and light weapons are working towards ensuring that awareness of the risks relating to illicit small arms and light weapons and of the preparedness of individual countries to address those risks forms part of the documents of their national and regional strategies.
The British arms industry already operates to some of the highest standards in the world and the British Defence Manufacturers’ Association has said that it warmly welcomes the principle behind the international arms trade treaty.
However, responsible countries such as the United Kingdom and other EU Member States will only achieve a hollow moral victory if other less conscientious nations rush to fill the gap in arms sales left by our absence.
The United Nations, and not the European Union, is the arena in which to pursue an international arms trade treaty and it must include as many countries as possible, and particularly China, if it is to have the desired effect.
Amnesty International has recently identified China as one of the world’s major arms exporters, with increasing influence in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
Chinese weapons have helped sustain conflicts and human rights violations in Sudan, Nepal, Burma and southern Africa.
For many years I have worked to overcome the problem of anti-personnel landmines, but I have always sought to focus attention on the real culprits, who use such weapons indiscriminately and irresponsibly.
Usually, these have been armed rebel groups in developing countries which are supplied by non-Western countries.
The latest reports by the UN Institute for Disarmament Research on European action on small arms and light weapons stresses that the EU should create more synergies between the relevant CFSP and Community instruments.
This Parliament has repeatedly expressed its disappointment at the lack of specific legislation in many EU countries, despite the adoption of Common Position 2002/203/CFSP.
We are counting on the Austrian Presidency to steer that process.
Success would mean agreement on a global set of principles on arms transfers which, as a minimum, should ensure that all transfers are authorised through a permit or licence, that existing obligations and relevant international law are respected, that arms embargoes imposed by the UN Security Council are respected and enforced, and that the issuing of permits or licences should take into account the risk of exported arms being used in serious violations of human rights or international humanitarian law, including the risk that such arms might be diverted into the wrong hands such as those of terrorists and that this may affect regional or internal security and stability.
The UN review conference should, of course, start work on a legally-binding international arms trade treaty as soon as its work is complete.
I am very honoured to be a member of Parliament’s delegation to that review conference. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I welcome this motion for a resolution on the subject of small arms, although I must say that when you consider the damage these things cause, the term ‘small arms’ makes them seem much too harmless.
It says, for example, that transfer of weapons should not occur if there is a risk that they might lead to violations of human rights or that they might promote national or regional instability and armed conflicts.
One should, therefore, not only take action against illegal exports, but also against legal ones.
Contrary to what Mr&#160;Van&#160;Orden says, one should certainly look at Member States of the European Union as well, since countries like France, the United Kingdom and Germany are among the main exporters of small arms.
Five years after the UN programme of action was agreed, the forthcoming review conference must not just review: it must act.
The debate is closed.
Of course, because of the fact of scheduling accession negotiations with several candidate countries, certain parallels may arise.
However, the accession procedures – the screening, the analytical test and, importantly, the negotiations – are of course carried out separately with each country.
The speed of progress in the negotiations depends solely on the extent to which the individual candidate makes progress in fulfilling the conditions for accession.
A parallel has arisen, although mainly for practical reasons, simply because the Commission produced the first screening reports on Turkey and Croatia at almost exactly the same time, and so they were dealt with at the same time.
We stand at the beginning of these negotiations; our next concern is Chapter&#160;36 including other business; in other words, in practical terms and due to the rhythm of negotiations, the two are very soon likely to drift apart from each other. &#160;&#160; – () In theory, this principle of each country on its own merits has always prevailed, and yet in terms we have seen many cross-connections.
There is no provision at all for such a thing, neither in the Rules of Procedure nor in Council practice.
As you are so right in saying, the speed of progress and the starting positions of the two countries are of course fundamentally different.
Therefore - in practice - different speeds of negotiation are very soon bound to emerge. &#160;&#160; – () Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the one hand you are right in saying that there is no connection.
Croatia is going on ahead of them and there is no doubt that the progress it has made in terms of economic and social policy constitutes an incentive to the other countries in the Balkans.
Nor do I believe that it is fair to say that the Commission is in some way dragging its feet in this regard.
The Commission is doing what it is required to do, and I also believe that the negotiations themselves are going very well.
In listening to your answer, President-in-Office, I would remind you that in too many cases that trade is linked to human rights abuses in the form of the involuntary removal of organs from prisoners due for execution in China.
Three years after this was voted in the European Parliament, an answer that you are seeking more information from experts is really not good enough.
It is a proposal that is important but needs to be studied very carefully.
It appears to me to be quite vital to underline the fact that one of its concerns in doing this was to present the European Union as maintaining a united front, for any sort of long-term effect on Iran is dependent on its being seen to do that by the outside world.
What that means is that the fact that these negotiations have, in the last few months, been in the hands of three Member States, should not conceal the fact that the Council as a whole, and Mr&#160;Solana, the High Representative, as well, have constantly been not only informed about them, but also involved in them, supporting them and endorsing the relevant conclusions.
The Council has not disputed Iran’s right to use nuclear energy in a peaceful manner in accordance with its obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and, on the basis of the August 2005 proposals, reiterated in the February 2006 conclusions, the EU would be prepared – and it still is – to support the development of a safe and sustainable civil nuclear programme consonant with the principles of non-proliferation, provided – and this is the other side of the coin – that full account is taken of the wishes of the international community and its confidence restored as regards Iran’s intentions.
The Council is still determined to bring about a peaceful solution by diplomatic means, and I believe that it has communicated and reiterated that in very clear terms to the world at large.
As far as the reaction of the Iranian side is concerned, I have said that the package was not rejected, which already is progress, because as we know, in the past, that whenever the European Union and other international players have made an offer, this was flatly rejected by Iran.
If there are any ambiguities, we have made it very clear that he now has a fairly short time – just as you said, we are not thinking in terms of months but in terms of weeks – to clarify what these ambiguities are and what is necessary in order to clarify the European Union’s position.
So we hope to hear exactly on which points the Iranian side is seeking more information, which we will give to them.
I was present for all the debates in the Council, the last of which was only a few days ago, and I can tell you that all the Member States, without exception, are endeavouring to come to a common position on this matter, the need for which is being questioned by nobody, and that the European Union is very much united on this issue.
Migration has already been discussed this morning in the course of the debates on the future of Europe and on the preparation for the European Council, when I pointed out – as I do again now in response to this question – how important it is that we, when discussing migration, should concern ourselves not only with illegal immigration, important though that of course is, but also the necessity of turning our attention to the development policy dimension of this issue.
Migration was a very important topic at the troika’s meetings both with the African Union and with ECOWAS, when it was confirmed that an EU/African ministerial conference would be held on migration, and agreement was reached with ECOWAS on the establishment of an working group on the subject.
We attach great importance to the European/African regional conference on migration routes to be held in Rabat on 10 and 11 July, at which we will be giving special support to Spain, and preparations for this are far enough advanced for it to be possible to adopt a joint action plan.
Tomorrow or the day after, the European Council will be adopting a resolution in favour of pressing ahead at greater speed with dialogue with Africa, which, it is envisaged, will involve ten countries in the west of Africa and four in the east.
The intention is that these bilateral discussions and their outcomes should be backed up on a regional and Africa-wide basis, with a follow-up mechanism being established for the Rabat conference and a series of regional conferences held on this subject.
Turning to your question on development cooperation, I would like to observe that the European Union’s monitoring report this year showed that the EU is steering the best possible course towards discharging the obligations into which it entered at Barcelona in March 2002 and increasing public development aid to the point at which it reaches a proportion of 0.33% of individual states’ GDPs and 0.39% of the average across the whole of the EU.
I will take this opportunity to repeat that all the targets agreed at the Millennium Summit must, of course, be achieved.
Turning to the subject of the economic partnership agreements with groups of African countries, I am very well aware that the issue of such EPAs is quite fundamental in our dialogue with Africa.
A few days ago, in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea, while negotiating the ACP Finance Protocol, we made a particular point of giving undertakings on this issue.
The Commission has declared its willingness to make funds available not only from the current European Development Fund but also from the next.
We are aware of the most especial importance of this issue of economic partnership agreements with Africa and with developing countries generally.
On the basis of the first general review, which is to be carried out in the second half of the year, we will be carrying out a complete analysis of the stage that negotiations have reached, and then we will be able to continue work without delay in what it is to be hoped will be a very efficient manner. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;Winkler.
I will, however, do my best, and am already looking forward to meeting Members of your House and parliamentarians from the ACP states.
Turning now to the issue of financial resources, I would first like to point out that the European Development Fund is not part of the European Union’s Budget; on the contrary, these resources are provided by the Member States from their national budgets.
I would also like to point out that the amount in this tenth EDF is equivalent to an increase of over 35% against its predecessor; even though there were renewed negotiations and discussions in Port Moresby concerning the sums involved, that is still a quite considerable increase.
What we are talking about here – and this is something that must be brought home to the public – is the sum of EUR&#160;22.6 billion over six years.
I do believe that, in doing this, the European Union is fully discharging its obligations, not least its moral obligations.
Moving on to the agreement to increase aid to Africa by EUR&#160;10 billion, the intention is that this should start in 2006 and run until 2010.
I do believe that the tenth EDF is a good package and contains sufficient funds for the needs of the developing countries in Africa, in the Caribbean and in the Pacific.
A very great deal will also depend – and this too needs to be emphasised – on how these funds are deployed, which must be done in an efficient manner.
It is a recurrent experience that the end of a period sees considerable amounts of money left over, and that means that we also have to improve the capacity for these funds to be used, which has to do not only with the amount, but also with the way in which these funds are used.
We are working on this, and so, in particular, is the Commission. &#160;&#160; Would the President-in-Office of the Council agree with me that there are selfish as well as selfless reasons for refocusing our effort on the developing world?
We will indeed leave a terrible inheritance to our children if we do not ensure that the current situation changes.
One of the issues we talked about was exactly that: China’s activities, in Africa in particular but also in other developing countries, especially in the fields of energy and trade.
We raise it in relation to our partners and we have raised it, and will raise it again, in relation to China. &#160;&#160; – There is no doubt about the fact that economic partnership agreements are a positive step in attempting to curb immigration as such, and illegal immigration in particular.
It is also the intention that this agreement should, in harmony with the timetable for the development of the single area of freedom, security and justice, ensure that people can cross borders lawfully and without problems and stay legally in both areas.
According to this timetable, these agreements – which must first, however, be ratified and implemented – are to be seen as a first step in a process aimed at making the free movement of persons, and their return, easier.
Furthermore, the timetable envisages the dialogue on visas with a view to examining the conditions for the introduction of bilateral exemption from visa requirements being moved forward, albeit as a long-term project without a definite point in time being specified.
The dialogue between the European Union and Russia on visa matters will be continued on this basis. &#160;&#160; Thank you for your answer.
I would like to ask you another question.
There is no answer today, because there are many aspects to this question – there are not only aspects of external relations, but also questions of migration policy – and the situation will have to be closely observed both by the Council and the Commission to finally come to conclusions.
During the Austrian Presidency, the European Union took the decision to raise the visa fee to EUR 62.
However, I hope it will answer your question when I say that, in the discussion on the increase in visa charges, the possibility of derogations was conceded not only for the countries of the Western Balkans – who are a particular priority of the Austrian Presidency – but also for those countries to which the European Neighbourhood Policy applies on the grounds of the great importance of both of them.
As you will be aware, efforts are being made to conclude visa facilitation agreements with other countries as well.
There had previously been concern that the countries with which we want to maintain particularly close relations should not have to suffer the increase in these visa charges, which were to be – and have been – imposed for reasons that are objectively perfectly understandable. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, I am in the process of trying to get a visa for Russia.
The fact is that we have, during the Austrian Presidency, put down a deliberate marker to the effect that Europe must, in future, as a matter of fundamental political principle, make better progress where the sustainability of biofuels in concerned.
The issue under consideration is how, in future, biofuels may be used as an admixture or as new fuels for general purposes.
We see it as an indisputable truth – and as one that we must join together in communicating throughout Europe – that the production of biofuels and bio-propellants of every kind, ranging across the whole spectrum from biodiesel to ethanol, cannot work if it is detrimental to the environment.
Here in this European Union of ours, the production of biofuels, too, must be founded upon the principle of sustainability.
Having visited plenty of environmental conferences over the last few months, I can tell you that it is also important that we should take care that consideration is given to the sustainability principle in the international trade in biofuels, which are produced using the whole range of methods and the most varied raw materials.
During the Presidency – and particularly at the meeting in March of this year – we have discussed how to take Europe’s energy policy in a new direction, with particular reference to fuels.
In a conclusion dated 8&#160;June this year, the Council and the Commission called for proposals to be made concerning the promotion of the cost-efficient and sustainable use of biomass for heating and cooling purposes, for the revision of the legal provisions applicable to animal by-products, for the use – since biogas is going to be a live topic in the future – of by-products from agriculture and food production to be promoted as a source of renewable energy, and for an evaluation of the possible extension of the rules on energy crops to all the Member States; these are the cornerstones for the way energy is to be organised in the future.
The Commission has also announced its intention of submitting a communication on the energy crops rules by the end of 2006 – which I see as a key date – and that this communication would include practical proposals for this sector.
What I mean by that is that we, in the agricultural reform of 2003, with a view to sustainability and to the creation of a new source of income for rural areas in Europe, took steps to make use of 1.5&#160;million hectares of sustainable raw materials for the whole range of alternative forms of energy in all areas, and it has to be clear to us today that we are very far from making full use of those 1.5&#160;million hectares.
The potential is there, and may well become even greater, and we await with interest the results of the evaluation and the Commission’s proposal, and, in both the Agriculture and Environment Councils, we will, over the coming months and years, have to give in-depth consideration to the challenges of a sustainable energy policy, for sustainable and renewable energy production is the key to Europe’s independence in energy and to its future projects in the field of energy production. &#160;&#160; Thank you, President-in-Office, I am very glad that the Austrian Presidency has been particularly active on that.
This morning Commissioner Piebalgs mentioned, in a question-and-answer session, that there would be certification to underwrite the sustainability of biofuels.
As regards your second question on research, development and the research framework programme, a greater emphasis will be placed on alternative energy in the infrastructure as a whole as part of the innovation and research strategy, from the extraction of the raw materials right through to production and use made of it in technology.
However, there are serious discrepancies between the Member States in terms of technological progress, market size, scale of production and fuel market structures.
Austria has achieved this target by means of binding legislation; the Hungarians are very definitely interested, and in Germany, too, this target is already the subject of legislation that is going through the system.
In discussions with our counterparts, we always reiterate the point that strategies must not only be devised at European level, but also implemented by the nation states.
Some are going on ahead, while others are lagging behind, but, at the end of the day, we are all going in the right direction.
We will, in June – before, that is, our presidency draws to a close – be embarking on the debate on a forestry strategy for Europe and on the assessment of ways in which forests might be used in the future, and economic and fiscal policies at national level must also make allowances for renewable energies, whether we are talking here about green power, support for heating, support in terms of equipment and infrastructure or research and development.
What we in Austria did about implementation was to make a mixture of 5.75% mandatory, and we will achieve that in October 2008.
Facilities for producing biodiesel and ethanol are being set up, and jobs created with them; in my own province alone, a new factory for ethanol is currently creating work for 180 people.
If it is possible for that sort of product to be manufactured in Brazil, then Brazil is in competition with us, but even if Brazil is in a position to do that, the long distance that the products have to be transported is one of the factors that blunt its competitive edge.
What we do not want is to establish sustainable energy policy in Europe and then end up doing something like importing the products.
Our ten new Member States – to whose number Romania and Bulgaria are soon to be added – give us incredible potential, with a very large number of plots of land capable of being set aside for the production of energy rather than of foodstuffs, and the agricultural specifications have been chosen in such a way as to make this possible. &#160;&#160; Question No 8 by Earn Ryan has been withdrawn.
We started negotiations on the Commission’s proposal with the aim of putting in place progressive rules, with a longer-term perspective, on exhaust gases, and with the intention that these rules would – crucially in terms of our discussions today on sustainability – not only satisfy the demands of environmental policy but also give European industry the security to plan its technical development in advance.
Both of these things can be achieved through stringent imposition, in the medium term, of threshold values for emissions from – for example – diesel vehicles.
It was with this in mind that negotiations were conducted at Council level, in the hope of achieving, in June 2006 – which is almost upon us – political agreement in the Council, on the assumption that such a thing would be possible in terms of the timetable, particularly in so far as it related to Parliament.
If I might give a brief summary, it emerged from the negotiations – which, in accordance with the Austrian Presidency’s initiative, were accompanied by two specific information seminars for the Member States, the first, in February, discussing mainly the state-of-the-art environmental requirements for removing particulates from vehicle exhausts, in particular NOx from the exhausts of diesel cars, while a second is to be held on 22&#160;June – that a broad majority among the Member States have expressed themselves in favour of this objective, concerning which there are already to be definite and binding discussions in relation to the stipulation of Euro-6 limits.
It is absolutely vital that both air strategy and the implementation of Euro-5 and Euro-6 be discussed at the next Environment Council at the end of June.
We want to take an ambitious approach to these things.
We will, then, endeavour to maintain this tricky balance between Euro-5 and Euro-6 as perspectives, as well, possibly, as Nx and PM10 as means of achieving environment targets, and, on the other hand, the desire to keep Europe’s automobile industry competitive.
This is the path down which we have set out, and, at the Environment Council, we will have to discuss these two issues – air strategy and Euro-5, and also the further prospects for them – in very considerable depth, and several Commissioners will be present when we do so. &#160;&#160; – First, let me say how very grateful I am for the precision of your answers, which is a breath of fresh air.
The main thing that came out of the Council’s general debate was that the environment ministers unanimously welcomed the proposal for a drastic reduction in the particulate limit values for private diesel vehicles to 5mg per kilometre, whilst the Commission’s 20% reduction in NOx limit values was regarded as inadequate.
A broad majority of the Member States has already expressed itself in favour of a second stage of reduction in NOx for Euro 6, that is to say, of taking a more ambitious approach to NOx reduction – which we see as having gone a very long way as regards particulate threshold values – along with a vision for even now guaranteeing industry the security to plan ahead even beyond Euro 5, which means, then, not adopting Euro 5 right now, irrespective of the details of the limit values, and then embarking on the next debate in two or three years’ time.
The intention is – and this is important – that this forestry measure should in particular enhance the competitiveness of forestry – as stated in Article&#160;20 – and promote the management of wooded land.
I would remind the House that the funds made available for this purpose at national level will be – as specified in EU Regulation 1698/2005 – co-funded by the Community and the Member States.
The Finnish Presidency of the Council will be making the forestry strategy one of its core priorities, and now, in June, we are playing the overture to it.
Woodland performs a very wide variety of functions, and rural development policy is – as I said in response to the previous question – the main instrument for implementing the forestry strategy at Community level.
Under the heading of rural development over the period from 2000 to 2006, the Community made available funds to a total of some EUR&#160;4.8&#160;billion for forestry in Europe, amounting to 10% of the total funding allocated to rural development.
Over and above that, the new regulation provides for even more to be done for forestry as part of the promotion of rural development between 2007 and 2013.
One, for a start, is first afforestation on agricultural land, the initial setting up of agricultural forestry systems on farmland, the initial afforestation on non-agricultural land, payments under Natura 2000, forest-environment payments, the restoration of forestry potential, the introduction of prevention actions, and also support for non-productive investments.
What will be important in determining the direction we take in the future is the fact that we must not, in the debate on the forest strategy, forget one thing, namely that forests have a task to perform in terms of the biodiversity of flora and fauna, that they provide space for relaxation, that they have an environmental role to play, that they help us to deal with climate change, that they prepare the ground for sustainable energy supply, while at the same time having an enormous part to play in Europe’s economy.
I therefore take it as read that very serious attention will be given, under the Finnish Presidency and its successors, to the issues of afforestation, environmental action and fire prevention, among others, in the countries and regions to which you, Mr&#160;Fernandes, have referred.
Lack of experience has meant that many mistakes have been made, and Natura 2000 in the broadest sense of the term has for that reason often got a bad name for itself, but, in those regions and countries in which it has been implemented well, not only with dialogue with landowners in devising the management plans but also with an appropriate range of direct payments on offer, the system has been effective.
The source of the pollution is discharges of waste water in excess of limit values by the Austrian firm Boxmark at Jennersdorf and Feldbach and by the firm Schmidt at Wollsdorf.
There has to date been no evidence of this foaming having any detrimental effect on the Raab’s water system, yet, nevertheless, Austria, not least as a result of the efforts of my experts, in its report analysing the pollution and its effects in accordance with Article&#160;5 of the Water Framework Directive creating a regulatory framework for Community measures in the sphere of water policy, described the chemical state of the affected stretch of the Raab as being associated with the risk of failing to achieve a good standard of water.
Speaking from where I am, I can assure you that I have the utmost interest in finding, in an ordered and positive relationship with our Hungarian neighbour, a solution to that which is provided for in the common European water policy plan, and will do everything in my power, in consultation with the officials responsible in the regions, specifically in two Austrian federal provinces, to get the problem taken seriously and progress made towards a solution that benefits Hungary as well.
I have an absolute interest in that; I will ensure that it comes to pass, and, in Austria, I have already taken appropriate action to that end. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you and the Austrian Government for what you have done, and for your promise that starting from 1&#160;July, the polluted water from the Jennersdorf leather factory will no longer be discharged into the river Raab.
It was at one of the first debates that I, as a young minister, was allowed to attend, at the first Council of Environment Ministers in March 2003, that we first discussed the Bathing Water Directive in which these standards are laid down, and so I am able to tell your House today that we have been able to make constant improvements in the quality of running water, and that the water in all Austrian lakes is fit to bathe in and, in most, even fit to drink.
The EU-Mediterranean ministerial conferences regularly consider the complex issues around the environmental sustainability of the Mediterranean area, and – as part of the implementation of the outcomes of the two EU-Mediterranean ministerial conferences on environmental issues held in Helsinki in November 1997 and in Athens in July 2002 – efforts are being focussed on the laying down of a strategic framework and the promotion of a common approach and joint initiatives towards improving institutional and technical capacities in the region.
The Seventh Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Conference on 30 and 31 May 2005 in Luxembourg once again confirmed the Commission’s initiative to remove pollution from the Mediterranean by 2020, the object of which initiative was to address all sources of pollution including industrial emissions, municipal waste and urban waste water, in order to improve the development prospects for tourism, increase the fisheries stocks, and make safe drinking water available to millions of members of the public in these regions, and the Mediterranean partners were to be supported in this by the provision of appropriate funding.
The objectives I have enumerated were confirmed at the EU-Mediterranean Summit in Barcelona.
Negotiations on similar plans are underway with Egypt and the Lebanon, with a particular and urgent interest in environmental protection and the supply of water, but also in the disposal of waste water and the EU’s experience with environmental impact assessments and the work of the European Environment Agency.
It has, in any case, been our intention that deeper bilateral cooperation should include the implementation of multilateral environment agreements on the protection of the Mediterranean. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
The reason I ask is because we already have a strategy in the directive in question.
The proposal adopted by the Commission on 22&#160;September&#160;2005 is important because the fight on all fronts against the terrorist threat remains a priority and because we need to learn the right lessons from the implementation of current legislation.
The rules in force are fairly detailed, as becomes plain whenever we try to introduce any new technology or to make the system more flexible in order to deal with specific risks.
The Commission has proposed a rebalancing of the channels through which its implementing powers are exercised within the context of the comitology procedure so that it can respond more rapidly to technological change and increase the confidentiality of rules that must remain outside the public domain.
Mr&#160;Costa has produced a very valuable piece of work, and I wish to thank him for the quality of his report and for the cooperative spirit that was evident in his dealings with the Commission.
It is quite right that all the consequences of that experience should be examined and that we should be even better prepared to tackle the situation now developing.
I should just like to highlight two aspects of the work we have done, because the Commission’s proposal is an excellent one that just needed to be made more explicit on a few points and developed further on a single point.
The proposal needed to be made more explicit regarding the idea that we can only be certain of achieving a good outcome for aviation security if we have a single system that provides a level of security guaranteed by every airport and every airline.
The idea of implementing a single security system is essential if we are to provide the strongest possible protection for all European and non-European citizens who fly in our skies and use our airports.
I believe there is one point that has been neglected ever since 2002, which is the fact that, if at least a basic level of common security is to be imposed throughout Europe, effective funding mechanisms also need to be provided.
Support for such funding may come from two sources: one resulting from the general public concern that we must defend ourselves against possible terrorist attacks, and the other resulting from individual fear, in that each passenger as such produces a demand for additional security.
Currently, the situation in Europe as regards the way these measures are funded is extremely varied and not necessarily very fair or correct.
That is the reason why we have insisted – and continue to insist – on the need to lay down rules for funding these basic security measures, keeping in mind the possibility of redistributing the funding equally between the two sources.
That is the subject of the amendment that we have put forward, which was supported by a large majority in committee and I hope will likewise be accepted in this House tomorrow.
With our amendment, therefore, we invite the Commission to make some technical suggestions on the subject.
The European Parliament will, for its part, do everything possible for the amendment to be accepted.
I am aware of the fact that this is a sensitive subject for the Council, but I believe that, if security is indeed regarded as a supreme good and a primary objective, it is essential to create the right conditions to guarantee it.
Precisely because the security funding situation in Europe is highly varied at the moment, it is important to ensure that the issue is made explicit, that the citizens understand what they are contributing towards, and that the funds intended for security be used transparently and effectively.
I endorse the idea of a single security system, the aim of which is to make further checks unnecessary if the Member States are reasonably sure that the basic security rules have been followed at the airport of origin.
I am not overjoyed, however, that the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, for which I am the draftsman, and which was actually adopted by a very large majority, has not been taken into due consideration.
I believe, in fact, that the Member States should keep the power to apply more stringent security measures both internally and in the context of bilateral relations with third countries, should they consider them necessary on the basis of legitimate risk assessments.
Such more stringent measures should in all cases be proportionate and in keeping with civil liberties and free market principles, as in fact is pointed out in the opinion that I have drafted.
While I believe that the Commission should confine itself to laying down minimum standards and carrying out checks by means of regular as well as unannounced inspections, I consider it excessive that the Commission should be able to decide by itself whether a State can continue to apply more stringent measures or not.
In addition, I am consoled by the fact that, at least in the area of on-board measures, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has seen fit to take up my amendment extending the definition of ‘potentially disruptive passengers’ to people whose behaviour is a source of genuine concern.
I notice that on each occasion we seem to have exactly the same debates, whether the report deals with seaports or, as in this case, airports and aviation.
In general I welcome this proposal.
Clear rules for security across Europe’s airports are absolutely necessary.
In some cases that particular position could jeopardise security itself.
It is for Member States to decide on what extra measures they deem necessary.
The issue of in-flight security does not belong in this regulation.
My greatest concern is the proposal contained in some of the amendments adopted in committee to extend the competences of the European Aviation Safety Agency to take on security.
I hope we can achieve a workable solution to these issues.
Since 11&#160;September, safety is, of course, more than ever, an important topic, and it goes without saying that aviation requires our particular attention, given the potentially devastating effect of attacks involving aircraft.
To my group, this means that we must always strive for the highest level of protection, but that this must be accompanied by a sufficient level of transparency and with respect for civil liberties.
A second element on which we are agreed, and to which the rapporteur has already made reference, is that it should be clear who should cover the costs of security at airports.
A major improvement in the Commission proposal is the fact that the chapter on safety on board civil aircraft has been added.
It is about, amongst other things, the notorious sky marshals, armed security officials on board aircraft.
The problem is that the deployment of security officials is a matter for the Member States to decide, and that is also how it will be in future.
Some countries, including France and the United Kingdom, have already used them, while others, such as Greece and Spain, have not.
In that light, we welcome this additional measure as an opportunity for regulating this issue at least partly at European level by, for example, imposing uniform procedures and strict security regulations or by providing for cross-border training.
The first is a formal amendment with regard to Gibraltar Airport in order to bring the text into line with existing agreements.
The third area of concern has to do with the security screening for potential weapons.
The whole committee, and all the Members of this House, would, however, have found it very helpful if we, at the very outset of the debate, had had sight of the Commission’s documents on a process reviewing the measures taken in response to 11&#160;September 2001; that would certainly have made our discussions more straightforward and afforded us many more options.
It does, nevertheless, make sense to take joint basic measures in matters of security.
When it comes to the financial arrangements, there is a matter pertaining to the future that we have to address, and Mr&#160;El&#160;Khadroui has already mentioned it: we cannot stop at air transport in debating who is to take in hand security measures in connection with large-scale transport infrastructures.
We also have to devise a financial measure that gives fair treatment to all means of transport in order not, from the very start, to give preferential treatment to certain of them in the funding of security measures or when it comes to the extent to which they are to be funded through the sale of tickets, by the taxpayer, by the airlines or by other bodies.
Today we are dealing with an issue that is very important for public security, namely increasing protection measures – I repeat, protection measures – in the field of civil aviation.
We must admit that the 2002 regulation currently in force contains too many specific and formal solutions which make a flexible response to operational needs difficult.
It is vital to retain an appropriate balance between the need for an effective and hence rapid response and an appropriate level of protection and control.
Of course, it is also necessary to make the right decisions regarding the cost of the action required.
It is good that the Member States are given the responsibility for drawing up appropriate plans for civil aviation security.
Air carriers and operators are responsible for implementing programmes and technical conditions that ensure the right level of protection.
The next very important issue is to draw up appropriate agreements or contracts with countries outside the EU.
Finally, I would like to state my conviction that the draft regulation presented by the Commission will be improved thanks to the approval of a series of very rational amendments, something I support on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group.
The first is that I believe that the costs of all security measures at airports should be split between those who use the airports and the Member States, for the measures put in place at airports are not primarily for the benefit of the individual passenger, but serve to avert dangers to all and sundry; that, traditionally, is one of the functions of the state, and it is the state that should pay for it to be done.
Secondly, we must make sure, once and for all, that the system of a single security check is brought in on flights not only within the European Union, but also between the European Union and secure third countries.
It is surely not acceptable that someone should arrive at Frankfurt airport by air from Israel and be subject to a second security check before he travels on to Hamburg, and the same is true in the case of the USA.
It must be possible for people arriving from a safe country to avoid going through additional security checks when they change flights within an EU Member State.
To have their post distributed efficiently and within a reasonable period of time is an important right for all EU citizens, especially for those who live in sparsely populated areas or outside cities and population centres.
The period within which mail is distributed should not be several days, a state of affairs of which Europeans would take a very dim view.
The report strikes a clear balance between, on the one hand, the fight against the appalling terrorism that has hit aviation and against which we want to protect ourselves and, on the other hand, safe and efficient aviation and postal and cargo services.
I applaud the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is now obvious that the measures being taken as part of the fight against terrorism are to a degree unavoidable.
However, it is also clear that measures may become excessive and restrict the civil liberties of those they are supposed to protect.
It is, however, worrying that more and more powers are being transferred to the centre of the Union, especially the Commission.
We have our reservations, but we also recognise the Union's right to protect its citizens.
Of course, I ask these questions in the context of one issue, which even today is hotly debated, namely the possibility of special civil aviation security services that are authorised to carry weapons.
I repeat that I am in favour of a total ban on weapons on board aircraft.
It is the case, however, that, at that time, certain important aspects were left out of a negotiation which was carried out in response to what was a significant moment in terms of security.
We feel that there is a point in Mr&#160;Costa’s proposal, however, that, in his enthusiasm for improving this Regulation, has introduced some confusion: the package of clauses which relate to the application, which has been traditional and historical since 1987, of all of the legislation relating to safety in civil aviation applied to the Gibraltar airport.
There is an amendment that we have presented from various perspectives which, without in any way jeopardising the safety applied to the Gibraltar airport, does preserve and protect the problem of an historical dispute, which is now on the point of being resolved.
I would therefore ask Mr&#160;Costa not to add a further point of conflict to an agreement that has been under negotiation since December 2004 and which, with regard to the Gibraltar airport, will prevent that suspension and neutralisation.
We would therefore ask you to accept this amendment, which simply restores something which has been historical, without in anyway prejudicing the safety of civil aviation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Chairman of our Committee on Transport and Tourism, Mr&#160;Costa, for his excellent report.
His draft introduces provisions that will undoubtedly serve to improve the security of civil aviation.
In other words, it is not just a matter of protecting users of air transport but all people in Europe who could be the target of attacks in which aircraft are used, as was the case on September&#160;11.
It seems unfair, as Mr&#160;Jarzembowski said, to burden aircraft passengers with the cost of these measures, especially since they are already overtaxed in a sector where new taxes are being invented all the time, as was the case only recently with the introduction of a tax on air tickets in some countries.
The other point I should like to raise concerns the obligation contained in Amendments 41 and 42, which would require Member States to consult and inform the Regulatory Committee before applying their own security measures.
It would certainly be preferable to strike a better balance between the need for transparency and the need to act quickly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is with real pleasure that I once again express my appreciation to Commissioner&#160;Barrot for proposing an excellent solution to us.
I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Paolo&#160;Costa, the Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on his report.
Under your guidance we have achieved a high level of agreement, irrespective of a few individual reservations.
We have had five years of experience since 11&#160;September2001.
In the draft regulation mentioned above, we have defined tasks for governments and states, we have defined the responsibilities of airports and airline operators, we have defined the competences of civil servants and air security workers, and we have also defined the guidelines for acceptable passenger behaviour.
The draft regulation also mentions how this programme is to be funded.
I would urge against minimising costs as an aim in itself.
I therefore believe that our fears concerning restrictions on human rights and civil liberties are not entirely well-founded.
My thanks also go to all the speakers, whose contributions testify to the importance of the subject of this evening’s debate.
The European Commission is able to accept a large number of the amendments proposed in this report.
In the Commission’s proposal amending the Regulation, chapter 10 of the Annex proposes in-flight security measures.
The Commission is not proposing that firearms be permitted on board aircraft, but experience has shown that there are cases in which firearms are carried on aircraft by statesmen’s bodyguards or by security officers known as ‘sky marshals’.
So much for the problem of firearms on board, a difficult problem for which we have tried to find a few benchmarks.
The Commission, Mr&#160;Costa, can endorse the creation, as proposed in recital&#160;9, of a solidarity mechanism that could be activated in the event of a terrorist attack, but we must bear in mind that the consequences of an act of terrorism can spread far beyond the transport sector.
Let me move on to the funding of security.
The report will describe the current situation and will show what is desirable to protect the public on the one hand and to guarantee the proper functioning of the single market and fair competition on the other.
I therefore agree with your committee and its chairman, Mr&#160;Costa, on the need for greater transparency with regard to taxes and fees.
The next task is to examine the situation that would develop if some Member States were to set additional requirements.
I certainly understand the reasons for all these amendments that relate to funding, but is it necessary to try and resolve all of these funding problems in the context of a technical regulation?
The regulation is there to set technical standards for the security of civil aviation; for the rest, it is true that the simplification of certain procedures can lower costs, but I really must remind Parliament that we have to take care not to delay the improvement of this security legislation.
In conclusion, I fervently hope that we can proceed towards the rapid adoption of this proposal. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m.
The Commission can agree to Amendments 1, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 37, 40, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, 55, 56, 58, 60, 61, 65, 66, 67, 68, 73, 77, 78, 82, 89 and 91.
The Commission can accept Amendments 9, 14, 18, 23, 25, 39, 42, 51, 64, 72, 79, 81 and 84 in principle.
The Commission can agree in part to Amendments 5, 20, 21 and 57.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 2, 3, 6, 19, 22, 32, 35, 36, 38, 41, 43, 44, 45, 50, 52, 54, 59, 62, 63, 69, 70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 80, 83, 85, 86, 87, 88 and 90. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the report by Michael Cramer (A6-0183/2006), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the deployment of the European rail signalling system ERTMS/ETCS (2005/2168(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my very warm gratitude for the constructive cooperation on the part not only of the Commission, of the Committee secretariat, of the railway companies, and of the railway industry, but also, and not least, of the groups’ shadow rapporteurs, for it was also thanks to them that it was possible for this report to be adopted in the Committee on Transport and Tourism with nobody either voting against it or abstaining.
The effect of ERTMS is to incorporate digital technology into the infrastructure of railways, with the prospect, after many decades, of the twenty different signalling systems still in operation today being consigned to the past and ERTMS, as a single system throughout all the EU’s Member States, replacing them.
The system improves safety, reduces building and maintenance costs and increases capacity to a considerable degree, while also resulting in a considerable reduction in the cost of locomotives, which it will be possible to manufacture in greater numbers.
Investments in ERTMS are regarded as equal to investments in infrastructure and treated as cross-border projects, resulting in up to 50% co-funding from the EU, not only for ERTMS-compatible locomotives, but also for infrastructure – for those sections that cross borders, at any rate.
I firmly endorse the memorandum of understanding by which the EU and the national railways have agreed to equip six corridors with ERTMS.
These corridors are symbolic of the reunion of Europe, and the implementation of ERTMS in them will, among other things, overcome national egoisms, since it will be necessary to think and act in a European way.
Not only does ERTMS offer Europe an opportunity to grow together, but it is also essential to the medium and long term development of the rail industry and to the 15&#160;000 highly-skilled jobs in it.
Even today, the railway industry is a hit on the export front, with orders for locomotives placed by Korea, Taiwan, India, Saudi Arabia and China, and infrastructure projects in those countries, clearly demonstrating its market potential.
If ERTMS can build on the foundation of a strong market in Europe, it can be the standard for the world.
Your report clearly presents the advantages of ERTMS and spells out the three challenges that have to be met if it is to be deployed successfully.
First of all, ERTMS is recognised as the best system in the world today for indicating permissible speeds to drivers and for monitoring those speeds automatically.
As Mr&#160;Cramer has just emphasised, the success achieved in exporting the system outside Europe to countries such as Taiwan and Korea testifies to the potential of this system as an exportable product.
Secondly, many lines in Europe are equipped with national and even regional systems, most of which are dated and mutually incompatible.
Mr&#160;Cramer spoke of a ‘patchwork’, which very aptly illustrates the wide disparities between these systems in terms of safety and performance levels.
Conversely, as long as trains are not equipped for ERTMS, infrastructure providers will also hesitate to invest in it.
There is a need to break out of this circle of inertia and convince all players in the field of rail transport that they should adopt what is ultimately a win-win strategy.
We must move together in the same direction, namely towards a competitive European rail environment that is able to deliver high-quality service.
That is how we can shift part of the volume of freight traffic from road to rail in order to save energy and come closer to the Kyoto targets.
In this respect, your report bolsters our case appreciably, and for that I wish to thank both you and the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, I hope that the introduction of the single train system will be quicker and more punctual than the way we are going about things, for we are already – again – running twenty minutes behind time, and I am sure you will not mind if I go pretty soon, as I want to watch another match somewhere.
With this report, we have sent out the right message, and the Commission, too, is ready to do its bit, but it is now down to the Member States, to the network operators and the railway companies to make use of this co-funding.
There is, then, a massive obstacle to interoperability, one that certainly – as you, Mr&#160;Cramer, have said – makes the railway sector less competitive, particularly in view of the constant increase in traffic and the urgent need to move it from road to rail.
Let us make use of ERTMS as a great opportunity for rail transport, and let us do everything possible to move the transfer from road to rail forward in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Barrot, Mr&#160;Cramer, thank you for the work you have done.
We are pleased that, during the hearing you organised, the infrastructural people were keen to apply the European rail signalling system (ERTMS).
There must be EU funding for the cross-border sections, and one corridor should not be singled out in favour of others.
The project must be considered in its entirety and we must keep an eye on the bigger picture.
We will therefore need to find a little more than those EUR&#160;5&#160;billion spread over 10 years.
I would like to see whether the railway companies and Member States are prepared to actually put that money on the table, because that bit of European funding is only a drop in the ocean.
Member States and others refuse to face this reality and think that Europe, even if it has no money, should still be the driving force behind initiatives such as these.
Since electrification, the differences in voltage and protection systems have cut the railway network up even more.
It looks like a number of variations on ERTMS will become the generally applied standard in 20 to 30 years’ time.
The initial investments in ERTMS have been made, and many are sure to follow.
The certainty of constant growth is of huge benefit to industry.
People who work for the railway companies need a great deal of preparatory training before they can start using ERTMS safely.
For the time being, it mainly comes into its own as a secondary system alongside one of the 20 tried and tested systems.
In Switzerland, the average train delay during the first four months was 18 minutes and only then did things gradually change for the better.
These teething problems mean that the system has not so far been hailed as a success by the interested parties.
European Union funding must focus on this experimental phase with a view to making versions 2.3.0 and 3.0.0 reliable and to possible further developments without filling the coffers of industry unnecessarily.
Given the role that rail is supposed to play in the logistical process, I am pleased with the attention ERTMS is now getting.
I can identify with the essence of Mr&#160;Cramer’s report, which covers most relevant aspects of ERTMS, and I share his view that ERTMS is an instrument that can help rail move forwards into the future.
Current services are hindered by barriers that prevent competition with other modes of transport.
The existence of nationally-geared protection systems is without a doubt part of this.
Since the introduction of ERTMS can cancel out this negative aspect, it is important that the transitional period between the current systems and ERTMS be kept to a minimum in order to restrict additional costs and functional discomfort as a result of the use of the dual systems.
That is the case at the moment, and I hope that all those involved will make the effort to have an economically justified and technically up-to-date system in operation, now and in future.
An important topic during our discussion was the financial aspect of the introduction of ERTMS.
Both in the Community, in the Member States and among railway companies, only limited resources are available.
In that context, my group has proposed a number of amendments, which emphasise that, in terms of projects, we should back clear favourites and maturity, both politically and economically, so as to make maximum use of the means available.
This represents prospects for industry and more employment.
For the rest, I am pleased about the attention that is being devoted to the importance of the full participation of those involved, namely the Community, Member States, industry and railway companies.
The development, introduction and implementation of ERTMS equipment can only be a success if everyone does their bit.
Finally, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Cramer for his work and the sound cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, and express the hope that all those involved will back the processes that have either been set in motion or that are yet to be embarked on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we, in the EU, have for a long time been working to balance the relationship between road and rail, with regulations on the treatment of HGV drivers and train crew under social security and labour law, with injections of support and finance for rail traffic, with tolls and other levies for heavy road traffic, and, last but not least, with technical regulations on intermodality and interoperability.
Most recently, by means of Marco Polo I and II, we made a direct attempt at supporting more environmentally-friendly modes of transport, and now, with NAIADES, we are attempting to create new opportunities for internal shipping.
Whatever the truth of those reports, we must continue to do everything in our power to equip railways and upgrade their technology.
The new magic formula in this is ‘ERTMS’, which is intended to help make train systems mutually interoperable, so that perhaps, even if a long way down the line, rail will be given a new chance.
In this report, the political centre of gravity tends to be the opening of networks to competition, in other words the market is paramount; whenever that is the case, road transport is always the winner.
I am not sure that there was a need or obligation to assign priority to particular rail corridors.
There is also, of course, a crucial question with regard to funding during the transitional period when the old and new systems have to exist side by side.
If this key question is not answered, national companies are liable to be wary.
If it is answered, Commissioner, I believe we shall win the day, and we need to win, because each of the Thalys power cars, as you said, has seven different command and control systems installed, and they also cost 60% more than other locomotives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a comprehensive report.
The ERTMS is superior to national systems because it is cheaper as far as new acquisitions and maintenance are concerned and safer at all speeds.
The 20 different train protection and signalling systems that still exist today should be replaced by a single system in all EU Member States in the near future.
The sooner trains are equipped with European train control systems, thus allowing them to travel on major interoperable corridors, the sooner it will be possible to make savings on maintenance costs and eliminate costs associated with the use of multiple systems. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous adoption of the Cramer report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism basically tells us two things.
The first is what you, Commissioner, and the Members who have already spoken have stressed, which is that the rapporteur has done some excellent work, and therefore the thanks that we owe him are far from being a formality.
The second point is that, although the concerns and the emphases may vary, I feel that there is broad awareness of the fact that we may be facing the implementation of a system that appears to be a genuine industrial project of excellence for Europe.
The first is that Mr&#160;Savary is certainly right in saying that the new system should include everything that is new.
At the moment, however, as we are faced with the financial difficulties that we are all aware of, I think we should support the installation of the system at least along the main corridors that the European coordinator, Mr&#160;Vinck, has examined and proposed to us as the first step towards overall coverage.
I should like to point out that the timing and procedures need to be right for the migration of the whole European network and for the current standard to be maintained, thus guaranteeing compatibility with future technical specifications. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like warmly to congratulate Mr&#160;Cramer on the exhaustiveness of his report, which deals in a skilful and in-depth manner with all of the problems that we need to overcome in order to achieve full interoperability and facilitate the removal of rail borders.
We must also accept that the vote in committee – I believe – improved his initial proposal, by extending it and making it less restrictive, amongst other things acknowledging the efforts of those countries that are already applying it.
I am talking about countries such as my own, Spain, where forty years of dictatorship left us completely isolated – as is currently the case with the Baltic countries which are historically linked to Russia, also by a railway of a different gauge – as a result of a different gauge of track, in addition to problems with mountains.
The enormous efforts that we have had to make in Spain in order to renew our rail network with European funding have led us to directly apply the European signalling and speed control systems, which we are currently discussing.
The compromise amendments that were eventually approved are very important.
Eventually, we decided in favour of six main railway corridors.
ERTMS’s ultimate aim must be for it to be universally applied, because a single European railway market cannot become competitive compared to other modes of transport if we continue to apply more than 20 different signalling systems.
That is why we must be creative and extract funds from, for example, the Cohesion Fund and, possibly in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, collect additional funds.
It is true that the Coordinator selected corridors with a view to obtaining a clearer picture of the costs and benefits of deploying the system and trying to encourage the various players to work together.
The Commission, acting in accordance with the Financial Regulation, will favour the best projects and the corridors that will be capable of providing high-quality projects within an appropriate time frame.
These are the remarks with which I wanted to accompany my thanks to Parliament and its rapporteur for this excellent contribution to a policy which is essential if we want tomorrow’s railways to become a European rail system and a rail system with the potential to relieve the road network.
That is really the crux of our efforts, and I am delighted with the contribution of Parliament, to which I extend my heartfelt thanks. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It will not come as any surprise to you that I fully support the Miguélez Ramos/Kindermann amendment, which is totally consistent with the contents of the report and simply introduces the notion of gender equality in the title.
However, you will be pleased to know that this evening the Conference of Presidents has approved the change in the title of my report.
From the outset, had I been allowed to draft this report in the Irish language, the problem would not have arisen because I would have used the word , which, unlike the English word ‘fisherman’, is gender-neutral and embraces all those involved in the sector.
There is an urgent need to comprehensively address the multiple problems in the inshore fishing sector in the European Union.
It concerns every single coastal Member State, in most instances in totally different ways.
Inshore fishing is about the economic and social fabric of our small coastal communities.
Most importantly, it is dependent on the adoption of appropriate EU programmes specifically designed to help the sector.
We must also enhance cooperation and communication channels between organisation and stakeholders concerned.
It is about the specific social, economic and environmental problems of the entire small inshore fishing sector in all Member States of the European Union.
This report is a contribution to resolving problems in the inshore fishing sector, not to creating new ones.
Commissioner Borg, this report and this Parliament are calling on you to consider a new Community initiative for this important sector of activity.
The men and women involved in the inshore fisheries sector are calling on you to consider a new Community approach.
It is clear that small-scale coastal fisheries are in many ways different from fishing activities conducted by larger boats.
However, it is also true that coastal fisheries have handicaps, and I agree with most of your conclusions in this respect.
However, it does not mean that at national or local level additional criteria could not be used when defining the role of the different players in coastal fishing areas.
On the contrary, coastal management actions and plans should include further criteria depending on the specific settings of the area and the fleets involved.
Here, again, I agree with most of your proposals, and in particular the establishment by local fishermen of coastal management plans, the harmonisation of data on coastal fisheries, the improvement of training for men and women involved in this type of fishing, better coordination of all aspects affecting coastal areas and fishermen, the improvement of vessel safety and of the safety culture for those involved, the need to recognise the role of women and improve their legal work status and, last but not least, the better involvement of coastal fisheries in decision-making and representatives bodies, such as the RACs.
I am deeply convinced that it is first and foremost the local fishing communities themselves who have to come together, get organised and propose actions and initiatives.
Secondly, many of the aspects that were mentioned are under the responsibility of the Member States, for example education and vocational training, jurisdiction over coastal areas up to 12 nautical miles, and the control and enforcement of safety standards, etc.
You, the European Parliament, have started with a study, the hearing of last November and this own-initiative report we are discussing today.
Among other possibilities of particular interest to coastal fishers: the proposed European fisheries fund reduces to 20% the private contribution for the modernisation of vessels for owners of smaller ships.
I think that this is a package of better treatment for this segment, which will contribute to bringing about some of the improvements mentioned in your report.
In addition, there are several areas of the common fisheries policy where coastal fisheries are treated differently or exempted from obligations, such as the requirement to use a logbook, remote sensing and VMS requirements.
Before concluding, let me just mention that my services have recently commissioned an important study, which is under way at this very moment, and which will give us a new and up-to-date insight into several cases of small-scale fisheries located in different regions and seas of the Community.
Although just 3% of women take part in extractive fishing, many women are intensely involved in the other activities relating to fishing.
As we state in the report, therefore, it is urgent for both the Commission and the Member States to take the measures necessary to guarantee all of these women their rights.
The lack of data broken down by gender makes it extremely difficult to seek solutions to the problems faced by women working in the sector.
Making these women more visible also requires using correct language to reflect the fact that there are men and women in the fisheries sector, and not just men.
I am therefore very much in favour, and we support, the proposal that the rapporteur has also just advocated to change the word ‘fishermen’ to ‘fishing communities’ in the title of this report.
We must not forget that these vessels represent around 80% of all Community vessels and this kind of fishing is practiced in all of the coastal Member States, although in each one it has special characteristics.
The definition of small-scale fishing on the basis of the twelve-metre length, as in the case of Community legislation, therefore, is not in line with reality, and we hope that the Community legislation will be amended in this regard in the near future.
I would therefore like to insist once again that the future European Fisheries Fund must take account of the modernisation and renewal needs in terms of safety and also in terms of energy saving, with a view to alleviating the crisis faced by the fisheries sector as a result of the rise in oil prices.
I do not believe that the agreement adopted in Coreper and which is going to be presented to the Council of Ministers offers all of the measures that this Parliament called for in the Casa report on the European Fisheries Fund (EFP), in which there were many more measures which would undoubtedly make the renewal and modernisation of small-scale fisheries much more flexible. &#160;&#160; .
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain, on his fine idea of proposing this initiative report at a particularly sensitive time for small communities, which are facing problems that need to be dealt with urgently.
It must include work safety on board, the protection of resources and the protection of the sea and coastal areas.
Training must also consider improving the quality of catches, their marketing and the management of small businesses, because these issues can help small-scale fishermen to consolidate their business results and improve their living standards.
I would finally like in particular to congratulate the draftsman for the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, Mrs&#160;Riera, who has made very valuable contributions that have enriched the report.
The differences between the regions are too significant to attempt a harmonisation process in this sector.
If our amendments on those two points are not pursued, my group will be forced to abstain in this respect.
Unfortunately, though, Scotland’s offshore fishing industry has not had a happy experience as a result of the common fisheries policy.
I would like to see those communities returned to a state where the young and the future generations have some hope of being able to follow in that tradition. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, inshore fishing, especially small-scale coastal and traditional fisheries, make a considerable contribution to the socio-economic well-being of coastal communities, both in Portugal and in other coastal Member States.
The economic and social crisis affecting the fisheries sector is of particular concern for the less competitive fleet segments, especially the inshore fisheries.
In our view, this crisis is also associated with the guidelines and implementation of the common fisheries policies, insofar as it fails to recognise the specific needs of inshore fisheries.
Accordingly, this sector of the fleet needs support at both national and Community level.
We should like to highlight the reference to the need to acknowledge the specific nature of small-scale coastal and traditional fisheries in the CFP, to adapt the current instruments so as to meet the needs of the sector, and to continue with the granting of aid for the renewal and modernisation of the small-scale traditional fleet under the future European Fisheries Fund.
That being said, the report falls short of what is required as regards the immediate response to the problems associated with the current crisis and the new instruments needed to carry out a proper assessment of the specific nature of this sector of the fleet.
The first relates to the need to set up a Community programme to aid small-scale traditional fisheries, which will support specific projects and help to focus the instruments and channel funds into inshore fisheries.
The second takes account of the need for emergency measures to respond to the desperate socio-economic situation in the sector, and accordingly proposes to establish emergency transitional compensation to offset the effects of the increase in the price of fuel.
We have been highlighting the need for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries, particularly in the Mediterranean, for a long time, repeating what has been confirmed with due emphasis in the report we are debating today.
Unfortunately, the short time I have available will not allow me to examine in any depth some interesting points such as gender equality in the fisheries sector, safety on board fishing boats, alternative energy sources in view of high diesel prices, and modernisation of the fleet.
Supporting inshore fishing means, , protecting it from unregulated fishing by vessels flying the flags of third countries that brazenly carry on their activities subject to no controls and without any regard for the quantity, quality or species of the fish they catch.
Southern Italy’s fishing community has recently protested about this for the umpteenth time, this time in Bagnara in Calabria.
The European Union should not force our fishermen to accept restrictions and sacrifices while leaving non-EU fleets in the Mediterranean completely free to do as they like.
The inshore fisheries sector can and must make this important economic activity compatible with preservation of the marine environment, which is both necessary and incumbent upon us.
I must particularly stress paragraph&#160;16 of the motion for a resolution, which calls on the Commission to recognise once and for all the specific nature of inshore and traditional fishing in the common fisheries policy, since it has been poorly treated so far. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I commend the rapporteur for his hard work in drawing attention to the needs of an often neglected sector in fishing.
However, UK fishermen’s experience of the common fisheries policy, whatever the Conservative Party might now say, has been so negative that, in consequence and in conscience, I could not advocate what amounts to the full extension of the common fisheries policy controls to the inshore sector.
Secondly, only some countries would take up the match funding opportunities which might arise in return for EU regulation and competence.
For those reasons I am obliged to say that I cannot support this report, although I readily acknowledge the genuine motivations the rapporteur had in bringing it forward. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ó Neachtain, and to welcome the Commissioner here.
If we do not face up to the fact of diminishing fish stocks, whatever policy we bring in will not create the extra fish that we all need. &#160;&#160; – I should like to join in the congratulations on Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain’s excellent report and his consistent commitment on this issue that is so close to our hearts.
I would therefore strongly urge the Commission to take this into consideration. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report on inshore fishing and the problems facing inshore fishermen accurately describes their current situation.
In Poland a large number of old vessels were scrapped as part of the reforms.
The limited viability of catches as well as a lack of financial resources means that it has been impossible for them to be replaced.
The measures proposed in the report include access to cheap fuel, financial and investment aid for fishermen and family enterprises and career training and education for young fishermen and those interested in a career in fishing.
The implementation of these measures would facilitate the maintenance of existing jobs and the creation of new jobs in regions where there is currently high unemployment.
The launch of the European Fisheries Fund is particularly important.
I would like to thank Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain for drawing up this report.
I support the rapporteur’s recommendations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain for the work he has done in performing a careful analysis of the problems facing inshore fishing in the European Union.
The report quite rightly considers the role of women to be important at last, recognises their difficulties in operating in this sector, refers to the subject of on-board safety, and highlights the importance of professional training and the role that inshore fishing can have in protecting and conserving the coastal marine environment.
I should, however, like to mention two aspects that are important for my country, Italy, and not only for the south of the country but also for the northern Adriatic.
However, the proposal to ban all fishing techniques that threaten the survival of inshore resources and the economic sustainability of the social fabric associated with fishing may well be a fair provision but it would leave many operators in difficulties, in that they would be left without work for lack of any feasible alternative proposals for a sector that is already going through a serious unemployment crisis.
Secondly, insufficient attention has been devoted to producers’ associations and the positive role that they could play in contributing to the socio-economic development of fisheries-dependent communities.
Being able to relate the management of local fisheries to local conditions and to the Member States would reinforce the principle of subsidiarity that our fishing communities would like to see in the management of inshore fishing, and would bring their problems closer to the source of solutions.
The Regional Advisory Councils themselves should encourage dialogue between the European Union and local actors.
To conclude, I should like to thank Commissioner&#160;Borg for the important work he has done, particularly in connection with the Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, which proposes making the various sectors involved in the management of maritime policy interact with each other. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to express my satisfaction with all the findings and proposals set out by the rapporteur and to make a number of comments.
We all know that inshore fishing is the basic economic activity in disadvantaged and isolated regions of the European Union.
For example, in Greece, inshore fishing has the largest number of boats (96% of the fishing fleet) and the highest rate of employment.
The arrival of young workers in inshore fishing, apart from any family connections they may have, means that certain support policies need to be applied, given that even the report talks of the financial difficulties of both owners and workers and their limited borrowing capacity, factors which have an adverse impact on attracting young people to this profession.
In addition to vocational training, this policy could include specific incentives for young fishermen.
The European Union should help to organise inshore fishing by helping their associations to create infrastructures, move products and improve fishing methods.
The active participation of coastal organisations throughout the European Union in a dialogue during which priorities and completion deadlines at local, regional and European level are determined must therefore be one of our objectives during the consultations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Ó&#160;Neachtain’s report is an interesting case of the rapporteur searching for the root cause of a very complex problem, one which is not easy to assess.
This problem is that of inshore fishing.
As is the case with any field that is hard to define and that is ambiguous, it is doomed to be marginalised and to remain outside the main current of Union funding and investment programmes, when inshore fishing in fact makes up around 80% of all sea fishing.
Everyday conditions are getting worse, and catch statistics are falling.
Action is needed to secure the fundamental bases of inshore fishing.
The Member States need to implement common protection mechanisms that will guarantee its existence.
These mechanisms are more effective if they take into account the specific situation of this kind of fishing and the inherent conditions, technical needs and economic framework of the relevant inshore zones. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to congratulate the rapporteur on the truly wonderful report he has prepared for us.
Inshore fishing is of great importance.
It is of social importance because most are small family businesses and, if this type of fishing is lost, they too will be lost.
It is of cultural importance because these areas have a strong element of tradition and, if these fishermen go, a slice of European culture will be lost with them.
It is of environmental importance because this type of fishing does not damage or causes the minimum possible damage compared with other types.
We must not forget that 44% of the labour force in fishing is engaged in inshore fishing and that 75% of the fishing fleet in the European Union is engaged in inshore fishing.
I wish to say that inshore fishing needs to be protected and, when we say protected, we mean safe boats.
On three specific points that have been made, the granting or otherwise of tie-up aid is a national matter and the reporting and control are aimed more at larger vessels than at smaller ones.
With regard to the specificities of inshore fisheries, I need to underline again that up to a distance of 12 nautical miles these are largely subject to Member State jurisdiction.
The European Fisheries Fund also allows for young fishers to be offered favourable conditions for training and the purchase of a first second-hand vessel.
Mr Ó&#160;Neachtain’s report will also be taken into account.
However, my view is that we should not over-regulate in such a sector; we should help mainly by providing assistance for coastal fishers to overcome the handicaps that they face in exercising their profession. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The economic and social crisis that is affecting the fisheries sector in Italy, which has been hit by management costs of over 40% and losses of income of around 25% in the last three years, is hurting the less competitive elements in the fleet most of all.
The inshore fishing industry has been hit particularly badly in that it is more affected by the highly unstable fuel prices and the rise in variable costs.
In addition to economic difficulties, the inshore fishing sector also has to face the lack of a specific legislative framework.
The future regulation for the Mediterranean, for instance, should provide for adjustments to be put forward at a national level.
The Commission needs to recognise small-scale inshore fishing and traditional fishing as a special case within the common fisheries policy, while taking account of the fact that certain coastal areas, particularly in island or outermost regions, are heavily dependent on fishing and the satellite industries that it generates.
It is so important that inshore fishing be developed, making it attractive to the employment-seeking youth.
In Ireland, the Celtic Tiger economic boom has resulted in higher-paying, stable occupational opportunities for young professionals.
Mr President, on behalf of my colleague, Mr McCreevy, who could not be here tonight, I should like to thank Mrs Kauppi, who has been an outstanding rapporteur in terms of her mastery of this difficult and highly technical subject and her willingness to work constructively with the Commission and all parties.
The level of institutional cooperation on this file has been exemplary.
It shows that Parliament, the Commission and Member States are able to work together in a sensible and pragmatic way in order to achieve the right result for Europe’s financial markets and Europe’s investors and consumers.
The Lamfalussy procedure, which we have all worked hard to develop over the past few years, works.
Of course it is important to agree as soon as possible on the European Parliament’s legitimate right of call-back, which the Commission supports.
We believe that Lamfalussy procedures will serve us well in the years ahead, allowing us to adapt our legislation rapidly to keep pace with market and technological developments, while maintaining essential democratic checks and balances.
It will update the single passport for investment firms, allowing them to operate across the European Union on the basis of an effective single authorisation and across a wide range of financial instruments.
The rapid globalisation of financial markets is an opportunity for Europe.
Our financial markets are in good shape.
Our common regulatory framework is more or less in place.
The European financial landscape is becoming commercially more attractive.
Leaving politics aside, the potential stock exchange measures represent a vote of confidence in Europe, in our stock exchanges, our technological prowess and our regulatory system.
In the end what matters is that the cost of capital in the EU remains as low as possible overall for all EU economic actors, that European Union financial markets are properly regulated by European regulators, that European Union markets can grow strongly, that cross-border clearing and settlement costs are significantly reduced and that the European Union, through its new regulatory regime, can influence and develop strongly its financial relations with the rest of the world, using its good emerging model of regulation as its passport.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive is a key step towards positioning Europe as a global leader in financial services.
That is why the Commission is particularly thankful to Parliament for its cooperation on this vital subject. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we can all be very satisfied with the resolution before us.
It is based on a remarkable effort by the Commission, the European Parliament, the European Securities Committee Regulators and market players, which has resulted in the successful conclusion of the implementing measures for MIFID.
The directive itself is nothing short of revolutionary in the way it opens up investment markets in the EU and achieves better guarantees for investor protection than in previous legislation.
The implementing measures before us, which establish some 17 key provisions of the directive, represent balanced and measured regulatory arrangements for bringing these twin promises to fruition.
The procedure by which these implementing measures have been drawn up is also highly significant.
This is the first time the European Parliament has been fully involved in concluding implementing legislation at the comitology phase.
All the parties involved can feel justified pride in the way we managed to overcome potential interinstitutional pitfalls since, as we all know, Parliament’s role in comitology is the topic of an often heated debate.
In fact, we are still awaiting some answers from the Commission and Council.
I hope that the Commission and national regulations will interpret the resulting provision in the light of the agreement reached in the Level&#160;1 Directive.
Finally, I had hoped that a more modern interpretation of the business in derivatives could have been found.
The European Parliament has contributed to that effort in a way which, I believe, will be commended by everyone for its quality and professionalism, and it has also defended, at Level&#160;2, the balance between the achievement of open markets and the transparency principle we defined for Level&#160;1.
What we have done here in the European Parliament has focused primarily on the parliamentary contribution to the proper functioning of what is known as the Lamfalussy procedure and on our reasons for hoping that the agreement on the exercise of the implementing powers assigned to the Commission will guarantee the rights of Parliament.
Lastly, allow me also to draw your attention to the content of our resolution regarding the role, powers and intervention rights as a market regulator of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, which coordinates the activities of national regulators.
Commissioner, when we began this whole adventure, some members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs argued that, besides the market itself, we should concern ourselves with what happened further down the chain, with what are known as post-trading activities, namely clearing and settlement.
For me, as the representative of a small and new European Union Member State, the kind cooperation of competent and more experienced colleagues is the best proof that we can work together in an enlarged Europe and implement important reforms together.
Another thing I would like to mention is that we have to look to the future, as the rapid and ambitious development of financial markets brings new tasks every day.
I am sorry that Mr&#160;McCreevy is not participating in our debates today, and that neither he nor the European Commission have played much part in the current reorganisation period of Europe's financial market.
Therefore, based on experience I have gained myself, I would like to point out the things we ought to emphasise when discussing the global challenges of the world's financial market.
I feel that our strategic goal ought to be the aim to follow the development route of our own distinctive European financial market regulation model.
The second element of the model ought to be provisions encouraging the convergence of the interpretations and requirements of supervisory institutions.
Thus, we must rely on and the experience of the northern market as we coordinate a united interpretation of legal norms.
The third thing I would like to mention is that financial market efficiency must be assessed by taking into account the views of the end consumer, which would mean the separation of services, the disclosure of the internal expenditure of huge financial conglomerates and the management and exposure of conflicts of interest. &#160;&#160; – () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start thanking not only Mrs&#160;Kauppi, the rapporteur, but also all those, the shadow rapporteurs in particular, who have worked on this highly complex topic, for their great effort.
Once again, I have to say how deeply disappointed I am in our Bureau; today is an historic date, and on it we have been provided with evidence of how effective parliamentary participation is in the committee procedure.
The good thing that has emerged from this evening is that we have demonstrated that this House plays a cooperative role in dialogue with the Council and the Commission, and that this is not our fault.
I call on the Council, both this week and next, to take this positive example to heart.
We have demonstrated that we, through the procedure of our committees, can come to decisions that are more efficient, that make possible better regulation and hence also the continuation of the Lamfalussy procedure, that is to say of this House’s right of review, with this House notified in good time and the perspective afforded by the institutionalisation of the call-back.
Even so, the Commission should take care that, in the financial markets – for that is what this directive is about – there should in future come into being a European model in which the strengths of all parties are taken into account. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Radwan, I must point out to you that it is not the Bureau that sets our agenda but the Conference of Presidents. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to support the remarks made by various speakers on this being a historic moment.
I would also like to emphasise our adherence to the Lamfalussy procedure and cooperation between the different players in the field, and to underline what Mrs Berès said about the role of the regulators and the importance of getting the tools to enforce the legislation and measures we have now adopted.
This enforcement needs tools and instruments and it is up to Member States to provide them.
I hope we can invite him to the next Strasbourg session and have a debate – maybe not at such a late hour as this but earlier in the day – on the developments in the stock exchanges.
I consider that this is a perfect example of how well all three institutions can work together to the benefit of the European financial markets.
On two proposed amendments which were not accepted by the Commission – Amendments 4 and 7, to which the rapporteur made reference – I should like to say that with regard to the disclosure of the identification of the client, the Commission favours a more flexible approach.
If accepted, the amendment could weaken transparency requirements.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
