Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 7 November 2002.
The final draft agenda, as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday, 14 November 2002 pursuant to Rules 110 and 110a of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, has been distributed.
Monday: Mr President, you must be aware that it is very foggy around Strasbourg and I have been told that many Members are not here.
Some of them regret that they will be unable to participate in the debate on the Medina Ortega report on tobacco sponsorship and advertising.
As you are aware, the Prestige, failing to live up to its name, spilt several tonnes of oil off the Spanish coast, which not only created an oil slick more than 200 kilometres long, but is also a source of great environmental concern and great economic concern for the families affected, which number over 5 000.
Therefore, Mr President, as I understand that Parliament must be sensitive to our citizens' concerns, I would ask you to include in our agenda a Commission statement, followed by a debate, so that we can examine the circumstances in which this incident took place, the causes, the measures that the European Union needs to take in order to prevent a recurrence and possible terms for European Union solidarity.
You have anticipated something which your group and other groups proposed for a change to Thursday's agenda.
Mr President, I notice that in today's agenda there are five or six oral questions in a debate on media concentration, and I believe almost all of us who are due to speak are here.
If Mr Byrne is the Commissioner due to respond to this question, I propose we begin with this subject and then consider the Medina Ortega report afterwards.
We will follow that debate with the Medina Ortega report and with the opinion that should accompany it.
Mr President, our group has requested the debate on the disaster that has taken place in Galicia - on European shores - and I would like to defend this position.
The chairmen of our group have requested this debate in writing.
I do not want to raise a point of order, but simply explain the issue before the vote.
This group wishes to have a debate on the Maaten report to be included at the end of Thursday's agenda. (Parliament rejected the request) December I part-session (4 and 5 December, Brussels): No change.
Regarding tomorrow's meeting with members of the parliaments of the accession states, I would like to request that, at the group meetings tonight, the Presidents of the different groups inform both our Members, and their counterparts from the accession states - if they have been able to get here - that it is absolutely essential that no-one should use or switch on their mobile phones.
I will repeat the warning tomorrow but I would appreciate it if the groups could take note of this matter.
Regarding the general difficulties experienced by colleagues arriving in Strasbourg today, I have a number of letters from various authorities; from airport authorities, from the Mayor of the city and from Air France.
Mr President, I asked to take the floor earlier because this morning our group, in writing, called for the Commission to apply the 'Erika' legislative packages to the terrible situation in Galicia following the Prestige accident.
Mr President, Galicia is black: its beaches, its coastline, its fauna, its fish, its birds ?
I would also like to announce, given that this House, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, does not allow us to table resolutions, that through the Committee on Fisheries I shall propose a resolution to establish protected European sea-fishing zones in susceptible areas, which will increase the required distances to be maintained between these zones and ships carrying dangerous goods and bring forward the obligation for this type of ship to have a double hull, which is currently laid down for the year 2015, and I shall call for it to be brought forward to the year 2005.
Mr President, I am telling you this as an Irishman and a Celt: we cannot allow another disaster of this kind to occur in Europe.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group and also as the Socialist coordinator of the Committee on Fisheries to draw the attention of the House to the oil spill from the Prestige, to which previous speakers have also referred, which took place last week near the coast of my region, Galicia.
On Thursday - the accident happened on Wednesday - I tabled a motion for a resolution before this House and also tabled two motions for resolutions, because I understand there are common interests here: environmental interests, fisheries interests - which the Committee on Fisheries will have to pursue - and interests relating to the maritime transport of dangerous goods, which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism will have to pursue.
I would call on the Community institutions to strengthen legislation in this field, comply with existing legislation and devote their attention to this kind of disaster by means of European solidarity, such as that provided, for example, in the cases of the natural disasters that have taken place in four Member States over the summer.
Mr President, I thought we were going to hold the debate on the Prestige on Thursday, but I see that all the groups are speaking and I would not want my group, on whose behalf my colleague Mr Jové Peres and I shall speak on Thursday, to fail to give its opinion and say what I believe should be done.
We should discuss Parliament's options consistent with its resolutions and consistent with the necessity to be coherent in following up its resolutions and consider declaring these two persons personae non gratae with regard to access to the Parliament itself.
Mr President, the statute of the Members, an oral question to the Council, now features on the Brussels part-session agenda.
From the Conference of Presidents report, I noticed that you have held talks with the prime ministers of the Member States.
In the interim period, we could contemplate an oral question or invite the Council to make a statement at the first part-session in December.
Mr President, on a point of order, because of the historic debates that will take place this part-session there is no Question Time.
I had submitted a question to the Council on the legislative process and the way in which this House is potentially being treated in relation to the proposed directive on legal aid.
The Council intends to adopt this measure at the end of the month on the basis of a different text to that on which Parliament was consulted.
Mrs Wallis, in the absence of Question Time, your question is noted.
As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I am well aware of the constitutional and practical importance of moving forward with the Statute of Members - even though I would not myself have chosen this particular way of doing it.
However, I note that on the agenda for that day there are major debates on fisheries - the first for ten years - looking at the fisheries industry of Europe at a critical time.
If colleagues wish to discuss this issue they could raise it at the Conference of Presidents on Thursday.
If these offences had existed in a candidate country and were brought to the attention of all the European institutions, the country in question would not have been successful in the enlargement negotiations.
Mr President, I wish also, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to express my sympathy with those affected by the events in Galicia.
I also believe that these countries should comply with current standards.
Mr President, today we saw at the airport that nature can sometimes turn against technology.
Mr President, as a Member for a peripheral maritime region, I would also like to express my solidarity with the Galician fishermen affected by the Prestige ecological disaster.
The next item is the joint debate on six oral questions to the Commission concerning the media: Oral question (O-0045/02 - B5-0498/02) by Graham Watson - 'Internal market: media pluralism and enlargement' Oral question (O-0053/02 - B5-0499/02) by Enrique Barón Crespo, Michel Rocard, Barbara O'Toole, Reino Paasilinna, Demetrio Volcic and Karin Junker - Media concentration Oral question (O-0080/02 - B5-0500/02) - by Raina A.
Mercedes Echerer, Daniel Marc Cohn-Bendit, Monica Frassoni, Heide Rühle and Jean Lambert - Media concentration Oral question (O-0082/02 - B5-0501/02) by Fausto Bertinotti, Lucio Manisco and Geneviève Fraisse - Media concentration Oral question (O-0083/02 - B5-0502/02) by Mariotto Segni, William Abitbol, Teresa Almeida Garrett, Guido Bodrato, Juan José Bayona de Perogordo, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Luigi Cocilovo, Gerard Collins, Thierry Cornillet, Paul Coûteaux, Brian Crowley, Luigi Ciriaco De Mita, Gérard M.J.
Deprez, Giorgos Dimitrakopoulos, Carlo Fatuzzo, Fernando Fernández Martín, Concepció Ferrer, Jim Fitzsimons, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Liam Hyland, Florence Kuntz, Franco Marini, Mario Clemente Mastella, Reinhold Messner, Juan Ojeda Sanz, Seán Ó Neachtain, Marcelino Oreja Arburúa, José Pacheco Pereira, Giuseppe Pisicchio, María Antonia Avilés Perea, José Javier Pomés Ruiz, Bartho Pronk and Lennart Sacrédeus - Media concentration and pluralism and Oral question (O-0084/02 - B5-0503/02) by W.G.
Beazley and Mario Mauro - Safeguarding the freedom and pluralism of the media in an enlarged European Union.
Mr President, in 1997 the process by which fixed and mobile telephony and television and the Internet were increasingly coming together was known by the buzz word 'convergence'.
The Commission adopted a much heralded Green Paper on this subject which promised a brave new world of horizontal regulation across platforms.
Since that time, however, we have witnessed a wave of mergers and take-overs in the media with the emergence of vast conglomerates such as AOL Time Warner, CBS, Viacom and Vivendi Universal.
Yet the Commission has not explored the idea of cross-media ownership and media concentration in any detail since its 1994 follow-up to the Green Paper on pluralism and media concentration.
The Commission's silence on such an important issue seems particularly strange because the European Parliament has been calling for a directive on a level playing field and media pluralism since the 1990s.
A diverse and pluralistic media is fundamental to democracy, freedom and cultural diversity.
Some have argued that with the explosion of different types of media, including digital, satellite and cable television, as well as the Internet, monopolistic control is impossible.
However, many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates, which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control.
Last but not least, media concentration has implications for our cultural diversity.
A Europe in which the media is dominated by a few major players risks being one in which certain regions, cultures and minority groups are granted less access to the media.
It seems to me that we cannot ignore the dangers that media concentration poses to our society.
The power of media ownership now frequently extends across national borders.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group has tabled this question on media concentration and I must say I am very happy that the initiative has spread throughout the House, because we consider that this is not a single-party or single-group issue, but a concern over a matter of constitutional importance to the Union.
We did this because, ten years ago, the Commission put forward a Green Paper on pluralism and the internal market, and proposed - and even drew up - a preliminary draft directive to harmonise national legislation on media ownership.
Significant technological progress has been made - the Internet over written media, cable, satellite television, digital technology - which have transformed the landscape.
In any event, however, Mr President, my group thinks this is above all a democratic issue, because it refers to one of the bases of the system we live in, namely the protection of freedom of speech, which is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society.
I am not only referring to freedom of speech as we politicians defend it, but also to freedom of speech for all citizens and also for workers in the press and the media, because it does not make sense for us always to advocate greater democracy for workers in other sectors but not in this one.
I must say that I am very happy that it is the Commissioner responsible for the protection of consumer rights and health who is to respond to this question, because we are always told that this issue concerns the internal market or competition.
I therefore hope that today's debate, in which all the parliamentary groups are participating and showing interest, will be a step forward, breaking this ten-year silence and allowing the Commission to exercise its monopoly on initiatives in this fundamental area responsibly.
Mr President, these debates on the hot topic of media policy have been going on since 1992, and Parliament had always taken a democratic approach to the issue.
I would like now to speak on behalf of my group.
I cannot but underline the arguments of those who have spoken before me, and I would like to pick up two of the significant points they made.
The EU, which announced the creation of the internal market as one of its priorities, must assume its political responsibility in this process involving consolidation and concentration.
Both economic diversity and pluralism in the media are equally under threat.
One more practical question for the Commission: in 1997, the directive on media ownership disappeared back into a drawer, quite possibly as a result of political pressure, although we cannot be certain of that.
I want to ask the British Members, if they are going to take part in this debate, what their reaction would be if Tony Blair had called publicly for the removal of three famous BBC journalists and had obtained what he wanted in the space of a few months.
I have brought this up not because these are problems which Europe has to resolve - they arose in Italy and we Italians must resolve them ourselves - I have mentioned it because, in actual fact, what is happening in Italy is different from the situation in other countries but there is one common factor: media concentration, which is becoming a world-wide phenomenon and is in danger of jeopardising media pluralism and thus freedom.
Although this does not by law fall within the sphere of the Commission's responsibility, Mr President, it is the point which is common to society throughout Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's core concerns include the safeguarding of freedom of information and the freedom and diversity of opinion.
These are among our fundamental values, to which, it is to be hoped, the Convention will give a prominent place in the constitution that will be our common possession.
That being so, Parliament has, over past years, repeatedly done in-depth work on these issues and taken actual developments in the European Union and the Member States as a yardstick when measuring the extent to which these things have become reality.
Secondly, it is the case that in the electronic media field, the television markets are still predominantly national in character.
This is a question on which we have to focus, examining very carefully what consequences this development is having for the safeguarding of freedom of opinion and information and pluralism of the media in the European Union and in its Member States.
That is why my group, that of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has put to you a question with reference to this specific development.
We are asking the Commission to draw up a Green Paper on the current situation to take up the question of the structural developments observable today in Europe's political, economic and legal media.
Mr President, undoubtedly the media play a crucial role in subjecting the exercise of public and private powers to permanent scrutiny.
In this new setting, the Commission has made use of the instruments at its disposal.
In applying competition law it upholds freedom of competition in the media, particularly in innovative media services such as the Internet and UMTS.
The legislative framework was further supplemented by the e-commerce directive, adopted in 2000, the objective of which is to facilitate cross-border provision of new interactive media services distributed on a point-to-point basis.
The Commission monitors closely the transposition of these directives in the applicant countries as well as in the Member States, ensuring that national media legislation remains consistent with Community law.
These instruments directly affect the media sector as an area of economic activity and not - or at least only very indirectly - as a vehicle for delivering information to the citizen.
This situation stems from the fact that even though pluralism is a fundamental freedom recognised by the EU, it is not one of the tasks assigned to the European Community under Article 2 of the EC Treaty.
The Commission is not aware of any concrete obstacles to exercise of the fundamental freedoms of the EC Treaty, particularly the right of establishment or freedom to provide services within the meaning of Articles 43 and 49, being encountered in the media sector because of national measures designed to protect pluralism per se.
We also have to consider whether such an initiative would comply with the principle of subsidiarity, since the purpose of legislative proposals based on internal market freedoms must in any event be to establish obstacles to the cross-border provision of services, not to regulate for specific situations in Member States.
If a country's leader has influence over two national television channels, for example, and therefore virtually all viewers, and under his or her control there is a continually present, manipulative and mesmerising force oozing out of those channels, what we have is an information society oligarchy.
My own basic point of view is this: the more concentrated media communications are the broader the range of rights journalists must have in their work.
The situation can worsen as a result of concentration.
Commissioner Reding, we are calling on you to draft a directive on the concentration of media communications, and its effect on culture, diversity, freedom of speech and the rights of journalists.
Commissioner Monti, we are calling on you to investigate whether the rules on competition have been contravened and a dominant market position has been abused, and, Commissioner Bolkenstein, on you to clarify whether concentration, convergence and the new media have a negative impact on the Internal Market.
Finally, Commissioner Vitorino, please look into the matter of whether or not our citizens' democratic and cultural rights are being implemented.
The European Convention must also discuss this.
Mr President, one of the crucial principles of a properly functioning democratic society is freedom of expression and access to information.
The media have a central role to play in this process.
The consolidation we have witnessed may lead to less pluralism in the media.
To what means can we have recourse to ensure free and diverse media without at the same time setting aside another cardinal principle of a democratic society - that of the distribution of power.
We need, in this Assembly, to comply with our democratic responsibility and make sure that the media comply with theirs.
Mr President, as has been stated repeatedly in this debate, there is undoubtedly a link between freedom of information and democracy, and I feel that this debate must serve, not least, to make Parliament and the European institutions more aware than they have been hitherto of the link between democracy and suppressed freedom of information, of the way the media is used to suppress democracy.
There are two or three points I would like to make in this regard.
Firstly, in my opinion, we need to be very sparing in our calls for European legislation, in our calls for the Commission to impose some sort of constraints on a market - the merging telecommunications and media markets - which, we must not forget, has to be able to withstand the challenges of the international markets inasmuch as European undertakings have to be able to withstand the challenges of the international markets.
What surprises me, with regard to competition and pluralism, is that we are essentially looking at this issue from two totally different and contrasting points of view.
On the one hand, we are looking at it from the point of view of our countries, the Member States, in which competition can sometimes be very fierce, particularly in Italy, as everyone here knows.
On the other hand, we can also look at the issue of pluralism and competition from the point of view of some of the candidate countries; we can even look at the issue of a single source of information which can have an adverse effect on the pluralism called for by Parliament, since it might be thought that, until now, media coverage in these countries depended exclusively on this single source.
It is, however, these two extremes that we must take into account if we are to find, at the same time, a balance between pluralism and a degree of concentration.
It is not therefore merely a question of competition among the private media because this problem also concerns public service, and we must achieve a balance between the two.
The last study on this subject was carried out in 1994.
Perhaps we must also stress the fact that the Treaty of Amsterdam has a protocol on the system of public service broadcasting in the Member States.
The protocol is an extract from the Treaty of Amsterdam which lays down, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, that the Member States are responsible for defining and organising these tasks, and for financing them, provided this does not undermine competition.
That is why all of us here today, and my group in particular, believe that it is necessary to review the need for a directive.
Mr President, the media system has developed alongside democracy, but our impression is that there has for some time been growing conflict between the two and that there is a tendency towards concentration, the result of which is, in practice, less democracy.
The media has an extraordinary influence over society, but I believe we have to realise that there is only one way to resist the domination of North American investments in the media and advertising industry and that does not involve media concentration in European Union countries.
I would, however, like to point out that this issue affects other sectors as well as politics.
Public television networks can provide alternatives to these tendencies, but we all know that, in the world in which we live, in a liberal society, private, commercial television companies play a major role.
However, this role must not be allowed to develop in such a way that the extraordinary power to influence public opinion is concentrated in the hands of a few.
The name to mention here is Berlusconi.
That the Kirch empire has collapsed can be of little comfort in view of the pressure exerted on public service broadcasters by commercial enterprises - I am referring to the cost of rights to sporting events among other things - and in view of an increasing concentration of regional, national and worldwide media with growing cross-border involvements.
Volume 44 of 'Media Research' a series of treatises published by the North Rhine-Westphalia Media Institute, has come out in the last couple of days; it gives a powerful description of media concentration's adverse effects on society's democratic and cultural foundations.
All this leads to only one conclusion, namely that European regulations are needed to limit concentration in the media, because national law does not apply outside the borders of states, or also because - as in Italy - the effort is not even being made.
Reference has already been made to the way the Italian State President's profound concern has led him to call for an Italian law to deprive the prime minister of practical political control over the services of the public-sector broadcaster RAI, and to restrict his power as a private individual over the media.
I wonder how many colleagues who have contributed to this debate this evening have actually bothered to read the new package that regulates electronic communications.
There are provisions in this regulation to open up access, to make access available on fair reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, again key words we should be thinking about in any context, particularly in media.
It is crucial, therefore, to ensure that the principles of diversity, pluralism and independence of the media are applied in the Member States and in the candidate countries.
In a constantly changing media environment, the presence of public service television channels and private television channels, as well as restrictions on mergers and acquisitions between commercial players, are essential in order to maintain audiovisual pluralism and cultural diversity.
That is why the Commission should carry out a thorough assessment of the media situation in each candidate country and in each Member State.
Today, developments in communication technologies, the key role played by the Internet in spreading information and cable television are phenomena which are pushing us to look again at the issue of media concentration.
The Constitution will include articles which are part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Article 11 of which enshrines the pluralism of the media.
If - and this is something which I bitterly, very bitterly regret - one of the Member States of the Union ranks below the Republic of Benin, below position number 40 in the world in terms of media pluralism, that is not a matter solely or primarily for political dispute within the country concerned, and I am talking about my own country, Italy.
No, in my view, it calls for analysis on the part of the European Union followed by the adoption of political, institutional and legal measures - the substance of which will be for the Commission to decide.
Mr President, we pride ourselves on the way in which the principle of competition oils the wheels of the economic system and it must not be allowed to weaken the most vital component of democracy, by which I mean sources of information, and undermine the principle of political competition.
Secondly, in this age of electronic democracy, we should all be investing in guarantees to safeguard our long tradition of democratic values and, first and foremost, the separation of media power from economic power.
May I, therefore, say that this motion should be adopted unanimously and point out that passing legislative and other support measures is a top priority for the democratic future of Europe, that there has been an unwarranted delay in taking action since the Green Paper was published, that the measures required need to be incorporated into general policy on audiovisual media, that we must accept that the traditional rules of market competition are inadequate and that we need an independent competitive network with its sights set on real pluralism and that, for these purposes, restrictions on concentration are compatible with Community law.
It is high time that the Commission tackled the issue and ensured, particularly in the television sector, that there are many diverse operators, as it has already done so in many other sectors.
It has been a long time since the Commission adopted this proposal - 18 months to be precise.
It is a great pity that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was unable to work more quickly, in contrast to the much quicker response from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, whose members are the true experts in the European Parliament on public health and consumer protection.
They at least clearly understood the importance and urgency of this proposal.
Worldwide, almost 5 million people die every year from tobacco-related diseases.
Advertising plays a major role in promoting tobacco use, especially amongst young people.
The tobacco industry needs new recruits to replace those whose consumption of the deadly product has caused their early deaths.
This directive is important for the operation of the single market.
Without it the single market for print media, radio and the Internet cannot be guaranteed on account of variations in national legislation on tobacco advertising across the Member States.
The proposal is intended to replace the previous directive on tobacco advertising and sponsorship, annulled by the European Court of Justice two years ago.
It helpfully confirmed that a directive prohibiting certain forms of advertising and sponsorship could be adopted on the basis of Article 95 of the Treaty.
The logic behind the present proposal is clear: all Member States have adopted national rules to regulate the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products.
This gives rise to increasing barriers to the free movement between Member States of products and services that serve as support for such advertising and sponsorship.
We aim to eliminate these barriers by harmonising the rules relating to the advertising of tobacco products and related sponsorship to the extent possible in the light of the Court's ruling.
The proposal foresees a general ban on tobacco advertising in the press.
This is an important vector for tobacco promotion, and one that has strong cross-border implications.
The proposal also includes a ban on tobacco advertising on the Internet.
Our common concern must be to ensure that this new directive can and will stand its ground against any possible future court challenge and to eliminate the market distortion by harmonising current national rules, whilst at the same time promoting public health.
The Commission has been intelligent enough to try to take maximum advantage of the conclusions of the Court of Justice, what I would call the obiter dicta of the Court of Justice, in the judgment which rescinded the previous Directive on tobacco advertising.
And from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the rapporteur in particular has had the greatest sympathy for the efforts of the Commission and Commissioner Byrne to bring forward this proposal for a directive which, as he has said, is much more modest than the previous one.
Nevertheless, the rapporteur must acknowledge that there have been enormous difficulties within the Committee on Legal Affairs and, in order to make the negotiation of this directive possible, has had to accept a series of compromise amendments that make up the current text, which has been adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
We felt obliged to hold a hearing as a result of the enormous disparity in opinions which had been expressed in committee and, at that hearing, I must acknowledge and point out that the majority of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were critical of the Commission's proposals.
The rapporteur has therefore felt obliged to do some rather deft work, trying to bring together positions in order to produce a first text that would reach the plenum in this House.
I hope that, next Wednesday, regardless of what happens with each of the amendments in the different votes, the text of the directive as a whole can be approved.
The Commission can rest assured that I have an entirely constructive approach towards the object of achieving a final result in relation to this.
The task of the rapporteur in this case must therefore be one of coordination, of good will, if you like, and above all of coordinating the results obtained next Wednesday in this House with the good intention of the Commission and the Commissioner of adopting a Community regulation in the field of health.
Mr President, our draftsperson, Mrs ?alliori, has been held up by fog at Strasbourg airport and has asked me, with your permission, to stand in for her.
This adds up to over 3 million victims a year worldwide, 500 000 of whom are European citizens.
Sixty per cent of smokers start smoking at 13 and 90% start before they are 18.
The gender gap between smokers is narrowing, with an increase in the number of girls smoking and 500 000 babies are born prematurely and underweight because their mothers smoke.
These are just some of the reasons why legislators in the Member States of the European Union have felt compelled to restrict tobacco product advertising rights, in order to protect public interests in general and the health of European citizens and young people in particular.
As the House knows, this Commission proposal replaces Directive 43, the directive which, albeit after ten years' negotiations, was finally passed by the European Parliament and adopted by the Council in 1998 but, unfortunately, annulled by the Court of Justice in October 2000.
The purpose of the directive being debated today, eighteen months after the Commission submitted its proposal, is to approximate the various laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted by the Member States, in order to remove obstacles to the internal market and safeguard the free movement of goods and services and this is in keeping with the rules set out in the directive.
The present directive, which takes account of current legislation in the Member States and the case law of the Court of Justice, adopts parts of the previous directive and bans advertising in printed media, on the Internet and on the radio, together with sponsorship of events with cross-border effects.
However, unlike the previous directive, it is not based on the principle of a total ban on all forms of advertising and sponsorship.
I should point out here, however, that the Commission has submitted this more restricted proposal, which takes account of the legal framework set by the Court of Justice, in tandem with a proposal for a recommendation containing the elements which, as I said, have been excluded from this directive.
Unfortunately, the Committee on Legal Affairs has adopted 25 amendments which could lead to further annulment by the Court of Justice and which restrict the scope of the directive still further.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the other hand, agreed with my proposal not to submit any proposed amendments and voted unanimously in favour of the Commission proposal.
Ladies and gentlemen, our decision on Wednesday will have tremendous political implications because it concerns an issue on which the European Parliament and the Council have already expressed a view and taken a decision.
I therefore call on you to vote against all the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
It is well known that it was because of breaches of these principles that the ECJ suspended the former directive that banned advertising.
The Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal therefore provides for this part of the Commission proposal not to be accepted.
We should be putting down a marker and, as legislators ourselves, respecting the powers of our counterparts in the national parliaments, rather than again leaving this matter to the ECJ.
The proposed directive seeks to protect public health but takes the ban on the distortion of competition as its legal basis.
This ambivalent situation needs to be borne in mind by everyone championing more effective ways of protecting health from the spread in the use of tobacco which, unfortunately, does not have its own article in the Treaty.
The Committee on Legal Affairs felt the ban needed a cross-border dimension, not just for sponsorship, but also for the press, in order to strengthen its validity.
This is clear both from the proposed arrangements for event sponsorships and from the fact that the proposal for a directive makes no reference whatsoever to outside advertising of tobacco products or advertising in cinemas.
We know that the Committee on Legal Affairs has expressed reservations about certain amendments from the purely legal standpoint.
Mr President, there are mainly two elements of relevance here: one is content and the other is procedure.
So the problem is more complex than at first sight.
In 1998 we stated that we were in favour of a ban on tobacco advertising.
This was completely unrelated to tobacco but had everything to do with the question how far we, as a Union, could go in respect of the Member States.
I believe that the Commission was right to say: okay, this is what Parliament and the Council wanted, they wanted to go as far as possible.
I therefore believe that the Commission has done a sterling job, and I shall therefore advise the majority of my group to reject the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
These do not appear to be essential in order to make the directive more acceptable.
This is taking matters too far, and by doing so we would also lose our allies in the fight against tobacco.
We therefore prefer the directive which was approved in 1998.
In fact, 60% of smokers, according to the statistics, begin before they reach 13 years of age and around 90% before 18 years.
In the case in hand, various Members in the Environment Committee have decided that they are not going to present amendments to the Commission's proposal because it is better to have a limited directive than no directive at all.
We are therefore only presenting one amendment, which proposes that, in accordance with the Treaty, the Member States should retain competences and be able to regulate this type of issue and even go further.
Furthermore, the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment points out very clearly that this is one step and that surely, in the future, the European Commission will be able to present proposals on indirect advertising, on the control of expenditure on advertising and on tobacco vending machines.
It is also to be hoped that every single amendment accepted by the Committee on Legal Affairs will be rejected in this House, because they complicate the issue in many ways.
They hamper global efforts to achieve a ban on tobacco advertising, and they also allow the possibility of the indirect advertising of tobacco.
I would especially like to focus attention on Amendments Nos 17 and 24, which are extremely dangerous.
Mr President, this new directive outlaws tobacco advertising in the printed media in the whole of Europe and will also prohibit the advertising of tobacco products on radio and on the internet.
Equally, sponsorship by tobacco companies of events or activities involving several Member States will be outlawed.
As EU legislators we must bring forward proposals which will help to protect the health of our citizens and I believe that the dangers for our health from cigarette smoking must be vigorously highlighted at every opportunity.
The cigarette industry claimed that their cigarette products are for adults, yet every piece of practical evidence suggests that clever marketing and advertising only results in recruiting the next generation of smokers, who are teenagers.
The budget for the European Commission to highlight the dangers of cigarette smoking is only EUR 6 million and this pales into insignificance when one looks at the staggering levels of money available to the tobacco lobby to put in place innovative pro-tobacco marketing and advertising campaigns.
We need to do more to spell out clearly to young people the brutal consequences for one's health from cigarette smoking - that three thousand people in Europe die every day from cigarette smoking.
This means that a half a million citizens die needlessly in Europe each year because of an addiction to tobacco products.
Cigarette smoking is the single biggest cause of premature death and illness in the whole of the European Union.
A recent study shows that American male smokers lose 13 years of life to the habit of cigarette smoking and that woman smokers lose 14 and a half years of life from smoking.
Preventing tobacco-related illnesses would do more to help the citizens of the Union than any other life-saving measure, and tobacco companies are wrong to claim that advertising does not promote smoking but only promotes brand loyalty for a legal product.
Advertising does have an influence in promoting smoking; that is why all Member States in Europe have rules which restrict or ban tobacco advertising in some shape or form.
This directive does not mean that Member States cannot bring in more stringent measures to curb cigarette smoking if they so wish.
Mr President, it is a fact that tobacco advertising encourages young people to take up smoking and stops people who already smoke from giving up.
We are therefore very disappointed with the Commission's new proposal.
Although we realise that, given the judgment by the Court of Justice, the Commission's options are very limited, this proposal largely overshoots its goal, namely to protect public health.
Six months ago, we in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy held an extensive discussion on this topic.
It is therefore beyond me why the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market should still be tabling all kinds of amendments which will ultimately frustrate the coming into being of this legislation.
I should, however, like to urge the European Commission to continue its search for ways of reducing the use of tobacco, particularly where young people are concerned.
I cannot imagine that we would bring toys into circulation which claim 5 million victims annually.
Or that we would accept other products in food which result in 5 million deaths annually, but we do turn a blind eye where tobacco products are concerned.
We know that smoking has harmful effects such as these, and this is why we should simply introduce a complete ban on this advertising.
Tobacco, which kills hundreds of Europeans every day, is a scourge that we must combat in the name of protecting the health of our fellow citizens.
Either tobacco is a deadly poison and everything must be done to reduce its use, even eradicate it totally, or tobacco is - mistakenly - believed to be like any other ordinary consumer item and so, there are no grounds to legislate.
It is heading in the right direction because it has been proven that the ban on advertising helped to cut smoking and that there is indeed a link between advertising and excessive consumption.
Strangely enough, the amendments give cross-border problems more attention than is their due.
Negligence, indifference and a lack of political courage in the area of public health sow the seeds of crimes against humanity.
Today, no one can say that they are not aware and this means that everyone is to be held responsible.
Tobacco is a divisive subject for debate because of the many different sides there are to the argument.
In any case, whatever line we take, we cannot disregard the fact that Directive 98/43 was annulled by the Court of Justice because it lacked an appropriate legal basis.
Indeed, as the Commissioner himself admitted with great frankness a few minutes ago, the Commission's latest proposal is decidedly inadequate to provide the kind of protection of public health demanded by the Committee on the Environment.
In any case, as it stands, it seems to be limiting its demands, to be prepared to settle for very little in order to avoid another rejection by the Court of Justice because of the innovations it proposes, although they are very well balanced.
As others have said and I want to reiterate, it would still be an appreciable result if we were to go home with the Commission's proposal.
As shadow rapporteur, I too have recommended that my group vote for the Commission's proposal without amendments.
The important thing is that we do not start proposing once again to cut Community aid to tobacco growers on the pretext of protecting their health or, now, to ban advertising.
In essence, the considerations on which our amendments were based were that the internal market has a legal basis that allows us to make regulations on advertising only if that advertising has an impact across borders, and, moreover, to a substantial degree.
I also think we are insisting that sponsorship agreements both in culture and in sport have to make allowances by means of proper transitional periods.
On it, indeed, depends the economic basis of both the traditional media - and major daily newspapers are telling us what is going on here - and also the new media.
I would also like to observe that the Convention working party on the powers of the European Union proposes that it should in future no longer be possible to have recourse to legislative measures relating to health policy in the EU, but that only so-called support measures should remain feasible.
I hope, Commissioner, that this will give you a reason to drum up support from the Commission for a reshaping of the Convention's proposals on this subject.
Mr President, we at the European Parliament must respect the principles of the rule of law, which means that we must uphold judgments of our European Court of Justice.
As we know, with regard to tobacco advertising, this court of law has previously nullified a directive on account of there being an incorrect legal basis.
It is true that the European Union can impose a ban on tobacco advertising on the Member States if there is a clear cross-border effect.
However, I should like to add that it seems to me to be necessary that the ban on tobacco advertising, if it has a cross-border effect, should be put on an equal footing across all Member States.
I would take the example of my own country, Belgium, and the sponsoring of major sports events in Belgium.
I think that a general European regulation, as proposed by our rapporteur, should, on account of its general application, ensure that unilateral measures with often unfortunate consequences are avoided in future.
It is clear that my group and I share her point of view.
The solution to be followed is that of global legislation in this area.
We must at least have the means to pass European legislation, without which - and I refer back to the previous debate on media concentration - what will happen is that economic players will play the national legislation card against the others.
This argument also puts the case for European legislation.
Indeed, it is easy to let emotions take over when we discuss matters such as this, but I would remind you that this is a legislative House and that we have to respect the rules we make.
The lengthy analysis in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was a very serious process.
I will therefore limit myself to two very brief points.
As regards the ban on tobacco advertising through information society services, it is difficult to perceive any potential future barriers to the freedom to provide services or distortions of competition.
At best, such a ban can be based on the need to avoid the possibility of a further ban, and at this point, this means that the principles of Community competence and responsibility are being overturned and reduced to competences in principle, and that is extremely dangerous from a legal point of view.
Mr President, Commissioner, just how harmful tobacco is can be judged, for example, from the fact that people say that if tobacco had been discovered now it would definitely have been banned because it causes so many public health problems.
It does seem strange that we appear to be finding excuses for how we might continue advertising at European level to make this product, as wretched as it is in terms of public health, more tempting for people.
It was unfortunate that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market got no further in this: we have had to accept a very unsatisfactory outcome as a compromise.
As, however, we cannot be satisfied with this proposal, even though it is all we now have, it is vital that we should accept Amendment No 26 tabled by Heidi Hautala, which would make it possible to preserve legislation in those countries where it has advanced further.
If we were to restrict tobacco advertising even further than has been proposed by the Commission, our ambition would run up against the bounds of our authority, and we would risk a new judgment.
The Commission's draft directive respects the bounds of the authority.
It may be a light-weight version of the first directive, but we have to live with it for legal reasons.
It is very important to create common basic conditions and rules for tobacco advertising.
In a situation where these do not exist, there is often scope for discretion, and different actors proceed as they themselves think best.
There are many difficult considerations that must be taken into account if we are not again to end up in the same situation as we did with the previous proposal for a directive on tobacco advertising.
The public health perspective is very important when it comes to the way in which tobacco is marketed.
Studies have also shown that children and teenagers are particularly vulnerable to tobacco advertising and tobacco-related sponsorship.
Mr President, I would like to contribute to the debate this evening on behalf of my colleague, Lord Inglewood, who is a victim of the famous deer incident which has extensively been referred to already.
In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market - and I remind colleagues that this committee was right the first time round - this proposal runs the same risks.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's proposal ensures that Member States take that responsibility.
Many colleagues are engaged in debates on subsidiarity in the ambit of the convention.
You may want to do something, but it is not necessarily in the competence of the European Union to do it.
That is why you should support the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's line when we vote on Wednesday.
Looking at the important question of the Commission's attitude to the various amendments, there are 26 amendments being proposed.
The Commission can accept amendments 3, 10, 22 and 26 in full and amendments 8, 11 and 17 subject to some minor rewording.
They have in fact sought to regulate the advertising of tobacco products.
I am convinced that there is a correlation between the legal rules in Member States on advertising and the figures for adult consumption of tobacco in those Member States.
Sweden's rate of adult tobacco consumption is 19%.
Referring only briefly to one part of the Court's judgment, paragraph 98 says in principle that a directive prohibiting the advertising of tobacco products in periodicals, magazines and in newspapers could be adopted on the basis of Article No. 100a - now Article 95 - of the Treaty with a view to ensuring the free movement of press products on the lines of Article 13 of Directive 89/552, the television without frontiers directive prohibiting television advertising of tobacco products in order to promote the free broadcasting of television programmes.
The Court has spoken clearly on the subject.
That is another clear distortion of the market, because Belgium brought in a law which they are saying forces them to move away from Belgium.
It is not a subsidiarity issue for the very reason that a Belgian has been pinpointed in a particular way and has suffered a loss.
We have had a number of discussions on tobacco in the Council, including the preliminary discussions on the framework convention on tobacco control, and the breakdown there is 14 to one.
Follow the views of the experts in this House, the Committee on the Environment, and follow the first thoughts of the rapporteur.
It might not be quite alone, but it will be alone with one Member State, the Member State that happens to have the highest consumption of tobacco amongst adults in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
We are all aware that financial conglomerates own a substantial proportion of the domestic financial markets of many Member States.
Some of them belong to bigger groups that are present on the EU's financial markets.
At the present time, these cross-sector financial groups are not adequately regulated by current legislation.
Therefore, we can only welcome the fact that the Commission, in the spring of 2001, presented a proposal for a directive to bring in the supervision of financial conglomerates such as these.
The events of the past year, such as the collapse of e-commerce, numerous financial scandals, including the highly publicised collapse of Enron, and also increased pressure on insurance companies in the wake of 11 September, have inevitably highlighted the need for better regulation of this sector.
The Commission proposal and the amendments by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs received Parliament's firm support at first reading stage at the beginning of this year.
Parliament can most certainly welcome the fact that the Council has retained almost all the elements contained in the amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading and that the common position has taken sufficient account of the main concerns expressed by Parliament.
He therefore proposes - and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs approved this position almost unanimously - that the common position be adopted in its current form.
Financial conglomerates are important players in European financial markets.
If such a group were to face financial difficulties it could seriously affect financial markets and people's savings.
The directive will therefore address an important loophole in our financial legislation.
The common position has taken into account Parliament's main concerns expressed at first reading and is faithful to the objectives and the spirit of the Commission proposal.
For all these reasons, I commend the Council common position to Parliament and urge its rapid adoption.
It makes a fundamental contribution to the stability of Europe's financial markets.
We, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, tabled a number of amendments, relating in particular to the choice of methods of calculation available, but these were subtle distinctions.
Being myself at present unable to feel at all at home with the idea of a European super-authority to deal with financial supervision, I believe that we should extend this idea and concept beyond financial conglomerates to other fields and thereby gain useful experience before we give consideration to an overarching authority.
I believe that the Conglomerates Directive can, in this respect, lead the way and give a good example.
Therefore, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I can tell you that we will be voting in favour of this directive.
Overall financial supervision makes it possible to deal with the same risks in the same way.
Supervision of financial conglomerates has as its objective greater stability on the international financial and capital markets.
The people who have good reason to worry are the employees who have already been made redundant or are about to be made redundant by the companies concerned, even though they are in no way responsible for the anarchy of your economy, which is as unfair as it is irrational.
Confronted with this genuine evil, however, the only solution being proposed is to strengthen prudential rules or to improve supervision, as if the financial conglomerates could be supervised from above by the political authorities responsible for protecting them.
And so, those who pretend to believe that a few prudential rules and a few coordinators who have no real power can eradicate speculation, scandals and financial crises from the capitalist economy will be those who therefore vote in favour of this report.
Events in the past few years have undeniably shown that the financial services sector needs to improve its regulation and supervision.
The business and financial markets are global markets.
The Council has now arrived at a common position.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as deadlines draw near that are decisive for the future of the CFP - leading to its objectives, terms and conditions being redefined - I feel it is crucial that Parliament firmly reiterates the five principles which served as the main theme of my report and which the Committee on Fisheries wanted to highlight with a view to fully integrating environmental protection requirements into the new common fisheries policy.
The first principle is that nothing will be done without the fishermen.
Those working in the fisheries sector are the first to be concerned about the protection of the marine environment and the first to be aware of the need to safeguard it.
Our report stresses the need to implement swiftly and comprehensively the packages of directives specifically named Erika I and Erika II.
The second principle is that we should base decisions regarding the management of fish stocks on scientific knowledge that is as sound and accurate as possible.
The third principle proposes to retain flexible, reversible management instruments such as TACs and quotas, so that the fishing effort can be adjusted to match the state of resources, in preference to rigid instruments that have an irreversible and socially dramatic impact such as the scrapping of vessels.
I hope that Parliament, by voting overwhelmingly in favour of this report, will make it clear to all that the protection of the marine environment will be achieved by working with the fishermen rather than against them.
That is why, instead of adopting accusatory positions, instead of speaking constantly about an industry in decline and of a makeshift policy, the Committee on Fisheries preferred to send a message of confidence and hope to those working in the industry to consolidate their growing respect for the quality of the marine environment, a quality that is one of the crucial objectives that the new common fisheries policy is bound by duty to pursue.
Madam President, I read with attention the report adopted by the Committee on Fisheries on our action plan on environmental integration.
In fact the Commission has already started or planned several initiatives to respond to these requirements.
We have requested the ICES to study in 2003 the possibilities for operational procedures to integrate fishermen's experience and knowledge in the assessment and advisory process.
Finally, I would not agree that industrial fishing has a much greater environmental impact per euro added value than fisheries for human consumption, mainly because I find it odd to measure environmental impact against monetary units, but also because the environmental impact of this kind of fishing has yet to be determined.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and to thank him for this.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is able to support the Commission's proposals for reform, which contain a number of features aimed at sustainability and, therefore, the balance needed if the stock of fish is to be adjusted to the existing number of fishing vessels.
The Commission must gather this data from the Member States and, at the same time, have the necessary technical and, especially, human administrative and supervisory resources available to it.
I wonder if, with regard to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, this situation is so cut and dried, particularly in the light of the recent disaster with an oil tanker off the coast of Galicia.
At the same time, this sector feels under pressure and the difficult bit is to strike the right balance between economic and ecological aspects.
A properly motivated fisheries sector can contribute quite easily to a better maritime environment, and this also applies to the legislation needed for this.
I believe that the Commission is hearing this message.
It is important not only to draft these reports, but also to consider aquaculture and safe conditions within the fishing industry.
It will therefore be very difficult to sell this.
Policy and management are dependent on the support base within the sector.
This report should have represented the reference framework for Parliament's position on the reform of the fisheries policy, and it is surprising, and only attributable to procedural problems, that this report differs in many respects from what we have subsequently done on approving the legislative proposals in the Committee on Fisheries.
For example, the main package has been presented while lacking certain important sections, such as fishing in the Mediterranean.
To this end, I believe it is necessary to deal with fundamental issues, transcending what I would call very specific and overly national interests.
Madam President, it is not by chance that the reform of the CFP is being undertaken in 2002.
Despite these obvious statements, Madam President, a majority in the Committee on Fisheries refused, in a totally unacceptable decision, to grant the Spanish and the Portuguese equal rights.
The new CFP ought to acknowledge that the fleets of the fifteen Member States all have the same rights, thereby putting an end to the privileges and discriminations between the citizens, fleets and countries of the European Union.
We argued for the need to review or, where necessary, replace the principle of relative stability with a principle that is fairer and more consistent with the Treaties in this field.
For these and other reasons rejected by a majority in the committee, I cannot accept the report that now bears the name of the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries.
Madam President, I fundamentally disagree with many of the aspects of the European Commission's proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
Madam President, it is on record that the outline regulations on the common fisheries policy were not agreed until eight hours after the Community had opened the accession negotiations with the United Kingdom in 1971.
The head of the British delegation, Sir Con O'Neil, remarked that these two events were not unconnected.
The CFP cannot be reformed.
It should be scrapped and fisheries should be managed once again by national governments.
Madam President, I am beginning my speech in this debate on fisheries very moved, as you know, by the events that have taken place in Galicia.
I would like to stress - and you know this - that Galicia is the region most dependent on fishing in the whole of Europe and is extraordinarily rich in seafood and fish, which, following the Prestige accident, is going to take many years to recover, above all in the areas most directly affected by the oil slick.
I believe it is very important to bear it in mind and I hope, as I have said, that all our colleagues will show solidarity.
I hope that we can focus all our efforts and use the balanced approach indicated here, in order to adopt the commitments in this report, which will have to be debated, as I have said, at the next part-session in Brussels.
Some of the arguments are reasonable and justified, whereas others are hasty and disproportionate.
In the past, we also saw the collapse of some population units, but it was then possible to rebuild them by shifting the fishing effort to other species and to other latitudes.
The situation has reached this disturbing point not only as a result of the pressure exerted by fishing; but other well known reasons have also contributed to this phenomenon.
Those Members who are most in favour - as they claim - of fishing, should therefore be mindful of the de la Palissian truism: without fish, there can be no fishing.
Two of our proposals that we felt were of the utmost importance were also accepted: the extension of the derogation concerning free access to 50 miles in the case of the most remote regions, as laid down in the Treaty, and strengthening the support mechanisms for the processing industry, specifically the canning industry.
For so many years, ministers and the Council have failed to see the connection between fisheries policy and a reduced access to fish.
We must therefore adopt measures as drastic as introducing a moratorium.
What struck me is that the proposal by the European Commission on the roadmap on reform of the common agricultural policy reflects the lack of priority that the latter gives to the social impact of its plan since this impact only features in seventh place in the list of proposed measures.
As for the Commission communication of 6 November on the measures intended to soften the impact of the reform, it confirms the plan to do away with 28 000 jobs over three years, between 2003 and 2006, due to the mass scrapping of vessels as predicted by the Commission.
We are naturally waiting for an appropriate time to question the Commission on these dramatic figures, Madam President, which will be when we study this communication.
The Commission proposals may have been late in landing on the table, but they got there well before the summer.
We all know that without fish, the fishing industry will die out.
Commissioner, the conception of the new fisheries policy is problematic but the fledgling policy is due to come into force on the evening of 31 December.
I think that the Committee on Fisheries has worked hard to restore a balance between the exploitation of fishery resources and the protection of these resources for future generations, without forgetting the economy of coastal regions.
In any case, we are seeking a better balance between these two areas than that put forward in your proposals, one that corresponds to sustainable development in the correct sense of the word.
And we tried to draw your attention, in these three reports and in others, to the implications of the political decisions regarding employment in regions that are dependent on fishing, to the consequences of scrapping boats, since of course, if we scrap them and fish levels increase in the future, there may not be any fishermen left to fish them.
Our committee, in all its debates and through its rapporteurs, is seeking to influence the final decisions of the Commission and the Council.
In short, if all this is done, if the balance is maintained, our fishermen will be able to continue to have faith in their work, in their business and we in our regions.
Madam President, the management of EU fisheries is at an important juncture with key stocks in the North Sea and elsewhere in decline and the future of fishing and fish processing industries therefore under threat.
Actions, however, have to accompany words and I have been shocked by the attitude displayed by the Commission recently in relation to cod and other white fish quotas for next year.
The sad truth is that irreparable damage has been done by the Commission in the last six months to the Scottish confidence in Europe being capable of managing fisheries at all.
For this reason, it is right that ships removed from the Community fleet can continue to be included in fleets belonging to joint ventures; the third aspect is the desire to find a specific solution to the problem of access to the waters of the outermost regions, which have very delicate balances and ecosystems, such as the Azores, the Island of Madeira and other regions in the European Union.
We should not now let the great opportunity pass to decide on a fundamental reform of the common fisheries policy.
We have to make use of this opportunity, or else the prospects for our fisheries in Europe will, in the foreseeable future, be bleak indeed.
That this is so is already demonstrated very clearly by the current state of cod stocks in the North Sea, and I hope that will be a lesson to us.
The common fisheries policy goes too far.
However, in other areas - oil and minerals - and in every form of jurisdiction Member States have over their oceans, natural resources fall within the remit of the national governments.
It would make a lot more sense.
Madam President, the CFP has totally failed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the recent tragedy involving the Prestige, I believe that these are worrying times for both the Galician fishermen, who are awaiting the Commission's response, and who do not want these terrible events to happen again anywhere, and for all good people who defend the environment and sustainable development.
The area reserved for traditional fishing within a band of 6 miles - which was subsequently increased to 12 and extended to all Member States - was extended, for the last time, within the framework of the reform of the common fisheries policy of 1992, for a period of ten years.
We have therefore been in a provisional situation for thirty years.
I would like to encourage Members to vote against Recital K and Amendment No 23, which, in my humble opinion, are contrary to Community law and European common sense.
Madam President, thank you for extending the debate to give me a chance to get here and participate.
I would also like to thank the Committee on Fisheries, which has made really great efforts to keep to the tight timetable and enable us to decide on the reform of the common fisheries policy by the end of the year.
But let us be honest: research can be based only on accurate data that has been carefully collected.
Your resolutions on the subject of stock maintenance and fishery management coincide with our approach.
That fish are continuing to be discarded in such a way has to do with all the essential components of fishery.
Access to waters and resources involves two issues.
We will investigate the situation in these regions, and will be making appropriate proposals before the end of the coming year.
a Council Framework Decision on confiscation of crime-related proceeds, instrumentalities and property (10697/2002 - C5-0375/2002 - 2002/0818(CNS)) and 2.
a Council Framework Decision on the execution in the European Union of confiscation orders (10701/2002 - C5-0377/2002 - 2002/0816(CNS)) Madam President, Commissioner, in my opinion and in the opinion of the majority of the committee, I would imagine, the two related reports before us this evening have been prepared with undue haste.
The provisions were therefore toned down but the onus of proof not actually inverted.
Madam President, Commissioner, unlike our esteemed rapporteur - the basic approach of whose text I do, however, appreciate - I am convinced that our work is neither superfluous nor useless.
At the centre of this fight is the fight against what is known as money laundering between the international organisations, which now know no bounds either in Europe or worldwide.
It must also be said, however, that the proper legislative basis is the action plan endorsed by the Amsterdam European Council of June 1997 and drawn on by the Vienna European Council of December 1998.
Madam President, everyone is aware of my group's reservations about the Member State initiatives concerning the judicial European area.
Furthermore, although there is no proof that the national area is the best suited to combating international organised crime, nor will it ever be proven that freedoms are best protected within the strict framework of national borders.
Therefore, regardless of the method and some points of relative disagreement, we are voting in favour of this initiative and this report as a sign that Parliament is pursuing its efforts to support the Tampere Council and the Commission's sensible and genuinely European interpretation of the promises made at the European Council.
Madam President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his work.
I would add that the confiscation of goods is also a valuable way of building up compensation funds for the victims of organised crime, victims of heinous crimes which can be linked to terrorism, child abuse, the trafficking of human beings or the trafficking of arms or drugs, victims who - it is worth pointing out - are often victims twice over, firstly because, through no fault of their own, they are the victims of a crime, and secondly because they do not subsequently receive sufficient, timely compensation for the damages suffered.
Last but not least, although I feel it is essential for it to be possible to confiscate crime-related proceeds, where these have been fictitiously transferred to the spouse or cohabitee or to another legal person, the prosecution must prove that the property of the spouse, cohabitee or other legal person does genuinely belong to the convicted person and that the other persons therefore only have fictitious title or access to it.
I have some doubts about the amendment the rapporteur has just mentioned, which demands that Member States avoid a reversal of the burden of proof in their legislation.
Most of your amendments seek to ensure that decisions are recognised only when issued by judges.
The debate is closed.
