Law applicable to non-contractual obligations ("ROME II") (debate) The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the Council common position (9751/7/2006 - C6-0317/2006 - for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations ("ROME II") (Rapporteur: Diana Wallis).
With unfair competition, we also face a simultaneous proposal from Commissioner Kroes.
Mr President, I should first like to thank Mrs Wallis for her report.
As regards the environment, the special rule is aimed at preventing environmental dumping, and, in the current political climate, the Commission is the guarantor of a very high level of environmental protection.
As for the Council, you will be aware that most Member States that have codified private international law have special rules for these two issues, and the Council advocates not only retaining these two special rules but, like the Commission, its has in fact added further recitals.
As regards the issue of whether the general rule can lead to satisfactory solutions in this area or whether a new special rule is required, I remain open to the idea of studying this problem in detail, as provided for in Amendment 26 of the Implementation Report.
Accordingly, I do not feel that the rule proposed in Amendment 24 is necessary, not because this principle does not need to be clarified, but because there is already a guarantee.
I believe that the rapporteur has done a good job, but the positions in the Committee on Legal Affairs were adopted by one group, with a majority in that committee but not in plenary, and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is therefore expressing its disagreement with several of the amendments approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
In my opinion, an analysis of the effects of the introduction of Article 9 into Community legislation should have been performed before the article was introduced.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'Rome II' is an abstract title cloaking issues that have a very direct, and very considerable, impact on the public, and it was for that reason that the arguments in committee on the various issues were so hard-hitting.
As stated in its opinion at first reading, however, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs believes that this issue should not be excluded.
I hope all these projects will make a positive contribution to the smooth running of the internal market within our great European venture. (PL) Mr President, I should like to begin by warmly congratulating Mrs Wallis, the rapporteur, and thanking her for her work on such a key issue for the future of European integration.
In the absence of rules protecting editorial independence, exclusion would be the only viable solution that would not undermine press freedom.
The second issue is an important question of principle - as was the previous issue - notably regarding Article 9 of the proposal regarding industrial action and applicable law that raises specific difficulties for the European maritime and shipping industry.
The amendment that I presented, together with Mrs Berger, with which the rapporteur agrees - and I thank him for that - draws attention to this situation and proposes that the actor making the claim in the place of residence of the defendant should have the option of choosing the lex fori for their claim.
The debate is closed.
It is apparent that there is a lacuna in the Rome Convention of 1980 and that subsequently entered into in Brussels, and whereas the applicable law arising from non-contractual obligations has been adequately tackled, the relevant disputes still need to be addressed in full.
