author. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 13 March 2007, in plenary session, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the Commission's Recommendation of 18 October 2005 on collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for legitimate online music services.
In that resolution, Parliament invited the Commission to make it clear that the 2005 Recommendation applied exclusively to online sales of music recordings, and to present as soon as possible - after consulting closely with interested parties - a proposal for a flexible framework directive to be adopted by Parliament and the Council in codecision, with a view to regulating the collective management of copyright and related rights as regards cross-border online music services, while taking account of the specificity of the digital era and safeguarding European cultural diversity.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the European Parliament for the interest expressed in the cross-border management of music rights and the 2005 recommendation on online music.
In its resolution, Parliament called on the Commission to waste no time in presenting a proposal for a framework directive regulating collective cross-border management of copyright and related intellectual property rights for legitimate online music services.
The 13 March resolution reflects the European Parliament's clear position on cross-border collective management of copyright.
The Commission's recommendation was the first step towards future convergence of the various practices in the 27 Member States.
A directive that will in all likelihood not come into force until 2010 is a disaster for millions of artists in the EU.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Thank you very much.
If I can pick up on a number of points that have been raised: regarding the need for legislative intervention, let me say that the 2005 Commission recommendation on online music licensing has already brought about significant progress in the marketplace.
The recommendation has given collecting societies in Europe an incentive to set up EU-wide licensing platforms that make their repertoire available for online music shops across Europe.
I would also like to say that the 2005 Commission recommendation on online licensing has already brought about significant progress in the marketplace.
The recommendation has encouraged collecting societies in Europe to set up EU-wide licensing platforms that make their repertoire available for online music shops across Europe.
The CELAS joint venture alone is in fact in a position to license approximately 25 % of all musical works to any European online music retailer, such as iTunes, Sony's CONNECT or eMusic, in a single transaction.
Regarding the issue of rights, I would like to underline that there is no reason to think that this multiterritorial licensing model is bad either for cultural diversity or for the rights of artists, while it is good for the rightholders, who get more money than under the old territorial model.
In this vein, the Commission will closely monitor developments in this emerging market and, in doing so, the Commission will carefully consider the issues raised in the Lévai report of 5 March 2007.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 29 November in Brussels.
