2008 budget guidelines (Sections I, II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII(A) and VIII(B)) The next item is the report by Mr It채l채 on behalf of the Committee on Budgets on the guidelines for the 2008 budget procedure - Sections II, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and IX and on the European Parliament's preliminary draft estimates (Section I) for the 2008 budget procedure.
Section I - European Parliament, Section II - Council, Section IV - Court of Justice, Section V - Court of Auditors, Section VI - Economic and Social Committee, Section VII - Committee of the Regions, Section VIII(A) - European Ombudsman, Section IX - European Data Protection Supervisor rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, the main idea behind the budget for 2008 is that we can ensure that 2008 is the year of the taxpayers, which in practice means keeping expenditure more or less at 2007 levels.
I would furthermore emphasise that we could keep at this current level, and with regard to buildings, although some claim that 2008 is the last year in which money can be used for them, the list is very long indeed.
I believe that the preparatory work has been done in the right spirit and that we all wish to tell the taxpayer that the year 2008 has been specifically proclaimed the year of the taxpayers.
The potential saving is considerable, in view of the fact that the European Parliament's current consumption of paper is nearly 850 tonnes a year, or 3.4 million sheets a week.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, I would thank Mr It채l채 for his constructive work on the report on Parliament's 2008 budget.
Following enlargement, 2008 is, of course, a year of consolidation, and very good cases will have to be made out for meeting additional needs if meeting them would have budgetary consequences.
Within the context of Parliament's expenditure 2008 is a sort of gap year.
However, we should ensure that Parliament's financial independence is not compromised in any way, especially as the Members' Statute, amounting to over EUR 100 million, comes into force in 2009.
As the report highlights, we need to stabilise our finances, and our budgetary strategy for 2008 must be prudent.
