President of the Commission. - I think that without our economic recovery plan, the situation would be much, much worse.
We estimated around 5% of European Union GDP was spent over 2009 and 2010, that is around EUR 550 billion.
As you know, I have stated this several times and have, in fact, asked for a summit on employment.
Vice-Chairman of the S&amp;D Group. - I will indeed work on those Member States.
Just coming back to this idea of the level market entry strategy, would you agree that spending aimed at effectively reducing unemployment should not be seen as an additional burden on public finances but as a way to guarantee sustainability?
Some of the special measures that have been taken by Member States - look at Kurzarbeit in Germany for instance - have been to increase spending, while reducing productivity to some extent, which I think, from a social point of view, was justified.
I could say the same for the Welsh system which was approved in the United Kingdom.
Chairman of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, my question will come as no surprise to the President of the Commission.
He spoke of her as a commissioner who was very controversial, who lacked objectivity, who was anti-German, who could not throw Europe into turmoil two weeks before the end of her term of office.
If we do, we will no longer have an internal market or our common European project.
Chairman of the ALDE Group. - (NL) I have no further questions.
Mr Verhofstadt, let us be clear.
Co-Chairman of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, with great concern for a possible failure of the climate change negotiations in Copenhagen, this Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety yesterday re-affirmed old demands of the European Council and adopted them with great urgency and very strong support.
President of the Commission. - As I said publicly at the high-level event in New York, and also in Pittsburgh, I am very worried at the slow pace of negotiations for Copenhagen.
I hope that the European Union keeps its leadership position and that the European Council comes up with a solid financial proposal at the end of this month.
I should like to ask you, Mr President, on behalf of my group, what you intend to do over the next few months so that the strengthening of the single European market will help to fight the serious economic crisis with which we are faced today.
President of the Commission. - Thank you very much, Mr Kamiński.
Mr President, I would like, finally, to say how very important it is for us, for our group, that in this work to strengthen the single market, in this building of our common Europe, you have not forgotten the differences which exist in Europe.
President of the Commission. - I think the internal market is the best way to protect all the Member States, whether they are new or old, big or small, rich or poor.
So it is this - the inspiration for the internal market - that is such an important acquis of our European Union.
Chairman of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, you are calling for us to leave behind the economic stimulus programmes soon and for the budget deficits in the Member States to be quickly reduced.
Chairman of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, have I understood you correctly, namely that 2011 could be the date for this 'exit'?
President of the Commission. - I cannot confirm that now but I can tell you that, most likely, it will not be before then.
Co-Chairman of the EFD Group. - Mr Barroso, it is very good to see you here.
It was not a great result - just 67% of the people!
If there were, I would already know.
Co-Chairman of the EFD Group. - Mr Barroso, I am disappointed.
I cordially invite and expect to see Mr President and all my fellow Members.
President of the Commission. - I am following all the developments in the Member States, but let us be clear: the Commission does not have the power to intervene in some internal matters of the Member States, and this is the kind of issue on which we cannot provide an answer here because this is an internal debate that is going on in Hungary.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Consequences of the financial crisis on employment and social cohesion (NL) Mr President, my question concerns the crisis-response measures.
We are behind the United States and others in terms of investment in new technologies.
That is why we have very recently come up with the SET Plan and we are also urging Member States to devote more resources to financing green technologies, in other words, all the technology that can enable us to become a more sustainable, greener economy.
Secondly, 2010 has been declared - as we all know - to be the European year for combating poverty.
The question is very simple, Mr President: will you put all your energy, will you have the courage - you personally - to fight for quantitative targets on the question of poverty?
I would ask in particular that you do not refer me to the Member States, as you did when briefing the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament. (The President cut off the speaker) President of the Commission. - I have said earlier that my number one concern is unemployment, but to fight unemployment we should not only have a reactive position but a proactive position.
We have to base the European Union's long-term strategy on new sources of sustainable growth, for instance, what we call 'white' jobs, in social services, where there have been 3.3 million new jobs since 2000.
However, I think that we should also consider how to safeguard jobs, and prevent them from being lost.
President of the Commission. - Not only have we revised the rules of the globalisation fund, we have also reprogrammed the European Social Fund with the fast-tracking of EUR 1.8 billion to reinforce active labour market policies.
I have already mentioned the EUR 550 billion of the stimulus plan and, of course, I may also mention the Globalisation Adjustment Fund as well as some other proposals that we have made.
So we are also using to the maximum all the instruments we have at Community level to back up what the Member States can do themselves to fight this unemployment. (ES) Mr President, thank you for this interesting debate that we are having today.
The fact is that we are doing all we can and, as I said when I outlined the programme, we are giving social matters a higher profile because there is currently an emergency situation from a social point of view.
President of the Commission. - First of all, the question of credibility is a subjective question for you.
I think that the response to this question was given by Parliament, which gave me a new mandate recently, so it shows that this Parliament believes I am credible to go ahead with this policy.
In fact, we are pursuing our policy in response to the economic and financial crisis.
The Commission expressed these doubts, and General Motors and Opel Trust are now reassessing the way in which the offer to buy Opel was made, and to verify whether, in fact, this offer was made on a commercial basis or not.
Given this, would you agree, Mr Barroso, that we, as Members of this Parliament, and the Commission should be extra cautious with every penny that we add onto public sector burdens?
If you do agree, firstly, how would you advise us to vote in the budget debate on Thursday?
President of the Commission. - I support the proposed budget for next year so my advice is to vote 'yes'.
This regulation was formulated before the crisis.
And now that draft proposal is in your hands and in the hands of the European Council.
I already made some announcements during my discussion with you about the programme of the next Commission, but in fact, I am in contact with the Heads of State or Government.
President of the Commission. - I would like to thank Graham Watson for this very important question.
I think innovation will be key for the development of the European economy in the future. (DA) Mr Barroso, the financial crisis has given rise to an economic crisis on an historic scale and, at this moment, unemployment is rising dramatically in Europe.
Unemployment amongst young people - those under 25 - in Europe is 19.8%, as you yourself said, and in Spain more than one in three of those under 25 are unemployed.
Right now, we are in the process of making a mess of a whole generation and so far, Mr Barroso, you have done pretty much nothing to solve this problem.
Today, I have heard that you are very concerned about this, and I am pleased to hear that - I would like to see the evidence.
Commissioner Špidla, who has done a great job in very difficult circumstances, is, in fact, together with the Commission as a whole, asking for the Member States to develop five million apprenticeships.
President of the Commission. - I just want to say that I do not like that comparison between sheep and people very much.
I do not think it is in very good taste, really. (Applause) Having said that, we are committed to implementing the identification you mentioned, but of course we are being careful.
If there are problems in the implementation, we are ready to look at it.
Let us see how it works in practice. (HU) Mr Barroso, the global financial crisis triggered in the United States has spread to the real economy, resulting in the loss of millions of jobs and creating a state of social crisis.
Another measure that we have taken recently, which I have not yet mentioned today, was to increase to EUR 500 000 the threshold of State aid allowed in direct support by Member States to some SMEs in special difficulties.
President of the Commission. - Thank you very much, Mr President and all the distinguished Members of this Parliament, for this exercise.
I really enjoyed it.
