The Commission has therefore negotiated an agreement that will replace the bilateral agreements between Mongolia and certain EU Member States.
I voted in favour of the report by my esteemed German colleague and friend, Mr Böge, calling on the European Parliament to approve the proposal for a decision on mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund to provide approximately EUR 109 million in commitment and payment appropriations in 2009 to help France, the victim of a disaster caused by storm Klaus which, in January 2009, hit 31 departments in the south-west of the country, causing an estimated EUR 4 billion or so of serious damage.
in writing. - In January 2009, a storm took place in south-west France causing severe damage and enabling France to apply for funds from the European Union Solidarity Fund.
In my view, solidarity among Member States in the European Union and, in particular, European support for countries affected by disasters, are a clear sign that the EU is no longer just a free trade area.
I must mention the fires that have ravaged my country, particularly in 2003, and I acknowledge how important and useful mechanisms like this fund have been.
I voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund to provide additional support to Portuguese workers affected by redundancies in the textile sector and who suffer the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
EU support, particularly from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, is fundamental in helping those who have lost their jobs due to the relocations that have occurred in a globalised market.
In fact, the EGF has EUR 500 million available for all the Member States this year, and to date only about EUR 60 million has been utilised.
We voted in favour of this report, since the European Parliament is giving the green light for Portugal to receive EUR 832 800 to help workers made redundant in the textile industry in Portugal's Norte and Centro regions.
Approval has also been given, however, for EUR 3 306 750 to support 1 720 workers dismissed from 30 textile companies in Cataluña, Spain.
The textile industry employs roughly 15% of the labour force in these areas of the country, and almost 98% of the unemployment in the sector across the country is concentrated in these two regions.
I therefore support the mobilisation of EUR 832 800 from the EGF in the wake of the 1 588 redundancies in the textile industry in Portugal's Norte and Centro regions.
in writing. - During January 2009, the south-west of France was hit by a storm which caused severe damage and therefore allows France access to funds in the EUSF.
In total, more than EUR 120 million have been made available in this way.
in writing. - This report concerned modifications in the budget creating fresh commitments amounting to EUR 51 640 000.
These funds will go to the fighting of bluetongue, the creation of a high flux reactor in addition to funds directed to Europol and OLAF.
in writing. - The Fine Gael members of the EPP Group voted in favour of Draft amending budget No 8/2009.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise my disagreement with the other issues raised in the report, which should not have been included in this report: The creation of budget item 10 04 04 02 (Operation of the high-flux reactor (HFR)); The creation of budget item 18 05 02 03 (European Police); A reinforcement of the Community subsidy to EUROJUST; Modifications to the establishment plan of OLAF, without additional financial provisions.
It focuses on the increase in resources to eradicate bluetongue disease in sheep, the pursuit of a research programme on the use of a nuclear reactor installed in the Netherlands, the Europol and Eurojust programmes, and OLAF.
