Rosé wines and permitted oenological practices (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the oral question by Astrid Lulling, Jean-Pierre Audy, Joseph Daul, Françoise Grossetête, Véronique Mathieu, Elisabeth Morin, Margie Sudre, Oldřich Vlasák and Dominique Vlasto, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Patrick Louis, on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Jean Marie Beaupuy, Anne Laperrouze, Nathalie Griesbeck and Marielle De Sarnez, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Sergio Berlato, Cristiana Muscardini, Roberta Angelilli, Domenico Antonio Basile, Alessandro Foglietta, Antonio Mussa, Sebastiano (Nello) Musumeci, Giovanni Robusti, Umberto Pirilli and Salvatore Tatarella, on behalf of the UEN Group to the Commission: Rosé, wines and permitted oenological practices (B6-0228/2009) and the oral question by Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, Katerina Batzeli, Vincent Peillon, Vincenzo Lavarra, Stéphane Le Foll and Alessandro Battilocchio, on behalf of the PSE Group to the Commission: Rosé wines and permitted oenological practices (B6-0229/2009).
In Europe, 170 000 hectares of vines have been uprooted, whereas in New Zealand the planted area has increased by 240%, in Australia by 169% and in China by 164%.
The product specification of Champagne allows the blending of red and white to produce rosé Champagne.
The discussion on wine-making practices, including on blending, started back in 2006 during the negotiations on the wine reform.
Allowing the blending of table wine will lead to fair competition between European countries and third countries since we have allowed third countries - as already mentioned here today - to do this blending.
In all my years of political activity - both in Austria and in almost 15 years in the European Parliament - debates on wine have always been very emotional ones.
It is in the interests of quality production by European - and especially Austrian - wine-growers, that priority be given to the quality and the distinctiveness of wine from different regions.
With this rosé idea, you have questioned 2 500 years of heritage dating from the Roman empire, which had to tackle the barbarians.
Watch out on 19 June. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, wine has been produced in my country for three thousand years.
However, I can see that, if we take this slippery slope, there will be no end to it.
They are linked to our traditional producers and we set great store by this for the future.
You wish to take a decision on 19 June, but there is no rush.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, it has been great to listen to you here tonight, because I still feel that you have got all the passion, you have got all the energy and you have got all the emotion that I experienced about the wine sector when we had our discussions on the wine reform.
That was precisely the reason why during the wine reform - as I am sure you still remember - we reserved a huge amount of money for promoting our European wine on the Third World market: EUR 125 million every year was the figure mentioned when we had these discussions.
We will have this discussion again in the Regulatory Committee.
That will be interesting, but I am still quite convinced that what we have proposed, which is in compliance with the OIV oenological practices, will be the way forward for our wine producers to stay competitive on the global market.
The debate is closed.
Faced with the angry reaction of European wine growers, the European Commission has decided to postpone until 19 June its hasty decision to authorise the production of rosé wine by blending red and white wine.
While for countless years the wine growers of the European Union have put in considerable effort and investment to produce high-quality rosé wine, the Commission's decision will undo these enormous efforts, which have nevertheless had a very positive effect on the economy and the regional development of our territories.
By postponing the decision on authorisation until after the elections of 7 June, you are ultimately playing the Euroscepticism card.
