Transparency in financial matters (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Pomés Ruiz, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on transparency in financial matters.
Thus in Amendment 2 to paragraph 22, I request that the list proposed by the Transparency Initiative be removed, in the main not only because this Parliament has already taken decisions on our financial interests, missions and travel, but because we also feel there must be rules for the entire European Union.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very pleased to be here today to speak on behalf of the Commission on this key issue of transparency.
I clearly said in the Committee on Budgetary Control in January 2008 that 'the Commission has so far been unable to give Parliament a comprehensive picture of all our recovery efforts'.
I gave an estimate for the recoveries made in 2006 and announced improvements to our own systems, so that, this year, the ABAC accounting system will include more detailed and complete data on recoveries.
As of noon today, we had received 22 replies from the Member States.
In conclusion, I can declare that we are taking transparency very seriously and that the European Transparency Initiative is delivering on many points raised in the report. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the transparency initiative is probably the greatest success achieved by the Barroso Commission.
Our rapporteur, Javier Pomés Ruiz, has drafted a good and interesting report, and I am sure that with this report as the opinion of Parliament, we will help the Commission to make further progress.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DA) Mr President, there is no doubt that the public debate in Europe has focused a great deal on the fact that there is a democratic deficit in the EU and that this deficit is due to not least the lack of sufficient transparency.
These are important issues.
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate is really a warm-up act for the discharge procedure currently taking place in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and for the extraordinary hearing that we are to have next week with Commissioners Špidla and Hübner.
A key issue in that debate is paragraph 41 of Mr Pomés Ruiz's report, in which the Commission is urged to support the issuing of National Declarations of Assurance.
I also endorse the question put by Dan Jørgensen on this topic.
The procedure for elected Members must also be at least as strict, however, because there can be no grounds for asserting that ethical requirements should be relaxed as far as Members of Parliament are concerned.
We should concentrate on what the EU is there for - the internal market. - (NL) Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and I would like to mention a couple of points before making an appeal to the Council and the Commission.
We on this side would like to count on your support. (PT) Mr President, I must congratulate our rapporteur and also Mr Kallas on this initiative.
I repeat, we must distribute roles and tasks between the Member States and the European Union.
My second point is that, when we give money - with a pretty generous heart - to third countries, to those that are underdeveloped and less privileged, I would like to get some feedback on how that money is used, in particular under those soft programmes like democratisation or similar, which do not produce tangible things but change minds, or entrepreneurship.
We know little of how that money is used in Africa, and in all ACP countries.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to thank honourable Members very much for their support for this transparency action, which has been a common action: in all issues, the Commission has always felt it had strong support from Parliament.
I remember that the greatest problem in the European Union was caused not by a spouse, but something similar: I refer to the case of Edith Cresson.
In this preliminary mission on which we all agree, several Member States - those that refuse to give explain how they spend 80% of Community funds and then seem to be all smiles when we refuse to approve the EU accounts - use this to justify giving less money to the common fund, limiting EU activity, abusing our accusations that it is the Member States that do not spend correctly and using this argument to refuse to give this House more than 1%.
