rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, I have the honour of starting this joint debate on five very important reports on establishing a common European policy on asylum.
In this way, the Fund's financial allocation for the 2008-2013 period would be reduced from EUR 628 million to EUR 614 million.
Madam President, that is the end of my speech on the subject we are dealing with at the moment and, like you, I would like to dedicate a few minutes, which are my last, to saying some words of farewell.
Like you, Madam President, I would also like to thank all the Members of this House, my group colleagues, the Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and my fellow Members on the committee for the collaboration we have enjoyed over the past years.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, allow me, first of all, to make a few general remarks.
It seems that the Council has either completely or partially failed to grasp the fact that improving quality and ensuring greater consistency and solidarity is not only in the interests of the asylum seeker, but also in the interests of the Member States themselves.
As far as my own report is concerned, I would like to say the following: the existing Dublin Regulation is also the product of a fragile political compromise reached in the Council.
In my view, Article 31 is the most important political element in the proposed recast.
As I more or less said just now, I see the lack of consistency and solidarity on the Council's part as the biggest stumbling block to achieving a common asylum and immigration policy.
From that perspective alone, I can very well understand the provisions of Article 31 of the Commission's proposal.
rapporteur. - (RO) The Community Eurodac IT system began operating in January 2003 and is designed to compare the fingerprints of asylum seekers and certain third-country nationals or stateless persons.
Eurodac is a computerised database containing the fingerprints of all the applicants for international protection, aged 14 years and over.
The report supports the idea of setting up as soon as possible a decentralised agency for managing Eurodac, VIS and SIS II to ensure that these systems operate as efficiently as possible.
rapporteur. - Mr President, we heard earlier from Ms D端hrkop D端hrkop in terms of the European Refugee Fund and the changes proposed in that in order to support the setting-up of the European Asylum Support Office, and I am the rapporteur for the regulation which deals with that particular proposal - the Asylum Support Office.
The idea is that this is an office which is there to support Member States in improving - we would say the quality (we know some Member States have a difficulty with that concept of improving the quality) of delivery of decision-making on asylum requests, but also this office aims to assist in developing consistency across Member States, as well as supporting those countries which find themselves under particular pressure at various times, either through continuing mixed flows of people coming to those countries or for other reasons.
We are pleased that the Council has indicated it could well accept our amendments concerning training itself and, indeed, bringing in external expertise, for example in terms of interpretation, where necessary.
I heartily thank the five rapporteurs for their considerable and excellent work.
I thank Mr Masip Hidalgo once again for his excellent presentation.
The amendments that change this approach cannot receive our support.
I would firstly like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, and also Parliament for introducing the option of suspending the transfers of asylum seekers when a Member State encounters difficulties.
However, it is difficult to go further in the framework of the Dublin Regulation, as this regulation, Mrs HennisPlasschaert, cannot be an instrument as such for the distribution of asylum seekers among Member States.
However, you have put your finger on the problem, namely the need for more solidarity and more consistency among the various Member States.
Thank you, Mrs D端hrkop D端hrkop and Mrs Lambert, for your remarkable, quick and effective work, since the Commission only tabled its proposals on 18 February.
This is why, Mr President, I am extremely grateful to all the Members and especially to the five rapporteurs for their excellent work.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, this new phase of our work, intended to establish a common European asylum system, will require a substantial effort on the part of both Parliament and the Council.
The European Council, while reiterating that the grant of protection and refugee status is the responsibility of each Member State, also indicated that the time has come to take new initiatives to complete the establishment of a common European asylum system provided for in the Hague programme, and thus to offer a higher degree of protection, as proposed by the Commission in its policy plan on asylum.
The Council therefore welcomes the four important legislative proposals which the Commission tabled between December and February 2009 for this purpose and which represent the focal point of our debate today.
These proposals deal with reception conditions for applicants for international protection, the so-called Dublin regulation, and Eurodac, which were all presented in December last year, as well as the proposal for establishing a European Asylum Support Office, presented in February this year.
The discussions which have taken place until now in the framework of the Council concerning the other two proposals - the amendments to the Reception Conditions Directive and the so-called Dublin Regulation - indicate that the issues raised by those proposals are undoubtedly more complex and difficult.
The Dublin Regulation, that is, the regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application, is intended to prevent abuse of asylum procedures in the form of multiple applications submitted by the same person in several Member States.
Solidarity needs to go out to those who deserve protection but also, for the first time, solidarity with those countries bearing a disproportionate burden.
This same solidarity is also inherent in the European Parliament's proposal to introduce a burden-sharing mechanism which will no longer be voluntary but legally binding across the board.
Two boats heading towards Lampedusa, carrying 130 immigrants, are currently just off Lampedusa, however Italy is refusing to go out and rescue them.
According to international law, these persons must be escorted to the nearest port, and as VicePresident Barrot said at the time of the first incident, the closest port of call in this case is that of Lampedusa.
I would like to conclude by reminding you that the right to effective legal protection is a fundamental right enshrined in European constitutions and, specifically, in Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) As I have already indicated in my first address to the House, there are still enormous differences between the Member States and the desired harmonisation has, in fact, been a failure in this respect.
It is a pity, therefore, and I address this little aside to the Commission, that we still have to wait for the publication of both the recast procedure and the Recognition Directive.
The game being played in Malta is actually not very clear, and I will explain myself straight away.
Both proposals are moving in the direction of improving the European Union reception system for asylum seekers.
I believe that this should be a point that defines the very idea that we hold of the European Union.
To me, that seems a very practical solution. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, of the proposals being presented to us I am happy to support the draft regulation for establishing a European Asylum Support Office, the European Refugee Fund and the Eurodac Regulation.
The Reception Conditions Directive has been created so that refugees - genuine refugees - can be given the best possible assistance in the shortest possible time.
Giving people this right should also mean guaranteeing them the right to develop their lives.
People who have applied for asylum should be guaranteed access to the widest range of procedural assistance, and this includes the right to highquality legal help in order to make it easier for them to understand their rights. (EL) Mr President, the Eurodac system is used to collect fingerprints from asylum seekers.
We do not agree with the fingerprinting of children of 14 years of age.
Since this is my last speech to this House, I would like to thank you, all colleagues and staff for their cooperation. (FR) Mr President, Mr Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, I too am pleased to be able to give my opinion on such a crucial debate as the asylum package, especially on the penultimate day of the parliamentary term.
I should like now to thank Parliament.
Mr Pirker, I cannot allow you to distort the Commission's proposal.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, in my final remarks I would like to stress that the Council welcomes Parliament's wish to make early progress in these important files and its recognition of the importance for the proper functioning of the common European asylum system.
rapporteur. - (RO) The country I come from, Romania, was governed up until 1989 by a totalitarian Communist regime, which you might even describe as criminal.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 7 May 2009.
The reform of the Eurodac Regulation will resolve difficulties linked to the effectiveness of its legislative provisions, such as delays from some Member States in sending fingerprints to the central Eurodac system, exchanging data on recognised refugees in a particular Member State and the inaccurate designation of the authorities which have access to the Eurodac database.
The Biometric Matching System must be the same for SIS, VIS and Eurodac to ensure their interoperability and keep costs down.
