In total, approximately EUR 275 million was committed over the 2002-2007 period, making the EC one of the leading donors worldwide.
In 2007, the European Community committed assistance for mine action for a total of at least EUR 33 million in the following countries: Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cyprus, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Lebanon, Senegal and Sudan.
Here we are talking about a very different situation: 10 000 to 20 000 people affected each year.
There are probably more than half a million people who have been maimed in countries outside the EU, and therefore this is a very topical matter and it is no accident, in fact, that it is being discussed ten years on from the Ottawa Convention, but that in this Chamber it is being dealt with again after only two years.
We dealt with it in a resolution in 2005 and we are discussing it again now.
The Commission has already done a great deal; the European Union has already done a great deal: 335 million over the last ten years, 33 million in 2007 alone; however, I think that the Council, the Commission and the Member States should call a meeting to review the Ottawa Convention and should do more to ensure all the countries in the world act on this matter and to bring about mine clearance and the total abolition of anti-personnel mines in the immediate future, as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PT) The Ottawa Convention was the result of a global and effective effort for a just cause which united and continues to unite governments, public opinion and non-governmental organisations.
Over a period of 10 years the States Parties to the Ottawa Convention have already destroyed more than 41 million mines.
Ten States Parties have still not completely destroyed their arsenals which total 14 million mines.
China alone still retains an arsenal of 110 million of these inhuman weapons, whilst at the same time continuing production.
Even more shocking, perhaps because it is an ally of ours, alongside which European armies are fighting on fronts such as Afghanistan, the USA, another State not party to the Convention, not only continues to maintain an arsenal of more than 10 million mines, but also, last year, the Pentagon requested new financing for two new types of mines incompatible with the Convention.
The European Union still has its own glass houses with Finland and Poland continuing to refuse to ratify the Convention.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, the Ottawa Convention on banning mines has been very successful in saving thousands of lives and in preventing thousands of people from becoming severely wounded.
Unfortunately, however, there is still a lot to be done and a long way to go in order to achieve a more drastic reduction in the manufacture and use of mines.
In their defence strategies, Pakistan, India and China still insist on retaining anti-personnel mines.
The 10 years in which the Ottawa Convention has been in existence are so important because for the first time it was a civil society law suit that led to an international ban on a weapon of mass destruction, namely the anti-personnel mine.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, the Ottawa Convention is a success thanks to the upward pressure from social movements.
In the meantime 156 countries have signed it, as have 30 armed non-state actors, interestingly enough.
Jean-Claude Juncker pinpointed it beautifully in 2004.
I am probably one of the few people in Parliament who was actually at the signing of the Ottawa Convention 10 years ago.
Well here we are, 10 years on, and we are still saying more or less the same things that we said 10 years ago, which I think is a great pity.
Although 156 countries have signed the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, and there has been a decrease - a drastic decrease - in trade, there is still investment in the production of landmines, including by financial institutions in Europe.
Landmines have made 200 000 square kilometres of land inaccessible, and there are still 250 million of them in circulation.
In respect of matters that are banned under international treaties, political intervention is a moral and political obligation - and this should be incorporated into European and national legislation, in the interests of a world without landmines and without anti-vehicle mines, as Mrs Beer quite rightly said.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, success has been achieved in the last 10 years, as many of you mentioned, but it is clear that significant challenges still lie ahead.
