Iran The next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on Iran.
The first is for the people of Iran: Europe sees in Iranians and, particularly in its young people, the hope for a future in which their country will embrace democracy and freedom and will take on an important role in the region, as it deserves.
The European Union has a responsibility in keeping these universal rights on the agenda, including when trade interests or the nuclear programme of Iran are at issue.
author. - Mr President, this situation is rooted in a very special clerical dictatorship, which is notorious for its indiscriminate suppression of human rights and civil liberties.
In fact, Iran has the highest number of executions in the world after China.
The latest information, which is not reflected in the draft resolution, is that yesterday, Iran's regime hanged five prisoners in Tehran's Evin prison, including Soheila Ghadiri, a 28-year-old woman.
Regardless of how many people are here in this House, when we speak in Parliament, we are also speaking for the millions of people in Iran who have gone out on the streets and have risked their lives and safety to protest against elections that they believed to be fraudulent.
The latest example was the killing of Behnood Shojaee, a young man recently executed even though he was a minor at the time of the crime.
This is the latest episode in a chain of serious violations of human rights which have entailed the repression of political opponents, homosexuals, journalists, intellectuals and anyone who is fighting for the social and civil development of Iran.
Since 2005, the number of executions in Iran has quadrupled, and Iran is the only country in the world which executes minors guilty of crimes.
Another tangible proposal is to name streets or squares in our cities after Neda Agha-Soltan.
I would like to see a picture of Neda Agha-Soltan next to the picture of Aung San Suu Kyi displayed on one side of the European Parliament building in Brussels.
One final comment: how can President Ahmadinejad have any credibility in the negotiations on the nuclear issue when he is persecuting and going against his own people who are calling for greater democracy, greater freedom and greater respect for human rights?
author. - Mr President, while we sit in this Chamber having grand debates, the hangmen in Iran are working overtime.
Mr President, on 2 October this year, the Iranian police stopped a man from boarding an aircraft at the last minute.
The lawyer, Abdolfattah Soltani, was due to receive the International Human Rights Award for 2009 in my home town of Nuremburg for his courageous work on behalf of victims of political persecution.
I am therefore lobbying for the Soltani case to be included in our joint resolution today, in our resolution on Iran, and I ask for your support.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I would like to use this time to express our concern over the situation in Iran and especially of Iranian opposition members in Camp Ashraf in Iraq, which has been the symbol of resistance for people in Iran.
Iraq should understand that the Iranian regime has no future and is holding on to power for repression and executions.
So, if Iraq is a sovereign country, they should respect and implement the European Parliament resolution of 24 April 2009 on Ashraf, which calls on Iraq to stop any forcible displacement of Ashraf residents within Iraq.
Commission, Council, I urge you to seek out the ayatollahs' weaknesses, primarily in the interests of a more tolerable fabric of life for the Iranian people and in the interests of the security of the Jewish State of Israel, not forgetting the Arab world, and also the European Union. (HU) A few days ago, President Barroso was here and I asked him what could be done to resolve the human rights crisis that had been going on in a European Union Member State, Hungary, since autumn 2006.
I would like to ask about the double standard that is being applied and about what legal basis the European Union has for interfering in a country outside the European Union when it is reluctant to protect human rights in a European Union Member State.
Furthermore, since Ahmadinejad's rise to power in 2005, the number of executions that have taken place has quadrupled, and Iran executes the most people in the world after China.
We have a special respect for those brave Iranian women who had a decisive role to play in the demonstrations following the elections in Tehran. (NL) Mr President, Iran is ruled by a strict regime based on a radical interpretation of Islam and of the Koran.
There is literally no life for Muslims who have converted to Christianity in Iran.
I call on the Council and the Commission to give these demonstrators strong support in further proceedings and, in particular, to vigorously oppose the brutal Iranian regime. (LT) The human rights situation in Iran is clearly deteriorating.
As a result, 36 people were arrested; they had no option but to go on hunger strike.
I, too, wish to deplore the deterioration in the situation in Iran with regard to human rights, in the wake of the elections in June.
Finally, I wish to show my support for the notion of establishing a European Union delegation in Tehran.
Unfortunately, in spite of the numerous appeals and statements of condemnation from the European Union and the international community, the human rights situation has deteriorated even more since the presidential elections that took place in Iran in June 2009.
The latest scheduled hearing was postponed again on 18 October, leaving these seven people since then without any clear prospect of proper judicial proceedings.
Improving the human rights situation in Iran is a key element in the European Commission's approach to strengthening political dialogue and cooperation with Tehran in the future.
The debate is closed.
The European Union will always be a standard-bearer for civil freedoms and our common European democratic values, even beyond our borders.
