rapporteur. - (PL) The report illustrates the role that we envisage for Ukraine against the background of our own economic activities as well as as a partner in the context of trade with other countries.
I believe that economic activities and development should progress irrespective of the political ideas held by a country.
For this reason it is important to include Ukraine in the common market and make the know-how developed in the EU available to it.
As essential conditions, I believe, first of all, joining the World Trade Organization and, while so doing or even before, resolving the debt problem with Kyrgyzstan.
I also want to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation with the Commission services when drafting this report.
The Commission also fully shares your views concerning the need to strengthen the rule of law in Ukraine and the importance of Ukraine's accession to the WTO.
We strongly hope that Ukraine can still complete the WTO accession process this year, and we will cooperate closely with the Ukrainian Government to this end.
As for economic relations with neighbouring countries, the report suggests a three-way dialogue: EU-Russia-Ukraine.
In conclusion, allow me to once again congratulate the rapporteur on his good report.
The Commission will take the report into account in its ongoing and future cooperation with Ukraine.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, although the post-electoral situation in Ukraine has not yet stabilised, those who represent democracy have won.
It is the Ukrainians themselves who have to take the post-electoral decisions, but we can help Ukraine and, at the same time, help ourselves.
I fully support Mr Zaleski's report, and congratulate him on preparing such a document.
Thirdly, cooperation between local and regional government.
It will help Ukrainians, and it will help the European Union.
In February 2007 we began negotiations on a new partnership and association agreement between Ukraine and the EU.
This would also considerably broaden the scope for cooperation between the EU and Ukraine and smooth the way for negotiations on the creation of a free-trade area in the ENP framework.
We should continue to lend vigorous support to Ukraine on its path to WTO membership, in the subsequent creation of a free-trade area, and with regard to its European aspirations.
Relations between the EU and Ukraine have mainly developed in the direction of increasing political cooperation and gradually increasing economic integration.
The fifth point is that the intensive development of relations between the EU and Ukraine can potentially increase Russia's political and economic pressure on Ukraine.
It is apparent from the report that the author has a deep, personal interest in Ukrainian development issues and in the shaping of its relations with the European Union, and this has of course benefited the report.
The energy sector is an obvious example of this.
The European Union is interested in a transparent transport system for Ukraine's natural gas, which, like the entire energy sector in Ukraine, is over-regulated, with artificially complex structures and flows of money that are not transparent.
It is to be hoped that Ukraine will manage to overcome the protracted political crisis and that the Ukrainian Government will in future be involved in EU talks that, on the basis of mutual interest, will make it possible to establish close cooperation.
I agree with the rapporteur that Ukraine's wish to join the European Union cannot be ignored, and here I would like to stress this once again: a clear prospect of EU membership is the most effective reform tool that the European Union can offer Ukraine.
Allow me to make a few remarks.
The incumbent President has always had difficulties in his dealings with strong prime ministers, whether with Yulia Tymoshenko, whom he dismissed in 2005, or with Viktor Yanukovych in 2006 and 2007.
Although the coalition agreement concluded between Yulia Tymoshenko's alliance and the Our Ukraine bloc exists on paper as the basis of a possible new government constellation, the government has not yet been formed.
It tells us that Ukraine recorded average GDP growth of 8.7% between 2000 and 2006.
In other words, there is still a real need for economic change, and the partnership agreements can and must be used for that purpose.
That will have a profound impact on the Ukrainian economy.
This means that Ukrainian development is not advancing as quickly as is always asserted.
During the election campaign, all parties promised to move the country closer to the European Union.
It would be good for the European Union to have a strong partner in the East, and it would also be good for Ukraine in view of its general geostrategic orientation.
The country must have not only an effective government, but also one which demonstrates a political determination to address the problems.
As part of the European Neighbourhood Policy, the European Union can then initiate or support the reforms needed in the country. (PL) Mr President, Ukraine is a country with strategic importance within the European Neighbourhood Policy, and it is an important partner for the countries of the European Union.
We all hope that growth in trade between Ukraine and EU countries will strengthen economic growth and cooperation with countries in the region.
Good economic relations are advantageous to both sides.
We support democratic and economic processes in our eastern neighbour.
The issue of cooperation with Ukraine is particularly important at present, and all the initiatives aimed at strengthening cooperation are a clear sign of European interest in our eastern neighbour and of openness on the part of the European Union.
It is undeniable that Ukraine still has far to go to approach the Community's economic, political and social structures.
It would also be useful to support and implement programmes to promote Ukraine in the European Union as well as the European Union in Ukraine, and also programmes to promote the development of science and education, which is an issue raised by Professor Buzek.
The most important step as regards changing the image of the European Union in the eyes of Ukrainians would be to abolish the visa requirement for travelling to the European Union, as well as a clear statement, and this is something of which everyone has spoken, that Ukraine will be able to accede to the European Union, even if this involves an extended time frame. (LT) On 18 October in Portugal President Yushchenko announced Ukraine's intention to join the WTO this year.
Ukraine has already completed negotiations with the WTO countries, with the exception of Kyrgyzstan, which still insists on recovering the old debt of USD 27 million dating from Soviet times.
In recent years there has been significant growth in the GDP, but there is still a lot to be done in the area of economic productivity and competitiveness.
Ukraine's significant role in ensuring the security of EU energy supply should be considered comprehensively.
The possibility of integrating Ukraine in the trans-European transport networks should be encouraged, as Ukraine could play the strategic role of a transit country through which oil and gas could be supplied to Europe.
I think the EU should continue its open door policy in respect of Ukraine. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, it would clearly be in the interests of the European Union to strengthen and develop political and economic ties with Ukraine.
Ukraine's aspirations to become a member of the World Trade Organization deserve support.
As Russia, in offering an agreement on a common trade area with Ukraine, is trying to gain control over that country for its own ends, it is important for the European Commission to present a decisive standpoint supporting Ukraine in its aspirations to become a member of the European Union.
Ukraine should have proper political and economic relations with Russia but, at the same time, we should support its EU aspirations.
The fight against it has to play an important role in the cooperation between the EU and the Ukraine. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
A successful Ukraine could serve as a positive example for all the countries in the region and the states of the former Soviet Union, and help to reinforce democracy in the region.
Allow me to cite Hungary as an example in this case, since Hungary shares a border with Ukraine.
If the free trade agreement also covered animal husbandry products, a significant proportion of Hungarian producers would relocate their production plants to Ukraine, barely 100 km from the current sites, and could continue competitive production at extraordinarily low cost.
We support its accession to the WTO and the negotiations for a free-trade area with the Union.
This huge country with a population of 46 million has a right to take pride in its democratic achievements since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Assistance after membership of the WTO is finalised is also of great importance, such as assistance with official negotiations on the Free-Trade Agreement and a new, more detailed agreement between the EU and Ukraine.
My best wishes to our colleagues from Ukraine in finalising the formation of the new government and commencing the important tasks that await them. (PL) Mr President, Ukraine is a strategically important neighbour for the European Union.
The way to achieve this is to create a common free trade area, but first Ukraine must complete its process of accession to the WTO.
Mr Zaleski's report is a good step in this direction, and I would like to congratulate him on the report. (DE) Mr President, allow me to begin my remarks by pointing out that this is the second debate today on a foreign-policy issue at which the Commission has not been represented by the competent Commissioner.
I have nothing against our esteemed Commissioner Borg, but it would be proper, in my view, if the Commission were represented by the Commissioner with responsibility for the subject under discussion.
In my view it is intolerable, for example, that Russia should make its cooperation with Ukraine dependent on which government is in office in Kiev and which parliamentary majority the Ukrainian nation has elected.
I support the recommendations of the rapporteur as regards assistance from Member States to Ukraine in its accession to the WTO.
The European Union should support the Ukrainian government in rebuilding the country on many levels, not just as regards its economy or industry, but also in social matters.
Ukrainian democracy is still very young.
For this reason I would like to add my congratulations to those that have already been expressed in the House, and I am in favour of Mr Zaleski's report.
On the issue of WTO accession, the Commission is in full agreement that this is a key issue.
As a consequence the finalisation of the WTO Geneva process would be sufficient to allow for the setting in motion of the negotiations for a deep and comprehensive FTA.
The new enhanced agreement will bring Ukraine as close as possible to the EU in as many areas as possible while not prejudging any possible future developments in EU-Ukraine relations in accordance with the treaty provisions.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) The report that has been discussed rightly sheds light on the fact that Ukraine is a strategically important partner for the European Union, since it may play an important intermediary role in dialogue with Russia and other Central Asian countries.
in writing. - Following the 2004 enlargement and the accession of countries with common external borders with Ukraine, it is clear that Ukraine has become a neighbour of strategic importance to the EU as a whole, as well as a determinant actor in the region.
Generally speaking, it is indeed in the interests of the Union to foster a good commercial, economic and social performance in Ukraine in order to secure trade relations and political stability in the region.
