Common rules in the field of civil aviation security (debate) The next item is the report by Paolo Costa, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 -.
On 4 March the Council formally completed the third reading of this balanced and beneficial text, which is important for both the industry and for passengers.
The Commission intends to use Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community to propose any additions that are needed to the common basic standards laid down in this regulation.
The Commission also points out that the continuity of the implementing rules will be maintained until they are replaced by new measures adopted under this regulation.
Initial estimates by the Association of European Airlines suggest that the more flexible methods can reduce costs by up to 500 million.
Whilst we have been unable to reach an agreement with the Council on the issue of financing these security measures, the Commission has agreed to come forward with a separate proposal on financing these measures within the next few months.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and other subsequent threats have made us realise how vulnerable the aviation sector is and how deadly the effects of an attack using an aircraft or perpetrated inside one can be.
Consequently it is important that we do everything necessary to ensure maximum security and it goes without saying that we must have maximum harmonisation on the matter at European level.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, this has been a very long-running saga, and I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my sincere thanks to Mr Costa.
The second point was the arrangement whereby Parliament was to be more closely involved in the continuing development of the security provisions.
If in 1970 there were approximately 200 million passengers in the EU-15, in 2000 their number reached approximately 600 million.
As regards the use of security officers on board aircrafts, each Member State has the competence to decide on the registered and authorised aircraft in the Member State in question, but their role was improved by the enforcement of certain provisions on the training and security terms imposed thereon. (PL) Madam President, air transport needs defined legal rules, but they must be as flexible as possible and at the same time sufficiently harmonised, especially with regard to flight security.
The document we are discussing today meets those criteria.
In this connection Mr Costa and Commissioner Barrot deserve special praise.
This was demonstrated in the starkest way possible on 11 September 2001, when security itself was one of the key aspects which was shown to need improvement both on a global scale and particularly with reference to the European zone.
Let us revise the implementing provisions on liquids as quickly as possible, and let us replace them with more and better technology and with better cooperation between the security services. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like in particular to draw attention to the technological modernisation that is necessary to avoid the collapse of civil aviation.
As I said before, the adoption of this regulation will enable us to establish more modern and flexible rules, using new checking technologies, to introduce the one-stop security concept for flights from non-member countries, with a high standard of security, to abolish certain duplicated requirements, to codify the participation of stakeholders in decision-making on the implementing measures and, of course, to involve the European Parliament more in the process of decision-making on the implementing rules.
Through negotiation with Singapore, we have managed to introduce this rule for all dealings with Singapore, and we are now continuing with a number of non-member countries in preparation for further derogations.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 11 March 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The harmonisation of actions taken by Member States, airports and airlines concerning the provision of civil aviation security represents an imperative requirement in order to deal with terrorist threats.
The issues related to financing must be clarified as soon as possible, so that taxpayers in the European Union, as well as the users of transport services have a clear picture about the allocation of amounts collected, thus dissociating the financing of direct measures from the insurance costs, as well as from any state aid in support of additional security measures that a Member State may enact.
