I voted against this report, not because I am unconcerned about allegations of international wrong-doing, but because this report builds its case largely on unsubstantiated speculation.
in writing. (SV) We have abstained in the vote on the report on the CIA's alleged use of European countries for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners.
However, I would like it noted that we do not agree in full with the wording of paragraph 125 of the report.
A decision that reconciles the need for commitment to protect human rights with support for the fight against terrorism and its causes is only acceptable if it engenders broad consensus; 3.
Now all of us who seek the truth about these kidnappings must take this issue to our national parliaments and directly challenge the national governments at home in our countries.
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that Member States may have breached their treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights, and respect of law.
We investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that Member States may have breached their treaty obligations under Article 6 of the EU Treaty, which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights, and respect for the law.
On completion of this complicated investigation by the European Parliament, it is vital that examining committees be set up now in the national parliaments of the Member States - which unfortunately include Greece - which appear to be involved in the CIA's illegal activities.
The European Parliament has come to the conclusion that, 'according to information given by Murat Kurnaz's lawyer and information provided by the German authorities, there was a prospect of the release of Murat Kurnaz from Guantánamo in 2002 but this was not accepted by the German authorities' and that 'Murat Kurnaz's lawyer was told by the German Government that it was impossible to open negotiations with the US Government on his release because Murat Kurnaz was a Turkish citizen' even though 'all investigations had established, by as early as at the end of October 2002, that Murat Kurnaz posed no terrorist threat'.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has just given its verdict on the work done by its Temporary Committee concerning the use of European airspace by the CIA for the illegal transportation of prisoners.
I am convinced that my friend, Antoine Duquesne, the former Minister for the Interior of the Kingdom of Belgium, would have delivered the same message, if he could have voted today.
Since January 2006, a great deal of work has been carried out by Parliament's Temporary Committee, which is responsible for conducting investigations into the allegations made in the press on this sensitive issue.
The MEPs are vested with a duty of transparency and information towards the citizens; this information must therefore be guided by a concern to provide the most accurate feedback possible.
While the final report does not fulfil this demand as well as it might, I decided to vote in favour, convinced that, through these committees, Parliament is required to play a decisive role in terms of helping to ensure that the human rights and fundamental values to which the Union fully adheres in its Treaties are respected.
Thus, the fight against terrorism must be waged in compliance with the international law in force, and no human rights violations can be justified.
Abuses of human rights, torture and illegal deportation must be condemned in today's Europe.
However, these issues have already been dealt with by the United Nations Human Rights Council and by the Council of Europe.
I have therefore voted in favour of many of the proposals but abstained in the vote on the report as such. (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of adopting the report on granting European Union financial aid to Moldova, aimed at supporting the balance of payments and foreign currency reserves.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council decision on providing Community macro-financial assistance to Moldova.
Since 1 January, Moldova, which shares a border with Romania, has actually bordered the European Union, and the Council wants to help it cope with its commercial and financial difficulties.
I should like, nevertheless, to emphasise that this solidarity, valued at EUR 45 million, is of an exceptional and limited nature and requires certain conditions.
Against this backdrop, the EU has adopted United Nations Resolution 44/225 introducing a moratorium on the use of drift nets as part of the Community acquis (Regulation No 354/1992), despite some regional exceptions at Community level.
I mistakenly voted in favour of the proposed resolution, when I had meant to vote against, as I did on the legislative proposal.
I therefore request that my vote on the legislative resolution be amended (to a vote against).
The removal of aid for farmers would raise issues of competition between farmers from countries that do not employ modulation and those from countries that do, and between farmers in the latter category depending on the level of modulation decided upon.
in writing. (SV) The June List believes that the European Union's common agricultural policy should be phased out.
in writing. - (FR) In addition to decoupling aid and production, the CAP reform has introduced a new tool: modulation.
Firstly, for British farmers, voluntary modulation would be anything but voluntary - they would be forced to accept a cut of up to 20 % of the value of their single farm payment, while the rest of Europe's farmers would not.
in writing. (DA) We are voting against Parliament's proposal that the Commission should withdraw its own proposal and in favour of the Commission's proposal.
MEPs cannot demand reform of the CAP on the one hand and then not support reform in practice.
Today, we must have no hesitation in correcting mistakes, effecting the necessary changes and ensuring that these projects move forward as quickly as possible. (DE) Mr President, while I would like to make it clear that the delegation of the Austrian People's Party has always been forthright in its advocacy of pro-active action to address climate change, we have nevertheless voted against this resolution on the grounds that it attempts to bring in nuclear power through the back door.
We need to take this action for our own sakes and for the sake of future generations. (FI) Mr President, in point 34 of the resolution on climate change, which we have just voted on, the Commission was asked to assess the risks to nuclear institutions posed by floods and tsunamis that are caused by climate change.
In the story, a tsunami, brought about by climate change, causes an accident that results in massive damage to a nuclear power plant.
in writing. (SV) We voted in favour of Amendments 3 and 8 because we think it would be a good thing if the EU Member States could agree unanimously on taxes that help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. (SV) The greenhouse effect is one of the great problems of our time.
For these reasons British Conservatives voted against the resolution.
In this context, I would like to mention the Slovak example where, thanks to the structural reforms made by the government of Mikuláš Dzurinda, we are already witnessing real results, for example almost 10 per cent economic growth and the creation of hundreds of new jobs.
in writing. (SV) We supported the resolution on the Lisbon Strategy.
We believe that this resolution broadly supports these aims.
I voted against the joint resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe presenting ideas for the 2007 spring Council in relation to the Lisbon Strategy.
