Too often, Europeans have difficulty in using their qualifications in another European country.
It was improved at Bergen in 2004, and again in the 2005 Council, which reiterated the need to adopt the current framework.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (SK) Firstly, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Mantovani, for his work on the report on the European Qualifications Framework.
It will serve as a translation device between different qualifications systems and their levels, and its implementation will result in greater transparency, comparability and portability of citizens' qualifications in individual Member States.
I would like to thank Mario Mantovani on behalf of the PPE-DE Group for his tenacity in dealing with the Commission and the Council and for keeping everyone in the Groups who followed the EQF informed.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, first I would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent consultation on this recommendation on the European Qualifications Framework.
Unfortunately, both Lithuanians and citizens of other EU countries have difficulty in using their qualifications in other Member States.
Regretfully, neither the Commission, nor we Members of Parliament, have been able to solve this problem in 22 years.
Historical and contemporary determinants have given rise to a need to devote particular attention to people aged 50 and over and to young people from families experiencing economic difficulties, especially in the new Member States.
The European Union should support the efforts of Member States both legally and economically.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, first of all, thank you very much to Mario Mantovani, who followed the footsteps of his neighbour on the bench in this question.
It is only covered by proposals under Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty.
It is preparing for this by placing control of the universities under the Privy Council, ready to hand universities over to the EU.
In answer to my fellow Member who spoke previously, we stress that Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty are the right legal basis for the proposed recommendation simply because they allow for lifelong learning.
We must also bear in mind that the same person can have several qualifications at various levels. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning is a decisive document to enable the national and sectoral reference frameworks of qualifications to be compared at European level.
In order to be more effective, to derive more benefits from professional and academic mobility in the European area we need to work even more effectively in implementing the European Qualifications Framework and in linking it to the European credit system, and this report promotes a significant advance in that direction.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The European reference framework will reduce the complexity of a system with 27 bilateral relations for the recognition of qualifications obtained from academic and professional education.
Although 9 out of 10 European Union citizens believe lifelong education is an important instrument for career development, the lack of financial resources leads to big deficiencies in the training required for the current economy.
National budgets designated to lifelong education vary from 40% of the total amount used for education in Northern countries to under 10% in the new Member States.
in writing. - (BG) It is necessary to point out that the informal educational sector is underdeveloped, rather unknown and often isolated from the formal one.
The development of the EQF will facilitate the mobility of manpower within the 31 participating countries and promote the involvement of sectoral and industrial organisations from the new EU Member States in the absorption of resources from the European Social Fund allocated for the acquisition of new qualifications or upgrading of the existing ones.
in writing. - (HU) Recognition of citizens' knowledge, skills and competence is indispensable for the European Union's competitiveness and for social cohesion, as well as for individual citizens' mobility.
This will increase the transparency, comparability and mobility of citizens' qualifications in different Member States.
The task of the reference framework is to integrate and coordinate national qualifications systems, to ensure non-discrimination, to increase access and progression of qualifications in relation to civil society and the labour market.
In such a society, citizens of each Member State must adjust to meet the needs of a competitiveness-driven labour market.
