I have enjoyed my previous exchanges with honourable Members of this House on this topic, and the close and detailed interest that this Parliament maintains in both Turkey's accession process and enlargement issues more generally has further been demonstrated by the questions tabled for Question Time later this evening.
The June European Council confirmed the December decision and recognised the importance for the European Union's credibility of observing our existing commitments.
As Presidency, our task has been to deliver on these commitments and we are working hard to finalise the Council's position in the framework for negotiations in advance of 3&#160;October.
The enlargement process has had unparalleled success in spreading European values and promoting greater security across the European continent, but it is as much for its own continued success that we must ensure we are scrupulous in ensuring that all the requirements are met.
The European Commission's 2004 Regular Report on Turkey's progress towards accession noted 'substantial institutional convergence in Turkey towards European standards', the reform process having 'clearly addressed major issues and highlighted a growing consensus in favour of liberal democracy'.
Indeed, in the same month, this Parliament adopted a resolution supporting the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey 'without undue delay'.
That December Council set Turkey two further conditions to be met before accession negotiations could be launched: to bring into force six outstanding pieces of legislation which reinforce the rule of law and human rights; and to sign a Protocol extending the 1963 Ankara Agreement to the new Member States.
The new legislation overhauls the Turkish penal system, aligning it much more closely with European Union models and adds significantly to the reforms that have taken place in Turkey in recent years.
Signature of the Protocol extends the European Union-Turkey Association Agreement – or Ankara Agreement – to all 25 Member States.
It is, of course, with 25 Member States that Turkey will conduct its accession negotiations.
Last week the European Community and its Member States issued a declaration setting out its position on the issues raised.
The declaration also restates that the European Community and its Member States 'recognise only the Republic of Cyprus as a subject of international law' and clarifies that 'recognition of all Member States is a necessary component of Turkey's accession process'.
The Council's declaration also reiterates the agreement of the European Community and its Member States 'on the importance of supporting the UN Secretary-General's efforts to bring about a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem in line with relevant UNSCRs and the principles on which the European Union is founded'.
Resolution of the Cyprus problem lies in the hands of the United Nations and the communities on the island.
The conditions laid down by the December European Council have been satisfied, and this paves the way for opening accession negotiations next Monday.
This opens a new phase in EU-Turkey relations.
The reasons which led the European Union to decide to open accession negotiations with Turkey are unchanged: the EU needs a stable, democratic and increasingly prosperous Turkey, at peace with its neighbours, and embracing European values, policies and standards.
The start of the negotiations will give a strong boost to those in Turkey who want to reform the country to meet the European values of the rule of law and human rights; they are also a way for the EU to exert leverage over the direction of these reforms in Turkey.
The conditions set in the December European Council conclusions have been met.
I shall now make some comments on recent developments in this regard.
The EU statement stresses that the declaration by Turkey is unilateral, as Mr Alexander very correctly pointed out.
It does not form part of the Protocol and has no legal effect on Turkey’s obligations under the Protocol.
The legal services of the Council and the Commission agree fully on this point.
I am aware that in paragraph 2 of your joint motion for a resolution you intend to ask the Commission to secure an answer from the Turkish Government regarding the ratification process in the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
I am at your disposal to further inquire about the exact details of the ratification process in Turkey, but the essence of the matter is really that the declaration by Turkey is simply unilateral.
It has no legal effect and it cannot in any way call into question the full and non-discriminatory implementation of the Protocol.
Secondly, the EU expects full and non-discriminatory implementation of the Protocol, including the removal of all obstacles to the free movement of goods, which also extends to restrictions on means of transport.
The fourth element of the statement is that the recognition of all Member States is a necessary component of the accession process; accordingly, the EU underlines the importance of the normalisation of relations between Turkey and all EU Member States, as soon as possible.
Finally, the statement makes it clear that the European Community and its Member States agree on the importance of supporting the efforts of the UN Secretary-General to bring about a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem in line with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and the very principles on which the EU is founded, so that a just and lasting settlement will contribute to peace, stability and harmonious relations on the island and in the region in a broader sense.
Right before the start of the accession negotiations, the Council should adopt the negotiating framework proposed by the Commission.
This framework forms a solid basis for rigorous and fair negotiations with Turkey.
I also agree that there is an important link between the pace of negotiations, on the one hand, and the pace of political reforms in Turkey on the other.
Turkey will need to continue and accelerate its process of internal transformation and its transition towards a fully-fledged liberal democracy respectful of human rights and minorities.
The human rights situation has improved, but significant efforts are still required.
His trip to Diyarbakir suggests the importance the government in Turkey attaches to the economic and social development of south-east Turkey.
Moreover, the academic conference on the Armenian issue was finally able to be held in Istanbul last weekend, with the support of the government and despite last-minute attempts to cancel it by an administrative court.
These attempts were strongly condemned by Prime Minister Erdogan and Deputy Prime Minister Abdullah Gül.
This is a major step forward in seeking the historical truth in Turkey on this very sensitive issue.
Several positive court judgments have been made in relation to cases of freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the fight against torture and ill-treatment.
The case of the author, Orhan Pamuk, is emblematic of the difficulties faced in ensuring effective and uniform implementation of these reforms and also of the struggle between reformers and conservatives in Turkey.
The novelist was prosecuted by a district judge in Istanbul under Article 301 of the new penal code for 'denigrating Turkish identity'.
The Commission has already made it very clear that its assessment of the new penal code, in particular the doubtful provisions relating to freedom of expression, will depend on how these provisions are implemented.
We shall make a detailed analysis of that progress in our regular report, to be adopted on 9 November.
Demonstrating a commitment unburdened by ambiguities and ulterior motives towards Turkey’s transformation into a democratic country with European values will undoubtedly be Turkey’s best chance of winning over the support of public opinion in Europe.
Countries that wish to join the Union must, in fact, share our vision of Europe and our concepts of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and solidarity.
If it is the case that the European Union is taking a gamble on their future accession, it is because we also believe that it is in our best interests and that it will benefit our fellow citizens.
I undertake personally before this House to rigorously enforce our criteria and conditions.
Finally, Mr&#160;President, as I said previously, the journey is just as important as the final destination.
The reforms count.
However, it is in our mutual interest that this process is structured around clear and rigorous principles, such as those provided for in the framework of the negotiations.
In December last year, the Commission put to the Council the proposition that recognition in international law was not necessary at the present time, but that the signature of the additional protocol on customs union between the EU of 25 and Cyprus would be sufficient.
We must not lose sight of the fact that the joint statement, as submitted by the groups, attaches a great deal of importance to the additional protocol actually being put into effect.
If we are to address this problem, we would be well advised to negotiate the chapter on customs union by 2006 at the latest and conclude negotiations on it by the end of that year, in order that this issue – which also has a bearing on the recognition of Cyprus – can be speedily resolved and that we do not end up negotiating with Turkey without the prospect of this fundamental issue being resolved.
For that reason, we agree with the Commissioner and the President-in-Office that we will need, in future, to again avail ourselves of the good offices of the United Nations in order to resolve the Cyprus conflict as a whole.
One reason why the resolution submitted by the groups in this House is so important is that we also need to make it clear that one criterion that must be met is the European Union’s capacity for absorbing new Member States – both as an end in itself, and because it raises questions about what is financially possible, what is actually practicable, and what the institutions are capable of handling.
We must not lose sight of the fact – which the groups’ resolution makes clear – that it is for us in this European Parliament to state that the conditions are formally met – in contrast to their form of words, which refers to ‘sufficiently fulfilled’ – and that issues of minority rights, issues relating to the processes of reform within Turkey, and the freedom of religion issue have a major part to play in this.
Issues of pluralism, tolerance and freedom of religion, not to mention the right of the Orthodox Church to train its own priests, which it has been unable to do since 1971, are, after all, issues of substance touching on the European Union’s understanding of its own values and should be given prominence in the early months of the negotiating process.
That is why different members of our group can be found taking up different positions on this subject.
Even if Turkish accession is not the ultimate objective, or even if, at the end of this process, Turkey does not become a Member State, we can, today, tell our Turkish friends and partners that it is still very much in our interests to seek a close alternative partnership that will put partnership, cooperation and friendship with Turkey on a sound footing.
As Mr Brok has reminded us, Commissioner, you gave the Committee on Foreign Affairs an undertaking that you would attempt to get the Turkish Government to make a statement to the effect that its non-recognition of Cyprus and its refusal to let Cypriot ships or aircraft dock or land on Turkish soil was not an issue in the process of ratification by Turkey.
If we do not get from you such a declaration, in which Turkey assures you that these matters will not feature in the ratification process by noon today, then our group will move that approval of the protocol be deferred, for it is logical – both politically and inherently – that there should be no vote on this until such time as such a declaration from the Turkish Government is in our hands.
Where the freedom of Christians to practise their religion in Turkey is concerned, nothing has changed.
We, in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are all in favour of partnership, friendship and dialogue with the Islamic world, but that cannot be a one-way street.
Islam, too – meaning, in this instance, the Turkish Government – must be willing to acknowledge the legitimate rights of Christians in Turkey and to give that practical expression.
We know what the human rights situation in Turkey is like, but what about Croatia?
We are refusing to begin negotiations with Croatia on the grounds that this general is not being handed over, even though it is patently obvious that the government is not in a position to do that.
This is very important, and we urge the Commission to do it.
Although it can always rely on our support, we will also take a highly critical line if there is no improvement in the human rights situation within a specified period of time after negotiations with Turkey begin.
We must not pass over these violations of human rights in silence.
That brings me to the last point I want to make: it is a very important one, and I shall quote from our joint resolution, which I signed along with Mr Eurlings and Mr Brok, whom I want to thank warmly for jointly leading the negotiations on behalf of our group.
What that means is that it is not just Turkey that must meet the conditions for accession.
It has been decided by the Heads of State or Government, 18 of whom are Mr Poettering’s political allies, that 3 October is to be the day on which the accession negotiations are to be kicked off; they will take between ten and fifteen years and are not a free ride, for their conditions have been proposed by the Commission and defined by the Council, and it is these that we are discussing today.
If Turkey wants to join the European Union, there are fundamental conditions with which it must comply.
One thing on which we do agree is that a country cannot seek membership of the European Union while not recognising one of its Member States; that is impossible.
That is something else on which we agree, and this joint resolution says so.
If Mr Poettering wants to be better understood, he will have to be very precise in the language he uses.
If the European Union does not have the capacity to cope with Turkey’s accession, then it cannot cope with Croatia’s either.
Turkey must comply with them, and so must the European Union.
You in particular should be more reticent, Mr Langen.
In my outfit too, by which I mean our group, there is more than one opinion, but I do want to return to paragraph 16 of our joint resolution, because it was evident from Mr Poettering’s speech that we will soon have to debate Croatia.
The same fundamental preconditions apply to Croatia too: cooperation with the International Court is a .
That applies in the case of Turkey, but let there be no misunderstanding: it also applies in the case of any other candidate for accession.
I should also like to know whether Mr Poettering would insist just as enthusiastically on these two conditions being coupled together if this debate were about Croatia.
I look forward to seeing whether he will, in that event, be just as passionate in demanding compliance with fundamental preconditions as he has been demanding it of Turkey.
As regards the adjournment that Mr Brok envisages in the event of the answer not reaching us by midday today, let me say that, if Turkey really does put that on the agenda for the ratification debate in its parliament, then the result will be precisely what we have specified in the joint resolution.
In my view, the document is extremely harsh in the demands it makes on Turkey, and such an approach does not even encourage the Greek Cypriots to be more flexible or for them too to seek a solution to this situation, for which they are largely responsible.
We must not forget who rejected the referendum; we must not forget the reasons why we are in this situation.
A country that was about to join prevented a European Union Commissioner from speaking on state television, and that Commissioner has said that the Greek Cypriot authorities betrayed his trust and went back on their word.
Lastly, for those who, like us, have belief and hope in a political Europe as a political, economic and moral force, it is clearly a surprise that we ourselves are not delighted at the success that our gentle European influence is having in Turkey.
These are successes achieved by political Europe, by our capacity for encouraging open, more respectful, democratic structures and systems.
It is true that we are entitled to be critical, but we are not entitled to be cynical; the early death of the European Constitution on the electoral scaffolds of France and the Netherlands has left the continent without an ideal border for its maturity, leading to a build-up of resentments and cynicism, which do not constitute a policy.
The Turkey debate is the first real debate on enlargement, for nobody – irrespective of how they are voting – is describing the accession of Poland, the Czech Republic or Hungary as an enlargement of the European idea; they were a matter of obligation, for it was right and proper to welcome these countries after the collapse of Communism.
We do indeed have a new dimension to deal with, and the question with which it presents us is this: is it, post-9/11, important in terms of Europe’s interests to give Turkey the chance of accession?
Not all those who are against Turkey use these arguments, but they ride the wave of these sentiments.
It follows that all those in the ‘no’ camp must ask themselves what their arguments unleash, and it is for that reason that I think it right to argue that Europe needs to change first, that Europe has to do its homework, and that Europe needs a constitution; these are things with which nobody disagrees.
As to whether Europe can, subject to the conditions in the Treaty of Nice, make itself more united by including Croatia, I too have my doubts.
The question of how European Islam is will arise with Turkey or without it, so let us stop discussing it.
You may speak, therefore, Mr&#160;Brok, if you wish, when we finish this debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to raise a point of order.
Our group has done so in its motion for a resolution.
Well, in our opinion it is vital that Turkey abandon once and for all any notion it might have of solving the Kurdish issue through the use of military force, that it acknowledge the political dimension of the conflict and that it promote reconciliation, particularly with the Kurds who have relinquished the use of their weapons.
It is significant, moreover, that the unacceptable court action brought against Orhan&#160;Pamuk should focus at the same time on the Kurdish issue and on the Armenian issue.
Within that list, there are no excessive or unwarranted conditions.
However, what is one to make suddenly of all these euro-fanatics – especially down there – and the CDU in Germany, and even the great President Chirac himself, whose ardour for the European Union's endless development suddenly cools when they reach the Bosphorus?
After all, the latest Eurobarometer, as Mr Poettering will surely know, showed 70% opposition to Turkish membership in France and 74% in Germany.
This could mean that Europeans will never consent to it.
Postponing Croatia’s membership and avoiding a statement on Ukraine’s rightful place in Europe whilst pressing forward with this process for Turkey is painful and unacceptable.
It is exceedingly costly and damaging to the European Union in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and in the other countries I mentioned.
The document before us is actually an attempt at blackmail, as it conditions the enlargement process to the so-called constitutional process.
The Law and Justice Members will therefore abstain in the vote on the aforementioned document. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is every indication that Turkey will accede whatever the cost, but as the EU/Turkey Civic Commission demonstrated recently, Turkey does not meet the Copenhagen criteria, yet the Commission and Council claim otherwise.
In fact, when will we ask the public what they think about the accession of a non-European country that has no place in the European Union? &#160;&#160; Mr President, just before the planned start to the negotiations, the relationship between Europe and Turkey is going through a very rocky patch, first of all as a result of a counter-declaration from Turkey that the Commission tried to prevent at all costs, but secondly because Turkey’s perception of what would be needed in order to join the European Union is incompatible with the rules of the club.
They perceive things differently.
Thirdly, as regards the legal position of the declaration, the Commissioner is right in saying that it has no legal meaning for us, but Mr Brok and Mr Poettering are also right to say that we have a problem if the Turkish Parliament uses it as part of the ratification.
The resolution is also very clear about how we should deal with the negotiations in time.
Whilst Turkey has, apparently, formally met the starting conditions, I would add that the new acts are problematic, because Articles 301 and 305 of the penal code ensure that Orhan Pamuk can be persecuted, a judge can call off an Armenian conference, and I am delighted that Prime Minister Erdogan has spoken out so clearly during the conference, also with regard to the Kurdish issue.
In order to really solve problems, though, those laws need amending, including the law on religious minorities, which is not worthy of a country that wants to be part of Europe.
Europe’s capacity to absorb a large country such as Turkey will need to go hand in hand with a constitution and financial arrangements, but above all, the man and woman in the street will need to be persuaded.
That is for Turkey to do by means of good campaigns and real reforms, but there is also something for this House to do – not only speaking clear language in this resolution, but also by delivering on that language in the years to come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, listening to Mr Eurlings, we can in any case establish that we are agreed on many things in the resolution, but not, I think, everything.
Where Turkey is concerned, there is a difference in attitude between some of the groups to the left, or to the left of centre, and the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats).
We have also deliberately repeated a number of points from it in order to explain the negotiation framework that this House would like to use in the coming years.
We have asked for the first phase of the negotiations with Turkey to centre on the political criteria, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the position of minorities.
Success is our goal, but there are no guarantees.
As the Commissioner said himself, the process is in itself very important and will also have enormous consequences for the future of Turkey itself.
It has to be said, unfortunately, that the debate on the opening of the accession negotiations with Turkey and the text of the resolution are being overshadowed by two issues, firstly the recognition of the Republic of Cyprus, and, secondly, the extension and implementation of the customs protocol, also again in relation to Cyprus.
It is beyond us why a global decision such as opening ports or airports should be an immense problem of principle.
That is why we insist on Turkey relinquishing its objections surrounding the extension of the customs agreement and on it implementing the Ankara Agreement in full and without discrimination.
That is why we insist on Turkey formally recognising Cyprus as soon as possible after the negotiations have started.
We are afraid, and that is also reflected in the resolution, that these issues could lead to hitches in the negotiation process, or even to its suspension.
That is not in our interest or in that of the Turkish Government or of the Turkish people.
First of all, like Mr Eurlings, I would like to ask all parties to return to the negotiating table in order to break the surrounding the future of Northern Cyprus.
Secondly, I would like to ask the same parties, as well as the Council and Commission, not to hesitate any longer and take the necessary steps in order to give the economy, and with it the people of Northern Cyprus, a chance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry to see, judging from what previous speakers have said, that talks between the SPD and the CDU on forming the Grand Coalition are not progressing so smoothly.
I find it extraordinary that those who have profited so much from European integration in terms of prosperity, security and liberal democracy should now refuse to extend those prizes towards Turkey.
However, I agree with Mr Poettering that it is important for us to accentuate the Union's capacity to absorb that country.
Where Cyprus is concerned, the signing of the protocol by the Turkish Government means, to my mind, 100% implementation.
I wish the Commission and Council much fairness and clarity and I wish the reformers in Turkey much strength and wisdom. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I had intended to start my brief, one and a half minute speech differently, but I must comment on the statement by my honourable friend Mrs Bonino, who spoke earlier and blamed the Greek Cypriots because they rejected the Annan plan.
I think that it is accepted that decisions taken following referenda are respectable, as stated in the motion for a resolution, irrespective of whether she personally expresses her regret.
However, I would expect Mrs Bonino to also explain the reasons why the Greek Cypriots rejected this plan and, also, to clarify that 35% of the Turkish Cypriots said 'no' and, also, that the settlers who are committing a war crime under international law also had the right to vote in the occupied territories in Cyprus.
Account must also be taken of the fact that the European Union consists of 25 Member States which include the Republic of Cyprus and that it would be a paradox if Turkey were to accede to the European Union and, at the same time, to have an occupying army on the territory of a Member State and to refuse to recognise it.
Within this framework, Turkey has to apply fully and without discrimination the provisions of the protocol, including the chapter on transport.
With a reunified Cyprus, Greece and Turkey as members of the European Union, peace and security in the area will, I believe, be strengthened. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sooner or later, ambiguous politics face punishment from the electorate, and the dubious course steered by the Council and the Commission in their dealings with Turkey is no exception.
In the final analysis, even a fully-fledged Customs Union between the EU of 25 and Turkey is already throwing up a nigh insurmountable political obstacle in the shape of the deep divisions about the divided Cyprus.
I am looking forward to initiatives on the part of the Council and the Commission as regards compliance with the Copenhagen political criteria, and Commissioner Rehn might remember that I called him to account on the same subject one year ago.
Members who mention this issue do not know the facts, and it is with those that we should start. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in December we asked Turkey to give us a clear sign to show that it accepted the European Union’s rules on democracy by first of all recognising Cyprus.
The Turkish Government’s refusal is, on the contrary, a sign of surprising intransigence.
What is needed is a serious, transparent accession procedure in line with the values of integration and mutual respect.
All current and prospective Members of the Union became Christian over a thousand years ago, and no humanist philosophy can replace this common denominator binding all us together.
The Council and the Commission want to brush this under the carpet, just as they have brushed under the carpet the treatment of religious minorities, Article 305 of the Penal Code, the question of the Armenian genocide, the repression of demonstrations by women and so many other issues, including that of Orhan Pamuk and freedom of expression within Turkey.
The complacency shown by the Council and the Commission weakens the message coming from those referenda.
He did it a disservice, though, in delivering this unacceptable unilateral declaration at the same time as he signed the Ankara Agreement.
I do nevertheless believe that we, in the European Union, need to show Turkey what it means to think and act in a European way, and to go forward in confidence and with consistency.
Secondly, we must give all groups in Turkey, and such minority groups as the Kurds in particular, the chance and the opportunity to use this reform process as a means of finding new ways of expressing their culture and participating in political life.
Thirdly, we have to ensure that Turkey, having been recognised as a candidate for accession to the European Union, should also, and in a similar way, improve its relations with all its neighbours, particularly, of course, with Armenia, and this will involve, among other things, acknowledging its own history and the atrocities to which that testifies.
Fourthly, it is absolutely vital that we also give support to the Turkish-speaking population of Cyprus.
For all these reasons, we should adopt a consistent attitude and say an unambiguous ‘yes’ to getting negotiations underway.
If Turkey succeeds in doing that, then it can and should become a Member State of the European Union.
Both countries are worthy of negotiations being opened with them.
If we can start them now, the negotiations with Croatia will certainly be completed before those with Turkey, but let us go forward into the future of our continent with both these countries together. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with the date scheduled for the opening of the negotiations only a few days and hours away, Turkey has still not recognised the Republic of Cyprus, and the Turkish justice system has banned, once again, a conference from being held on the Armenian genocide, a genocide that Turkey has still not recognised.
In spite of these serious violations of the duty to remember and of the principles of democracy, Europe’s institutions are acting as though there were nothing wrong and are confirming that the die is cast: on 3 October 2005, the European Union will begin accession negotiations with Ankara.
I would like, in a word, to respond to all those who explain to us that starting these negotiations in no way makes their results a foregone conclusion.
The first is that these negotiations are opening explicitly with the subject of accession in mind, and not with a privileged partnership in mind.
The second reason is that, obviously, the opening of the negotiations will lead to the subject of accession.
Today, Europe is undergoing the most serious crisis in its history, and there is no project or prospect on the table, either from the Council or from the Commission, apart from the prospect, if the recent declarations are anything to go by, of turning our back on political Europe.
It would do credit to the European Parliament if all groups in it were to take this opportunity to thank the prime minister of Turkey for this demonstration of his courage in allowing this critical meeting to be held.
The first thing I have been asked to do is to thank all those in this House who, over a period of many years, have campaigned for human rights and democracy in Turkey, and that at a time when Turkey, like the rest of the world, was waging the Cold War, and when some of those talking about human rights today saw everything in Turkey except the problems with human rights.
Secondly, I bring with me a plea for us to press on with the process of bringing the country closer to the European Union, for that is the only way in which democracy and reforms will be put on any kind of sustainable footing in Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations with Turkey start on 3&#160;October, but Turkey must not be allowed to make a fool of the European Union: human rights must be at the heart of any talks.
The European Union must call on Turkey to politically acknowledge the existence of the Kurdish issue and to start public negotiations.
The road to the European Union passes through Diyarbakir, the capital of Turkish Kurdistan.
The idea that Turkey can join the European Union without recognising Cyprus is utterly unacceptable: the ball is now in Turkey’s court.
We can negotiate on economic and customs agreements for years, but never on human rights. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are talking about Turkey joining Europe.
Tell me, which other country in the world prohibits the Pontiff from visiting it?
It is a straightforward matter; it just needs logic, not the intervention of the Americans which, unfortunately, also directs the steps of Europe here in this Chamber. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we have always looked with great interest on Turkey’s bold decision to align itself with the West, at least at the level of military and strategic choices.
The democratisation process that the Turkish Government has launched with a view to possibly joining the European Union still seems slow, uncertain and contradictory.
It is not a case of the West subjecting Turkey to a long, never-ending examination, but it is essential to base enlargement on foundations of democracy and respect for civil and international rights.
If that is what actually happens, then I am convinced that history will bury the EU.
The Copenhagen political criteria are non-negotiable, and the other candidate countries had to fulfil them before negotiations could begin.
The position of women is shameful; that alone is a reason to say no to negotiations being started, for there is no prospect of any change in that area.
By abandoning – whether out of naivety or in the service of massive national interests – any and every means of exerting pressure, the European Union is allowing all these things.
In Turkey, though, things change only if ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has always supported opening negotiations with Turkey, with the clear prospect of its accession to the European Union.
At this point, however, I should like to say to Mr&#160;Erdogan: frankly, you did not help us with your unilateral declarations when the Ankara protocol was signed.
As you know, there are three groups in this Parliament, as has been seen clearly today.
There is a second group: those who resign themselves to a marriage of convenience by telling themselves that, after all, Turkey is a great country, it is a crossroads for energy resources, it has water, it is a friend of the United States and it behaved correctly during the Iraq war by not interfering in events and that, when all is said and done, there still remain 71 opportunities for each country to use its veto during the negotiations.
However, if we open the negotiations, we must not forget that, in a marriage, there are two partners and that each of them bears a responsibility. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs&#160;De Keyser, for that account of marriage.
The institutions of the Community have too much to cope with even with 25 Member States, and the democratic deficit is becoming plain to see.
If the EU itself were to seek accession to the European Union, its application would be rejected on the grounds that it was not a democracy.
On the basis of that same principle of solidarity, it is incumbent on us today to express strong opposition to Turkey’s entry into the European Union, because one of the Union’s Members, namely the Republic of Cyprus, is currently occupied by Turkey and its statehood is not recognised.
Consent to this state of affairs would set a very dangerous precedent for all Member States of the Union.
It would mean condoning a situation where the rights of smaller or weaker nations are sacrificed in the name of the political or economic interests of stronger ones.
The history of Poland shows how dangerous this can be, and the recent agreement between Russia and Germany demonstrates that such a situation might recur.
If we have Europe’s interests at heart, it would be irresponsible to discuss accession with Turkey at all until the latter recognises the Republic of Cyprus, which is a sovereign nation and a Member of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the citizens of Europe do not welcome Turkey to the EU.
If this Parliament votes for the opening of the negotiations, it will be acting against the wishes of the citizens who voted us into this House.
The citizens of the EU do not want to see a non-European country and a non-European culture in the EU.
They underestimate Islam; they underestimate the demographic and economic effect of a country in which the religion is not only a religion, but also decides the politics. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 70% of Europeans and 80% of my fellow Austrians are opposed to Turkish accession, and that is quite understandable in view of the way things are going.
If someone in this House – by which I mean Mr Cohn-Bendit – can get away with describing such people as racists, then I regard that as an unparalleled disgrace to a democratic political institution.
Not only are we no nearer to resolving the issue of Turkey and Cyprus, but giving in would mean that Turkey would be dictating terms to us, which is absolutely unacceptable.
From now on, we know that the only significant decision to be taken in this second – and yet altogether crucial – half-year of 2005 will be the opening of the negotiations with Turkey.
There is an incompatibility between our political Union and the destiny that this great Nation State, which we respect, wishes to pursue on a sovereign and nationalist basis.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative for this Parliament, which represents the people, to give a strong signal by postponing the decision on the Ankara protocol and by saying that the negotiations cannot be opened under the conditions that there is a desire to open them under today. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, unlike the previous speaker, I, like many of us, remain convinced that Turkey’s accession to the Union is essential for guaranteeing reconciliation, peace and security in the entire region, for contributing to the effort to make it a democratic and developed country and above all, perhaps, for demonstrating to a Muslim country that, if it respects human rights, there is a place for it in a Union of democratic countries.
The task, however, is a very difficult one, as this debate shows, since hostile forces exist that are gaining ground and striving to see this process end in failure.
That is why I urge you to grant a great deal of importance and to devote a lot of time to the task of explaining.
That does not excuse anything but does help us to gain a better insight into events and, above all, urgently to inform the UN of the need to step up its work and to resume its mediation.
Furthermore, we must, above all, lay a great deal more stress than at present on the meaning of the academic conference held in Istanbul only recently on the Armenian issue.
Turkey really is changing day by day.
The EU’s foreign ministers must make this indispensable demand of Turkey on Monday, 3 October 2005. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Turkey we have heard talk of human rights, religious freedom, the Kurds, Cyprus, the Pope’s masses, the Armenians and so forth.
The citizens of Europe, the electors whom we represent, do not want Turkey in Europe.
Let us be consistent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are powerful arguments both for and against Turkey's proposed membership of the European Union.
The accession of a new Member State as large as Turkey would dilute the influence of all other Member States and would, therefore, further compromise the self-determination of the people I represent in the UK's East Midlands.
I urge our Turkish friends to consider the proposal of Germany's Angela Merkel for a privileged partnership.
It is, therefore, a better deal than full membership.
It would be a much better option than full membership on current terms. &#160;&#160; Mrs&#160;Merkel is not proposing that the United Kingdom should benefit from it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last Christmas the Council voted for Turkey when it agreed that accession negotiations could begin on 3&#160;October 2005, provided certain conditions were met.
Those conditions have been met.
The process of modernisation that has been taking place in Turkey over the past 70 years has been massively accelerated and additional attention is now being given to human rights issues and to overcoming historic grievances.
Natural justice and fair play should demand that Turkey be treated in the same way as other candidate countries to the European Union.
The Cyprus issue should be a matter quite separate from the candidacy of Turkey, but it has become inextricably linked.
The history of that island has been distorted these past 30&#160;or so years.
We should ask no more of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots in relation to the Republic of Cyprus than we ask of Greece and the Greek Cypriots in relation to Northern Cyprus.
It was the people of Northern Cyprus who voted in favour of the Annan Plan; it is the Government of Northern Cyprus that has expressed its readiness to reopen negotiations on the basis of the UN Secretary-General's plan.
The unification that so many of us want to see must be brought about in a manner which meets the concerns and interests of both communities on the island, not just one.
I welcome the opening of negotiations with Turkey.
What is clear is that the prospect of Turkey's accession will have a catalytic effect on the nature of the European Union; the EU will have to drop its integrationist ambitions and become a looser community of sovereign nations.
This will be of enormous benefit to us all. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in December last year, this House came to a decision, voting by 402 votes to 216, in favour of a start being made on accession talks with Turkey.
This House must take account of these people’s rights too.
Some of us consider that starting accession negotiations with a country that does not recognise one of our Member States, continues to occupy part of EU territory and has an abysmal human rights record is totally nonsensical.
Let us not turn 3&#160;October into a black Monday for Europe, and let us vote against accession. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I call for the negotiations that are due to begin on 3 October purely and simply to be cancelled.
I call on the French Government to brandish France’s veto on the morning of 3 October and to leave the negotiating table.
We are no longer talking of a European Union, but rather a superstate.
Firstly, the interests of Cyprus must not be violated simply because of the presence of Turkey, a large country.
If the intention is now to commence talks without Turkey having recognised Cyprus, the whole process will be very humiliating for the entire European Union.
If they just want to make the EU into a superstate and do not at the same time strongly insist that Turkey should make headway in human rights matters, we can only ask: where does the racism really lie? &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week, I was in Turkey for talks with NGOs and the government about my report on women’s rights in Turkey that this House adopted before the summer.
The government is taking the report very seriously and has started to get new projects moving and to enact new legislation.
In fact, the Minister told me that the number of relief centres has increased from 15 to 26.
While I was in Turkey, many things have happened that have given people in both Turkey and the European Union much to think about.
The problems concerned were a conference about the Armenian issue, the persecution of Orhan Pamuk, the recognition – or not, as the case may be – of Cyprus, and the closure of an organisation that stands up for the rights of homosexuals, Kaos-GL.
Whilst a government may not be able to interfere in the independent administration of justice, it can change laws that cause confusion in its interpretation.
The good news about the homosexual rights organisation Kaos-GL is that it is still active, but I would urge the Turkish Government to leave NGOs such as this one alone.
I would call on both Turkey and the EU to remind themselves of what is at stake when the membership negotiations open on 3 October.
Europe is in crisis, and this crisis is serious.
It still has no budget for the future.
We are told that this accession is necessary for our economy and our security.
Well, in that case, we should propose to Turkey a strategic partnership with a view to a strong cooperation project with that pinnacle of Europe comprising Russia, our new neighbours from the East, Turkey and the Maghreb.
Turkey has no business in joining the European Union.
Unfortunately, Europe is continuing to forge ahead regardless, and with a cowardliness that our fellow citizens no longer accept. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the PASOK delegation supports the joint motion for a resolution on Turkey, even if it is not perfect.
This means that the start of negotiations with Turkey does not imply that everything is negotiable.
On the one hand, the honest will of the Union to see a European Turkey as an equal member one day is non-negotiable.
On the other hand, Turkey's obligation to apply the protocol in full is non-negotiable and Turkey's obligation to recognise Cyprus is non-negotiable.
If these obligations change into a simple wish list, it will be catastrophic.
We owe it to the people of Turkey, to its millions of citizens who honestly wish for a European, democratic, prosperous and peaceful country.
We must give them the certainty that the accession of Turkey will come from honourable European negotiations and not from an eastern bazaar. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, having clarified that the New Democracy delegation supports both Turkey's European prospects and the start of accession negotiations, I wish to point out certain obligations which Turkey has, precisely because of its European prospects and the negotiations.
Secondly, compliance without retractions with all the obligations which derive from the Ankara protocol, which Turkey has signed.
Thirdly, respect for minority rights, especially of Greeks in Istanbul, Imvro and Tenedos.
Fourthly, respect for religious rights, especially respect for the role of the Ecumenical Patriarch.
Fifthly, I do not wish to start a legal discussion at the moment, but I do wish to draw the Commissioner's attention to the talks being held with the Turkish Government and to ask him to make sure that the Turkish Government does – I repeat – also send the unilateral declaration of the non-recognition of the Republic of Cyprus to the Turkish National Assembly.
Finally, a candidate country must clearly improve its bilateral relations with all the Member States of the European Union as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, all of us who consistently and decisively defend Turkey's path towards Europe welcome the positive fact of the start of accession negotiations, which may contribute towards the in-depth democratic transformation of Turkish society, to peace, to prosperity and to the development of the area as a whole.
Turkey has to respect the European legal order and European democratic principles on human rights, minority rights, the role of the Ecumenical Patriarch, the issues of the Greek minority, the Armenian issue, the diplomatic recognition of the Republic of Cyprus and the application of the Customs Union protocol within a clear timeframe.
All these issues, Mr President, are issues relating to respect for the European legal order and the very credibility of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Turks are not making things easy for the Members of this House.
While the extension of the customs agreement amounts to its indirect recognition, a unilateral statement is made at the same time to the effect that it is not recognised at all.
Authors who make explicit reference to the Kurdish and Armenian problems are hauled off and find themselves in front of a judge.
We are, for example, taking a far more tolerant line towards Turkey than towards Croatia, which has produced far more evidence of progress in this area and is meeting the targets of the Council Task Force’s Action Plan.
The Eurlings report represents an attempt at squaring the circle.
If it is not somehow laid down in black and white that these negotiations are open-ended, and if this House’s minimum requirements, as set out in these two additional amendments tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are not complied with, then I am in favour of rejecting the whole report in order, before 3 October, to send a message, not least to the Council. &#160;&#160; In December last year I told this House that the European Union should honour its undertakings and acknowledge the progress that Turkey has made.
As stated in the resolution we are about to vote on, Turkey has formally met all the conditions for accession talks to begin on 3 October.
In the first instance it will be up to our Turkish friends to demonstrate that they are capable of meeting all the requirements and criteria that the countries that became members of the European Union last year also had to meet.
These include political requirements, human and civil rights issues, economic preparations and many more conditions, but I believe and am of the view that the European Union should give our Turkish friends a chance, and try to overcome this obstacle, which many people regard as very serious. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, all the problems can be found in the content.
I would rather have anticipated difficulties relating perhaps to religion or ideology, and now it appears that Turkey is creating difficulties at political or diplomatic level.
The fundamental question arises as to whether Turkey wishes to join Europe in a responsible manner, or whether Europe wishes to admit Turkey irresponsibly, at any price, in the spirit of international socialism or as a previous speaker put it in such fine romantic language, in the spirit of love.
It certainly appears as if institutional Europe as opposed to the citizens’ Europe has rather lost its way.
Such decisions have led to death, insecurity and greater instability.
Views are deeply divided as to whether matters are improving or deteriorating in terms of meeting Copenhagen criteria.
The decision to press charges against Orhan Pamuk on grounds of having libelled the Turkish Republic because he had spoken critically of the Armenian genocide and the treatment of the Kurdish minority is deeply worrying.
All this raises a difficult question: does the Turkish Government have control over all the institutions of the Turkish state?
I should also like to thank Commissioner Rehn for his contribution to the earlier discussions.
The terms and substance of his contributions evidence the extent to which a common approach is being taken by the Presidency and by the Commission on the important issues facing us.
I would like to take this opportunity to recognise the work of other Members of the European Parliament, for example Mrs Pack's work in relation to women's rights in Turkey, which I think has been evidenced by both the experience and the expertise brought to our discussions and deliberations this morning.
I ask Parliament's forgiveness for not seeking to respond to every specific point that has been raised during the course of what has been a long but nonetheless illuminating debate.
The decision essentially to open negotiations with Turkey on 3&#160;October has therefore already been taken.
In this context let me touch on the issue of Croatia, which was alluded to by Mr Brok, Mr Poettering and indeed by Mr Schulz.
I am pleased, however, that in the case of both countries it is clear already that the anticipation of making further progress in relation to both countries' desire to be part of the European family has brought significant progress, as was recognised explicitly by Mr Duff in his contribution this morning.
It is important to recognise specifically that concerns were raised in relation to the recognition of Cyprus and the implementation of the AAP.
The Council's position on both of these matters is clear, and indeed was set out in the declaration which I quoted in my introductory remarks.
I will let Commissioner Rehn reply to the specific points relating to your letter to him, but the Council's position on the need for full implementation, including the statement, has already been made clear.
Specifically in relation to the reforms that have already been undertaken, but also, more significantly, continue to need to be taken, I have noted very carefully the concerns expressed here this morning, whether in relation to the position of minorities, to the freedom of religion and expression or, indeed, more broadly on the issue of human rights.
Commissioner Rehn has already commented on the specific issue of the case of Orhan Pamuk, the distinguished Turkish writer.
I would, however, respectfully remind Parliament that the draft negotiating framework, and the overall reform process set out by the Commission, are designed to address exactly those concerns.
So let us be very clear that the shared goal of negotiations was full accession, but, equally, the conditionality inherent in that statement was very clear.
I have also taken note today of the concerns that have been expressed over the absorption capacity of the Union.
Indeed, this is reflected in the Commission's draft negotiating framework.
Some speakers referred to the need for a settlement in Cyprus and this is, of course, an important and sensitive issue.
However, I welcome the Parliament's recognition of the importance of widespread support being garnered for the UN process, and again that is reflected in the Council's earlier declaration.
The final point I want to touch on is the issue of the Constitution.
Many have talked about it in relation to Turkish accession.
Indeed, the June decision of the European Council was to have a further rendezvous and revisit this issue in spring 2006.
That does not remove the obligation on the Council or the Commission to continue to make progress on a range of areas concerning Europe's future in the meantime.
Honourable Members have asked whether the Commissioner can provide a written statement from the Turkish Government concerning the ratification process and the nature of the declaration.
I take this question very seriously and I am willing to ask for details of the ratification process from my counterparts in the Turkish Government.
We need to take into account that Turkey has a parliamentary system – thank God, it is a parliamentary democracy.
The key point that needs to be underlined again is that the declaration made by the Turkish Government can in no way call into question Turkey's obligations.
The protocol has to be fully and properly implemented and the declaration does not in any way reduce the legal relevance of the Turkish signature of the protocol.
There is also a very strong revision clause in the EU declaration that the Member States adopted last week, which refers to 2006.
Moreover, we have all the necessary means to make sure that full implementation takes place, for otherwise there will be direct consequences for the progress of negotiations.
The Commission remains ready to assist the United Nations wherever possible, as proactively as we have done, and we will continue this work with determination in the future.
However, let us be frank and open here: the keys to the solution are in the hands of the two communities and it is high time that both communities engaged in a serious dialogue with each other, so that Cyprus can become a Member State like all others, united and in peace.
Imagine that your team has worked very hard for 89 minutes to score a winning goal.
By voting for assent now, you will help to extend the Customs Union to all new Member States of the European Union.
Finally, and this is extremely important, I want cordially to ask honourable Members, for the sake of Europe, not to weaken our negotiating position by postponing assent to the protocol.
Instead, by voting for assent now, we will be giving the European Union far greater credibility in its demand for rapid ratification by the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
Please let us keep this main target in mind and, for the sake of our credibility and for the sake of Europe, let us vote in favour of assent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it was said earlier that personal statements must be made at the end of debates.
We have now reached the end of one, and I would like to make a personal statement. &#160;&#160; If you wish to take the floor under Rule&#160;145, you have a maximum of three minutes in which to speak. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit accused those who are opposed to Turkey’s accession to the EU of riding a wave of racism and hostility to Islam.
I would like to make it abundantly clear that I believe that the Bosnian Muslims are Europeans, that the Muslim Albanians are Europeans, and that our Muslim fellow-citizens of the EU are Europeans, but that, to take one example, the Christian Ethiopians are not.
My misgivings are founded on the simple fact that Turkey is not a European state.
Mr Cohn-Bendit himself drew a subtle distinction between those who are self-evidently European and a shift towards Eurasia.
The Chairman of the Socialist Group in this House asserted during the debate that I had formerly advocated Turkey’s full membership of the European Union.
I have obtained the minutes of the debate on 13 December 1995.
What has been said today is a manifest distortion of the truth. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We shall suspend the sitting until voting time. &#160;&#160; I fully support the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey this autumn.
They will no doubt be long and difficult, but if agreement can be reached and if Turkey meets all the necessary conditions regarding the functioning of democracy and respect for human rights including the rights of minorities then there is no reason of principle why it should not be entitled to join the European Union.
Yet Islam has played a part in Europe’s history and culture for centuries.
By reaching out to Turkey we underline that the EU is not based on an exclusive European identity, but of an inclusive one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is preparing today to give its assent to extending the Ankara Agreement to the ten new Member States of the European Union.
In actual fact, the Turkish Government was keen to emphasise that, in signing this protocol, it was under no circumstances recognising the Republic of Cyprus.
In other words, the Turkish Government is denying any legal existence of a country that is a full member of this Europe in which Turkey wants to assert its presence.
It is merely asking that, in 2006, Ankara respect these commitments towards all the countries of the European Union.
The only response possible would be not only to question the signing of the protocol, but also to abandon once and for all the opening of the accession negotiations with Turkey, which clearly are not the right path to take for ensuring calm and mutually beneficial relations. &#160;&#160; Either the Parliament continues to engage with such forces of progress as exist in Turkey, or we can throw away all leverage we have.
Turkish recognition of Cyprus, respect for human rights, better treatment of the Kurds, recognition of the Armenian genocide and many other issues must all be dealt with, as Turkey is currently far from any acceptable standards.
The only way to raise such standards is to continue dialogue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during the debate on our policy towards Turkey, I asked for permission to make a personal statement in response to a less than friendly comment directed at me by Mr Langen.
This delegation is taking part in the work of the first meeting of the European Union-Mexico Joint Parliamentary Committee, which is being held in Strasbourg.
I would like to wish the best to the whole of the delegation and in particular its leader, Mr Fernando Margaín, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Mexican Senate.
I am convinced that the work of the first meeting of this Joint Parliamentary Committee will represent a milestone in the strengthening of cooperation between the two parties, because we both advocate the same democratic values and the same commitment to the Rule of Law. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot offer you any declarations of love; I think it is enough for us to be able to have mutual respect for each other.
Pursuant to Rule 170(4) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like, on behalf of my group, to move that we defer our agreement to the additional protocol on customs union.
If we were now to give our approval to the additional protocol, then it would no longer be open to us – the statement by the chairman of the Socialist Group this morning notwithstanding – to exert influence on the Turkish Government.
I therefore, and on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, move that the vote on the additional protocol be deferred. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I disagree with Mr Poettering.
We are therefore in favour of putting this to the vote today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to request an addendum to Amendment 5, the correct amendment tabled by Mr&#160;Lambrinidis.
I would also like to point out that the last meeting of the European Union-Latin America-Caribbean Interparliamentary Conference, which was the seventeenth such meeting, took place in that country during June of this year.
I shall read it out: ... 'without prejudice to the implementing measures already adopted, on expiry of a two-year period following the adoption of the directive and on 1 April 2008 at the latest, the application of its provisions requiring the adoption of technical rules, amendments and decisions in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be suspended.
Acting on a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, they shall review them prior to the expiry of the period or date referred to above.' &#160;&#160; Mr President, this too is a compromise between the various groups, the Council and the Commission, and it too will recur in Amendment 782.
We managed to reach agreement on this with the Council and Commission in just one reading, an agreement that, moreover, involves a considerable restriction of the comitology.
Having regard to its commitments vis-à-vis the European Parliament, the Commission will not hesitate to draw all the conclusions from a rejection by your Assembly, taking into account the Council's position as well.
As my colleague Commissioner Barrot told you yesterday, the Commission will have to reflect on the best way to achieve the objective shared by all three institutions on improving international rail freight services. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are about to vote on Amendment 5.
It is not clear whether the text submitted to the Turks at the time was the same as the one that had been accepted by the European Council in 1999.
I question whether Turkey’s membership will not be the outcome of US pressure and of the economic motives of certain European governments.
We need to see acts on the part of the Turkish Government, proving its willingness to comply with the rules of the European Union. &#160;&#160; .Only a few days away from the opening of the negotiations on Turkey’s accession to the European Union, MEPs from six political groups believe that it has fulfilled the final conditions enabling these negotiations to get under way.
The reality stems more from the fact that these ‘representatives’ do not listen to their voters but scorn them instead.
European public opinion clearly says ‘NO’ to Turkey’s membership.
It is not enough for Turkey to recognise Cyprus, an occupied European territory, in order to be able to join the Union.
The obligatory good neighbourliness does not involve us all living under one roof. &#160;&#160; .Our Parliament is thus preparing to vote in favour of the legislative resolution relating to the conclusion of the Additional Protocol to the EEC-Turkey Association Agreement.
Although Turkey still refuses to acknowledge its responsibility in the Armenian genocide and still refuses to recognise the Republic of Cyprus through its continued occupation of the north of the island, the Heads of State or Government, the Commission and Parliament are preparing to bypass the opinion of the people in defiance of their sovereignty.
The internationalist machine calmly pursues its course, concocting a policy that will prove to be disastrous for the economic and social balance, as well as for peace in Europe.
In a period marked by Islamic terrorism, where fundamentalist networks are being broken up in certain suburbs, and at a time when our republican laws and our principle of secularism are coming into conflict with the development of a radical kind of Islam on our soil, how can Europe take the responsibility of forcing upon Europeans a country with an Islamic government?
This accession will do nothing other than reinforce a logic of promoting minorities in society, and one that paves the way for the fragmentation of Europe. &#160;&#160; .By supporting the principle of Turkey’s entry into the European Union, the European Parliament remains deaf to the voice of the people, who are expressing growing reservations as regards this new enlargement.
In fact, nothing has been undertaken to that end.
I have been arguing for years for several circles in the integration of Europe to be created: the first would be a federal circle, which would be very integrated and in which there would be agreement as regards social and fiscal convergence; the second circle would integrate the countries of Eastern Europe and enable our policies to be strengthened at a more progressive rate; and, finally, there would be a circle of cooperation and of close and strengthened partnership in which Turkey would play a full part.
The delay in voting on this is setback but should not fundamentally alter Turkey's progress towards membership of the European Union.
It has also made advances towards democracy, human rights and the protection of minorities.
I wonder why those who now claim to defend Kurdish rights have been silent for nearly a century and why they do not work for minority rights in other countries in the European Union.
We decided to abstain, because the amendments adopted during the vote altered the meaning of the text in many cases. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, when I was leaving Genoa airport to come to Strasbourg, a Genoese pensioner, Giacomo Bertone, came up to me and asked, ‘But is Turkey geographically part of Europe?’ I answered, ‘A small part of Turkey is in Europe, and a large part of Turkey is in Asia.’ ‘Then you must say no to Turkey joining the European Union,’ he remarked, and then continued, ‘but if Turkey does join the European Union, will it at last put an end to Islamic terrorism?’ ‘No,’ I answered, ‘I really do not think so.
For this reason, I rejected this resolution, and I believe that we would all be well advised to insist on respect for the fundamental values of the Union and to apply the same conditions to Turkey. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, today’s vote was a colossal shot across the bows of the Council on the issue of Turkey.
If this proves unattainable, I must appeal to the Member States to make use of unanimity and postpone negotiations with Turkey, as was done – unjustly – in the case of Croatia on 16&#160;March – one day before negotiations were due to begin. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we voted ‘no’ to the resolution on Turkey because we believe that Turkey will be Islam’s Trojan horse in Europe.
We voted ‘no’ and we hope that at least one of the Member States will oppose the 3&#160;October decision, because it would be an ill omen for the future of Europe.
Cyprus, first of all: we should be ashamed even to begin such talks when a Member State and an old ally is still not recognised and is partly under military occupation by Turkey.
You need have no illusions about that, though, as the last word has not yet been spoken, and our opposition to the accession of Islamic Turkey to the European Union will only become stronger and more determined, and the European public will back us even more than they do already. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I voted against the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations with Turkey, because I consider it irresponsible to start negotiations on its accession.
Turkey in no way meets the preconditions for the opening of accession negotiations.
The Commissioner responsible for enlargement, Mr&#160;Rehn, should step down before he does any more damage.
In rejecting the resolution on Turkey, I, like my friend Mr&#160;Posselt, have most certainly acted in the interests of the great majority of the Bavarian electorate, which wants a privileged partnership with Turkey, not full membership.
I believe it is a shameless agenda of expansionism which drives the EU in wanting to encompass Turkey.
When added to its cruel history and continuing persecution of Christians, it is clear that Turkey is one country and culture that we can well do without. &#160;&#160; .I am convinced that joining the EU is synonymous with subscribing to certain values, in particular in the area of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The prospect of its joining the EU can bring about positive developments leading to a real, and not only virtual, kind of democracy, which recognises and respects its minorities, in particular the Kurdish population, and to greater respect for human rights, by putting an end to the violations of the freedom of expression such as the recent conviction of the author, Orhan&#160;Pamuk, as well as to a fresh perspective on the dark pages of its past, through recognition of the Armenian genocide.
That is why I, together with others, tabled two amendments to supplement a resolution that is particularly reticent on the subject of the Armenian genocide.
It is the responsibility of the European Parliament to point out to a modern Turkish State that professes to be on the road to democracy that it has a duty to remember. &#160;&#160; .By formally opening accession negotiations with Turkey, the European Heads of State or Government will be taking a decision for which they will have to be answerable to the people and to history.
The authorities of my country are, however, in possession of a clear mandate from the people they are supposed to represent: on 29 May 2005, the people of France rejected the European Constitution and the project of enlargement to include Turkey.
One of the most important issues centres on the protocol extending the Ankara agreement to the ten new Member States.
We abstained from the vote on the resolution, due to our objections to some of the points therein.
The EU is not a cultural or religious block, but a form of cooperation in which the Member States have to guarantee democracy, human rights and a functioning market economy.
Quite a few requirements concerning respect for human rights have not been implemented.
The Armenian genocide of 1915 has not been recognised, and nor has Cyprus’s sovereignty.
Finally, the draft Constitutional Treaty has now been rejected, so no one knows how the EU is to be governed in the future.
That is another important reason for delaying membership negotiations.
Indeed, by signing the protocol on customs union on 29 July 2005, Turkey has needlessly put everyone on edge.
What is more, on returning to Ankara – following the negotiations in December 2004 under the Dutch Presidency – Mr Erdogan made it known at once that the signing would certainly not amount to recognition of Cyprus, whether explicit or implicit.
For this, we need to take the Turkish Cypriot community out of its economic isolation as soon as possible.
As expressed in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the resolution, Turkey must, of course, embark on full implementation of the customs union without delay, thereby, among other things, opening up its ports to Cypriot ships.
Only the people of Europe, instilled with the common sense absent in their leaders, have understood for a long time that Turkey’s joining Europe would mean an end to the European adventure and, above all, would entail the rapid spread of Islam in European society.
The duty to remember, which our great Western consciences hold so dear, has not reached as far as them.
In their new penal code, making reference to this very Armenian genocide or to the occupation of the northern part of Cyprus is punishable by imprisonment.
In these conditions, and without even mentioning the tragic fate of the Christian minorities, it is obscene to open accession negotiations on 3 October with a large country in Asia Minor. &#160;&#160; .On Wednesday 28 September, in the debate on Turkey, the speeches and the clapometer were unequivocal.
Last week, a court banned a conference on the mass murder of the Armenian people in 1915, which had been denied for many years.
The large Kurdish community in the South-East still has no prospects of education, administration and media in their own language, of normal representation in the national parliament or of regional self-government.
Over the last few weeks, interest in the situation in Turkey seems to have shifted to the country’s relationship with Cyprus.
That is why this House should especially take their problems and interests to heart. &#160;&#160; . – Τhe joint motion for a resolution on the start of negotiations with Turkey demonstrates that this procedure relates to the more general interests of and in-fighting and competition between the imperialist powers in the area.
The Communist Party of Greece is against the accession for the same reasons as it was against the accession of Greece.
I should have liked to see clearer statements regarding democracy und human rights in Turkey.
A Commission working document drawn up to render Turkey’s accession to the EU plausible states: ‘Turkey is a strategically important country (...) Turkey’s accession would help to secure better energy supply routes for the EU.’ It continues: ‘With its large military expenditure and manpower, Turkey has the capacity to contribute significantly to EU security and defence’.
Should these amendment motions not be approved, I will vote against the resolution.
I believe that Turkey has failed to meet the Copenhagen criteria for opening accession negotiations with the EU in view of its persistent problems with human rights, its failure to tackle the problems of the Kurdish minority and, most importantly, its refusal to grant legal and political recognition to an EU Member State – Cyprus.
On that basis, I had no option but to vote against the joint motion for a resolution before us, on account of two points that I believe are of crucial importance.
Turkey is seeking to join the EU but does not accept the Union in its current form.
Therefore, I must, I am afraid, reiterate the speech I made on 6 October 1999, since there has been no change whatsoever in the situation.
However, I hope that in these negotiations religious freedom will be highlighted.
The right for someone to freely express their religious belief is essential in any democratic society.
The First Step Forum, an NGO committed to religious freedom, will be visiting Turkey in the next few weeks.
I hope that the Commission will listen to the outcomes of the delegation's visit. &#160;&#160; .On the subject of the assessment made of Turkey’s transition to a democratic country, the country still has some way to go, in spite of the efforts made.
The Turkish Government’s recognition of Cyprus and the Armenian genocide remain preliminary conditions for the negotiations to continue after 3 October.
The EU will also have to remain particularly vigilant as regards the human rights situation.
The condition of women in the country remains of concern, and the Turkish Government must make a greater commitment to reducing the inequalities between men and women.
Freedom of expression has still not been acquired.
Since this is an open process, whose results cannot be guaranteed in advance, and given that each and every one of the 25 Member States will benefit from the right of veto at any time during the negotiations, it would consequently be advisable to make provision for an alternative to membership, by defining, as from now, the conditions of a privileged partnership.
That is why I voted against this resolution, refusing to accept this fast track to Turkey’s accession. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of this report and would like to join with those who have complimented my colleague, Mr&#160;Radwan, on the excellent work he has done with members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this important subject of banks’ regulatory own funds requirements, with the aim of taking account of recent developments on the financial markets.
It had become necessary to ascertain the coherence between economic capital and regulatory capital within a framework of international convergence of the measurement of these financial data (Basel II).
In this context, the capital requirements laid down in the proposal for a directive before us, and the version adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, are entirely in keeping with what I feel are the duties and the appropriate concerns of the public authorities.
I therefore voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Where this report was concerned, I voted against, or abstained from voting on, quite a few parts to do with Parliament’s competence.
In order to supplement the confidence required in businesses and in their systems of governance, it was very important to provide the European Union with rules on the subject, drawing inspiration from the international standards derived from global best practice.
This objective was expressed clearly by the Commission in the proposal it submitted to Parliament, which has been improved substantially by some of the amendments introduced by this report.
I therefore voted in favour.
It has come to light that the rules currently in force in this area do not guarantee the key factors in this extremely important task, namely, market transparency and freedom and independence for those carrying out audits, by which I mean properly carrying out audits.
In the absence of such factors, action must be taken to rectify the legal framework relating to the proposals concerned.
Mr&#160;Jarzembowski’s report now proposes that passenger services too, both international and national, be opened up, with a particular timetable being followed.
It is also true, however, that if services are liberalised in unchecked, haphazard fashion at European level, this could lead to serious problems for some Member States such as Portugal, where specialised infrastructure, such as high-speed rail links and the management models thereof, has yet to be put in place.
Furthermore, the provision of public service in the area of transport, which is a key factor in employment and economic growth, remains to be guaranteed.
Despite welcoming the Commission’s proposals on the new wave of rail transport liberalisation, UNICE is calling for more, and faster.
It is calling for the ‘opening up of the markets’ throughout the passenger rail transport sector, and not only international transport, as the Commission’s proposal had envisaged for this stage.
Accordingly, we are extremely disappointed that our proposal to block this fresh step in the liberalisation of rail transport was rejected, and will continue to strive to defend public rail transport services and the working conditions of employees in the sector. &#160;&#160; .I shall be voting against the report by Mr&#160;Jarzembowski, which establishes a new stage of deregulation for rail transport.
The ‘opening up’ of the freight market was already a threat for the public rail services but the shift to opening up passenger services is unacceptable and fraught with consequences for the users and for planning and development in Europe.
On the grounds of ensuring an improvement in the organisation of international traffic, the Commission and the report are opening up to competition the most profitable railway lines in each country, thus depriving the public services within the Member States of resources that are essential for tariff averaging and for regional development in relation, for example, to less profitable routes.
The Savary and Sterckx reports offer insufficient compensation for Mr Jarzembowski’s liberalisation plans.
The Savary report is desperately needed to drive back the technical problems involving cross-border trains, such problems having occurred since electrification.
The Sterckx report thrusts aside the possibility of forcing railway companies into making cross-border services more accessible and maintaining them.
It is essential that the downward trend in rail transport’s market share be reversed, and we must be resolute in our efforts to achieve this, by building an open, competition-based market.
As regards the Commission’s proposal to allow rail companies access to the infrastructure of all Member States for the purpose of operating international passenger transport services by 2010 at the latest, the rapporteur includes national services in the opening up of the market, so as to offset the inevitable reduction in the cost-effectiveness of international services and the enormous barrier that this presents to entering the market.
Moreover, within the context of opening up the networks to passenger rail transport, our proposal is to give the Member States the right to restrict the opening up of the market in certain cases in order to maintain the economic viability of a rail service of public interest.
The other area of growth in rail transport is commuter transport.
Both the Commission proposal and the Jarzembowski report are premature and lack a solid basis.
The proposed directive fails to provide binding agreements in relation to the quality of services, security or environmental requirements.
There is also the issue of whether Europe can indeed add value to the way in which Member States can, in future, make their national railways more efficient, more customer-friendly and more environmentally-friendly.
It may be the case that, once the situation in the different Member States has been assessed, we will have no choice but to admit that this subject should ideally be tackled at national level after all, because each situation is unique.
For the time being, I refuse to endorse the wild liberalisation plans that are now before us. &#160;&#160; . – An attempt is being made with the 'third railway package' to deal a final blow to rail transport in order to increase the profits of big business.
Speeding up the liberalisation of the market in both international and national railway services and the full liberalisation of all passenger services will, on the one hand, increase the profits of the monopolies and, on the other hand, will deal a heavy blow to workers' rights, will increase ticket prices and freight costs and will lower safety standards, as has been the case wherever privatisation has been applied.
The question is how, starting from the 'fillet', private companies will exploit the workers, the travelling public and the areas in question by bringing a basic lever of transport under their absolute control.
We are therefore abstaining from voting on all the amendments and should ideally have liked there to have been the opportunity also to vote against the Commission’s original document. &#160;&#160; .This September 2005 we are voting on a ‘railway package’.
In France, however, the TGV will reach Nice only in 2020, two years after a permanent space station has been built on the moon.
Train stations are closing or are falling into disrepair like in Sainte-Gabelle, not far from Toulouse, while the Paris-Bordeaux-Pau-Madrid line, together with the Paris-Montpellier-Perpignan-Barcelona line, still do not exist.
This proposal for a directive provides for a two-tier certification system for all train drivers and staff involved in driving trains throughout the European rail network.
If regulation is needed in this area, it needs to be brought about through the national authorities in the countries concerned.
We therefore believe that, in this situation, the European Parliament’s report does not propose anything of benefit to passengers in the longer term.
We are therefore voting against Parliament’s suggested changes to the Commission’s proposal.
I therefore welcome this report as a means to provide clarity and workability for business whilst protecting the interests of the millions of people across Europe who depend on rail travel both for work and leisure.
I believe that passengers' rights should not only apply to international rail passengers, but also to national ones.
The proposal for a regulation on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations proposes minimum standards for providing information to passengers before and during the journey, and rules to be followed in the event of delays, for dealing with complaints and on how to deal with people with reduced mobility.
I feel that the establishment of these rules clearly stems from the need to establish rules without jeopardising the quality of transport for passengers.
The rights of rail passengers to compensation is a step forward and I welcome the Sterckx report.
However, in light of recent air passenger rights legislation and its application, there is a need to be clear what rights passengers have and the compensation which they are entitled to.
If we are going to be true to our constituents we require well implemented rules. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I believe that it was right for us to liberalise freight transport by means of the second railway package.
We thus support the Committee on Transport and Tourism’s position and are voting against the Commission’s proposal.
The intention behind the Commission’s proposal is to encourage the railway undertakings to achieve an improved quality of freight transport and thus to strengthen customer demand.
We question whether the proposed regulations are desirable and whether they will have the intended effect. &#160;&#160; .The 25th anniversary of Solidarity must be, as far as we are concerned, the opportunity to remember that half of Europe, surrendered to Stalin’s USSR, endured the terror of Communism for nearly 50 years.
Nor must we forget that, when they were not actually a party to events, too many leaders and political officials in the West during those ‘iron’ years closed their eyes to what was going on or kept quiet.
We supported the workers' movement and Solidarnosc in their struggle in the 1980s for better working conditions, social justice and true democracy.
Poland is today a political democracy mainly thanks to the struggle of Solidarnosc.
On the one hand, it represents an important signal, since this movement led by Lech Walesa epitomises the courage of the Polish nation in opposing a totalitarian regime under the shadow of the Soviet empire.
In this context, territorial cohesion encompasses economic geography and forms part of the objectives of any structural policy.
The report should also be looking into the need for new policy to combat, rather than encourage, these disparities, which entails promoting public services, developing production apparatus, guaranteeing basic infrastructure (transport, communications and energy), ensuring that there is a large network of small and medium-sized holdings and establishing a support strategy for small and medium-sized urban centres in interior, rural and outlying regions.
Economic attractiveness and lasting economic opportunities are as important in this regard as economical land use, conservation, awareness-raising at local level and adequate infrastructure.
I therefore welcome Mr Guellec’s initiative, in that, as well as expressing valid principles, he also identifies sectors and puts forward practical policies that could provide real help towards achieving greater territorial cohesion in the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Member States must meet their financial commitments and adopt the Financial Perspective as soon as possible.
At the same time, however, we should appeal to these regions to spend the funds wisely – on education and infrastructure, in particular – so that the taxes paid by our fellow European citizens are put to legitimate use. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to abstain on the issue of a stronger partnership for the outermost regions.
Many European regions have special needs and difficulties because they are very distant from commercial centres, are sparsely populated or have difficult terrains and climates.
The islands and groups of islands in the outermost regions face acknowledged difficulties, and we support EU policy in this area.
We have therefore chosen to abstain from voting. &#160;&#160; We are voting in favour of the overall report on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions.
We voted against proposals that defend an outdated agricultural and fisheries policy which benefits neither the Community’s interests as a whole nor the long-term interests of the outermost regions.
Albeit from differing perspectives and with varying approaches, we have joined forces to support the strategy proposed by the Commission for the sustainable development of the outermost regions.
The proposal covers the priorities, the instruments and, most importantly, the creation of a ‘Specific Programme of compensation for additional costs’ and the establishment of a ‘wider neighbourhood action plan’.
We also believe that in order to ensure the sustainability of fish stocks in the EEZs concerned and to preserve fishing activities in the outermost regions, it is essential that exclusive competence regarding access to the waters of the outermost regions be equivalent to access to its EEZ, in compliance with the national jurisdiction in question.
Lastly, given that most of the territory in these regions is covered by nature reserves and other protected areas, we feel that there should be permanent measures for the outermost regions in this area.
Mr&#160;Guellec wishes to add a territorial dimension, the aim of which is to clarify how the Member States are to handle relations between the centre and the periphery.
The developments we have seen in the oil market over the past few years raise both important issues and, at present, a number of key issues for the European Union.
Sustained high oil prices represent a significant risk to global economic growth and are a particularly damaging aspect for poorer countries.
In 2003, oil products comprised 43% of total energy consumption in the European Union.
This reflects the fact that very strong, and unexpected, global oil demand growth, rather than supply shock, has been the driving force behind higher prices.
Oil is a global issue and can only be solved by global action.
Both oil producing and oil consuming nations have shared interests and responsibilities in delivering more stable oil prices that enable sustainable economic growth.
Consumer and producer countries and international organisations need to work together to help make international oil markets function more effectively, both on the demand and on the supply side.
Open, transparent and competitive oil prices and oil markets are the most effective mechanism for delivering reliable oil supplies at those more stable prices.
The world is not yet running out of oil or gas any time soon.
At Gleneagles, G8 Heads of Government published a plan of action on these issues in addressing climate change, but progress in these areas can also do much to enhance energy security.
Much has already been achieved by the European Union, it is right to acknowledge that in this sphere, with a range of regulatory and voluntary measures now in place, but it is clear that whilst significant potential for further improvements in energy efficiency remains, there are also barriers to now realising that potential.
The European Union has introduced the Biofuels Directive to encourage the development of alternative renewable fuels for transport.
Member States have agreed to set indicative targets for biofuels sales in 2005 and for 2010 to help reduce European Union dependence on fossil fuels.
Member States across the Union have introduced policies such as reductions in fuel duty and these have stimulated rapidly growing biofuels sales.
Fuel cells and hydrogen offer significant potential in the longer term, with many considering hydrogen fuel cells to be the ultimate replacement for oil and the internal combustion engine.
The European Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technology Platform has carried out sterling and important work in preparing a strategic research agenda and a deployment strategy for fuel cells and hydrogen.
This work will, in turn, influence the Commission in determining priorities for funding under the Seventh Framework Programme.
The European Commission is also currently working on the improvement of data, notably for oil stocks for Europe.
Increased dialogue and understanding between consumers and producers is, frankly, also important.
The European Union now has a formal dialogue with OPEC, enabling an exchange of views on energy issues of common interest.
In the first instance, a round table on oil market developments will take place on 21&#160;November, concentrating on investment needs along the oil supply chain.
The energy dialogue with Russia is a good example of effective cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation on an issue of great importance to their overall relationship.
The basic idea behind the dialogue is a simple balancing of interests: Russia requires European investment to develop its energy resources, whilst Europe needs secure, long-term access to Russian oil and gas.
Whilst given their rapidly growing need for oil and gas supplies to fuel growth, it is crucial for the European Union, in achieving both its energy security and climate change objectives, that we engage in constructive dialogue and practical cooperation with the emerging economies of both China and India.
Finally, I should also say something today about the response to the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the oil market, and the part played in this by the European Union.
The International Energy Agency called on its member states to release 2&#160;million barrels of oil a day over 30 days.
Not all European Union Member States are members of the IEA.
However, the EU Oil Supply Group met to allow all Member States to review their intended response and give those who are not members of the IEA an opportunity to contribute to that broader discussion.
It also decided that no further action was immediately necessary and that the position could be reviewed again at the end of this month or in early October to see if any further action is needed.
EU Member States, as well as taking part in the release of stocks, were able to increase gasoline exports to the United States, while ensuring that European Union markets remained supplied without any domestic shortages.
The European Union is already making an important contribution to improving conditions in the oil market, both in the short and medium-to-long terms, but there is a range of challenges ahead.
The underlying cause for these high prices is the increasingly tight balance between supply and demand, mainly due to a strong growth in the demand for oil over the last years, particularly in the United States and China, and, as a result, the current significant lack of spare crude production and refining capacities.
Whilst, of course, the Commission alone cannot solve this problem, I believe that it can make a significant contribution towards bringing prices to more reasonable levels.
This is essential for EU citizens, but also for the vulnerable populations in developing countries for whom the impact is ever more devastating.
Following in-depth debates within the College and with the full support of my colleagues, and in particular President Barroso, I have recently presented a five-point plan of measures that the Commission is already taking, and which will now be accelerated to deal with this challenge.
In this context, the European example can illustrate how increased energy efficiency can reduce production costs.
Our second action must be to increase Europe's use of alternative forms of energy.
For instance, the energy potential of biomass in the EU needs to be developed.
The proper implementation of the Biofuels Directive can also be fruitful in this sense.
Finally, before the end of 2005, the Commission will present a communication on financial support schemes for renewable energy sources.
Furthermore, we should work actively to build global alliances to explore more viable use of renewable energy sources, especially in the developing world.
The lack of transparency on world oil markets facilitates speculation and inhibits investment in the oil sector.
The Commission will also speed up measures to make its services able to publish data on the level of European oil stocks on a more regular basis.
Fourthly, we must increase the supply of oil and gas.
This dialogue was already initiated this spring and on Sunday, 18&#160;September, I met the President of the OPEC Conference, Mr Sheikh Fahad al Sabah, in Vienna.
In this respect, let me inform you that OPEC has committed to help to stabilise the international oil market and to contribute to bringing oil prices back to sustainable levels.
In that meeting OPEC emphasised the need for investment along the entire oil-supply chain and, in particular, it pointed out the insufficient refining capacity in the oil market.
On the Commission side, we conveyed to OPEC our concerns about the fact that current insufficient spare capacity contributes to facilitating speculative movements on the international level and creates additional pressure on the oil market.
Other dialogues with important oil-producing countries – like Russia, Norway and the Persian Gulf countries – with the oil and gas industry and with the main oil-consuming countries in the world – like China, India and the United States – will also be continued.
In this context, the Commission has supported the proposal of the International Energy Agency on 2 September for increasing oil supply by 2&#160;million barrels per day over a period of 30 days.
While most of this international collective effort will initially consist of releasing security oil stocks in the international market, the Commission strongly advocates encouraging energy-saving behaviour, which may lead, if needed, to the use of demand restriction measures by Member States if further actions are required.
This is particularly true if the loss in supply is finally expected to persist for several months.
As you may know, under EU law, all Member States must keep emergency oil stocks equivalent to 90 days of normal consumption, to be used in the event of short-term physical supply disruptions.
Europe needs to play its own role, as not all EU Member States are members of the International Energy Agency.
In this respect, the Commission has already started convening the Community's Oil Supply Group on a regular basis in order to discuss oil prices, the emergency measures taken by Member States and more efficient ways of coordinating emergency measures at Community level.
Recent events show the clear need for a mechanism that assists in coordinating the use of oil stocks in the European Union.
The Commission is now considering how best this can be done, and will discuss this with all stakeholders at a new Fossil Fuel Forum I have established, that will meet for the first time in Berlin in October.
I should note that in developing such a proposal I shall pay careful attention to the view taken by the European Parliament on the previous Commission proposal on this matter.
The Ministers at the last informal Ecofin meeting have clearly agreed that distortionary fiscal and other policy interventions that prevent the necessary adjustment should be avoided.
It is a fact that uncoordinated fiscal reductions can have a distorting effect on competition in the internal market.
In conclusion, the Commission has been very active in proposing measures for remedying the situation.
The fundamentals of our situation remain unchanged: the EU is heavily dependent on oil and heavily dependent on imports of oil.
There is an important principle that taxes should remain set by Member States.
Finally, I wonder whether in addition to looking at the transport sector and roads, we should be thinking again about the aviation sector, to see whether we could find international agreement on achieving efficiencies and conservation of fuel in that sector.
I am very pleased that he has supported and emphasised that again in recent days, and also that the Presidency has made a number of commitments here on the issue of energy policy.
Nevertheless, from the point of view of our Group, the words of the Commission or Commission President on this subject have been rather inadequate, for, as Mr&#160;Alexander explained, these markets – if one can even call them that – are very lacking in transparency.
It must be recognised, however, that only a small proportion of these profits can be used for increasing investment for their own benefit, for example in the mixing of biofuels, as is now the case in some countries, and also, of course, in research and development in the field of alternative energies.
It would be easier for us to focus on the supply side and the difficulties caused by Hurricane Katrina, but if we did that we would just be applying a sticking plaster, when what we really need is major surgery.
With a third of EU oil being imported from Russia and a quarter from the Middle East – and those proportions are rising – we face a structural problem which goes far beyond any short-term crisis.
In its resolution tomorrow, Parliament will call for Europe to become the most energy-efficient and least oil-dependent economy by 2020.
As happy as I am with the Commissioner's proposals, as scandalised as I am about the Barroso Commission as a whole, it is ridiculous to come up with a communication on oil without a single sentence on transport, when we all know that transport accounts for 70% of oil consumption in Europe.
Therefore my question to you, Commissioner, is: when will the Commission come up with a plan under which Mr Barrot, Mr Kovács and Mr&#160;Verheugen take on their responsibilities?
My final question is to the UK Presidency.
We have reached a point where our energy system has become too costly compared with its benefits: not only in financial terms – USD&#160;100 a barrel now seems imminent – but also in terms of environmental damage, health risks and the burden of a military and logistical apparatus to guarantee control of production areas and the security of transport worldwide.
In Europe we have to address the energy crisis through research programmes that can stimulate the technological development of energy systems that are sustainable and competitive – not least in economic terms, so as to create jobs.
This would be particularly painful for those European Union Member States that in recent years have not experienced a strong economic upswing, but are being forced to pay a higher price for oil which is dictated by strong economic growth worldwide.
In several new European Union Member States, the elements of an increase in oil prices produced by the dominant role played by old and energy-wasteful technologies in their economies are also at the basis of growing inflationary pressure.
In the same way, there is little hope that the oil-producing countries will have a genuine interest in making the oil market more stable or the ability to work together with oil consumers to achieve this.
The recent nationalisation of oil companies in Russia and Venezuela, which was ideologically and not economically motivated, has made the oil-producing sector in these countries less transparent and less predictable.
Tax incentives give the wrong signal to the market on the direction of oil prices and encourage consumption, and in the end increase the profits of the oil companies.
The European Commission, acting in coordination with the bodies that monitor the markets of the Member States, should create a mechanism for monitoring the oil market in order to reduce speculation on the oil market, which lacks transparency.
Regarding all the action strategies presented that have been planned by the Commission to expand the energy portfolio and to reduce oil dependency in the European Union, I must say that it is vital to look at a substantial increase in funding in the Financial Perspective for the expansion of the energy portfolio. &#160;&#160; Just a&#160;few months ago, the institutions of the European Union addressed the issue of energy security in Europe.
According to one admittedly platonic statement, the dependency of European countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70% in the next twenty years.
The countries of the European Union do not possess significant natural sources of energy.
I therefore support measures in favour of increased energy efficiency, alternative and renewable sources of energy, and energy conservation.
Similarly, I support planned measures aimed at increasing stocks of oil and oil products in the Member States, and a common position for the European Union in talks with OPEC and other countries, aimed at improving the stability of the market for crude oil and energy.
On the other hand, however, EU institutions must adopt a more forward-looking approach to the closure of existing energy installations.
This will weaken the energy potential not only of Slovakia, but also of the entire European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are living in a world starved of energy, where some 1.5&#160;million people have no access to electricity.
Crises such as the one rocking the oil market demonstrate our over-dependence on fossil fuels.
Europe must increase investment in all forms of energy research, and in technological developments related to hydrogen.
The transformation of hydrogen requires a great deal of energy.
The Commission must follow more closely the predatory activity of certain highly speculative funds and aim to provide greater transparency in the setting of oil prices.
The citizens of Europe would be grateful for greater regulatory involvement. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to thank the Commissioner for being here today and for his commitment.
We discussed the approaches to take this morning, and I agree with his views on the need for a systemic approach to this problem, precisely because we are faced with a huge challenge.
We must do so systemically, and that is the leadership commitment that we must accept. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the rapid rise in the price of oil has made everyone realise that it will not last forever.
This has been obvious to thinking people for a long time now, and most recently since the analyses which have been carried out by petroleum geologists with regard to the relationship between demand for oil and the growth in its annual production.
As my colleague, Mr&#160;Turmes, said, most oil is used for transport.
For this reason, we need to rethink our transport system.
For example, in EU-funded communication investment projects there should be greater emphasis than ever on the railways. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am sorry but, despite the fact that the oil crisis has been with us for a year, the Commission's response is, at the very least, relaxed and the Council's is non-existent.
The answer, unfortunately, is 'no'.
The conclusion is that the increase in oil prices, in conjunction with the natural disasters, due – in great part – to the careless consumption of mineral fuels, imposes the need to abandon an energy-intensive development model and quickly develop alternative forms of energy.
However, in order to achieve this, we need money and, unfortunately, both the Council and the Commission refuse the idea of a special fuel tax to finance this investment in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while I welcome what has been said by the Council and the Commission, the reality today is that there is an ever-growing demand for fossil fuels.
In the coming years, Chinese requirements alone will increase to unheard-of levels.
The EU Commission recognises the importance of this industry and the fact that certain agricultural products, including sugar, could be used for producing bioethanol.
Regrettably the take-up and use of these funds by the Member States is still deplorably low.
Nobody here wants to talk about reducing VAT or duty; what, then, can be done to release our peoples from the yoke of dependence on interests outside Europe? 1.
Nationalise resources; 2.
stop supporting or being complicit with US foreign policy; 4.
monitor the prices that oil companies charge in the various countries of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to emphasise that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, too, is in favour of alternative energy, and of such energy not only being promoted, but also made competitive.
Members are urging state intervention, basically forgetting that, after all, the oil price in a competitive economy still follows the market.
Yet we are all aware that, ultimately, part of the problem is refinery capacity.
When, though, over 70% of fuel prices at the pump in EU Member States such as Germany is accounted for by tax, we Members of the European Parliament must appeal to the national governments to take ad hoc action on this, in order to give the public in high-tax countries, in particular, something back and thus ensure continued mobility in these work-oriented societies.
One cannot rail against the markets whilst being responsible for 70% of the price oneself; this would be attributing responsibility in the wrong quarters.
We would therefore be well advised to make it clear that the state should support alternative energy – in moderation – but that we should also invest in new technologies.
The emphasis here should be on moderation and good sense, however, rather than ideology. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Russia is increasing its cooperation with OPEC.
The oil producers’ cartel is becoming more powerful than ever.
The hopes and actions relating to the development of renewable energy sources are not having an effect quickly enough.
The price of oil remains high, while Europe grows increasingly dependent and crisis-prone.
Companies’ profits ought to be used to develop sustainable alternative forms of energy.
Demand will go down, therefore, and in its place research, biomass and alternatives.
Peace, fairness and the environment are the only options that can take us into the future.
The situation was predictable, but the reality has been much more brutal than was expected.
Instead, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I would like to draw attention to the extreme situation that the road transport sector has reached, not in a temporary sense, but in a structural sense that will be difficult to resolve.
We will agree with actions by the States aimed at adopting measures to facilitate the modal change towards more efficient modes of transport.
We will agree with adopting measures for more efficient use of the different modes of transport and, finally, we will agree with taking measures to increase the energy efficiency of vehicles.
Having said that, however, you will have to agree with me that in the short term it is not possible to alter reality and that the main victim of the results of this situation is a sector such as transport, which is overly dependent on the evolution of demand and is at the mercy of fluctuations in oil prices.
The constant rises in the price of crude have led to a sharp increase in companies’ operating costs, placing the sector in a completely impotent situation, given that it is impossible for them to pass the rises on to the prices of the service they provide.
Encouraging tendencies can also be seen, however: awareness is increasing and, following Katrina, the US car industry has requested that the President call a summit on what can be done to develop alternative fuels.
In the transport area, we must carry out research with a view to producing new renewable fuels, placing our hopes in, for example, synthetic diesel.
We must also pin our hopes on alternative forms of transport.
That is important but, in overhauling the White Paper, we must also write more, and take more decisions, about alternative fuels and the renewal of our stock of vehicles. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have come here to talk about a sector that is being particularly affected by this situation: the fisheries sector.
The temporary halts of the FIFG have not been designed to deal with this kind of crisis, because the governments, furthermore, have already allocated their funds and reprogramming is problematic.
Commissioner Borg’s announcement on the increase in de minimis aid does not sort the problem out either, since we will have to wait for nine months and for new Community rules in order for this to be resolved.
This is leading many Member States to help their sectors as best they can, which also causes significant distortions of competition.
We would therefore once again call on the Commission, represented here by the Energy Commissioner, as we did a year ago, to enable the fisheries sector to escape from this crisis, which would involve introducing a mechanism that can be brought into play automatically when there are sudden or continuous rises in fuel prices, and that it should be mobilised before fishing companies begin to collapse en masse. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of important responses to the current oil crisis.
I am deeply convinced, however, that the only correct response in the long term is to overcome our dependence on oil, a source of energy that will last for perhaps a further 40 to 60 years, is prone to crises and is increasing in price the scarcer it becomes.
Studies have shown that savings of 14% in the transport sector and 20% in the building sector are possible, and this without any sacrifices in terms of comfort.
Perhaps the Commission should draw up an action plan for a questionnaire enquiring as to the best use to which the companies and, in particular, the nation-states could put this additional revenue pouring into their coffers.
For this reason, we should perhaps consider whether it is possible to create a separate euro zone in the energy sector for non-OPEC countries, or even incentives for the creation of such a zone, because this, too, would bring a certain degree of stability and independence.
These innovations can help us not only to increase our self-sufficiency in energy, but we can also improve air quality and reduce greenhouse emissions.
Many of the renewable energy sources that help conserve the environment are already within our reach.
Biomass can be used in diverse ways for heating, for producing electricity and as fuel.
Renewable energy sources should account for at least 25% of the EU’s entire energy consumption by the year 2020. &#160;&#160; The current energy situation, caused primarily by the oil crisis, compels us to seek a prompt solution.
There can be no doubt that the European Union’s efforts in this direction should include moves to abandon the use of crude oil for producing electricity as soon as possible.
Nuclear power is a much more effective substitute for crude oil, in terms of both available production capacity and environmental protection.
Investment for research into safe nuclear waste recycling and the further development of new technologies, which the European Union can also provide by enabling access to the 7th Framework Programme, would soon eliminate any doubt concerning the safety of nuclear plants.
However, the seriousness of the current energy situation requires the adoption of the only rational and expedient solution: a return to nuclear power through the construction of new production capacity. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, if you want to cushion the direct impact of the increase in oil prices, it is not good enough to come up with long-term solutions alone.
It is up to each country to take measures in order to alleviate those problems, but the European Commission could coordinate the measures, by for example allowing VAT at the reduced rate within its field of competence.
The price of crude rose by 50% last year and this increase has led to a notable deterioration of the competitiveness of our economy.
Many governments are therefore subject to strong pressure to reduce the tax on oil in certain transport sectors.
We must adopt the measures that the Commissioner indicated in the plan: decisive promotion of the use of renewable energies and improving efficiency, increasing refining capacity, combating speculative movements, considering nuclear energy as an essential element of the security of supply strategy and promotion of the use of biofuels.
We are debating a crisis today, but we must draw sufficient strength from it to plan for our future in an intelligent manner.
I do not wish to end without asking the Council, the representative of which is currently looking at a piece of paper with immense interest, to consider very seriously the effects of an intolerable reduction in the funds dedicated to technological research and innovation in the seventh framework Programme given the current circumstances. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the energy system is vital and is of a global dimension.
We must introduce more rationality and efficiency into the global system, preventing energy wastage that we all pay for — the United States use 50% more energy per dollar of GDP than the European Union.
We must move towards a new energy model by means of innovation in transport, the development of technologies for decarbonisation and diversification and the development of renewable resources, and also by means of stable and lasting international cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I join with those who have thanked and praised Commissioner&#160;Piebalgs for his active and coherent strategy.
I should now like to discuss the subject of renewable energy: not because I believe that it is the only solution to the problem but because, as shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group, I bear particular responsibility for this issue.
It is true that renewable energy forms part of the response to the high oil prices; but, in my view, another important factor is that Europe and the Member States have not always set the right priorities with regard to renewable energy.
Yet we do not have a coherent European strategy for promoting renewable energy in the field of heating and cooling, even though dependence on oil and gas is strongest here.
We also know the reason for this: namely because many advocates of renewable energy see it only as standing in opposition to nuclear power.
Cumulatively, EUR&#160;3&#160;billion will have been raised in this field in the coming years; of course, this money cannot be found elsewhere.
That is why it is time for some new priorities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although the price of crude oil has tripled on the world market within the past three years, the insatiable hunger of mankind for energy does not seem to have abated.
Moreover, the economic impact of natural disasters this year seems to sound warning bells for our petrol-based society.
The majority of Member States rely on energy sources of remote areas and faraway countries, resulting in a dependency on less democratic states.
If we do not act early enough, we will have to fall back on even more polluting fuel types when we run out of pure oil and gas, resulting in even more serious environmental damage.
Therefore I strongly welcome the five-point plan of the Commission, especially its chapters on energy efficiency and the use of alternative energy sources.
We must reduce oil consumption in energy production and especially in transport, by all means.
The relevant directive must be followed more strictly in order to facilitate the promotion of biofuels.
This is all good and well in the longer term, but in the short term, as has already been pointed out this afternoon, countless families, single people, both the old and young, are at risk of being left in the cold, quite literally, in the next few months, because they can simply no longer pay their heating bills.
Meanwhile, various national governments have taken all kinds of new and diverse measures.
In that way, we can do something about the huge and ridiculous price differences between the Member States.
They are vital and, as you know better than I do, much of the price goes on VAT and excise to boost the national coffers.
On a final note, Commissioner, whilst you must obviously protect the EU’s interests in the longer term, you could make a very kind gesture towards all those vulnerable families who are at risk of getting into difficulty in the coming weeks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to make a few remarks that some might find heretical.
In my opinion, the European Union should encourage international political debate that would open the way for investment in developing countries.
The benefits of this are obvious: major European companies would contribute financial resources to developing countries, while Europe would benefit from the cheaper oil from those countries and help to increase living standards there.
From an economic point of view, we should let the market work without any regulation, any limitation or any further burdens.
The only possible solution is to let the market work.
I am conscious of time, but let me seek to respond to a number of the points made in the course of what was a useful and timely debate.
I can assure her that Member States and Parliament are working hard to identify compromise positions on those issues where there is still divergence between the Council and Parliament.
We hope that all the institutions will engage constructively in a process to secure what is an important directive for all of us.
As the Presidency, we will make real efforts to secure a negotiated agreement with the European Parliament at second reading.
However, I should stress at this stage that the agreement reached on 5&#160;April at the Transport Council represents a delicate balance and a delicate compromise, so that there is limited room for further changes in light of the decisions reached at that stage.
In relation to the more general question of speculation by traders, it is difficult to know exactly the balance, the exact role that speculation has played in prices.
I hope that my remarks and the Commissioner's remarks at the outset of this debate have been sufficient to convince him that steps are being taken and will be taken in the future.
As I mentioned in my opening remarks, the key challenge is creating the right climate for that investment now to be made.
Mr Aylward raised the issue of the common agricultural policy.
The British Presidency has never been averse to discussing that policy, but I would respectfully suggest that there are perhaps other forums in which it would be more appropriate to explore the wider issues raised by his speech.
Similarly, Mr Romagnoli raised a number of fascinating issues, including the foreign policy of the United States.
Again, I would respectfully refer him to the fact that, in my introductory remarks, I stressed that there is an energy dialogue – perhaps that will be something to which the Commissioner will return – and that there is a continuing dialogue between Russia and the European Union during our Presidency, not just on energy matters, but on a whole range of issues.
While I am alive to the burden being imposed on fishing communities by higher oil prices at the moment, there are many other forums in which a fuller and franker exchange can be held on the future of the common fisheries policy.
Mr Hudacký raised the issue of nuclear energy.
I would candidly and respectfully suggest that how a country meets its energy needs and the role of nuclear power within that arrangement is ultimately a decision for each Member State.
A number of honourable Members touched on the issue of whether a solution involving fuel duty levels could help relieve the burden of higher oil prices being experienced by Member States at present.
I would again return to the recent informal Ecofin Ministers meeting at which it was agreed that distortionary fiscal and other policy interventions that prevent the necessary adjustments should be avoided by Member States.
Mr Belet raised a number of questions for the Commission, so I shall leave those for the Commissioner to answer.
I would simply suggest that, if he is earnest in his requirement or in his urging for a proper and frank international discussion of some of the issues that we have touched on today, then I would draw his attention to the priority that the British Presidency, the British Government, placed on the issue of climate change during our chairmanship of the G8 this year.
I believe it was a brave and principled decision to say that, together with international development in Africa in particular, climate change would be the particular focus for the meeting in Gleneagles between 6 and 8 July.
Sustainable economic growth depends on access to reliable and affordable supplies of energy.
Consumer and producer nations and international organisations are already working well in these areas, with the European Union in particular playing a constructive and valuable role.
I expect that in future we will have more debates on this subject.
In November the Commission will approve a biomass action plan.
In all the cases the answer from Europe depends very much on investment in research and development.
The Commission will continue the activities on the five areas, but not only on these.
A systematic approach, patience and consistency will be needed to achieve the results that European citizens expect of us. &#160;&#160; – I have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure on oil(1).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday 29 September 2005 at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The recent developments in oil prices has brought the problem of high oil prices to the top of the agenda, in light of the severe problems that this rise has caused in terms of economic growth and employment, and this at a time when the EU economy is virtually grinding to a halt.
As Professor Michael T.
We must prepare for the future by investing in research to find ways of reducing oil consumption in terms of GDP.
Furthermore, we must invest in alternative energy sources and in using energy more efficiently, which is one of the most serious structural problems facing a number of countries, including Portugal.
The next financial perspective must accord this issue the importance it deserves, and earmark funds for renewable energy. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the reform of the United Nations and the Millennium Development Goals. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, two weeks ago at the 2005 World Summit, our Heads of State and Government met to decide how the international community, through the United Nations, should tackle the world's most pressing problems: the interrelated challenges of development, security and human rights.
The decisions they took after two years of debate and consultation, now enshrined in the so-called outcome document, set the United Nations agenda for the years ahead.
The challenges to the world's security and prosperity have been starkly and comprehensively set out by the United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan's High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change, by Professor Jeffrey Sachs, head of the United Nations Millennium Project, and by Kofi Annan himself in his report.
Indeed the United Nations was created 60 years ago to build peace and security throughout the world.
Through technology and communication, countries are more closely bound together than ever before.
That means too that the impact of conflicts and disasters is increasingly global in its reach.
So we should take heart from the fact that the far-reaching commitments made by G8 leaders in July to increase aid, to reduce debt and to expand trade have essentially been safeguarded at the United Nations summit.
As my Prime Minister, Tony Blair, said in New York, if we start implementing with urgency the agreements on doubling aid, on opening up trade and establishing fair-trade rules, on debt relief, on HIV/Aids and malaria and on conflict prevention and stopping genocide, we would have more democracy, less oppression, more freedom, less terrorism, more growth, less poverty.
I am proud that the European Union was at the forefront of efforts to reach consensus on all of the issues under debate.
We had many priorities for the summit across the four so-called clusters of development, peace and collective security, human rights and the rule of law, and strengthening the United Nations.
I believe that the conclusions reached at the summit set us out on the right path towards improvements in all of these areas, as long as the momentum is sustained and as long as we act now.
The interest and commitment shown by Members of this Parliament towards improvements in these areas is truly admirable and was demonstrated in the expertise of the European Parliament delegation who attended the summit, led by co-Chairmen Nirj Deva and Michel Rocard.
The summit secured firm and unambiguous commitments from both donor and developing countries on what is needed to reach the Millennium Development Goals.
It strengthened the partnership between developed and developing countries set out at Monterey and consolidated all the achievements of this year so far.
It broadened the consensus around the commitments established back in July at the Gleneagles summit to 191 countries, in particular the need to accelerate progress towards the Millennium Goals in Africa and to make international progress once again on climate change.
It also agreed, as set out clearly in the outcome document, that development must be sustainable and take account of its impact on the global environment.
Under the UK's Presidency, the European Council has continued to press for more international action to increase development aid in the fight against poverty and deprivation.
We, the European Union, are already easily the world's largest aid donor: 80% of the extra USD&#160;5 billion of aid pledged at the G8 summit in Gleneagles will come from Europe.
We have spearheaded the important agreements reached this year to reduce debt and launch global immunisation programmes against illnesses and diseases in the poorest countries.
But it will ultimately be through the Doha Development Round that the international community can and must deliver real gains for poor countries by abolishing export subsidies and reducing all barriers to trade, including trade-distorting domestic support.
We will work as hard as we can to ensure that political leaders focus on getting results at the WTO ministerial meeting in Hong Kong in December and indeed focus on these issues before the December Hong Kong ministerial meeting.
As my Prime Minister has said, if we end up with a failure in December, that will echo right round the world.
You know, as Members of this Parliament, that the European Union is committed to meeting the summit deadline of establishing the commission by the end of this year.
The strong condemnation of terrorism 'in all its forms and manifestations' was certainly a welcome political statement.
But we must now work on fulfilling our pledge to conclude the comprehensive convention on terrorism by September 2006.
Despite the summit's failure to reach agreement on measures for non-proliferation and disarmament, I can assure Parliament that we will continue to work to move forward the agenda on these important issues.
We are fully supportive, therefore, of the creation of a new human rights council to replace the maligned Commission on Human Rights.
We must urgently agree on its size, its mandate and composition so that it can begin its work and ensure that human rights are once again at the core of all UN activity.
Perhaps the decision of greatest significance to emerge from that summit was the agreement on 'the responsibility to protect' – a political commitment that the international community has a duty to act when states cannot or will not protect their populations from the worst atrocities: genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity.
It is an important recognition that in today's world we cannot fail to act when vulnerable populations face these terrible atrocities.
We must also work to strengthen the United Nations Secretariat, to make it a more effective and efficient body.
The European Council welcomed the commitments to reform the main UN bodies, including the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the Security Council.
We particularly welcome the mandate given to the Secretary-General to consider longer-term reform of the UN's development, humanitarian assistance and environment organisations so that their work is better managed and better coordinated.
We are therefore seeking to adopt a budget for the next financial year that will enable the Secretary-General and the United Nations to deliver what its members ask and expect, including under the new mandates agreed at the summit in New York.
The key to the success of that 2005 Millennium Review Summit and the UN's reform programme in general is, of course, implementation.
We, as United Nations member states, are responsible now for turning words into action. &#160;&#160; , .
The outcome – as my colleague has mentioned already – has been mixed, but the glass is half full and not half empty.
That was thanks to my colleague Mr Michel.
I am happy to say that the European Union has set the example with 0.56% up to 2010 and 0.7% up to 2015.
That showed that other colleagues, especially from the developing countries, were very happy about it.
This reaffirmation of acknowledgement of the Millennium Development Goals as a galvanizing framework for development efforts has been achieved for the first time at an intergovernmental level.
That should enhance the credibility of the international community, and the United Nations means to act in the face of genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity.
That intervention has in a way triggered this new development of international law and, for the first time, this enshrining of the development goals.
The third achievement was the Peace-building Commission, which is an important concrete result that should make the international community’s response to the needs of countries dealing with the aftermath of conflicts more effective and coordinated.
The Commission has been working with all the same factors, from humanitarian efforts to reconstruction efforts and institution building, to trade and all questions surrounding democracy and human rights; from military peacekeeping missions to election observation missions.
All that will now be coordinated in the Peace-building Commission and we therefore feel that the Commission there has to have its place at the table.
On the other hand, there were some positive steps on human rights, such as the doubling of the budget for the Human Rights Special High Representative, which opens up the possibility of direct action in the field.
Environmental sustainability is instrumental in our fight against poverty, for stabilisation and for greater security.
Especially now, with the tsunami, Katrina and Rita, and floods in the European Union, a real United Nations environmental organisation would have been the right response by the international community.
In any event, I feel somewhat relieved at the final document of the Summit because I well remember that, two years ago, the international community was very divided and the United Nations was in a situation of deadlock.
Fortunately, it has been possible to reach an agreement on a document that contains some substantial achievements, though it also unquestionably contains shortcomings and failures.
With regard to the reform of the United Nations, I do not believe that anybody is surprised about the failure of the reform of the Security Council.
In the international community there are profound and apparently insurmountable differences in this regard.
But in this same field of human rights, regrettably, the only decision adopted has been to create the Human Rights Council, without any further detail.
The 60th anniversary of the creation of the United Nations offered a good opportunity to bring the international community back together and bring it into line with the challenges of the new century.
I thank the Commissioner for the support she gave us in the delegation that attended the summit in New York.
As you have all mentioned, NGOs and others have been somewhat critical of the Outcome Document of the summit.
However, I would argue, as you have done, for a more measured approach in the assessment that we make and would agree that we should describe it as a glass half-full.
In the Outcome Document there are strong commitments on how we should meet the MDGs by 2015.
I am also keen to acknowledge that in the Outcome Document they make a very clear link between security, development and conflict resolution in the measures that they take.
It also clearly identifies the responsibilities of both developed and developing countries.
The EU development policy statement is now the appropriate vehicle for us to move this forward and to show that we firmly believe in the need to rebuild, in Europe and elsewhere, that strong sense of unity, purpose and action.
The document is also strong on governance and the rule of law, which are very important aspects of our work with developing countries.
Therefore, again, the European Union has a role to play in pushing this forward in a positive way.
Most of all, I welcome the fact that we now have collective responsibility to protect civilians against genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and all crimes against humanity.
Finally, I wish to refer to the amendment tabled by the PSE Group on sexual and reproductive health rights.
It underpins all those goals, particularly on HIV/AIDS and maternal and child mortality.
I trust that this Parliament will reinstate this in the text; that we will commit ourselves, as we did in the vote on my report on the Millennium Development Goals, to this important aspect.
In 1945 the stakes were high for the policy makers; the stakes are high now, but the reasons for moving forward are just as great as they were then. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we Europeans agree that the world needs the United Nations; and moreover, that it needs the United Nations to be strong.
Nevertheless, my group, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, is of the opinion that the progress made is to be acknowledged, whilst things we failed to achieve are to be discussed even more intensively than before.
The glass is half full.
As Members of the European Parliament, we hold the key to securing and strengthening acceptance of the UN by the people, driving democratisation of the organisation forward successfully, and in particular ensuring that millions of people have access to food, clean water and better health services.
My group warmly welcomes the creation of a Peacebuilding Commission.
An initial step, on which I should also like an opinion from the Commission and the Council, would be to combine the representatives of Council and Commission in New York and at the other UN sites.
The ALDE Group regards the promotion of democracy as another important task.
Kofi Annan’s proposals are well-known.
This is emphasised once more in our resolution, which is to be put to the vote tomorrow.
For only the UN has the potential to overcome the challenges of our time through a multilateral approach and on a global scale.
Parliament must support it on this path, as we need a strong United Nations.
The result is disappointing, and the good groundwork by Kofi Annan has not been transformed into real success.
The reform has failed in four key areas.
I should like to add that, particularly in the face of the challenges of international climate policy, that is a very serious omission.
It is good that the Millennium Development Goals have been reaffirmed and that various action programmes and solidarity funds are being set up.
The Assembly also sought to reform the United Nations, but somebody pulled out all the stops to ensure that everything remains as it is.
That somebody has a name: John Bolton, the official voice of the empire in the United Nations.
Commissioner, you mentioned ‘Katrina’.
In the emperor’s ideal world this is the way it works.
As far as the White House is concerned, the poor are quite simply a waste of time and money.
We will only have a credible United Nations when Europe and the rest of the world sends Washington the right signals.
The debate on the UN’s future should be conducted between the UN’s member states and in international contexts broader than the European one.
We are critical of the proposal that the EU be represented by a single seat on the UN Security Council.
The EU Member States have different views on the issues dealt with by the UN and its Security Council.
Sweden, for example, has played an important role in the UN as a bridge builder between poor and rich countries, as a mediator and as a promoter of disarmament.
What this shows is that small countries too have an important role to play in the UN and in international politics.
Let us affirm our many-faceted continent and let us work to ensure that all voices are heard in the debate. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following lively debates, in May the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the reform of the UN.
On the contrary, the few agreements that have been reached are hedged about with compromises and will in all likelihood not be properly effective.
I would therefore like to call on the European Commission to evaluate the results of UN reform from the European Union perspective, and also to reflect on how to coordinate future activities with other countries, so that the decisions we take do not remain merely resolutions.
In such circumstances it is important to assess whether the UN is capable of reforming itself at all, or whether perhaps a new organisation of a similar type is needed.
I believe, however, that the biggest problem is not the reform of UN bodies, but the inability of UN members to reach political agreement, due to fundamentally opposing views concerning the work of the UN as such.
I am, however, more concerned about the UN commitment to reaching the so-called Millennium Development Goals, that is, to reduce poverty by half, to fight hunger, malaria and other diseases such as HIV/AIDS, and to ensure respect for human rights, especially the rights of women.
Although the UN has pledged to fulfil these objectives by 2015, poverty has still not been reduced, and in fact it is increasing.
In September I was the only member of an EU institution taking part in a women’s rights conference in China.
The Conference was held for the first time in 1975 and has been repeated every ten years since then.
It is interesting that, since 1995, no country in the world has been able to organise a fifth conference on women’s issues.
I find myself wondering whether the European Union is interested in information on how the declarations that we have co-signed are implemented, and how assistance provided to some countries by the European Union, especially in the form of financial help, is used.
If we want to achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, financial assistance must be more than doubled.
The tsunami in Indonesia, the floods in New Orleans and terrorism in London become local events: local in my village, in my reality, in my home and among my friends.
Business as usual is therefore no longer an option and Messrs Ping and Annan have done excellent work in starting the process of reform.
Those organisations may be delivering, but the UN process itself in New York is not.
That must change.
We should limit the process in New York and instead focus on UN agencies as outputs.
A long-range planning group should be established to predict crisis situations well in advance.
I am pleased to announce that the European Parliament, through the Committee on Development and Cooperation has already proposed that an amount of around EUR&#160;2&#160;million be allocated under the budget for quick-win impacts and also, following a meeting with the Commissioner in New York, for the Peace Building Commission.
An effective system of international governance and justice is one that brings to justice those who have committed crimes against humanity.
Mr President, I wish to say that this has been a very important and excellent debate.
The role of the Secretary-General has hardly been strengthened at all.
The 53 African states had specific ideas on which countries from their continent should sit on the Security Council.
Europe is divided on this and perhaps even contributed to the failure to expand the Security Council.
It is up to me, perhaps because I belong to the Democrat component of the group, to try to reflect a little on the empty half of the glass.
A body like the Human Rights Council exists only in principle.
The document is rather like our work in Europe: we are not in crisis, our bureaucracy works, and we produce documents.
That is our problem.
A 35-page document that removes the most difficult items is not a successful document: it is a document that drowns its difficulties in a sea of pages.
Therefore, all that I want to say is that this Summit has, instead, shown the extent to which Europe today needs to count as a political unit, a single political unit, within which we have commercial weight because we have a single will.
Particularly worrying is the lack of commitments to improve and strengthen global governance in relation to ecological, social and economic issues, but also the withdrawal of the conclusions of the chapter relating to disarmament and non-proliferation.
And neither is anything said on such an urgent and necessary issue as the adoption of an international arms treaty, the proliferation of arms being the main cause of many deaths in the world.
For all of these reasons, I must call on the Council and the Commission from now on to have the courage and daring to defend these principles by means of concrete measures and, as Mr Schmidt has said, an action plan that clearly defines what the European Union’s position should be, so that we do not – I would insist – give in once again to pressure from the United States. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we are now debating how full the glass is.
This United Nations Summit was an all-round failure.
This Panel wanted to anchor a concept of pre-emptive war in the United Nations, and would have destroyed the basic idea of the United Nations in so doing.
Commissioner&#160;Ferrero-Waldner says that this was, in a way, triggered by the Kosovo war, but that is exactly where the problem lies.
That war constituted a violation of international law, and that is exactly what we want to avoid.
International law should not be violated. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the United Nations evolved from various initiatives to bring the countries of the world together to promote true peace through the recognition of the dignity and worth of the human person and the value of the community – local, national, and global – in protecting the person.
I think the example of UNICEF is a good place to start in understanding the desperate and urgent need to reform the UN.
Jim Grant led and largely created UNICEF, the UN response to children, until he died in 1995.
UNICEF justifiably earned the respect of countries and agencies everywhere for its programmes of oral rehydration, breastfeeding promotion, and primary education.
Ms Bellamy, who directed UNICEF after Mr Grant, was forced to resign last year.
Indeed, it took weeks and weeks to discuss a 35-page document that ultimately – for let us call a spade a spade – is not much more than a vague declaration of intent.
About the composition of this new institution, or about measures to bar such countries from it, the text, however, has not one word to say.
While all countries condemned terrorism, this committee failed to reach agreement on the definition of the term.
I would like, Mr President, to mention an important one of these: the initiative of the Secretary-General, Mr Kofi Annan, who has taken on board the proposal of the Spanish Prime Minister, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, and of the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr Erdogan.
What we have seen this morning in this Chamber demonstrates the importance of that initiative on the alliance of civilisations.
One of the consequences of this failure is that the European Union, which will not have a Foreign Minister any more than it has any kind of common foreign policy, will remain a kind of international forum with no external visibility.
The impossibility of reforming the UN, which was predictable, and which we did indeed predict in our previous speeches on the subject, was itself written into the conditions of international activity.
While, within states, there can be legislation that applies to all and legitimate means of coercion that can make relations between people more peaceful, at international level there is no legitimate referee, nor will there ever be, whether it is an international organisation or a state that claims to have sole responsibility for peace among nations.
That is because, faced with a referee State, in reality an imperial state, just as when faced with any supranational organisation, the other states will never lose sight of their own interests, their own personality and, I repeat, their sovereignty, as my colleague Mrs Goudin said.
That does not necessarily mean that the world is a jungle: it simply means that peace is based solely on the balance between nations and groups of nations and that all international law can do is marginalise the natural games of states that, however devoted they claim to be to the cause of peace, are still heartless monsters and will never stop calculating their power.
I hope that realism will open our eyes and that we will finally be able to see the narrowness of the framework within which our actions are confined, by the very nature of things. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make just six comments.
Firstly, I would like to condemn the actions of the United States administration, which torpedoed the United Nations in general and these New York meetings in particular.
The European Union acted firmly and at least ensured that the commitments and the timetable approved five years ago were maintained.
When the Millennium Goal was debated, it became obvious that the donor countries must be more generous.
In my address to the 145 delegations in attendance, I reaffirmed Parliament’s recent positions as regards the reform of the United Nations and the commitment towards the Millennium Development Goals.
My message was given greater resonance by the fact that previously all European Parliament resolutions on issues such as this were disclosed to the national and regional political delegations.
With specific regard to the reform of the United Nations, I told the delegates that Parliament stands four-square behind the positions adopted by the UN Secretary-General, such as his view that world security is intrinsically linked to economic and social development, respect for human rights and environmental protection.
My last point on the United Nations General Assembly was that not only should there be reform of working methods but also that there should ultimately be a proper United Nations parliamentary assembly.
My plan was to contribute to the debate with this brief overview, which will also act as the report on the mission that I am required to make to Parliament. &#160;&#160; .
At the 2005 Millennium Review Summit our heads of state and government and those of another 166 countries took up the challenge set by Kofi Annan of reforming the United Nations to make it more efficient, more effective and indeed more relevant to today's challenges.
I believe that we all share the view that a stronger, more effective and appropriately resourced United Nations is the only way to ensure global stability and prosperity in this interdependent world.
As the European Union set out in its statement to the General Assembly on 17 September: 'Without a shared effort to accelerate progress towards the Millennium Development Goals, rich and poor countries alike face a future of increased instability.
Failure in UN-led efforts to tackle the threat of terrorism and proliferation would endanger the prosperity of the developing world as much as the developed.
Mr Millán Mon, Mr&#160;Lambsdorff and Mr Schmidt raised the issue of Security Council enlargement.
In relation to this issue, while European Union partners agree that the Security Council should be reformed, it is the case that there is no European Union consensus on the model.
On the related issue of whether the European Union should have a seat on the Security Council, I would respectfully remind Members of this Parliament that the United Nations Charter is very clear on this point: it allows only individual member states to hold seats on the Council, not regional organisations.
It will not surprise her to hear that I am indeed supportive of the references to the need for innovative funding mechanisms in relation to the pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals.
In relation to her other specific question, whether Member States are already starting to roll back on their aid volume commitments, I would categorically say no.
The 25 Member States signed up to collectively provide at least 0.56% of GNI by 2010 and, in the case of the EU 15, to all spend at least 0.7% of their GNI on aid by 2015.
As I told the party conference I addressed only a couple of days ago, to imagine that 15 countries within Europe would make such a commitment even only a few years ago would have been a dream for many of us who have long pursued that objective.
The European Union reaffirmed that commitment in its statement at the Millennium Review Summit.
The Commission and the Council will monitor progress on an annual basis.
The next point raised was by Mr Portas.
It is important to reflect the fact that we all share the disappointment of many Member States within the United Nations, and indeed of many Members here in this Parliament, including Mr Leinen, about the lack of an international commitment to non-proliferation displayed in the ultimate inability of states to agree any language on these subjects.
I can assure you all that although I speak for the Presidency today, the United Kingdom has worked tirelessly and literally to the last minute both nationally and in other fora representing the European Union as Presidency, to seek the best possible outcome on non-proliferation and disarmament at that Millennium Review Summit.
I can also assure this House that we will continue to seek sensible and pragmatic solutions to overcome this deficit that will enhance the nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Turning to the questions posed by Mr Guardans Cambó, I would respectfully say that smaller European Union countries did play a vital role in formulating the shared views of the European Union in the run-up to the Millennium Review Summit.
Mrs Vaidere then went on to question whether there was a role for a new international organisation to replace the United Nations.
Rather, the challenge on the basis of what I and some Members of this Parliament have made clear today is that we need to give tangible expression to the words agreed back in the United Nations Millennium Review Summit only a few days ago, and ensure that the further words that are now on paper can be translated in the weeks and months ahead into further action.
Mrs Belohorská addressed questions to the Commission about the Beijing follow-up summit.
Mr Deva made a powerful case for greater efficiency and effectiveness in the operation of the United Nations.
I believe there has been a broad consensus throughout this Parliament today on the need for that further action to be taken now.
For nearly a decade the United Nations has been discussing a global convention on terrorism that seeks itself to define terrorism.
Mr Romeva i Rueda expressed his disappointment on the Security Council.
We share, however, the disappointment that he expressed on the failure to pursue a treaty on the international arms trade.
Again, I am conscious that I speak to this Parliament today representing the Presidency rather than any one individual Member State.
However, I can assure him of our continuing commitment to this issue, not least because my own party was recently re-elected in the United Kingdom on an explicit manifesto commitment to try and take forward progress on an arms trade treaty.
Mrs Sinnott said that even the tidiest house sometimes needed to be spring cleaned.
I certainly agree that reform has a real contribution to make to the pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals and that is why we are so determined that the words of September are translated into action in the weeks and months ahead.
Mr Dillen quoted General Charles de Gaulle.
Instead he went on to raise the question again of United Nations Security Council enlargement and I have spoken at some length about the position of the Presidency in relation to that question.
Mr Barón Crespo raised an issue which frankly I expected we might have heard more of in the course of the debate today, which is the centrality of the World Trade Organization talks, just ten working weeks away, in pursuit of the Millennium Development Goals.
It is hard to overstate the significance of the challenge that collectively Europe, the United States and the other representatives of the World Trade Organization face when they arrive, and in the weeks before arriving in Hong Kong.
The opportunity for Europe now is once again to grasp the leadership potential that is within its grasp and move actively and aggressively to try and make sure that the very development dimension to the original Doha Declaration is given expression in Hong Kong.
Mr Coûteaux raised the issue of a seat at the United Nations, which I have already addressed, and Mr Martínez Martínez spoke of the United States.
I certainly acknowledge the significance of that point and therefore respectfully suggest that perhaps the Commissioner is better qualified than I to answer it.
The final contribution came from Mr dos Santos, in which he explained his own presence at an important international meeting that preceded the Millennium Review Summit.
Again, I would simply take this opportunity to reiterate the sincere gratitude, both of the Commission, I believe, and certainly of the Presidency-in-Office, for the tireless efforts of many Members of this Parliament in pursuing what was achieved in the United Nations Millennium Review Summit.
I fully accept that there is some disappointment that the Summit document ultimately did not go as far as many of us would have wished it to, but I am absolutely convinced that but for the effective action of members of the European Union, we would not have achieved the progress that we did in New York.
Mr President, I shall be brief and just say at the beginning that we were delighted to see a parliamentary delegation in New York.
The picture was a mixed one, but I think it was very important that this Millennium Summit ended with a declaration from where we can go on, and this is the most important thing.
Knowing the UN as I do – I was chief of protocol for Boutros Boutros-Ghali in 1994 and 1995 – I know that it can only be as good as its member states, and as good as the member states that are ready to go for a compromise.
There are 191 member states, so it is not easy for a European Union with 25 member states and some associated member states with the same positions to bring the issue forward.
There is a good chance that at this General Assembly before the end of the year there might even be a conclusion of this agreement.
It is very important to think of the other part of the population that is not yet always represented in an appropriate manner, and therefore we think women can make a special contribution to peace and to peace-building, on which we have placed particular emphasis.
But there is a very strong commitment from our side to go on, with an excellent President of the General Assembly. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I had asked the Commission and the Council for their opinion on when Parliament can expect the representatives of Commission and Council to be combined in New York and at the other sites of the United Nations, in order to achieve better coherence in the Union’s representation at the United Nations.
The Council Secretariat now has an office in New York; the Commission has observer status at the United Nations, and we work extremely closely together.
The debate is closed.
Some of these measures have still to be implemented in some Member States.
The experience of Member States shows the importance of heightening public awareness of waste-related issues.
Therefore it is important to recognise that, particularly in relation to directives that have been passed, there are processes whereby infringement procedures can follow.
In the light of the bombings in Madrid on 11 March 2004 and in London on 7&#160;July 2005, the EU is now facing a defining moment in its approach to combating this attack on the European way of life.
The Council has always endeavoured to strike a balance between providing security to European Union citizens while simultaneously guaranteeing their human rights and civil liberties, regardless of religious belief or ethnic origin.
On 13 June 2002, the Council adopted a framework decision on combating terrorism.
It is specifically mentioned in Article 1 of the framework decision that it 'shall not have the effect of altering the obligation to respect fundamental rights and fundamental legal principles as enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaty'.
The objective of the Council's website is twofold: to provide information on the role and activities of the Council and to enable the institution to comply with its obligations as regards access to documents.
I think there is a genuine question as to how we ensure the kind of duplication, which has been all too common amongst the government websites of Member States, and ensure that the product offered to the citizenry of Europe better reflects the single access point that we wish the public to move towards.
The Commission has recently announced its action plan to improve communicating in Europe and I am sure that will have a direct bearing on the Europa site. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office, perhaps you would like to visit a website that really does frustrate one, that really does contain inaccuracies.
The number of users of the Council register has been steadily increasing ever since.
Consultations in terms of number of screens viewed totalled more than 5.5&#160;million.
As these figures on the use by the public of the register of Council documents indicate, the register has indeed become a frequently used research tool for citizens wishing to closely follow the development of Community affairs.
Moreover, apart from the document number entry, the users of the register can search for documents on a given subject via other entries of the register, such as the meeting date, the interinstitutional file number or a subject code.
It is as if Charles Clarke's frenzy of activity on this topic was a mirage.
Finally, in the preparation of new agreements or renewal of existing ones, the Commission systematically presents to the Council assessment reports on the effects of these agreements.
The United Kingdom Presidency is also working with the Commission to host a seminar later this year on the question of third-country agreements. &#160;&#160; Minister, I find it absolutely extraordinary that a government such as yours and that of your leader Tony Blair – who has made such a big play on Africa, what is going wrong in Africa, and what we have to do to try to help Africa – can be turning a blind eye to this issue.
I did serve, however, representing Cornwall and Plymouth.
Fishing in that part of the world relies totally on partnerships and agreements.
It is a debate which is in some way similar to the debate on economic partnership agreements in general.
Few would disagree with the principle that partnership agreements of this kind can genuinely be of benefit to the developing countries concerned.
However, if in practice the effect of those agreements is inimical and detrimental to their very objectives, then that is rightfully a matter of concern.
That is why I have undertaken, if evidence is produced, to pass it on to the relevant individuals. &#160;&#160; It is extraordinary that Mr Farage should raise this issue when he barely attends the Committee on Fisheries, and I would urge him to attend on a more regular basis, so that he can put forward his views on this.
While the political situations in Kosovo and Serbia are not directly analogous, we judge that there are opportunities for minorities in Serbia to enjoy full involvement in parliamentary politics.
One of the first measures taken by the new Serbian Parliament in early 2004 was to abolish the threshold for parliamentary representation – that is, 5% – in the case of parties representing ethnic minorities.
To conclude this agreement Belgrade will need to meet a range of conditions set down by the European Union.
To eventually join the European Union Belgrade will need to have met all the Copenhagen political criteria.
The honourable Member is right to highlight the need for democratic standards in Serbia to be at the heart of this process. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am obliged to the President-in-Office for his very good, very specific answer.
I should just like to add that the Preševo Valley, that is to say, the Albanian-inhabited region of southern Serbia, has no parliamentary representation at all, whilst the Serbian minority in Kosovo is guaranteed seats, at least in theory: they have not yet been taken up.
We only have to wait a little longer for that report, and it in the light of it will be better able to continue the discussion on the final status of Kosovo. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Alexander, I would like to call to your attention the fact that there is a province in northern Serbia named Vojvodina that had the same status as Kosovo before 1989, whereas now it is practically a ‘territory on paper’ only, without a status.
When saying that there are positive ethnic changes in Serbia, I wonder whether you are aware of the fact that members of a European nation, namely of the Hungarian nation are persecuted and assaulted only because they speak Hungarian, while the police refuses to record their complaints, there are more and more judges of a doubtful reputation from Kosovo and Krajina in the region, and now there are murders ... &#160;&#160; .
We are thankful that no one was hurt, according to the reports we have received, but I am aware of the concerns that the honourable Member has expressed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am glad that negotiations with Croatia are now actually set to begin in a few days’ time.
While freedom of religious belief is guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, and the European Commission's 2004 Regular Report on Turkey's progress towards accession noted that freedom to worship is largely unhampered, important issues in this area remain outstanding.
Under the revised accession partnership adopted in May 2003, Turkey is required inter alia to establish conditions for the functioning of non-Muslim religious communities which are in line with the practice of European Union Member States.
I would however suggest that many of us believe that the very process which Turkey has been through, and which it would continue to move through, is the best guarantee that these very issues that need to be addressed are being addressed and will continue to be addressed in the future. &#160;&#160; Obviously, the issue of religious freedom is absolutely critical in negotiations with Turkey.
I look forward to continuing this discussion. &#160;&#160; Questions 9 to 38 will be answered in writing(2).
On behalf of Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and the Commission, I am pleased to have this opportunity to exchange views with you on the situation in Belarus and on the Commission's work to support democratisation and civil society.
The Commission is deeply concerned about the absence of democracy and the rule of law and the lack of respect for human rights in Belarus.
Belarus is in clear breach of its international commitments under the OSCE and UN charters.
We have condemned firmly the acts of intimidation by the Belarussian authorities against the Union of the Poles in Belarus.
These incidents occur in the context of growing repression of political parties, NGOs and independent media outlets in Belarus.
The TACIS Programme was refocused to address the needs of the population with the full participation of the civil society.
We shall issue a further call for proposals under the EIDHR Programme in October, with a total budget of EUR 420 000.
We are also in the process of allocating more than EUR 1.7 million for three specific new projects for Belarus.
In addition, we shall open a Commission office in Minsk early next year.
The Commission has taken the lead in the discussions on how to improve cooperation among the donors active in Belarus.
We have organised three donors meetings this year.
The first one was in Vilnius in March, followed by one in Kiev in July, and the latest one was held last week in Brussels.
The process of democratisation in Belarus and the wellbeing of its people are matters that are very close to our heart and to the Commission's objectives.
It was more than a historical resolution, however, as it was also partly an appeal to solidarity within the European Union.
As the Commissioner rightly pointed out, however, the situation in Belarus is changing very rapidly.
I believe the help and support provided by other Belarussians who share the same fate as Poles in Belarus was equally important.
In particular, I should like to thank representatives of the Belarussian opposition for their support of the Union of Poles in Belarus at this difficult time.
In my view, the European Commission should also be congratulated on the matter referred to by the Commissioner, that is, on the first signs of a review of the European Union’s policy towards Belarus.
This is one of the deficiencies in our approach: not all of us consider Belarus as our backyard issue, as indeed it is.
Instead, allow me to register the fact that significant progress has been registered since the last time we met and tackled this subject in this Chamber.
As you said, Commissioner, the Commission is opening a representative office in Minsk and a broadcasting project is kicking off, even though some of us are not that happy with the way it is being tackled – and they may be right.
The statements made by the country's President during the United Nations Summit are not a good omen.
I hope that this interest in Belarus will not wane, as political appointments in certain Member States come and go.
The situation in Belarus is too delicate to be used as a political football.
But it should be a commitment of the European Union. &#160;&#160; . &#160;Mr&#160;President, Belarus is an anomaly on the European continent.
He is clearly afraid of the wind of freedom that swept through Europe precisely as a result of Solidarity’s activities.
It is not simply a matter of gestures of this nature.
I was delighted to hear the Commissioner say that the European Commission is launching programmes for Belarus, but I am distressed that all this has taken so long.
If we fail to do so and do not help Belarus, then not only will Belarus be a stain on the map of Europe but it will also be a stain on our consciences.
Europe needs to be synonymous with freedom, and that means freedom for Belarus too. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, we are united in our criticism of the alarming development in our neighbouring country.
A dictatorship with no respect for human rights or for democracy is being systematically installed before our eyes.
This convergence of views even extends to the Commission and the Council.
We must finally take action and use all means at our disposal to promote democracy and pluralism in Belarus.
The Commission has left the Polish/Baltic/Ukrainian initiative out in the cold.
The use of sanctions should be much more modulated and targeted.
I call on the Commissioner to develop a special programme and to hasten to sit down at the table with the Council, so that genuinely coherent political, financial and economic measures can be taken and thus 2006 can see the beginnings of democracy in Belarus. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to concur with the sharp criticism of the Lukashenko regime heard in the Chamber this evening.
I am, in general, able to agree with all the positions put forward in the resolution, but I believe that one area could be developed further, namely the significance of the independent trade union movement in Belarus.
Independent trade unions have been among the key organisers of the opposition to the Lukashenko regime, but they are now fighting for their survival and existence under the tyranny.
There is a great deal of cooperation between trade unions in other EU countries, for example Sweden, and independent trade unions in Belarus.
Against this background, I support the Commission’s initiative to contribute financially to independent radio transmissions for Belarus.
Not only do the Poles earmark considerably more funds, but their programmes will also start straightaway in Belarussian this autumn.
The oppressive regime in Minsk even acts as if a NATO intervention were underway.
This may result in a small border conflict.
I would ask you Commissioner, as you are replacing Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, to pass on those questions that are, after all, essential to the EU’s security policy, not least in view of the CFSP.
This instrument should be as flexible, fast and effective as possible concerning the provision of support in unfavourable legal circumstances.
The fact that we are holding yet another debate on Belarus testifies to the weakness demonstrated by Parliament and the European Union in this regard.
This is the fifth time Belarus has been on our agenda, yet we have still not succeeded in prioritising the issue and making it a condition of the development of good relations between the European Union and Russia.
It is true that the European Commission has been promising more and more, but it is still dragging its feet and acting reluctantly, slowly and passively where Belarus is concerned.
As a result, the European Union’s credibility in this area has been compromised.
I would simply like to point out that even the administrative procedures adopted by the quasi-grotesque regime in Minsk have proved more efficient and effective than ours in the case of radio broadcasts.
Belarus is broadcasting to the European Union, but from our side there is nothing but a deafening silence.
I should like to conclude with a more general observation, namely that Europe has cast itself in such a ridiculous light with regard to Belarus that it has rendered its declaration on the Union’s common foreign policy completely meaningless. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, this House has already occupied itself with Belarus repeatedly in the past, but it was only a small minority that did so: Mrs&#160;Schroedter, my colleague Mr&#160;Gahler and a few others.
I am pleased that we are now working actively on this important issue.
This is due to our Polish fellow Members, in particular, and I should like to thank them explicitly for this.
Such attempts are absurd and doomed to failure but, as we know, these ideas are being toyed with further east.
I should also like to criticise in no uncertain terms the German broadcaster Deutsche Welle, which broadcasts its programmes in that important European country in Russian: that is to say, in the language of the colonial power that oppressed Belarus for many years and shares responsibility for the situation now prevailing there.
This culture forms an important part of the community of the European peoples. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the Internet has become one of the main sources of independent information in Belarus over the last few years.
Mr&#160;Lukashenko’s regime is doing its best to control use of the Internet by civil society.
The European Union should be exploiting the most modern means of communication as it strives to promote human rights in Belarus.
The Union must increase the funding devoted to exploiting those new forms of communication through the Internet and mobile telephony that could serve the interests of Belarussian civil society. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, we all have experience of unhealed wounds and injustices that may define the present-day situation for us.
Finally, Belarus is not merely Lukashenko, or vice versa.
EU policy should strive to improve the situation of the country and its people.
The 1995&#160;Council of Europe framework convention on the protection of national minorities is being systematically and brutally infringed as regards the Union of Poles in Belarus and also other minorities such as the Roma.
The European Parliament traditionally and quite rightly responds to violations of human rights, including the rights of national minorities in different parts of the world.
Parliament cannot therefore remain indifferent to events in Belarus.
The Independence and Democracy Group supports the draft joint resolution, especially concerning the situation of Poles in Belarus.
The European Parliament would do well to keep this in mind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union’s policy to date in relation to the Lukashenko regime has been completely spineless.
The European Commission does not have an adequate action plan to foster the development of democracy in practice.
The coordination of action and information between European Union institutions, the Council of Europe and the United Nations is totally inadequate.
Firstly, I would like to express my extreme disappointment at the fact that, because of the conditions of the competition that has been announced, the broadcasting organisations of the Baltic States and Poland cannot in practice participate.
The fact that many people in Belarus know Russian better, and do not know Belarussian, is a direct consequence of Russification.
That is a process we should not encourage. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the opposition parties, non-governmental organisations and national and religious minorities in Belarus are all eagerly awaiting the impact of the action by the European Commission and by the Council.
Individuals who have oppressed non-governmental organisations, minorities and the Protestant churches are able to travel freely across Europe, because the visa sanctions only apply to a couple of them.
I suggest drawing up a report on the situation in Belarus in conjunction with hearings and in-depth research, with a view to drafting a plan for the Union’s dealings with Belarus in the short and long term.
This report would also be useful in establishing needs and threats, and the resources and types of action the European Union and the Member States should take.
All citizens of the free world and especially those of us who come from the part of Europe that endured Communism’s iron rule, have a special calling to combat totalitarianism and contempt for human rights.
We need to help the people of Belarus to topple Mr&#160;Lukashenko, and we should also help them to lay the foundations for a free civil society and educate the younger generation.
We should support the democratic opposition in Belarus and condemn violations of citizens’ freedoms and human rights.
The Commission ought to support Belarussian culture, of which the Belarussian language is a part.
Broadcasts in Belarussian from radio and television stations in Poland are being received in Belarus, and this work deserves support.
The voice of the European Parliament and its support for our initiative adds tremendous weight to the European Union's efforts to push for greater democratisation and respect for human rights in Belarus.
This has never been more essential than today, in the run-up to the elections, which if fairly conducted could be a turning point in the country's destiny. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;Rehn.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the draft resolutions will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
All too often recently, this Parliament has found itself debating the behaviour of the Belarussian Government, the last bastion of Communist authoritarianism in our continent.
It is intolerable that all this is happening on our doorstep.
While we support President Barroso’s approach, we believe that efforts should be stepped up to increase the European Union’s presence in Minsk: to distribute information, carry out coordination and support activities, and monitor the situation, particularly regarding human rights.
My starting point was the Commission’s Communication on a strategic partnership between the European Union and India, of June 2004, and the excellent and well-researched response of the Indian Government in its strategic document of August of the same year.
I have taken account of the various meetings held since then by Indians and Europeans and, of course, the 5th bilateral Summit in The Hague, of November of last year, the cornerstone that officially launched the strategic partnership and which accords India the status of privileged partner, similar to that granted to other important countries.
Finally, where possible, I followed the preparations and meetings prior to the 6th bilateral Summit in New Delhi, on 7 September of this year, which gave the green light to the expected joint action plan of the strategic partnership.
I believe that, in certain areas of the report, I am going further than the Commission and the Council and there can sometimes be a degree of disagreement between my position and theirs, though more because of omissions rather than concrete actions on their part.
Nevertheless, I believe that, if my report is approved during tomorrow’s sitting, we will be justified in saying that the three Institutions mentioned – Parliament, Commission and Council – fully share the desire to promote, consolidate and enrich our relationship with the largest democracy in the world, in a manner that benefits both parties mutually.
We cannot forget that we are talking about a country, India, which is in fact the largest democracy in the world.
Furthermore, it is worth pointing out, as I do in the text, that some of the objectives indicated in the Council’s Communication and in the recent joint action plan require specific funding which, if we are serious in our intentions, we must not avoid.
I am working on the basis that she and the Union share the view that trade, investment and free competition are key factors for development, but also that, in order for this to be harmonious and equitable, fundamental social requirements must be taken into account which strengthen economic and social cohesion, the environment and the rights of consumers.
There is much food for thought in this report for us to digest.
As the new India defines itself economically and politically, the rest of the world, including Europe, must adjust its own vision of this country.
Europe has clearly indicated that we take India very seriously.
This action plan provides a roadmap for the concrete implementation of our strategic partnership.
We noted the emphasis in the report on the fact that the EU and India, as the largest democracies in the world, share a commitment to values which contribute to global peace and stability.
We share fundamental values, be it our commitment to democracy and human rights or a joint attachment to institutions of global governance.
The new India sometimes seems like one world in a single country.
However, we also need to give an important position to the dissemination of the product of bilateral cooperation in the area of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, in which India plays a central role, and within the framework of the global trade system.
An eminent opportunity for constructive cooperation, as you yourself said Commissioner, is without doubt the current WTO round, the Doha round.
Finally, I trust that the particular weight which India has at G20 will take on the characteristics of a fruitful and creative contribution to bridging the positions between the developed and the developing countries.
We are moving towards a strategic partnership that we hope the Commission and also the European Council will formally consolidate, while we, as the European Parliament, must strongly demand an active role in the area of cooperation with the Indian Parliament.
The rapporteur, Mr&#160;Menéndez del Valle, has produced an excellent report which, however, requires the ongoing commitment of the European Parliament.
That is why, if we want to commit ourselves alongside India to achieving a new balance for peace and development in any shape or form, it is vital that an interparliamentary delegation between the EU and India should be created, that there should be annual meetings between the two parliaments and, in short, that in practical terms our Parliament should guarantee its ongoing commitment to all the items called for in the directive on which we shall vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Menéndez del Valle on his excellent work.
It possesses immense geopolitical strength and it is timely for us to shift our relationship to a higher and a more intensive level.
In the words of Tony Blair, it is crucial for the EU and India to create an equal partnership for mutual benefit, especially with our own declining demographic trends and with half of India's population being under 25.
However, while we often hear about India's highly-developed technical sector, it is important not to forget that there are still huge challenges in India where we could play a pivotal role: poverty and deprivation and over 600 million people reliant on farming.
There is an urgent need to create and upgrade our contacts between parliaments.
In Europe, we must ensure that we establish stronger ties with countries that share our values.
The proposed EU-India Strategic Partnership therefore represents an opportunity for both the EU and India and has the potential to have a positive effect on the whole of the South-East Asian region.
Whilst it is all too easy to see this partnership in purely economic terms, to my mind it represents much more than this.
There must always be a willingness to raise these issues with our partners, but always to do so on the basis of equality in exchange for mutual benefit.
India is a nation rich in culture and history.
In our global village, South-East Asia represents an area of great opportunity and it is here that our relations with India can help bring about peace, stability and closer cooperation between the South-East Asian nations.
Here we have the astonishing spectacle of the EU pouring funds into the three SEI organisations, relocating thousands of jobs in the call centre software services sector to India, just part of the relocation of so many jobs to Asia.
Of course, democracy on the Indian sub-continent is rooted in specific traditions and value systems but it is democracy nonetheless.
It already has observer status at the G7.
It is a country of paradoxes, as I was able to observe during the couple of weeks I spent there.
On the other, as Mrs&#160;Gill mentioned earlier, over half a billion people live off farming and 370&#160;million people, almost 35% of the population, live below the poverty threshold.
In addition, India is a country that needs to import 70% of its energy from abroad, and is dependent on foreign support.
There is no doubt, however, that Delhi will soon be playing a leading role on the world political and economic stage.
A strategic partnership between the Union and India is a necessary step in the right direction for both parties.
We should not gloss over certain issues such as the as yet unresolved conflict in Kashmir or the fact that the latest round in the so-called cricket diplomacy between India and Pakistan does not take account of the wishes of the people of Kashmir.
Important as it is, that consideration should not be allowed to detract from the fact that India needs the Union and the Union needs India. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of my proudest achievements in this House was to co-found three years ago the informal intergroup, Friends of India.
The Sixth EU-India Summit in New Delhi on 7&#160;September between EU Council President Tony Blair, Commission President Barroso and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was a great success, with the signing of the joint action plan for an EU-India strategic partnership.
India recently bought Airbus, and in my country we are outsourcing call centres and even healthcare to India, which I – unlike my UKIP colleague – welcome.
More could be done to facilitate so-called Mode 4, free movement of professionals – particularly research scientists – and India is now participating, as mentioned, in the Galileo project.
India deserves its own dedicated European Parliament delegation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate my colleague Mr&#160;Menéndez&#160;del&#160;Valle on his excellent, balanced report.
The strategic partnership, which was reaffirmed in early September in New Delhi, also contains commitments.
I also think that the EU needs to increase its visibility in India.
This is part of the package, and I absolutely disagree with Mr Clark of UKIP: India is investing in Europe.
I believe that both parties have a good deal more planned with each other. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank Mr&#160;Menéndez del Valle for a successful report in which human rights questions have been incorporated into the partnership in an exemplary manner and not set aside as if they were a separate category, as is often the way.
India’s development in recent decades has been remarkable.
EU-Indian relations are close; we are friends.
The Indian Human Rights Commission has already done a remarkable job, but local authorities should also systematically comply with good political decisions.
Approximately 35% of India’s billion or more inhabitants live below the poverty line, and a large number of people are still totally deprived of basic rights.
Those Dalits who try to break away from the caste system by marrying into a higher caste or, for example, by acquiring education or land legally, often become victims of physical violence and social outcasts.
Local authorities are all too ready to interpret the law to the benefit of a higher caste.
We Members of the European Parliament have on many occasions raised the issue of human rights violations resulting from the caste system, but so far we have seen little practical action on the part of the EU.
Now that industry is talking openly about the leaps in technology that India needs and which the EU can help realise, the EU should be providing India with more tangible support in issues of human rights in order for it to be able to put its excellent political will into practice. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and India are predestined for strategic cooperation and for strategic partnership.
The EU and India are predestined for strategic cooperation in global, political and security matters, be it on a bilateral level or within the United Nations, for example.
In my own country, the Czech Republic, for example, Mittal Steel has successfully restructured the Czech steel industry.
India and the EU are also predestined to cooperate on the environment, agriculture, human rights, in meeting the Millennium Goals and in the fight against poverty.
I would like to conclude by thanking and congratulating our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Menéndez del Valle, for his well-balanced and first-rate report.
I support this report and believe that the House will also give its full support to it in tomorrow’s vote. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Especially in eastern Europe, refitting the building stock and then modernising the central district heating systems to bring biomass instead of coal, is a major part of that area.
There again we need a stable framework until 2020, otherwise investments in second-generation biofuels will not happen.
Lastly, I would like to thank all those colleagues who were with me.
This issue has increasing importance not only with the current high oil prices but also for the medium- and long-term policies in the European Union.
It presents a cohesive and comprehensive overview of the possibilities that exist in the short and medium term as regards renewable energy.
As this is an own-initiative report from Parliament, I will not comment on all elements in the report or the amendments, but take some of the key points of the report.
It goes to show that we can make changes in our energy mix in the future.
You have a vision for the use of research, market uptake and support schemes.
Furthermore, you argue convincingly that renewable energy is part of the global solution to our global problems on energy.
The energy potential of biomass in the Union is significant and needs to be developed.
In the recent Commission proposal for a Council decision on rural development, the Commission proposed the integration of biomass and biofuels in rural development as an important new market in a sustainable agriculture.
It is obvious that direct support measures will remain essential in the future to ensure sufficient penetration of renewable energy in the market and to meet our agreed targets.
This communication will be a good opportunity to evaluate the many different support schemes which actually exist in Europe.
It will also address the barriers which are hampering the development of renewable energies.
On heating and cooling, I welcome the own-initiative report from Mrs Rothe which will also contribute to bringing the appropriate initiatives forward.
In the current context of high oil prices we have to react with determination and ambition.
Secondly, we need to create a suitable legal framework which will support renewables.
A framework which will go beyond the confines of an energy system which, together with its legal bases, was built at a time when renewable sources of energy were more or less unknown.
It is obvious that in some Member States there is neither the will nor the inclination to take seriously the need to generate renewable energy, while others are forging ahead.
The Biofuels Directive sets targets of 2% market penetration for biofuels by the end of this year, but in Ireland a target of only 0.03% for biofuels has been set.
The contribution of the common agricultural policy towards renewable energy production must be recognised in both biofuels and biomass.
There is a concern that there may be a conflict in time between the production of crops for food and for non-food usage, and that would be regrettable.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of renewable energy, but we have occasionally had to remind Mr&#160;Turmes of the need for the matter to be approached with more realism.
The report has many positive aspects.
The subject of biomass was very important to us, and I am pleased that we succeeded in voting in a whole chapter.
We have limited funds, and we have to achieve as much as possible with those at our disposal.
For example, we feel that the target of 25% by 2020 presents problems and have tabled amendments on this.
The current oil crisis, in particular, has made it increasingly clear that finite sources of energy must be replaced with constantly self-renewing sources.
The EU has recently launched a successful strategy for the expansion of renewable energies, which includes legal requirements for targets, for example for electricity from biofuels.
We have achieved market penetration and thus made an important contribution to the fight against climate change.
This means that we need clear legal requirements with clear targets, in order to create incentives for the Member States to take appropriate action, and in order to exploit the considerable potential of biomass, solar thermal energy and geothermal energy in this field.
The document is very important because it restores the balance in a situation that seems to favour centralised, concentrated energy production.
It will be an effort that should first of all give us precise information on the contribution that each source can make.
I am sure that their contributions will be extremely important in an absolute sense – beyond our wildest dreams – not least because production will be spread out.
That will lead to a greater sense of responsibility and a leap forwards in energy efficiency, through the widespread adoption of electricity generation coupled with heating and cooling at the same time.
That approach should be a priority, because it embodies our commitment.
To reduce greenhouse gases we have to aim at bringing the oil age to an end and turning to alternative energy sources, starting with the first alternative source which is energy efficiency.
A policy to increase efficiency and reduce waste can, within a few years, achieve a saving of over 20% in oil consumption; a similar amount could result from a massive switch to renewables such as wind, solar and biomass.
The European Commission’s Green Paper on energy is a good starting point but, for it to be effective, research programmes need to be prepared that can simulate the development of sustainable and competitive energy systems, including by means of multi-annual demonstration projects – here in the European Parliament, for instance –and policies supporting small and medium-sized enterprises that invest in the sector.
The various energy crises coupled with the prospect of the exhaustion of non-renewable organic fuels in view of increased demand and the need to protect the environment have led to increased interest in sources of renewable energy.
I therefore welcome the decision to debate this issue in the House.
A&#160;few months ago, the institutions of the European Union addressed the issue of energy security in Europe.
According to one admittedly platonic statement, the dependency of European countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70% in the next twenty years.
On the other hand, to have a realistic chance of meeting energy requirements, Europeans must overcome their phobia of nuclear energy and of established forms of energy production, operated, of course, in strict compliance with environmental and operational norms.
In this context, I must criticise the decision, motivated largely by political considerations, to decommission prematurely the nuclear power plant at Jaslovské Bohunice, in spite of the fact that the plant meets operational safety requirements.
This will weaken the energy potential not of only Slovakia, but of the entire European Union, and will draw away resources that might have served, among other things, to finance programmes aimed at supporting alternative forms of energy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the question of promoting renewable sources of energy is of crucial importance.
The recent opinion simply emphasises this.
Firstly, we need to promote the independence of island systems in the European Union.
Connecting them to existing energy networks is causing problems.
The Commission needs to study best practices in managing networks, in order to resolve these problems.
This must be our first concern, if we want renewable sources of energy to penetrate each country's energy system. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, energy produced from renewable sources should be exploited according to the technological priorities for a given country.
In addition, wood-based biomass has to be dried to remove about 20% of its water content, and this process consumes additional energy.
Another priority for Poland could be energy contained in municipal waste.
The report deserves credit and speaks for itself.
When we speak of renewable biofuels and the cultivation of energy crops, it must be realised that energy production competes with food production for the same area of land.
At the same time, a large number of people in the world are starving.
Mankind needs to explore this possibility for energy production thoroughly.
We are faced with problems, and solving them will rely on the coordination of population growth, food production and renewable energy production. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on a highly informative report on the 21 types of renewable energy, which will play an ever-increasing role in the 21st century, whether from a climate-change perspective or that of the security of supply of fossil fuels and increasing prices.
My own country, Ireland, is uniquely placed for the development of green energy and green fuel: we have the technological base, the climate and amongst the strongest wind and waves in Europe off our Atlantic coast.
Just yesterday our minister announced a new scheme to support another 400 megawatts of renewable capacity.
He is proposing the only scheme in Europe to cap prices and quantities.
The investigation into anti-competitiveness practices in the electricity market announced six months ago by Commissioner Kroes will no doubt show that the ESB – our Electricity Supply Board – like its French counterpart EDF, still holds an effective monopoly and abuses its dominant position as the gatekeeper of the national grid, instead of ring-fencing generation from grid operation with cross-subsidisation of uneconomic fossil fuel generation with the national grid profits.
Now, however, companies which produce oil from oil shale have apparently raised their prices considerably through a cartel agreement.
The moral is that the European Union must increase pressure on those Member States’ governments that are burying their heads in the sand.
It is a much broader issue – the committee responsible for taxation questions and other committees, especially those that are concerned with economic development, should deal with these issues.
Definitely the situation of market liberalisation differs from one Member State to another.
I thank the rapporteur and everyone else who contributed to this very good report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly welcome the Turmes report outlining the future of renewables according to the overall guidelines of the Lisbon Strategy.
I also agree that within the framework of a consistent European energy policy, renewable energy sources can have a positive impact on job creation, environment protection, market integration, research and development, innovation, as well as sustainable economic development in the coming decades.
However, I would like to point out that technologies using renewable energy are very expensive, both in terms of their absolute value and their efficiency.
Having said that, the price of energy, especially under current circumstances, is a highly sensitive issue in many of the Member States, to such an extent that it can even endanger social cohesion itself.
Meanwhile the Commission supports the Roma community where it can, notably through our assistance programmes to improve the overall sustainability of their living conditions.
The second question concerns the issue of whether the principle of non-refoulement is being fully respected in the event of the forcible repatriation of Roma refugees to Kosovo.
Thirdly, the question on Roma in Kosovo in general.
All progress reports contain a chapter on the political situation and the criteria as laid down by the Copenhagen European Council in June 1993.
This chapter contains a section on minorities and minority protection in candidate and potential candidate countries, including the Western Balkan countries.
This year's progress report on Kosovo will be no exception and thus provides an assessment of the situation of minorities, including Roma.
This issue will also be regularly monitored and addressed in future progress reports and in the Commission's political dialogue with Kosovo.
Of course we will very carefully study what Ambassador Kia Eide will present in his standard report on Kosovo, which is due in a few weeks.
This will concern the implementation of the decentralisation measures and the critical issue of minority protection.
It is high time that the European Union developed uniform standards for minorities, not only within the EU – where, to be frank, there are no standards at all for minorities, which is a problem – but also in our external relations with the candidate countries and with the associated countries.
Yet we should begin with the right to vote.
The right to vote does exist, and seats in the Kosovan Parliament are reserved for minorities.
It truly is worrying that this is the first time since 1999 that the European Parliament has debated the question of minority rights in Kosovo.
This policy of double standards, this selective sensitivity towards the Serb minority and towards other minorities in Kosovo is truly worrying.
If we look at the situation as described in the reports by both the High Commissioner for Refugees and the special UN envoy, we see that, since 2004, after the bloody events and the murder of Serbs and other minorities, nothing has improved in Kosovo as regards the protection of minority rights.
We see constant ethnic bloodshed, not to say ethnic cleansing against the minorities in Kosovo by the hard-line nationalistic gangs in Albania.
The European Union designed a European strategy on the basis of the conclusions of the European Council in Thessaloniki.
We support a multi-ethnic and democratic Kosovo which will move towards future integration into the European institutions.
They had all arrived from Kosovo six years ago.
The houses that had been used by Roma before the war are now illegally occupied by Albanians or other people, or have been demolished.
We have no mother country to take us in when we find ourselves in such a situation.
The high level pan-European consortium ... &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, while we have been sitting in this House today, the German television station ARD has been presenting the 2005 Media Prizes for Cultural Diversity and Integration in Europe.
I will begin by responding to the questions from Members Mohácsi, de Groen-Kouwenhoven and Kallenbach.
There are three camps of internally displaced persons in northern Mitrovica for Roma Ashkali and Egyptian people.
Unfortunately, however, this process has not yet started.
In the case of the Roma Mahala, we could not easily make funding available and so have communicated the request to all EU Member States through the Management Committee, asking them to consider making sufficient funds available.
I would also like to respond to Mr Posselt's question concerning minority rights in different countries, in the EU, in accession countries and in our partner countries.
It is true, as Mr Posselt said, that there are many violations inside the European Union.
The minimum rights of minorities are set out in the relevant documents of the Council of Europe and the Convention on Human Rights.
Finally, concerning the questions raised by several Members on the future of Kosovo and its standards and status, there is clearly an urgent need for the economic and social development of Kosovo.
Therefore it is high time to move from stability and reconstruction towards defining the status and working for economic and social development and for the real needs of citizens.
They live in the internment camp of Mitrovica in inhuman circumstances, their health is endangered by poisonous water in the wells, and the local authorities do not take appropriate measures to eliminate the problem.
In this context I would also like to call to your attention the right to family reunification, which grants Roma, just like all other immigrants, the right for protection together with their families within the Member States.
According to the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, legal immigration must be made possible to all victims of inhuman treatment and war who were forced to leave their country because they had lived in constant fear and danger, were persecuted, their homes were burnt down and their lives were in constant jeopardy.
In my opinion, the issue of migration must soon be re-considered so that a solid European immigration policy can be developed.
Opportunities for illegal immigration must be reduced and appropriate protection must be ensured for each legal immigrant within the European Union.
Traffic has grown threefold since 1970 and yet fatalities have been halved.
The EU must act decisively.
This report demonstrates the need for common initiatives at European level.
To follow up on the 2001 White Paper on European transport policy, the European Union had already set the objective of halving the number of deaths on the roads of the 15&#160;Member States at that time by 2010.
The benefit of this objective was that it mobilised each country within the framework of its national competences.
The results are noticeable.
Today, in the enlarged EU, some Member States have made remarkable progress in implementing credible and dissuasive control and sanction policies.
We must recognise that the Union’s policy on road safety has remained in the embryonic stages for too long, because of the subsidiarity principle.
Without anticipating the mid-term review that the Commission will publish shortly, three points in Mr&#160;Vatanen’s report are worth commenting on.
I am particularly grateful to Mr&#160;Vatanen for advocating considerably closer cooperation between Member States to control and deal with offences.
Progress could be made everywhere and, in some Member States, considerable efforts are needed.
The European Union, via the cofinancing that it provides under the Structural Funds, already contributes to the construction of safer and more modern infrastructure.
My third comment is that technological innovation in vehicles is a decisive element in road safety.
A dialogue has been launched between the Commission and the European automotive industry.
It is in this spirit that the Commission is currently assessing the possibilities for new initiatives to encourage the installation of mirrors that eliminate the blind spot and the use of daytime running lights.
The European Union cannot continue to do nothing in the face of the citizens’ worries.
We urge the Commission to help towards accelerating the implementation of the Action Programme, and we also encourage it to develop a long-term road-safety concept, which goes far beyond 2010 and is oriented towards the ‘zero vision’, namely the avoidance of all fatalities caused by road accidents.
In this regard, we believe that this is the time to take that step and the Socialist Group has presented an amendment in which we call upon the Commission, following the evaluation of the Recommendation, specifically in the case of limits for alcohol in the blood, also to offer us the necessary legislative measures applicable to those three aspects that are fundamental, which all the European citizens and all the Member States recognise.
And it is in relation to these coordination problems that the greatest weakness lies.
Moreover, his calling as someone who preaches road safety is reflected in this report in the form of positive mediation and action to support the aim to actually halve road deaths by the year 2010, which is our common objective.
The report contains some excellent proposals concerning compliance with rules and legal provisions relating to seatbelts, speed limits and alcohol.
I am therefore very pleased with this debate.
That is clearly a responsibility shared between the European Union, our Member States and our regions, but also by every one of us.
It is about time, because we have gone from 50&#160;000 deaths to 43&#160;000 deaths in the 25 Member States.
As for the Council, on 4 and 5&#160;November we will hold an informal meeting in Verona on the subject of road safety.
I am therefore delighted that Parliament feels so committed and I must say that, with regard to the Commission’s commitment and to my own personal commitment, you can be certain that I really will make every possible effort both to convince the Member States to get involved in considerably more courageous policies and to assess what the European Union, at its level, can provide and require.
That is why this report is so very apropos, and it comes as a wake-up call for consciences in this matter, which, indeed, requires from all of us resolute and determined ethical behaviour. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The target of achieving a further reduction of 50 % of road accident victims by 2010 might be ambitious but not impossible through proper and combined measures.
The setting of targets, allocation of responsibilities and proper planning can contribute to the success of this ambitious programme.
This is also one of the reasons of grave road safety records of most of the ten new Member States this is mainly why we are lagging far behind the EU-15.
