Arrest of Chinese dissident Hu Jia (debate) - The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on the arrest of the Chinese dissident Hu Jia.
author. - (DE) Madam President, our Group has nominated Hu Jia and his wife, Zeng Jinyan, for the Sakharov Prize.
The bloodbath in Tiananmen Square in 1989, the persecution of the supporters of the Falun Gong movement and the changing of the composition of the populations of Tibet and East Turkestan are being given less and less attention.
In the Netherlands, meanwhile, a debate has started about the possibility of boycotting these Olympic Games.
We are today referring to the illegal detention and persecution of an activist in the cause of freedom, a person who is fighting for freedom in China, namely the politician Hu Jia.
In October and November 2007 the State Security Services abducted and maltreated the attorneys Gao Zhisheng and Li Heping.
On 10 October Hu Jia took part in a press conference on human rights, which was held at the European Parliament in Brussels.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, Hu Jia and Zeng Jinyan have come to symbolise for us the fight for freedom of expression and human rights in China.
Both husband and wife have been nominated by this House for the Sakharov Prize in recognition of their activities, whilst they are repressed in their own country because of those same activities.
Hu Jia was arrested on 2 January.
The Chinese authorities must hear our appeal and stop repressing Hu Jia and the many other victims of persecution.
The arrest of Hu Jia, and many others, show that China is not taking up this opportunity as it should.
The 2008 Beijing Olympics will specifically draw our attention to that preservation - or otherwise - in China.
Currently Hu Jia is under house arrest in China because there are a sufficient number of people there who believe that he is a proponent of their ideas.
This makes us, those Members, just as dangerous as Hu Jia is for the Chinese regime.
Contrary to these expectations, Beijing sees the Olympic Games as a justification for increasing repression against human rights activists.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, only a month ago my colleague, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, expressed in this Chamber the Commission's deep concern at the continuous and systematic repression of human rights' defenders in China.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
