Combating terrorism - Protection of personal data (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mrs Lefrançois, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Framework Decision amending Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA on combating terrorism - C6-0466/2007 - and the report by Mrs Roure, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Framework Decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (renewed consultation) (16069/2007 - C6-0010/2008 -.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, before anything else, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have worked with me on this dossier, because our cooperation has been truly excellent throughout the procedure.
The text we will be voting on today is a particularly sensitive one because talking about combating terrorism spells danger for the rights of European citizens, whether this danger comes from the terrorists themselves or from the freedom-destroying potential of the measures adopted to combat the problem.
The security of its 500 million inhabitants and the defence of the essential values and principles on which it is founded depend on this.
Since the attacks of 11 September 2001, EU territory has itself been the target of terrorist attacks on a number of occasions, with dramatic consequences, as we are all aware: in Madrid in March 2004 and in London in July 2005.
There are currently believed to be around 5 000 websites of this kind.
On one or two specific points, however, it also proposed the tightening up of the framework decision and, in any case, work was still needed to reach an entirely satisfactory level of legal certainty and protection of freedoms.
With our fellow Members from the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, we have therefore tried to find a balance between these two apparently opposite but fundamentally inseparable objectives, namely the fight against terrorism and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms.
The principal changes we have made are as follows: firstly, the replacement of the term 'provocation' with the term 'incitement', which is more precise and is used more frequently in legal language; secondly, a stricter definition of 'public incitement', which more clearly delineates the behaviour to be criminalised and therefore prevents any abuses that would lead to the restriction of freedom of expression; thirdly, the incorporation into the text of many provisions relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and, in particular, freedom of expression and freedom of the press; fourthly, a reminder of the need to guarantee that the measures taken are proportionate to the aims pursued, which is essential in a democratic, non-discriminatory society.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today we are holding a joint debate on the report by my colleague Mrs Lefrançois on combating terrorism and my own report on the protection of personal data processed within the framework of police and judicial cooperation.
It should be remembered that the fight against terrorism cannot really be effective and proportionate unless we guarantee that the fundamental rights of each citizen are strengthened.
We must use our fundamental values of respect for fundamental rights to combat the terrorist movements that threaten our democratic societies.
Surveillance of this type of activity on the Internet requires the collection of a large amount of personal data, but collection must take place with the guarantee of a high level of protection for this personal data.
I would like to remind the Council of the commitments it made when adopting the Directive on the retention of data.
However, for each transfer, an assessment must be made of whether the third country in question is providing an adequate level of protection of personal data, and I would underline the fact that this assessment must be made by an independent authority.
By adopting this position, the European Parliament wishes to respect people's dignity, and we think that the Council should be able to agree with us on this necessity.
Mr President, Commissioner, Chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr Deprez, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, this is a day for the French, and it is also my day: I would ask you to kindly excuse the unexpected absence of Rachida Dati, but it is an honour for me to participate once again in the work of your Parliament, particularly on the sensitive subjects that have just been spoken about.
I would particularly like to express the gratitude of the Council Presidency to Mrs Roure and Mrs Lefrançois for the personal commitment they have demonstrated and the interest they are showing in the issues of combating terrorism and the protection of data.
First of all, with regard to the draft framework decision on combating terrorism, combating terrorism is a challenge for the European Union that requires the pooling of all our efforts.
There were 583 terrorist attacks on European soil in 2007.
Today there are nearly 5 000 websites contributing to the radicalisation of young people in Europe on these issues, and the Slovenian Presidency, as you know, managed to secure an agreement on these challenges at the Justice and Home Affairs Council meeting on 18 April.
I welcome the report by Mrs Lefrançois, who has supported the Council's objective of incorporating, in the framework decision of 13 June 2002, the offences provided for in the Council of Europe Convention.
It would create offences for the European Union that Member States are already familiar with through the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, finalised in 2005.
The second consideration is that the Council paid particular attention to respect for fundamental rights.
This concern was expressed at the round table Parliament organised on 7 April this year.
The Justice Ministers reached agreement on 8 November 2007 on a draft framework decision.
The Presidency is aware of this, but the framework decision on which the Council secured unanimous agreement at the end of a debate lasting more than two years is a first step, providing the EU minimum standards for personal data within the framework of criminal cooperation, at a time when no common rules have ever existed within the framework of the third pillar.
The question in Europe is often to know whether we are better with minimum standards that can be raised later on or whether we should stick with the status quo, which today means extremely varied standards of data protection, a lack of proper control by the European institutions, and bilateral negotiations on the exchange of data with third countries, which do not offer our citizens sufficient guarantees and can be performed without our consent.
Furthermore, the work done by previous Presidencies has basically enabled us to find points of balance that also take account of your concerns.
The first is that the future framework decision will indeed apply only to data exchanged between Member States, as you have pointed out, but the Member States have also made a commitment to adapt their own levels of protection.
One clause you should look at is Article 27, strengthened by recital 8 of this framework decision, which invites the Commission to extend the scope of the text after a period of five years, and it could concern national data.
The third is that the transfer of data to third countries is subject to important conditions and safeguards to provide an adequate level of protection.
Article 14 is a bulwark that we can rely on to prevent the transfer to third countries, without our consent, of personal data we have transmitted to another Member State.
Mrs Lefrançois has reported on the proposal for the amendment of the framework decision on combating terrorism, and Mrs Roure has reported on the framework decision on the protection of personal data.
I will try to be brief, Mr President, because we are expecting a very interesting debate this morning before Parliament.
First I will talk about the proposal for a framework decision on combating terrorism.
The proposal prepared by the Commission updates the framework decision on combating terrorism and aligns it with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism by including, in the concept of terrorism, public provocation to commit terrorist offences and recruitment and training for terrorism.
It is a fact, however, that the Commission's proposal is based on the Council of Europe Convention and very closely follows the definitions of offences in the Convention, for two reasons.
As regards the second point raised in the report, the Commission supports your idea of incorporating into the amending text safeguard clauses on human rights equivalent to those in Article 12 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism.
Actually, Mr Jouyet, the Council's common position of 18 April 2008 already contains extra safeguard clauses parallel to those in Article 12.
The Commission's proposal already guaranteed the exclusion of this obligation and the Council's common position of 18 April 2008 did so too.
The framework decision must indeed promote police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters by giving it the effectiveness conferred by genuine legitimacy and by respect for fundamental rights, particularly the right to respect for private life and the right to the protection of personal data.
Meanwhile, the processing of personal data by these authorities at national level is not being harmonised at European level.
It is quite true, Mrs Roure, that the Member States have all acceded to the Council of Europe Convention 108 on data protection.
What is certain, and there is no need for me to insist on this, since the Presidency has just alluded to it, is that the text will be important not only for Europeans but also in our negotiations with third countries.
Allow me to remind you that yesterday, in Spain, an honest person, a member of the armed forces, an officer named Juan Luis Conde, was murdered by the terrorist group ETA using the cowardly method of a car bomb.
ETA and all the terrorist groups in the world should know that the European Union is speaking to them with one voice, they should lose all hope, they should be certain that the democratic weight of the Union is going to fall on them and that we shall not give up until they are entirely excluded from the life of our countries.
They are unusual for their balanced approach and because they are the outcome of broader collaboration on issues which have generally been agreed on combating terrorism, and the protection of human rights, along with personal data, of course.
What has been said is that the proposal to combat terrorism is based on the Council of Europe Convention.
In any case, on the issue of human rights, there is paragraph 10 of the introductory part of the proposal; it deals extensively and thoroughly with the specific rights being protected: the right of assembly and of trade unions, and all related rights.
However, there is another area we should look at: we should turn our attention to the societies that nurture terrorism.
This balance is necessary for investigating not the superficial but the deep causes underlying this violence, and is vital for putting in place preventive and punitive policies, without abandoning the fundamental principles of our legal culture.
I believe that it is a less confusing and less subjective principle, and this is not a terminological issue, Mr Barrot, but a substantive issue: provocation lends itself to abuses, to excesses, it also lends itself to excessive attention to the socially emotive, which would often dictate excessive and confused reactions.
The valuable work done by the two reports that we are debating here also takes this approach: combating terrorism, preventing terrorism's desperate violence, but at the same time ensuring that there is the right balance between the need for safety for our citizens and their freedoms and fundamental rights.
On this point, Mr President, Mr Jouyet and Mr Barrot, we call for vigilance from the Council and the Commission and we promise that this Parliament will do its utmost to work together with you.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commission Vice-President, with their reports, Mrs Lefrançois and Mrs Roure have done a great deal of work, and I have also been delighted to have been able to work together with them as they did so.
I do not believe that we have to discuss whether we all have a common legal basis with this.
One of the difficulties we face is that, because of the framework decision, because of the legal basis - or the lack of a legal basis - with regard to certain aspects of that framework decision, we could be leaving ourselves open to being accused of being hypocritical, merely appearing to act without actually taking any decisive action.
That is why we have to be careful at this level - at European level - that we are creating a European framework decision that will allow cooperation between Member States, but which does not impose these controls on national Member States.
The reason I say that is because there are greater protections available to individuals to challenge national authorities when they misuse, abuse or lose their data than would be available in this framework decision, and in many ways, if we force this framework decision on protection of data to apply to national data as well, we will undermine the rights that already exist.
However, to be certain for this legislation to be effective, not only must it be clear and definitive with regard to the role that it wants to carry out, but it must also have the trust of the people that it will protect them and not abuse them.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I am convinced that the Council genuinely wishes to improve the security of citizens and also that it sets store by civil rights.
First of all, parliaments traditionally pay more attention than governments to civil rights, which constitutes a problem when it comes to decision-making.
Viewing the relationship between government and citizens from a historical perspective, we see that the government has the monopoly on the use of force, and citizens have fundamental rights that cannot be violated by the government unless this is necessary, effective and proportionate.
The proposal relates to police and judicial cooperation in Europe; that is, to services concerned with security.
Mrs Lefrançois has produced an apt report on this, for which I should like to express my warm thanks to her, too.
Article 1(1) is alarming in that respect, as it states that a person can be convicted of terrorist offences whether or not he or she directly advocates such offences.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, owing to the short time available to me, I should like to discuss only the report by Mrs Roure.
In recent years, several projects concerning the processing of these data have been launched, in particular the second generation Schengen Information System and the Visa Information System (VIS).
These data are also relevant, however, in relation to the proposal to exchange criminal record data among Member States and even the introduction of a European PNR system.
I should also like to emphasise what our rapporteur, Mrs Roure, has said, namely that particularly sensitive data categories - that is, data revealing a person's ethnic origin, political opinion or religious conviction - should not be processed.
The Council has been promising Parliament for a long time that it will adopt this Framework Decision.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, these Council decisions are part of the process of harmonising our national justice and legal systems into a common EU system.
Already any EU citizen can be extradited from one EU country to another by means of a European arrest warrant with minimal safeguards.
Under the new rules on trials in absentia, we can now be tried and sentenced in another EU state without even being aware that this has happened, and then face extradition and imprisonment.
All this is being done in the name of protecting us from terrorism; but what is actually happening, of course, is the never-ending mission of the European Union to increase and entrench its own power and dominion in every area of our national lives.
But terrorism should be combated by national governments working in cooperation with each other, not used as an excuse to increase the power of the European Union. (NL) Mr President, it is often heard from various quarters that the fight against terrorism is threatening our freedoms - but this is a false dichotomy.
Freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the right to privacy are indeed fundamental characteristics of our Western society but, as the previous speaker has just said, it is these open societies that are currently under threat from an Islamic extremism that incites terrorist acts against these values.
States not only have the duty to protect their citizens against terrorism, but also must be able to take every measure to safeguard public order.
I just wanted to respond to the group leaders by saying, firstly, regarding the report by Mrs Lefrançois and following the speeches particularly on the distinction between 'incitement' and 'provocation', that the Council's text copies Article 5 of the Council of Europe Convention in order to prevent differences in application.
Lastly, I would like to point out that the Council's text largely takes account, on the one hand, of the freedom of expression clause in Article 2 and on the other, of the proportionality clause in Article 14.
Regarding the report by Mrs Roure, I would like to say that I also agree with Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Alvaro: it is indeed progress to have regulation in the third pillar that opens up the right of redress.
That is all I wanted to say in response to the speeches made as part of this very exciting debate. (DE) Mr President, Commission Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, a word of praise first of all to the French Council Presidency for the fact that we are discussing these subjects together, as they illustrate the balance of the challenge: overcoming a major challenge - terrorism - on the one hand, and data protection on the other.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to note that our rapporteur, Mrs Roure, has the full support of the entire Parliament on this issue, as we need progress here.
Vice-President Barrot has pointed out that it is important to him to have these decisions as backing, particularly during the negotiations with the United States.
I should like to add, however, that if the United States objects that this legal framework unfortunately applies only to European issues, and not at intra-European level in connection with the situation in the Member States, it will have an argument against us, as we do not even dare to implement this legal framework in full in the European Union.
The Framework Decision of 2002 enabled us to establish a common definition and legal framework for terrorist offences.
The changes put forward today involve including three new offences to protect ourselves from, in response to old and new terrorist threats, and their increasing use of information technologies, including cyberterrorism.
Everything else is freedom of expression, which is protected by the Framework Decision itself, Article 6 of the EU Treaty, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Council of Europe Convention.
Mr President, unfortunately my country is back in the news.
What is new since 2001, however, is that governments worldwide have been seizing on the fight against terrorism to curtail civil rights and freedoms.
The 11 September attacks made us aware of that in no uncertain terms.
The EU must provide its citizens with a high level of security.
Since the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 3 September, we know that the legal assessment is perfectly clear.
It is indeed bizarre when we as Parliament hear that a meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 15 July - bringing together politicians specialising in agriculture, forestry and rural development - adopted a new EU list of terrorist organisations without debate, and without knowing what was on it.
Many thanks. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also disappointed that the French minister has left, because he could have learned, for instance, that the information that he supplied to us is incorrect.
In fact, Mrs Dührkop is correct in saying that the vast majority of terrorist attacks carried out in the European Union have an independent basis and have nothing to do with Al-Qaida, contrary to Mr Jouyet's statement.
There have been too many instances of improper handling of personal data and I believe that we must all work together - and I am just finishing now - to ensure that we do not restrict individual freedoms, to increase democratic areas and to ensure that we do not, in the name of security and the fight against terrorism, help to achieve the very goals of the terrorist organisations themselves. (SV) Mr President, Mrs Lefrançois proposes important changes in order to safeguard confidentiality, freedom of expression and legal certainty.
The proposal aims to punish verbal and written addresses and thus poses a clear threat to freedom of expression and fundamental human rights.
For me, as a democratic politician, this is unacceptable. (PT) Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with the report by Mrs Roure, which I once again support in its efforts to reach a political agreement on the proposal for a Framework Decision on the protection of personal data in the framework of the third pillar that is not based on the lowest common denominator, a minimum level of data protection and serious shortcomings.
On the Lefrançois report: in 2002 we adopted a framework decision in which we harmonised the definition of 'terrorism' and the applicable penalties.
Several speakers have already referred to the Internet, the new information technologies, and the advantages they bring, but also to the use criminals can make of the net.
As has already been said, there are some 5 000 terrorist propaganda sites, which are tools of radicalisation and recruitment, as well as serving as a source of information on terrorist means and methods.
Lastly, Mr President, it is very important that Member States ratify the 2005 Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism so as to ensure parallel implementation of both instruments, together with a more thorough and comprehensive legal regime. (EL) Mr President, over recent years, discussion of terrorism in the European Commission and the Council has almost invariably sprung from self-evident acceptance of the protection of our fundamental rights.
However, the proposal concludes with the following extreme measure: to combat terrorism on the Internet, we should imprison any citizen who writes anything that could be interpreted by the police as being intended to encourage terrorism - not even 'instigate' it, mark you.
In other words, anyone who dares to express, verbally or in writing, a political opinion that could be interpreted as supporting terrorism is risking arrest.
In other words, one of the fundamental principles of criminal procedure is being completely overturned.
No-one in this House underestimates the need to combat terrorism, but when the fight against it gives rise to measures that ultimately gag our democracy, then the European Parliament, quite rightly, is obliged not to endorse them.
The other measure gives only weak protection for personal data exchanged ostensibly for law-enforcement purposes, but with massive loopholes.
We need the Lisbon Treaty to get transparency and democracy into this project, and quickly, before the European elections. (PL) Listening to this debate, there are times when I get the impression that we are forgetting that the framework decision is aimed at democratic states, at EU Member States with a democracy based on firm foundations.
These contravene Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and may lead to the criminalisation of demonstrations, speeches, etc.
In our view, the EU is once again making a choice based on political expediency rather than attempting to protect citizens' real freedoms.
We in Parliament must protect Europeans, but we must also protect those who are being killed in Islamabad, in Sharm el-Sheikh, and most recently in Algeria.
It is now Parliament's obligation to protect those who are not to blame. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, two weeks ago the Chairman of the Muslim Council of Great Britain addressed a meeting in this building, at which he categorically rejected reciprocity between faiths and demanded that the indigenous population had an obligation to welcome newcomers, and that those newcomers had a right to remain separate.
It was a bunch of brainwashed Muslim youngsters who were looking for 72 vestal virgins in Paradise, believing that they had a God-given right to slaughter non-believers.
People live in fear and terror, as walking the streets or visiting the wrong bar can have fatal consequences.
Our citizens have to be able to trust that these restrictions are also appropriate, however, and that their data are not being distributed throughout the world by the intelligence services.
We shall give our full and total support to the Council for all meaningful and appropriate measures to combat terrorism.
From that point of view, I would like to say that the reports by Mrs Lefrançois and Mrs Roure provide an extremely balanced synthesis of the progress needed to ensure the protection of citizens and the protection of their freedom.
As it is, it seems to me that the framework decision, as amended by the two reports by Mrs Roure and Mrs Lefrançois, is the fruit of several years' work and is therefore extremely precious.
We must therefore greet any proposal to combat terrorism effectively, in other words to provide security for the nations of Europe, with satisfaction.
I am sure that in other countries, too, there will be similar incidents that I am not aware of.
We are a democratic society, and we have inscribed values on the EU's standards in which we profoundly believe - these are fundamental rights, respect for human dignity and protection of privacy, which includes personal data.
Moreover, in my view it is essential that all Member States ratify the Council of Europe's Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament defends freedom of speech throughout Europe - including in Cologne, since Cologne is part of Europe - for anyone who wants to speak out against fundamentalism and Islamic totalitarianism, whose ideological basis is not Islam, but the fundamentalist Islam of terrorism.
Thank you, Mr Borghezio; I think, or rather, I deduce from your decision to gag yourself that we have reached the end of your speech. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, the reports attempt to combine data protection with the prevention of terrorism.
Well, police cooperation and protection of individual rights are not infrequently antithetical, but here they manage to find a reasonable balance.
What is certain, however, is that citizens of the EU are harassed by continuous, not to say suffocating, restrictions on their privacy, and likewise it is certain that this is totally useless in protecting us from terrorists.
However, it is true, of course, that when we see things such as what happened at the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, or what is happening again now in Spain, when we are constantly being confronted with violence of this kind - and we all know that what these murderers are planning is being planned via modern information channels and then being processed via media using modern information and communication technologies - no other path remains for us either.
They want fewer citizens' rights, they want less data protection, they want less freedom and they want a weaker Parliament.
However, in recent years, our institutions and traditional values have been under constant assault from within and without.
At the same time, we have seen the growth of subcultures within our own societies that are scornful of our liberal values, deliberately seeking to establish alternative political and legal structures, sometimes through the use of violence, and sheltering behind our complex and generous legal systems and our liberal view of human rights.
The Framework Decision will have a considerable impact on one of the basic rights of European Union citizens: the right to privacy.
The processing of personal data which reveal a person's racial or ethnic background, political views, religious or philosophical convictions, membership of professional bodies, state of health or sexuality must be regulated as strictly as pharmacies are.
Our role is to safeguard our citizens' basic rights and at the same time to discourage terrorism.
The fight against terrorism must be conducted on a common basis, but with respect for the Union's various legal traditions and standards and, not least, with respect for democratic traditions and values. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning many have spoken here about the war on terrorism, and have gone on to say that it is difficult to wage war on something that is not a concrete entity, does not have an army and does not have a territory, but is simply a tactic.
This strange war has not been won, and it will certainly be difficult to win it, but there have been some positive results, such as the mere fact that the United States has not suffered any more attacks since 11 September.
These successes, however, have come at a price, and I share the concern of Mrs Lefrançois, who considers the dividing line between freedom of speech and law-breaking to be sometimes rather blurred, and can see the risk that efforts to increase the security of European citizens will in practice result in restrictions on those citizens' rights and freedoms.
There is no doubt that in the name of the war on terrorism illegal acts have been carried out, chiefly by that country which has done most to fight against terrorism, including in our interests - namely, the United States.
If we do this, we will perhaps be able to try to make our principles prevail, as well as our ideas about that blurred line between citizens' security and breaches of human rights. (RO) Cooperation between EU institutions in the fight against terrorism must work perfectly, especially as this phenomenon has intensified.
If we think of the events of September 11 or the ones in Madrid and London a few years ago, we have the perfect depiction of terror, fear, and suffering.
I support both reports because I believe we need both framework decisions and because a reasonable balance has been struck between measures to ensure security and freedom of the individual.
I entirely back Mrs Roure's proposal to drop Article 1, paragraph 1 of the Council Proposal, which practically exempts cases of national security from the effect of the present Framework Decision.
An increase of these functions must be recommended to the Member States of the European Union. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to discuss the second report first of all, namely the Framework Decision on combating terrorism.
If I have understood correctly, the Council and Commission are also of this opinion, to which we should be subscribing - and this is an appeal to you all - and leaving the term 'public provocation' in, as this enables lives to be saved before terrorist activities take place. (PL) Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Roure for drawing up her report on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
There is no question that the swift adoption of a framework decision on personal data protection in the third pillar will help to protect the personal data, private life and fundamental rights of all citizens of the Member States.
I welcome, therefore, EU countries working together to define and inflict heavy criminal penalties on those who incite terrorism.
Finally, the EU should place Hezbollah on the list of proscribed terrorist organisations.
However, I am concerned, as are my colleagues, that the Council's revised proposals bear insufficient protection for personal data as outlined in Martine Roure's report.
It is essential that the progress of the European Union is not blocked and that we avoid giving the impression that the EU can act beyond the law of Member States.
Unfortunately that is not possible right now, but we must continue to work to enhance the legitimacy of this Parliament and the European Union.
I therefore support the amendments proposed by our two rapporteurs on the strengthening of just these elements.
Ideally any limitation of our rights should be compensated by a corresponding increase in our security in the face of terrorist attacks.
I feel that this is the spirit in which we must look at decisions on combating terrorism.
The right to the protection of personal data is a fundamental right.
Those citizens whose data are being processed have rights which must be respected both at national level and at EU level.
All these European regulations require the set-up of information systems capable of relaying notifications and information between the Member States.
Under the approach in these proposals, we would soon strip away that discretion from Member States.
We should take into account that the European citizens' right to data protection is fundamental; but at the same time the institutions involved in the fight against terrorism and crime must have access to such information.
This report plays a particularly important role in the creation of the legal framework laying down the quality, definition and characteristics of personal data and their transfer to third states or individuals.
I think that the political authorities in all countries should cooperate with our police, our judges and our governments.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the European Parliament as a whole on the high standard of this debate.
The European Parliament is indeed legitimately awaiting the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, but it has demonstrated maturity this morning by producing a very large majority in support of your two reports - the report by Mrs Lefrançois and the report by Mrs Roure.
These two reports seek to find the right balance between collective protection against terrorism, which we need to guarantee for our citizens, and individual protection of our freedoms.
I will first go back to the report by Mrs Lefrançois on combating terrorism.
I would just like to say that although freedom of expression, including the right of criticism, is one of the fundamental pillars on which the European Union is built, incitement to racial hatred cannot be considered acceptable under the pretext of freedom of expression.
If Mrs Lefrançois and the many MEPs who have come out in support of the term 'incitement' will allow me, I would like just like to spend a couple of minutes defending the term 'provocation'.
I would also like to say that Article 1(2) of the current text of the framework decision contains a human rights safeguard clause that concerns - I think Mrs Lefrançois agrees - the whole framework decision.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to emphasise the value of placing this action to combat terrorism within the integrated institutional framework of the European Union.
To sum up, Mr President, while thanking the rapporteur and Parliament again for all the work they have done over the last two years on this important matter, I would like to hope that a decision will now be taken quickly in view of all the work done and the need - as many of you have underlined - to effectively combat terrorism.
I know the European Parliament would like this revision to take place quite soon.
That is all I wanted to say, Mr President.
I would also like to make clear to each of the speakers that I appreciated the high standard of the debate on such an important matter - a matter in which Europe must set an example - both by guaranteeing effective collective protection against terrorist threats and also, of course, by remaining very attentive to the protection of individual freedoms and personal autonomy.
Mr Demetriou, you mentioned the scourge that terrorism represents, and which we need to combat.
I do believe, though, that we can be satisfied with the result, particularly from the point of view of the balance between combating terrorism and respecting fundamental freedoms.
The report by my colleague Mrs Roure falls firmly within this second category, since the protection of personal data is one of its key components.
At the vote in committee on 15 July, my draft report was adopted by 35 votes to 4 with 1 abstention, and I hope it will attract a solid majority in plenary too.
It is absolutely necessary to adopt this framework decision quickly and take account of the European Parliament's amendments.
The Council must be true to its word.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The establishment of a legal framework for personal data protection within the third pillar has been a concern shared by all EU presidents over the last years.
Nevertheless, the framework decision adopted in 2006 was something of a compromise, establishing the lowest common denominator in the protection of personal data.
If under certain circumstances this protection requires the modification of community databases so as to prevent the correlation of certain personal or material information with identifiable persons, we should be aware that the management of this global system for the storage and processing of information implies a state-of-the-art security system.
The question of the increased threat to Europe from terrorist acts is one of the most important challenges facing the security of our continent.
in writing. - The attacks of 11 September 2001 have utterly changed the world.
The use of this technology presents a unique threat to the Union, and we should all work together to combat terrorism with all the means that are at our disposal.
However, in order for our democratic society to effectively counter these threats, the fight against terrorism must be accompanied by a strengthening of our fundamental rights and freedoms.
I do this in order to protect the interests of British citizens, such as exemplified by the case of Andrew Symeou, a 19-year-old London man who faces extradition to Greece on 30 September on a manslaughter charge.
