&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 14 April 2005. &#160;&#160; It is a pleasure for Parliament to welcome a group of Members of the Parliament of the Federal State of Mecklemburg-Western Pomerania, who are visiting our institution. &#160;&#160; With the agreement of the political groups, I would like to propose the following amendments to the agenda of the current part-session which appear in the corrigendum which has been distributed to you.
The debate on the report by Mrs Fraga Estévez on sustainable fishing in the Mediterranean is postponed to a later part-session.
Following the debate on the report by Mrs Klaß we shall hold a debate on the report by Mrs Handzlik on the internal market in the new Member States, initially scheduled for the votes.
I must also inform you that two requests for consultation of the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have been added to the votes.
It has been a fascinating and challenging experience for me to produce the Annual Report on Human Rights in the World 2004 and the EU’s policy on the matter.
Therefore, I was determined from the outset to give the report a very tight structure so that people interested in different human rights issues and themes in different countries, could navigate it quickly and efficiently, as opposed to having a lengthy report with no headings, requiring people to read a third, half or indeed the whole report to find the area in which they were interested.
Consultation between the groups, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, has been constructive and positive and I wish to thank my colleagues in other groups for that process.
The first thematic issue is a difficult one politically.
It concerns human rights and the fight against terrorism, which in many ways seems like a contradiction in terms.
At the same time, we must be true to our values in relation to respect for human rights and try to get the balance right.
I believe the report makes a balanced attempt to answer that difficult political question.
The second thematic issue is children’s rights.
The third area concerns the impact that conflict situations have on women and children, leading to tragic consequences on a regular basis.
It also deals with the issue of child soldiers.
The report also deals with trafficking in human beings, the role of international business and its responsibilities in the human rights field and, perhaps most important of all, the issue of impunity and the role of the International Criminal Court, which deserves the support of the European Union.
It also strongly encourages the European Union to persuade influential countries such as the United States to support the ICC.
In March, the United Nations Secretary-General published his report entitled: ‘In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all’.
He has therefore in a way put the question of human rights at the centre of our concerns for the peaceful development of our world.
You paint a picture of the human rights situation in the world, an uncompromising picture which shows that we must continue to be concerned about human rights.
In the light of the challenges of globalisation and in view also of the ongoing deterioration in respect for human rights in many parts of the world, the European Union needs to make greater efforts to promote and defend human rights, first of all internally with the governments, but also with civil society, non-governmental organisations, national parliaments and international bodies.
Something else that must be at the very heart of our defence of human rights is a commitment to resolving conflicts, conflicts which are often the very source of contempt for the human person.
This community of values that we aspire to be requires us to defend the principles of democracy and respect for human rights in the world.
I will therefore confine myself to a few of the questions you raise, while assuring you, on the Council’s behalf, that our services will continue to study this document and take account of the many suggestions you make there.
I will therefore highlight a number of aspects whose importance justifies dwelling on them more particularly, beginning with dialogue.
We try to raise the issue of human rights wherever we have the opportunity and with all our negotiating partners.
That is also why human rights are always an integral part of every agreement we conclude with partners, even if they are mainly economic agreements.
We have in that way begun a ‘human rights’ dialogue with China, making clear that human rights are not a luxury of rich developed countries but something that must go hand in hand with economic development.
Even if it is difficult, not to say impossible, to quantify the results gained from these human rights dialogues, we believe they are an essential tool for advancing the cause of human rights in the different countries concerned.
I would also like to strongly emphasise the support we give to human rights organisations in a number of countries, as you also do in your report.
The attacks of 11 September 2001 have indeed made terrorism one of the European Union’s priorities, but we have said, and we said it again recently before the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, that the efforts made to fight against terrorism must respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Moreover, on 21 September 2001 the Council stated that the fight against terrorism should be inseparable from the respect for fundamental freedoms on which our civilisation is based.
At the recent session of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva, the European Union played an active part in negotiations on this subject, contributing to the adoption of a resolution on respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism.
That resolution provides for the appointment of a special rapporteur and will therefore help to strengthen the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism.
The cooperation, to which you refer in your report, between the Personal Representative on Human Rights recently appointed by the Council's Secretary-General/High Representative for the CFSP and the EU’s Counter-Terrorism Coordinator is entirely consistent with our policy in the matter and we are keen to develop it.
I would like to mention some other questions to which you attach great importance.
We always speak of the rights of man, but we should as a matter of priority pay attention to the often calamitous situation of the child victims of conflict and also of poverty.
There is also the question of the rights of women who are the victims of conflicts, and that of strengthening the European Union’s action to prevent all forms of trafficking in human beings, of which women and children are generally the main victims.
Another issue you raise in your report is the future Fundamental Freedoms Agency and the risk of duplication resulting from the large number of bodies concerned with human rights.
The Commission then embarked on a large-scale public consultation.
The very large number of individuals and organisations that expressed their ideas on the future role of the Monitoring Centre and its conversion into an agency for fundamental freedoms and human rights clearly shows the extent to which citizens feel they are affected by human rights issues.
All of us, in carrying out our responsibilities and in our daily and private lives, have the duty to promote and protect the rights of all human beings everywhere in the world.
The European Parliament’s report on human rights that we are discussing this afternoon makes an extremely important contribution and I would like to begin by paying a warm tribute to Mr Coveney on his excellent work, which illustrates once again this Parliament’s firm commitment to human rights.
The report contains extremely important food for thought and many very useful recommendations; there are too many of them for me to respond in detail to all of the issues it raises, but, as usual, the Commission will follow up this debate by responding to every one of the report's recommendations in writing.
Specifically, I would like to make some brief comments on three issues: firstly, on the rights of children, in particular in armed conflicts, secondly, on human rights activists and, finally, on the International Criminal Court.
With regard to the rights of children, the Commission is pleased that the report places emphasis on this point.
In recent years, the European Union has implemented an effective framework for integrating the rights of children into its policies and programmes, in cooperation with UNICEF, we have launched a specific training programme on the rights of children and, last September, we established an Interinstitutional Group on this issue.
The Commission plays an active role in the application of the European Union’s guidelines on children and armed conflicts approved in 2003: we regularly raise the issue in our dialogue with third countries and with representatives of groups involved in armed conflicts.
For example, during her visit to Sri Lanka in March, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner had the opportunity to place particular emphasis on the importance of eradicating the use of children in these conflicts.
The Commission supports a wide range of projects dealing with the different aspects of this problem and, following a thorough analysis, we have decided to direct funds from the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights towards support and training programmes in third countries.
In his speech to the United Nations general assembly, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights stated that human rights activists are our eyes and ears and that they represent our collective conscience.
The programming for that Initiative for this year and next year provides for more than 50 European Commission delegations to implement a microprojects plan that will represent more than 30% of the total budget.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to refer to the International Criminal Court, an institution of vital importance to the international promotion of peace and justice.
The Commission is also concerned about the system of sanctions imposed by the United States on those countries that refuse to sign those agreements and we are continuing to express our concern about these issues in our dialogue with the United States.
We therefore support the reconstruction of legal systems in those countries in which the judiciary has not been able or has not had the will to tackle mass violations of human rights.
The adoption on 31 March of a United Nations Security Council resolution on the situation in Darfur, which refers for the first time to the International Criminal Court, makes us very hopeful.
Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you, on behalf of the Commission, that the large number of countries and issues dealt with in the report will be an immense help when we begin our work soon on the European Union’s annual report on human rights.
This report on human rights in the world clearly demonstrates the inescapable and total commitment of the European Union, in general, and this Parliament, in particular, to the cause of human rights, which must not be preached to any one region, country or continent, but which must be of global or universal significance.
I believe that we in Europe must demonstrate intellectual modesty when approaching this task, and that we must take the view that, before launching ourselves into the task of putting the world to rights, we should first take a look at our own house.
I believe we must be rigorous in our demands for respect for human rights, that we must be precise, that we must not indulge in exaggeration and, Mr President, we must take a generous view of the progress being made by many developing countries in their legislation and their real situations.
Mr President, I would like to refer to three of the many important aspects presented by Mr Coveney in his report that have attracted my attention in particular.
Firstly, the reference to the case of Somalí Mam and to the work she has been doing to combat child prostitution and to defend the 91 girls kidnapped from one of the reception centres in which she carries out her social work.
Firstly, on children and armed conflict, we welcome the emphasis on children’s rights.
On the issue which divides this House, we insist that rape is a tool of war and therefore, access to full reproductive health rights has to be one of the human rights we defend in this report.
Second, on human rights and business, a major faultline has been identified in our debates between the promotion of corporate responsibility by companies themselves and public authorities using our responsibility to ensure the principle of corporate accountability.
Third, on terrorism, the report is right to condemn terrorism in all its forms, as well as to insist that all actions to combat terrorism fully respect international human rights and humanitarian law.
Muslims are as committed to peace and non-violence as all other religions – and none – in this world.
Finally, we have sought to ensure that paragraphs 210 to 230 of the report address the specific instruments to promote human rights that we have as a European Union: the human rights dialogues, the human rights clause in our agreement with third countries, our representations in Geneva and New York, the actions and implementation of the guidelines and the European initiative on democracy and human rights.
I invite other political groups in Parliament next year to join us in focusing more exclusively on holding the Council and the Commission to account on how effectively these instruments are used.
I invite the Council in its response this afternoon to say that it will submit its own annual human rights report to this Parliament so that this report next year can be a response to it.
Initially, though, it was to be feared that this report would be marred by the same lack of consistency and coherence as the human rights policy of the Council and the Member States that very often demand sanctions against poor countries from the south but turn a blind eye to serious human rights violations in more economically interesting countries.
All problems are tackled, irrespective of the size or economic interest of the countries involved.
It is high time, I think, that the Council and Member States followed the same course; if not, the European Union is at risk of rapidly losing its credibility as protector and guardian of human rights worldwide.
I am pleased that the report takes note of positive developments, including in a number of developing countries, particularly in Africa, despite the major political and economic problems with which the black continent still has to contend.
If the European Union and the Member States are really serious about the ICC, they must give those countries that refuse to bow to US threats economic and commercial compensation using all the means at their disposal.
The ICC has meanwhile launched inquiries into the situation in Congo and also Northern Uganda where the population continues to suffer at the hands of the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) and their terrorist activities.
This time, however, we really must express our admiration for the work Mr&#160;Coveney has done; he has listened very hard and worked meticulously to produce what really is a full, clear and fair report.
My group also welcomes the extension of civil and political rights to economic and social issues with an important chapter on the social responsibility of business.
When we consider the amendments tomorrow, I would like us also perhaps to recognise the right to development as an inalienable human right, as the UNDP’s work on the degradation of ecosystems and the effects of pollution on our ability, on a world scale, to achieve the Millennium goals invites us to do and as was stated in a United Nations declaration in 1986.
Having said that, I believe the most important thing about this report is probably the ability, an ability we can continue to develop in the years ahead, to analyse the European Union’s instruments for protecting and promoting human rights and democracy in the world.
I believe that is an extremely important chapter.
Everyone today can see to what extent the European Union’s credibility, people’s expectations of it and what it will become with the hoped-for adoption of the Constitution are focussed around the question of human rights and democracy, and I do not believe we will be able to get a European way of doing things accepted in dialogue, in credibility and in equity if we are incapable of making considerable progress internally, between our institutions.
If we really want all our mechanisms to be monitored and evaluated, the European Parliament must be involved, and kept informed about, every action decided in accordance with the guidelines and with the structured human rights dialogues and be involved in all the measures taken by the Commission and the Council.
At the same time, however, the report is very careful – and on this point I disagree with Mr van Hecke – to avoid disgruntling the European Union’s economic and political partners.
I would therefore say that, in some ways, this document has not made the best of the opportunity presented and that, if it remains in its current state, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left will not be able to lend their support to it. &#160;&#160; .
The new Palestinian leadership must put a stop to terrorist acts directed against Israel.
Israel’s Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, fears that, after the parliamentary elections, the European Union will no longer consider Hamas a terrorist movement, and he is prepared to continue talks about a peace deal only as and when the Palestinian militant groups are completely disarmed and dismantled.
A clear and principled European position of this kind will help the Israelis and Palestinians to reach a reasonable political settlement on human rights and human lives in that region. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a great many aspects of this report meet with our approval.
We have heard certain Members invoke reproductive health rights during almost every debate in the House in recent months on issues such as measures to combat AIDS, women’s rights in Europe and throughout the world and our humanitarian policy objectives.
I am quite sure that every single one of the objectives of our humanitarian policy could be achieved without any mention of abortion and reproductive rights, and this would allow us to act with a great deal more unanimity and solidarity.
I thank you for your attention, and I would ask you not to view my comments as a statement of political confrontation.
I am speaking in good faith as someone who believes in European unity, and who believes that Europe’s task is to pursue moral policies that do not attempt to impose on the rest of the world solutions to issues upon which we ourselves are divided in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for years, this House has – as is only right and proper – taken a sympathetic line on the cause of human rights worldwide.
Indeed, it could have occurred to the rapporteur that Belgium, which is, after all, the country in which this Parliament is based, suffers the same ailments as Moldova, Algeria and so many other countries.
In my country, VRT, the public broadcasting corporation, which is funded by all Flemish taxpayers, has, in totalitarian fashion, decreed that it will not invite the largest party in Flanders, the , to appear, which amounts, in effect, to censoring it.
I would urge all my fellow MEPs, irrespective of their party political allegiance, to sign the written declaration which we submitted today to lodge their concern about this of the media in my country and to denounce the totalitarian attitude of Belgian radio and television. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Coveney on his excellent report.
I have always supported the highest civil and political rights and good governance for all states.
Nevertheless, the world is a complex place and a number of issues remain relative rather than absolute.
For instance, a balance must be struck between a state’s right to defend itself against terrorist action and the need to ensure civil rights for prisoners.
The parliament of Algeria is currently debating an amnesty for all those guilty of crimes against detainees, in the interests of peace and reconciliation and turning over a new page.
Regrettably perhaps, sometimes the carrot of amnesty is the only way of guaranteeing a lasting peace.
I have been also involved in the report on Uzbekistan and the question of a carrot-and-stick approach to this Central Asian republic which has no traditions of human rights or democracy and is now taking firm steps in that direction, something that must be encouraged.
This House must also look more closely in general at the human rights clauses in the EU Association Agreements in countries such as Syria, which continue to be one-party dictatorships.
This would duplicate the work of other bodies such as the United Nations, the OSCE or the Council of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Flautre, who is generally scathing in her comments, has congratulated the rapporteur.
I would, however, like to say that the report on human rights is a virtually impossible exercise.
I would like to tell Mr Szymański we voted in favour of the right to reproductive health as a human right last year: I hope we will do the same this year.
I am, for example, amazed to find a whole paragraph on Morocco, which has made constructive efforts on human rights, but to find only one line on other countries that are blatantly violating human rights.
I will say no more about that; it is somewhat inevitable in an exercise like a human rights report.
More seriously, I would like to say that it is clear that there are some paragraphs which my party will not accept, paragraph 78 in particular, which condemns the Council for lifting sanctions against Cuba.
There are therefore some paragraphs, some amendments to which my Group will be particularly sensitive and which will determine its vote at the end of the day.
That has, however, nothing to do with the qualities of the rapporteur, whom I thank once again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to concentrate my observations on two areas of this report in particular.
The first is human rights abuses in Kashmir and the second is the fight against terrorism.
Of course I welcome the dialogue between Pakistan and India, but we must not forget that the people of Kashmir are also stakeholders in this process.
I am therefore encouraged by the above paragraphs, as we are taking a stand on the issue of the unnecessary and disproportionate erosion of civil liberties undertaken by governments against their own citizens under the guise of the prevention of terrorism.
Finally, I wish to highlight paragraph 111, to draw attention to the use by some states of torture by proxy and the potential reliance on evidence obtained by such means.
With regard to China and before lifting the arms embargo, we must take advantage of the dialogue on human rights we have set up with that country in order to promote internal political changes leading to greater democratisation and improvements in the institutions and justice systems, placing particular emphasis on the so-called three Ts (Tiananmen, Tibet and Taiwan), as well as the abolition of the death penalty.
With regard to Morocco, we must also take advantage of our privileged relationship as neighbours to condemn the repeated violation of press freedom, which, amongst other things, would involve Rabat lifting the sentences handed down to journalists such as Alí Lmrabet, observing international law and promoting the Baker plan as a framework for a fair and lasting solution to the conflict in Western Sahara.
For example, the report rightly welcomes progress made in Morocco, yet omits the fact that journalists can still be put in prison for referring to the Sahrawi people in Tindouf as refugees and not as hostages.
We have a duty to do more and do better. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Coveney for his extremely comprehensive and well written report.
I say to the Council that, unfortunately, the EU countries’ response to victims is often to close the door.
I will not support proposed amendments that would change this constructive report by introducing yet another human rights abuse – abortion – into the already abusive situation of war.
One abuse cannot justify another.
Human rights are no longer being violated in our countries in the way they were for 50&#160;years, firstly during German occupation and then under a Communist regime.
The motives behind these violations are quite basic, yet they are intolerable and there should be no place for them in the world today.
In modern-day China, for example, Catholics are deprived of any rights, and the same is true in a great many other countries.
The burning of churches and related events in Indonesia must surely still be fresh in your minds.
This embargo has no real effect, of course, but it testifies to our moral beliefs, and we should act in accordance with such beliefs in this instance.
As far as Chechnya is concerned, I find it incomprehensible that Russia can now be considered a political partner like any other, when this is a country that not only murdered a moderate Chechen politician, but also acted in a barbaric manner by refusing to give up his body, and said that he had been buried in an unmarked grave because he deserved nothing better.
Similar instances of countries acting like outlaws by persecuting their own citizens can be seen in Cuba and Belarus.
This was also what happened in Darfur, and yet the world does virtually nothing in response to events of this kind, although I am of course aware that these issues have been discussed in this House.
Institutions such as the European Parliament have a duty to act as guardians of fundamental human rights, and to monitor the world’s largest countries in order to ensure that they are not collaborating in these gross violations of human rights. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are a live issue in Europe, not only in Africa, Asia and Latin America.
A remarkable part of this report is dedicated to the countries in Eastern Europe that might in the future become members of the EU family, namely Ukraine, Moldova and even Belarus.
I wish to stress some points which are of great importance for improving human rights in that region.
As part of the European Parliament’s delegation, I had an opportunity to observe parliamentary elections in Moldova.
In addition, arrests of opposition MPs and other actions against peaceful demonstrations constitute clear violations of fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression, association and assembly.
On the election day, we observers from this House were not allowed to enter Transnistria, but it was clear that people in Moldova and Transnistria in particular had to face all the negative implications of that situation.
Last, but not least, we should again remind Russia to withdraw its so-called peacekeepers and ammunition from Moldova and specifically from Transnistria, as without this precondition our recommendations to fight corruption, organised crime and the illegal export of weapons will remain gestures of our goodwill but will not become a reality. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a new wave of democracy in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, the Caucasus, Central Asia and Africa.
The elections in Ukraine demonstrated the huge potential of civil society in the countries bordering the EU and in those in which the European Union serves as a basic point of reference in political, economic and cultural matters.
Evidence of this democratisation can be seen, , in the adoption of a constitution and the holding of elections in Afghanistan, in the free elections in Palestine and Iraq and in the major public demonstrations in Lebanon, as well as in the steps that have been taken towards liberalisation in other countries.
One of the European Union’s current priorities should be to help civil society in Belarus in its struggle for fundamental human rights and democracy.
We are seeing improvements in the human rights situations in a number of countries.
We should also welcome the fact that steps have been taken to end press censorship in the country. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I want to express my respect to the rapporteur for the report that has given a detailed account of the human rights situation in the world in 2004, and the position of the European Union on the issue.
Today, many people turn with confidence to such important global institutions as the EU or the UN when they feel to be victim of or witness to abuses.
Let me, however, stress that in those situations where people’s rights are the most flagrantly violated, the victims often lack the strength or the resources to be able and know how to defend themselves or point attention to them.
I should like to mention three points from it: first of all in my capacity of Vice-Chairman for the delegation in Central Asia.
This is, in fact, also evident from the Council of Europe’s report further to the most recent parliamentary elections in Uzbekistan.
The second point which illustrates that international pressure can be effective, is the situation in Kyrgyzstan.
We in this House must continue to put countries like those under pressure, because we have a great deal in common with them; they can take a step forward and we can help them achieve this.
An appeal from this House, in this specific case where a death sentence is pending, is of the utmost importance.
I should once again like to congratulate Mr Coveney, and I hope that the Council and the Commission will take this report very seriously as an asset in our foreign policy in the field of human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the European Parliament is the chief guardian of human rights, it is necessary to examine what issues the report deemed important and worthy of consideration.
Although national minority rights abuses are observed in a few instances, in the case of the Western Balkans, they are not even mentioned.
Although we cannot speak of minority rights without human rights, the assurance of human rights in itself does not guarantee national minority rights, which require additional rights as well as special modes of practice and preferential treatment.
The position is paradoxical, since, in the case of the new Member States, the situation of national minorities was part of the 1994 Copenhagen political criteria for joining.
This voice reached us over the airwaves thanks to radio stations such as Radio Free Europe, the BBC, France International and the Voice of America, and it gave us hope that one day we would witness the dawning of freedom and civil liberties.
At the same time, however, there are a few comments I should like to make on the report.
The Commission should demand the release of these prisoners, who have been sentenced to death and whose appeal is due to be heard in a month’s time.
Eritrea is the only country mentioned in the report as a place where Christians are persecuted, and no reference at all is made to their fate in Sudan.
I propose that the Commission should prepare a detailed report on the situation of Christian churches in the Middle East, Africa, China and Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with the view that this is the arduous story of an impossible report, which relates to an issue of increasing interest, both to the citizens and to the international bodies, and I would like to refer expressly to the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, in his report ‘In larger freedom: towards development, security and human rights for all’.
Its usefulness is very relative, Mr President, but nevertheless, this report says some very important things.
I believe we must redefine the European Parliament’s position on this report: many of the positions adopted by Parliament in other reports and resolutions have no connection whatsoever to our annual report on human rights.
Our parliamentary work must focus mainly on making contributions to the report already produced by the Council and in that way it would be possible for us to influence the human rights situation in the world effectively.
In many important cases it is difficult to conclude what has higher priority in our spectrum of common values: real respect for human rights or cheaper gas, gas that is likely to erode our principles and, in the end, Europe.
To the repeated remarks of my colleagues that Russia is very important, my response is: yes, but the truth is more important.
For many of us, the priority of peace in the Caucasus became a principle indirectly promoted by Russian diplomacy: the integrity of the cemetery.
In contrast to what has been said by a succession of Members from the European left, however, I should like to point out a few brave positions adopted by the rapporteur with regard to major economic and political powers, towards which this Parliament all too often adopts an ambiguous and diplomatic stance, in a cynical attitude of , it could be said, to protect foreign trade.
It is true that some progress has been made with regard to human rights, and it is true that China remains a prominent figure in the fight against terrorism, and that it is exerting useful pressure on North Korea to stop developing nuclear weapons.
Above all, I should like to add that there is no need to allow China to exploit existing disagreements between the European Union and the United States on that issue.
I am also referring to Russia, which, in the tragic Chechen crisis and in its running of the country in general, cannot resist adopting measures that have little in common with our own vision of democracy.
The report also adopts a clear and precise position on this issue.
I will conclude by wholeheartedly endorsing the idea that, in my view, lies at the heart of this excellent report: no economic or commercial consideration should ever lead the European Union to deny or downplay the existence of human rights violations. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
Social rights are important, but they belong in another category.
They are not human rights in the traditional sense of the word.
While suicide bombings are indeed murder, they are also carried out in response to political circumstances and causes.
We must not expect too much of reports on human rights, even of those originating from this House.
It is not acceptable that we should refuse to allow a country like Croatia to enter negotiations with the EU because of its lamentable failure to arrest a general who is suspected of human rights violations, while at the same time opening negotiations with Turkey, which – as we can read in press reports – is continuing to be extremely dilatory about implementing the Copenhagen political criteria.
I do not want to hold the Turkish Government responsible for the country’s most popular reading matter turning out to be Hitler’s ‘Mein Kampf’ – of all things – but you do have to wonder what is going on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is a remarkable report: broad in its sweep and penetrating and positive in so many of its observations.
I wish to highlight just one issue as raised in paragraph 49, on human rights issues in Kashmir.
I congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has worked with all political groups on this sensitive subject.
In my judgement, this should inspire India to assume greater moral leadership in the subcontinent and this means working not just with Pakistan, but with all stakeholders to ensure that human rights abuses are resolved with urgency.
As a Vice-President of the all-party group on Kashmir in the European Parliament, I said then and repeat now that the people of Jammu and Kashmir should take great heart from the fact that this group is genuinely all-party and genuinely represents all nationalities, and that this Parliament remains committed to ensuring that their voices can be heard loud and clear here in this Parliament.
I find it quite astonishing that we can stand idly by, and even draft European principles of cross-border cooperation, when not a day passes without us hearing of fresh violations of human rights in a country that is a direct neighbour of the EU.
The efforts of the Commission and the Council have merely served to hold back the process of transformation in Belarus, as nearly six months have passed since Parliament’s resolution on the matter, and precisely nothing has happened.
Projects intended to promote civil society have got stuck at the stage of analysis, discussion and ordered debates at countless seminars and summit meetings.
Young people especially are particularly interested in promoting human rights.
I therefore think that the message you are sending with this report, and also with this debate, must first of all be a message to young people to show them that the Europe that is being built is a Europe that conveys its human rights values to the world.
I believe Europe’s image in the world is closely associated with this human rights message.
I also agree with those who have said that in themselves human rights alone cannot be the answer to every political problem.
A human rights policy cannot replace a foreign policy.
As President-in-Office, that is the message I take from your Parliament, from your report, and I think all the Member States, like the Council, will be attentive to what you have to say.
The issues we have dealt with have ranged from the fight against terrorism to the violation of the rights of minorities, and they include a whole series of violations of human rights at many levels.
You have mentioned many countries and many regions of the world, from practically every continent, and we all agree that we have a great responsibility as representatives of the European institutions and of the will of Europe’s citizens to do our duty and to realise our desire to protect human rights and incorporate their defence into all of our policies, and, in particular, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, into our foreign policy.
I should particularly like to highlight Venezuela and Cuba, in light of my recent experience in these countries.
It was clear to me that the Venezuelan Government had had difficulty in gaining access to the media, in particular to the various private, opposition-controlled television stations; indeed, the European Parliament delegation was a victim of this.
Point 84 of this report is unacceptable, given that it is, in fact, the Venezuelan Government that is seeking cooperation with its neighbouring states.
The fundamental rights upon which the European Union is founded include the principle of non-discrimination.
The responsibility for finding a solution to these issues will mainly lie with national bodies and with regional and local authorities, as the latter are where the Roma are most likely to be represented.
Although both civil society and the Roma themselves have an important part to play, the situation of the Roma is a European issue that calls for an EU solution.
The Commission is actively monitoring the situation of the Roma in both the European Union and the candidate countries.
As part of the preparations for accession, the situation of the Roma and of other minorities is assessed in relation to the political criteria.
A binding legal framework has been established by the EU with the aim of combating discrimination on the basis of race or ethnic origin, and Community regulations currently in force prohibit direct or indirect discrimination in employment, education, social protection, property matters and services.
The European Union provides substantial funding for measures promoting inclusion of the Roma community.
During preparations for accession, over EUR&#160;100&#160;million was allocated under the PHARE programme to projects targeted at the Roma, and the Commission actively helps national bodies to utilise structural funds to promote inclusion of the Roma and other disadvantaged groups.
Several other Community programmes encourage exchanges of experience and support specific projects in the fields of employment, education, vocational training and research within the EU and in a number of third countries.
The Commission also cooperates with other international organisations working to promote inclusion of the Roma, and is in regular contact with the Council of Europe, the OECD, the World Bank and other major players.
The fact that a large number of our fellow citizens are socially excluded because they belong to the Roma community threatens our ability to achieve these goals.
Pervasive anti-Roma sentiment in Europe and daily discrimination thwart our full and equal participation in the social and economic life of Europe, and of the countries we deem our homeland.
However, there has not been a standard European guideline or answer to these pressing issues.
The European Parliament’s five-party motion for a resolution and Commissioner Vladimir Spidla’s current standpoint on the subject establish milestones in this regard.
The forceful manifestation of Roma rights in Europe must mean that the Copenhagen political criteria are uniformly implemented in the existing and the new Member States and also in the Candidate Countries.
One of the most pressing issues facing the disadvantaged Roma minority is finding employment.
It is also apparent that there is a significant number of Romas among people living in long-term extreme poverty and the rate of unemployment in the Roma population often hits or even exceeds 80%.
The European Commission’s stronger and stronger political commitment must manifest itself in real action guided by professionalism, and also in the establishment of a coherent minority protection system, which promotes, in every aspect, the integration of the European Roma population.
The European Parliament must act as a minority-oriented institution, and along with civil organisations and the governing bodies of the Member States, it must work conjointly with the Commission as its primary ally.
Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues from all five parties and our advisers and civil organisations for taking an active part in drafting this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the Roma have been present on European soil for many centuries, since they arrived in Greece in the fourth century.
The Roma are victims of discrimination, marginalisation and segregation in all fields of public and private life, including access to the civil service, education, employment, health services and housing, not to mention when crossing borders and in access to asylum procedures.
That discrimination is no longer a problem for the Roma alone, but is of concern to all Europeans, and we must show solidarity to improve their living conditions.
We must of course strongly condemn all discrimination to which the Roma are subject, but we must also allow them access to decent housing, education, medical services and social protection.
That is why we are asking the Commission for an action plan that will make clear recommendations to the Member States and the candidate countries for a better economic integration, yes, but also social and political integration of all the Roma in Europe.
The situation has gone on for long enough.
The promotion of Roma culture will play an important part in the fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia.
This type of political mood, developing in Parliament for the first time in its history, is significant because discrimination against the Roma within the EU no longer needs to be a taboo subject.
This means that on average, 60% of children who are declared mentally disabled are Roma.
I am very proud of my country, as both of us come from Hungary.
It is not up to the Roma to solve this issue, since it is not they who consider that their children are disabled; it is not Roma women who want to have their ovaries cut out.
This statement is not at all surprising, as Roma people are no longer able to believe their own government in any country, especially in Central Eastern Europe.
Term after term, different political parties keep replacing each other, but none of the governing political parties have been able to provide a solution to this problem and eliminate discrimination, for instance.
The European Union means an end to years of war and the beginning of cooperation.
Mostly, the Roma issue is connected with unemployment and a lack of education, healthcare and housing.
Structures set up for the purpose of helping the cause of the Roma often use this cause as a pretext.
This process is defined as corruption, but actually it is manipulation.
The Roma, Europe’s largest and most vulnerable minority, are, against their will, victims and participants in this global game.
Their political participation in elections is important.
We have to target Roma as voters and as candidates at all political levels.
There are young people 20 years old who were born in Italy and who do not have an Italian identity card.
Let us not forget that the commissioner who should be attending to this issue is an Italian, Mr&#160;Frattini, although in my view he is very much like the monkey that used to say ‘See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party(PSI) in support of the legitimate demands of so many Roma whom I have had the good fortune to meet in my years of social and political engagement.
The hope of the socialist members of the new PSI is that 8 April, the date scheduled as International Roma Day, will be not only a time of celebration, but above all an opportunity to increase public awareness of the problems currently faced by the largest ethnic minority in Europe.
I should like to point out just one aspect that, in our opinion, is particularly important: in spite of the commitments undertaken by the Commission, including those of recent times, we must nevertheless note that in some Member States and candidate countries young Roma are often segregated in schools for the mentally disabled or sent to classes for children with learning difficulties.
On the contrary, provision must be made for full access to the ordinary education system, since schools are a prime means of promoting full social integration.
The current situation is an unjustified hiatus totally at odds with those principles of equality, tolerance and respect that lie at the heart of the fellow feeling fostered by the EU.
Everyone, within their own area of expertise, must endeavour to turn words into deeds. &#160;&#160; The Roma issue belongs among the most complicated social and political issues within the space of the European Union.
The efforts to integrate the Roma community often ended up in the attempts at its assimilation, which also failed.
No doubt, the problem is not equally severe in all the countries.
Thus, there are no Roma in the Baltic countries, but in the southern part of the European Union and in the new Member States, the problem quite often exceeds the capacity of a single country to tackle it.
Their unfavourable situation, extreme poverty and high unemployment cannot be accounted for by racial discrimination alone.
The problem is very often much broader.
At the same time, however, it also revealed that the legislation in this field is outdated and lacks clarity.
I am convinced that the Roma problem transcends the boundaries of individual states and that it must be addressed as a European problem, just as Commissioner Špidla put it.
It is an unfortunate fact that, in all our past conflicts, the Roma were often the first victims.
Even in the absence of such conflicts, though, they are in a far from satisfactory position, and that not just in the new Member States – where they are present in greater numbers – but also in many of the old ones.
Some time ago, I proposed the appointment of a Commissioner with specific responsibility for minority issues and for the Roma’s problems in particular.
It was at one time possible for people to move freely around Europe, with a lifestyle and culture of their own free choosing.
During the German occupation of Bohemia and Moravia there were two concentration camps for Roma, one at Lety in Southern Bohemia, and the other at Hodonin, near Kunstat in Moravia.
Like every ethnocultural minority in the Union – whether native minorities, such as the Sardinians, Corsicans, Basques or Gaels, or legal immigrants – the Roma ethnic group also deserves every consideration.
Precisely like the communities mentioned, however, the Roma community must also be subject to the rules of social coexistence and of mutual respect for the social order.
They are in my country, however, where the police cannot enter Travellers’ camps, where the health authorities cannot give treatment or carry out inspections, and where it is impossible to tackle non-attendance at school, conduct a census of the residents, check children’s living conditions and the legitimacy of parental authority, or supervise respect forgender differences and human rights, and I could go on for hours.
The Commission wants measures to provide jobs for the Roma community.
With the certainty of representing millions of European Union citizens at least in this matter, we reject both the Commission’s declaration and the motions for resolutions, which are idiotic, stuffed full of rhetoric and racist towards the people of Europe.
Owing to the taxes levied on the pockets of properly registered citizens, we are called upon here to represent first the interests and feelings of these European citizens and then, and only then, to pontificate on imaginary acts of discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the pressing issues on the EP agenda this week has been the question of basic human rights, more specifically the situation of the Roma minority in Europe.
I think the question of the Roma minority reaches well beyond constitutional state borders and their situation must be resolved at a European level.
Many members of the European Parliament and some representatives of other authorities, who believe that this situation of continual discrimination must be resolved with joint effort, participated in this extraordinary European Roma Forum.
We decided to establish a European monitoring and follow-up system on discrimination and also to introduce a database which contains instances of prejudice against the Roma.
Mrs Bauer talked about the deep complexity of this problem.
As is the case of my own country, the United Kingdom, the diaspora of the Roma in so-called Old Europe are suffering as much if not more than in the new countries, because they are suffering the extra degradation of being immigrants and Roma.
If we agree that they are an ethnic group, consisting of citizens of all the EU Member States, then the solution to these problems is relatively straightforward.
We should bear in mind, however, that as well as rights, citizens also have certain duties, towards both the country they live in and the other people who live there.
We must ask ourselves who is to defend this nation, as the answer to this question would be a starting point from which we could find a solution to the problems.
The debate on this issue has recently become more heated because two new countries, Romania and Bulgaria, are in the process of joining the European Union.
For over 600&#160;years, the Roma have either not wanted to or not been able to assimilate into society in the countries in which they live.
In spite of the ban on discrimination in the first article of the UN Charter, 12 to 15 million Roma are in a vulnerable position.
The EU’s seven to nine million Roma, a number equivalent to the Swedish population, are to be found in the majority of EU Member States, but no country properly recognises the group as its largest ethnic minority.
The whole of the EU must protect the Roma’s position and, in particular, the vulnerable position of women and children.
We must join with Roma women in integrating them and their children into our gender equality policy, particularly as it relates to the protection of reproductive and sexual health, promotion of family planning, education for children and girls and increased participation in political decision-making.
It covered such issues as the status of the Roma as an ethnic group, discrimination against this group and the social and political position of the Roma from a number of angles.
I believe that we heard a very broad spectrum of opinions, or rather points of view, and that this will provide us with a sound basis for further considerations on the resolution tabled by this House.
The issues raised during the debate highlight the importance and urgency of measures to promote the social inclusion of the Roma at European, national and regional level.
The Commission will continue its efforts to ensure that all the relevant policies and programmes are conducted in a coherent and effective manner in order to promote inclusion of the Roma and of other disadvantaged groups.
We must carry out a more in-depth analysis of both the real needs of the various groups and the areas where action at European level can provide added value.
Nevertheless, we can be proud of the fact that the European Union&#160;has set an example in the field of equal opportunities and human rights, in spite of all our imperfections and inconsistency, and in spite of all the work we still have ahead of us. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Health and safety at work has of course improved over the last few years in the European Union, partly due to the legislation we have adopted ourselves.
That is why I am asking colleagues and our President, whose own country, Spain, recognises International Workers’ Memorial Day, to try to have that day formally recognised, so that we think about accidents at work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, two days ago a four-year-old girl was killed in my constituency after being hit by a car in front of her mother.
Unfortunately, such tragic occurrences are happening daily and in great numbers in one part or another of our Union.
I also suggest that efforts be made to establish a widely publicised blacklist of shame, in which the 25 Member States are ranked according to the number of children killed on the roads per head of population each year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as Chairman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of the South Caucasus, I very much hope that the European Parliament commemorates the 90th anniversary of the Armenian genocide.
In the framework of accession negotiations with Turkey, the Union must help the Turkish people and authorities to begin their memorial work, as Germany did in seeking forgiveness from the Jewish people.
Some of these people are in an extremely serious condition.
I have sent an open letter to the Ministry of the Interior asking it to provide subsidiary protection which, partly through the third European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights of 15 December 1980, could allow these people to remain in Belgium for the time being, even without political asylum.
A delegation from Parliament will be going to the tomorrow at 9.30 to show their solidarity with these 40 Kurds who are risking their lives. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, even when my home country, Poland, was under Communist rule, encouraging children to drink was frowned upon.
The end result of addiction will always be a cycle of destruction and self-destruction that causes enormous physical and mental suffering.
This is true at any age, but particularly in the case of young people.
Yet the fact that our markets have been liberalised cannot be taken to mean that companies are free to encourage children or young people to get drunk.
On behalf of the 106 new representatives, however, I would like to take this festive moment to thank the long-standing members for their friendship, helpfulness, tolerance and solidarity.
The very same film has, for months and months, been the subject of censorship enforced by means of terror by Islamic fundamentalists, to whom we owe the assassination of the film director, Theo van Gogh.
I call on the President of the European Parliament to lift this ban, which does no credit to our Parliament and which conflicts with the principle of freedom of expression.
In particular, it conflicts with the principle of freedom of artistic expression, upon which, I believe, our coexistence and the legal order of the European Union are founded. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as representatives of the new EU Member States, we have been somewhat disturbed by the latest news on the Luxembourg Presidency’s proposals concerning the European Union’s budget for 2007-2013.
These proposals will place the new Member States, in particular the Czech Republic and Hungary, but also my country, Poland, at a disadvantage.
The present and its problems always have a connection to the past that we need to know.
I ask my colleagues from the Czech Republic to do their best to change the present situation at Lety.
I should like to invite the President of Parliament to ask the European Commission and the Council whether they do not see fit to send observers to the forthcoming elections of the Italian Parliament, which will be held in May 2006, because we are the first who should observe the rules of democracy.
I should not like to see that repeated and I should very much welcome a response, bearing in mind that the fraud was perpetrated to the detriment of the current Italian Government. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to raise an urgent matter concerning the operations of a Turkish-owned bank in the Netherlands known as Finansbank.
It was subsequently transferred by Finansbank to another company called Ryder Investments.
We have to investigate the operations of Finansbank, we have to investigate the operations of Gama, and we have to tell the Turkish authorities that companies incorporated in Turkey must comply with European law when they operate in the European Union.
I am in favour of the Turkish Republic joining the European Union, but this kind of activity will undermine its efforts to do so.
It is also important to recognise that Gama is currently in the process of seeking to dismiss the workers who blew the whistle on this scam.
Gama is, in my view, in breach of the anti-discrimination directives.
It is also in breach of the directives that oblige the company to inform the workers of its intentions.
I would appreciate it if the President would convey my comments to the Commission President.
I am happy that Commissioner Špidla is in the Chamber at the moment and I hope he has taken note of my remarks because they are serious: they are not made lightly.
The Commission presented this report to the European Council, Parliament, the Committee of the Regions and the European Economic and Social Committee last spring.
Its main aim was to identify the principle challenges to be overcome by all the health care systems in all the Member States, and to propose joint objectives that could be used as guidelines by the Member States when developing or, potentially, reforming these systems.
The open method of coordination is used in identifying common challenges, committing to joint objectives, exchanging views and experience and carrying out joint evaluations of the success of developments in care systems in the individual Member States.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs discussed the motion for a resolution in late March and voted on all the amendments that had been tabled, and the motion we have before us today is the end result of that process.
The provision of high-quality health care that is accessible to everyone who needs it, irrespective of age, status or wealth, is in the public interest, and is therefore a task for politicians.
The Commission identifies three main challenges in its report, namely the ageing of the population, new technologies for preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic care and the growing expectations of a public that is increasingly aware of health care choices.
To these can be added the rising age of health care workers, the fact that these workers are leaving certain countries to work abroad, the increased movement of EU citizens between Member States and the growing levels of immigration from third countries into the EU.
The main objectives proposed by the Commission are high-quality care, accessibility to all and long-term financial sustainability, which would obviate the need for state funding from other budget headings.
When the Commission report was discussed in committee, consensus was reached on these challenges and on the joint objectives.
Another issue that was highlighted was the question of subsidiarity, the implication of which in the field of health and long-term care is that national governments are fully responsible for developing and reforming health care in the Member States.
The role of patients as clients of health care services is of great significance to Parliament, as patients have the right to decide freely on their health and the care they receive.
Something else we would highlight is the key role played by patients, as well as their right to decide and the responsibility they bear for such decisions.
Information is an essential requirement for decision-taking, as is cooperation with doctors, even though the latter will always have an advantage in terms of information.
As noted in paragraph&#160;32 of the report, these proposals will cover health and long-term care, as well as social integration and pensions.
We regard health care as one of the key aspects of the strategies to be developed by the Member States over the next few years with a view to solving the problem of demographic ageing whilst maintaining a high level of social protection.
Your report has therefore come at a very opportune time, and will be of great help to us in drafting these proposals.
The same is true for the national reports on health and long-term care that we are in the process of receiving from the Member States.
A crucial part of our work schedule will be to identify opportunities for interaction with the current and future European public health strategies and with the relevant Community action programme.
At the same time, of course, we will not lose sight of the fact that the Member States bear the primary responsibility for health and long-term care, and that the European Union’s job is to support political bodies with decision-making powers at national level.
All these fundamental issues must be addressed using the appropriate instruments, which include the legislative powers we hold with regard to the internal market and freedom of movement, as well as the action programme for public health and the open method of coordination.
The Commission will seek to ensure maximum coherence between these individual instruments, whilst at the same time continuing to promote an integrated understanding of health care in terms of efforts to provide appropriate and fair health care to all citizens, whether in their own countries or in other EU Member States.
Mr&#160;Cabrnoch has already said that the threefold aim of accessibility, quality and long-term financial sustainability lies at the heart of all debates on modernisation.
It is an approach codified and institutionalised by the open method of coordination incorporated into the Lisbon Strategy, a method which requires the participation of the Member States in line with the Commission’s timetables.
If the people on whose work the system depends are to be won over to the idea of inner-European exchange in the health sector, I think the open method of coordination needs, in the first instance, to be introduced carefully and progressively.
As in all relations between consumers and suppliers, a climate of confidence is essential, and this is especially true of the health care sector.
In some Member States, the citizens’ confidence in the services falls well short of what one would wish to see.
It should be made absolutely clear that patients’ rights are paramount and first and foremost among them is the right to information on their state of health, on the possibilities available to them in terms of health care and long-term care and on the level of quality of the care offered on the market by individual providers.
The Member States must face the fact that every service comes at a price, although with regard to payment by patients, the person’s economic situation must be taken into account, with the onus naturally falling on the State to help the poorest sections of society.
Member State governments have sovereignty in this area, but this initiative must be seen as an important step towards the construction of a social Europe.
The new Member States are still combating corruption in many areas of their health systems.
Those, in essence, are the social challenges we face.
Believe me, older people are most afraid when they believe they will be inadequately cared for when ill or that it will no longer be possible to care for them.
It is in the new Member States, as a result of budgetary pressure, that public funding is least secure.
Firstly, it has to be considered in the context of the pressure that the Lisbon process puts on health care and on the social insurance systems in order to turn them into services capable of being marketed throughout Europe.
Thirdly, as is emphasised at various points in the report, one consequence of population change is that, in many Member States, healthcare systems are regarded as an intolerable burden on the national budget, and this has had a markedly detrimental effect on the working conditions of healthcare personnel.
The report plays a crucial part in preparing for a fundamental choice between what has been proposed by the Commission and the Council on the one hand and by Parliament on the other.
The question at issue is whether health care and social protection systems should remain wholly within the sphere of services of general interest or whether they should be made subject to the competition rules of the internal market.
Parliament’s response, in no uncertain terms, to this is that health care must continue to be considered as a service of general interest, and universal access for all – regardless of their purchasing power – must be guaranteed.
Although I believe that the key principles adopted by the Confederal Group of the United European Left/Nordic Green Left are reflected in his motion for a resolution, I have tabled a number of amendments that emphasise our group’s priorities.
The right to health is after all considered to be a fundamental right in all the EU Member States, and one that is conferred on the basis of solidarity.
My amendment was intended to ensure that this is in fact what happens.
It is for this reason that I have tabled further amendments aimed at improving training for health care workers, in order to achieve a comparable level of training in all Member States.
I firmly believe that this training must be funded from the EU training budget, and that the Member States must not be left to deal with this matter on their own.
Thirdly, I welcome the rapporteur’s comments to the effect that the health care services should focus on prevention, and I believe that the Commission should encourage the Member States to step up all preventive measures, not only with regard to health care provision, but also with regard to working time and health at work.
Fourthly, I agree with the rapporteur when he says that although medical science offers new diagnostic and therapeutic options, health care systems must also be financially stable.
Every country should be required to maintain and fund essential health care services.
No ideal system has yet been found for either organising or funding health care services.
There are advantages and disadvantages inherent in every system, including both systems based on insurance contributions and what could be termed state-funded systems.
The best solution is therefore probably a mixed system.
A great many lofty sentiments have been expressed, particularly in EU legislation, on the subject of modernising social protection in order to develop and improve health care, yet they are often contradictory.
The sole result of this is to aggravate the situation with regard to social and health care, even though it is already difficult enough in many countries as a result of increasing costs, bloodthirsty capitalism and a failure to observe moral principles.
A good example of this is the contradictions that arise from the fact that the Member States have seemingly been placed in charge of organisation and funding, yet medical services have been included in the services directive.
If we wish to guarantee the provision of high-quality care, we cannot regard health as a productive sector of the economy, or health services as normal commercial services.
This should not be what is meant by modernising social protection in order to develop and improve health care.
The only answer to an ageing population is to change our attitude to conceived life.
We should protect this life and do all we can, by which I also mean observing moral principles, in order to improve not only the quality, but also the functioning of health care services.
Even though the Member States are responsible for public health care, I therefore believe that the European Union should draw up a set of minimum social standards.
In the year 2000, when the report on modernisation of the social protection systems was being debated, I myself was the rapporteur.
The first time that we debated the open coordination method, together with healthcare, pensions and other issues was when we were drawing up the relevant strategy.
The organisation and funding of health care are a national issue that, in certain countries, is dealt with at regional level, as it should be allowed to be in the future too.
The issue is that of whether there is added value for Europe in cooperation, and the answer is yes, because these are common challenges that we face.
An exchange of best practice in this area is possible.
The Services Directive is, in the first place, about commercial services, while this is a service of general interest and should be debated in that context. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, let me start by making a brief comment on what Mr Mann said.
The employers’ association of the German ,and individual ministers in the ,have given us examples of what they mean by non-active on-call time: time spent on general visits, changing dressings, time outside ordinary working time spent doing infusions, injections, and routine chores such as dealing with correspondence.
I see this as a whole new kind of exploitation, and I ask Members not only to support our amendments, but also, when considering the Working Time Directive, to see to it that what the Commission has drafted does not go unchanged. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is an excellent report from an excellent rapporteur.
It is a perfect example of one of the benefits of enlargement – of our welcoming ten new Member States – that we have representatives with such strength and wisdom to improve the quality of our discussions.
I am sure both the President and the Commissioner would agree with that remark.
I also commend the comments about the importance of having proper healthcare for elderly people such as myself.
I would ask him to be so good as to reply in English saying what can be done, so that I can send this reply to my constituent in the West Midlands. &#160;&#160; Health is a fundamental social right and one of the cornerstones of the European social model.
The ageing of the population will create problems in relation to the national health systems’ capacity to secure access and quality in the future.
In spite of their different healthcare arrangements, all the Member States face this problem.
The mid-term evaluation of the Lisbon Strategy also emphasises the need for the social pillar.
The Member States must therefore become better at making use of the open coordination method and the opportunity it provides for exchanging good practice.
More should also be done to improve our working environment so that we prevent accidents at work and work-related illnesses.
An improved environment will generally also have a beneficial effect on general health and will thus make for healthier people, which will again release resources for health care.
Health, growth and employment are inextricably linked. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in order to guarantee social inclusion, we must ensure the existence of a public social security system founded on the principles of democracy, solidarity and universal access and a health care system that is similarly public and universal.
These systems must operate on the basis of non-discrimination, benefiting people on low incomes, guaranteeing equal access for all to good quality public services and safeguarding human rights.
We are therefore opposed to the proposals paving the way for the privatisation of public services in these essential areas.
We object for example to the Bolkestein proposal for a directive intended to set up an internal market for services and to the proposal for a directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, which, by undermining health professionals’ working conditions, also jeopardises the health of people using the services in question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having myself once drafted a report on this subject, I am of course particularly pleased by the considerable continuity that is still evident between Mr&#160;Cabrnoch’s report and our previous resolutions.
The Council’s eventual agreement, in October of last year, to the use of open coordination in health provision and the care of the elderly is another success chalked up by this House.
If the Member States want to ensure, in future, continued universal access to their systems for health care and the care of the elderly, to guarantee their quality and secure their funding, what is needed above all is more prevention and greater transparency.
Transparency is itself indispensable if quality is to be maintained and if the resources available to the healthcare systems are to be used in the best possible way.
Assessing the quality of medical services must be made much easier; paying out large sums of money for poor-quality service must come to an end.
Patients’ organisations have a very important part to play in this, and they must be more involved in future decisions on health policy.
We should join together in seeking strategies for improving the interaction between healthcare provision and treatment, in order to be able to improve care for patients in their homes and to provide sufficient care facilities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Communist Party of Greece will be voting against the report misleadingly entitled 'Modernising social protection and developing good quality healthcare', because it contains reactionary assessments and objectives for further promoting the commercialisation of healthcare, swelling the private business groups which control the healthcare sectors and drug production and increasing their profits.
Health and safety at work regulations are primitive.
The pharmaceutical and biomedical technology sectors, production and marketing should belong to the state and should be controlled by society. &#160;&#160; Mr President, whilst I judge the general philosophy of this report positively, and whilst this text may be an acceptable foundation for upwards harmonisation of the rights of European citizens with regard to social protection linked to healthcare, it also presents some serious shortcomings.
Two significant matters absent from the report are the issue of financing a pioneering social protection system and mass unemployment in Europe.
In a certain sense it pushes us to our limits; after all, no&#160;one can fail to be moved by anguish, suffering and death, and these are all part and parcel of health care.
If I understood what was said correctly, the gist of what had happened was that someone had suffered health problems and was presumably treated in a clinic against his will, whereupon the clinic demanded payment for services that were not covered by his insurance.
According to paragraph 9, Parliament takes the view that the ageing of the population constitutes a challenge and should also be taken as an opportunity to involve people with long and valuable experience more closely in society and enterprises as a part of active ageing.
I believe that this paragraph demonstrates that the report is both well thought-out and well-balanced. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The Agency’s mission is to improve people’s working lives and to foster the exchange of technical, scientific and economic information between all parties affected by issues relating to safety and health at work, whether these be Community bodies, Member States, employees, employers or safety engineers.
That is the day that commemorates the 60&#160;000 workers per year who die globally from job-related injuries or illnesses and the many millions more who are injured.
Thirdly, there are those intended to reinforce the role of the social partners in the Agency’s network in the Member States – a very important point – and those intended to reinforce cooperation with other Community bodies in the social policy area.
We have also, of course, tabled amendments to try to ensure a proper gender balance in the management structures of the Agency.
First, I would like to say that I am grateful to Giovanni Berlinguer and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for an excellent opinion.
Amendment 4 concerns gender balance and the governing and management structures of the Agency.
Amendments 5, 6, 7 and 8 concern in different ways the added value the Agency should bring to the data it collects and collates through analysis, evaluation, identification of best practice and dissemination of that information and best practice to where it is most needed, particularly with small and medium-sized enterprises.
Amendment 7 also underlines the need for the promotion of the harmonisation of statistics on work-related accidents and illnesses, a crucial point.
A series of amendments then look at a number of technical and administrative matters concerning the composition of the board and Bureau and their respective roles and responsibilities, and the interrelationships between the two bodies.
The final point is the one the Commissioner mentioned.
If competition between countries, rather than encouraging safety and innovation, meant a relaxation of safety measures and an increase in working hours, that would increase the number of accidents and illnesses.
If the Bolkestein Directive on services brought in social dumping by means of the country of origin rule, the number of accidents and illnesses would be compounded.
I will continue to review the arguments that speak in favour of the existence of this institution, as well as any that suggest that it would be preferable for problems relating to health and safety at work to be tackled in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, or in other words at national level alone.
As things stand, however, both the motion for a resolution that has been tabled and the rapporteur’s report serve to make the Agency’s work more transparent, and I can therefore endorse the motion for a resolution drafted by the rapporteur.
The key elements of this Agency are its research and distribution of best practice to Member States in relation to standards concerning health and safety at work.
Legislation governing the health and safety of workers throughout the EU is a prime example of how the EU has made and can make a positive contribution to raising the quality of life for millions of the Union’s citizens.
A notable case in Ireland recently has been the exposure of the Turkish multinational company Gama, which has deprived workers of earnings through paying substantially below the minimum wage and endangered their health and safety by requiring a substantial number of its workers to work up to 80 hours per week.
This is extremely damaging to the health and safety of those workers.
We have the legislation in Ireland, we have the minimum wage, but we are not properly enforcing that legislation.
This is a high-profile case in Ireland at the moment, but there have been a number of cases in recent times where workers’ rights, particularly immigrant workers’ rights, have been trampled on.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is right behind this report, and I wish to express my appreciation to Mr Hughes for drafting it.
Other speakers have already mentioned such things as the Bolkestein directive and REACH, and I realise how unstable a pillar social Europe rests upon when I hear employers heaping derision on the prospect of a directive on protection against optical radiation, which would lay down minimum standards for workers.
The Commission and the Council sought to change the status of the workers in that Foundation and we had to negotiate considerably to try and find a solution to that.
While this Parliament is only consulted on this issue, I believe we have found good common ground between the staff of the Foundation, the management and indeed the Parliament here.
I expect tomorrow’s debate on the amendments that have been tabled to be brief and to have a positive outcome, as the individual amendments provide a logical and well-balanced response to the changes that have taken place. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Commissioner, I have the impression that you are less fortunate with the heritage concerning the internal market for services that Mr Bolkestein left for you when you came here to Brussels, and which carries his name, or perhaps an ominous nickname.
I would like to praise Mr Bolkestein for having diligently steered the FSAP through during his term in office.
In the report before you and in the debates that we had in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we take a positive view of the way the FSAP has been dealt with, but of course we are aware that many of the intentions laid down in the rules still have to be proven in practice.
This paragraph 2 absolutely does not fit into a report that points to so many developments in a dynamic financial market that may pose serious systemic risks and endanger a safe and efficient internal market for financial services.
With the well-known disclaimers that you are used to from the European Parliament, the report is quite positive about the Lamfalussy Process.
I note that they are more and more aware of their important role in harmonising the technical rules and the supervisory practices between regulators in different Member States.
Seeing the growth in cross border activity and the concentration of large players in the financial markets, it is time for integrated supervision at European level, possibly via a two-tier system with European-level supervision for large cross-border players without prejudice to the level playing field between cross-border and local players.
Here we stress that the protection of consumers and the guaranteed availability of basic financial services to all consumers should remain a basic condition.
I do not think that we should aim at complete harmonisation in relation to retail financial products and service provision, because consumer protection is too different in the various Member States.
Most of the necessary rules outlined in the Financial Services Action Plan have been agreed on time and are now being put in place.
Continued systematic cooperation has developed between the European institutions and market participants.
All institutions and a very large majority of the market participants agree we need to continue our efforts, because our job to integrate the European financial markets is far from finished.
Our key priority for the next 12 months is to complete unfinished business in the area of financial services.
We still need to deal with the remaining elements in the negotiation phase before this House and the Council, as well as the key measures now under preparation by the Commission.
In the area of financial services, the Commission commends the good work done in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs over the last years, and, more particularly, the report we are discussing today.
There is a considerable degree of convergence between our own thinking and the thinking in the European Parliament.
Many of the main themes included in the report presented today by Mrs Van den Burg on behalf of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee will also be reflected in the Commission’s Green Paper on its future financial services policy.
I do not wish to dwell on all the recommendations set out in the report, but let me highlight some which I believe are particularly important.
Therefore, the Commission endorses a step-by-step approach, building on the European regulatory and supervisory committees in the area of financial services.
Effective delivery of our common programme must be mandate of the European Commission and the European Parliament.
The industry and all three European institutions have undergone a stressful five years of legislation in this area, and the most stressful stage, for the industry at least, is probably still to come.
Furthermore, the industry needs time to digest these often substantial changes to its ways of doing business.
The Lamfalussy process has a key role in ensuring that the FSAP legislation works for the benefit of both financial services companies and their customers.
In reality, if we want this strategy to succeed, we require financial markets capable of financing the needs of our economies.
That said, I should like to make two observations.
The first concerns the rights of this Parliament.
Should this Parliament have a call-back right, we will require measures for implementing this right at level 2.
I should like to say a word about the situation of the regulators, as this is a debate that we have not resolved entirely within our Committee.
They told us very clearly that if we want a regulation to be implemented on a European scale, it will take more than benchmarking between national authorities, as the effect of this alone will not produce a sufficient level of harmonisation between the powers of different national regulators during the step-by-step process we are in.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has considered this issue in an own-initiative report.
The European internal market in financial services is still a long way from being complete, lagging well behind the internal market in goods.
I have, though, critical comments to make on two aspects of it.
Secondly, although the big banks are making the case for deliberate and far-reaching harmonisation, it still needs to be clarified to what extent this applies to all sectors of the financial services industry.
In this regard, I appreciate the presented material and good work of rapporteur Ieke van den Burg as another contribution to devising a conceptual solution in this field not only within the European Union, but with the ambition of an intercontinental approach. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I, too, would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her constructive and good cooperation.
She has produced a balanced text that takes a look at the European internal financial market – to which, over recent years, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has devoted a great deal of attention – and, while doing a good job of analysing our present situation, also looks towards the future.
That this should be enforced from the top down is intolerable. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the creation of a single market for the financial services sector is a key factor in completing the internal market and in fostering further economic and social development in Europe.
In this context, the Financial Services Action Plan (FSAP), adopted in 1999 and strengthened at the Lisbon and Stockholm European Councils, is an indispensable tool.
It is now universally acknowledged that the FSAP has been a success, given that 39 of the 42 legislative measures have been adopted.
Efforts must now, therefore, be channelled into ensuring that the necessary implementing measures are transposed into national law, and, in particular, that the operation is monitored, transparently and effectively, for a certain amount of time.
The overriding message of this report is that the Member States must adopt ‘the principles of better regulation’, opportunely adopted by the Commission, and that there must be greater convergence of national supervision practices relating to the measures incorporated in the FSAP.
I also wish to highlight the point that any future legislative measures aimed at remedying market failures must include a cost-benefit analysis of implementing them, in comparison with not implementing them.
Mrs Van den Burg’s report addresses the whole question of financial services sensibly, coherently and intelligently and I therefore feel that Parliament should support it. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
Firstly, the recommendations of Parliament concerning improvement of these market activities are important not only for professionals, but also for every citizen of the European Union, and we often forget that.
In addition, to take account of the investments into the market of the pension funds would lead us to understanding that lately the quality of life is increasingly dependent on the activity of the financial market; in case of disorderly performance of at least one institution, thousands or even hundreds of thousands of citizens can suffer losses.
However, effective management of the financial market cannot be achieved by implementing a particular regulation, since I can tell you from the experience in my country that such administration is costly, hard to implement, and, after all, does not protect investors and merely restricts market development.
Secondly, we cannot expect progress within the European single market if the national legislation differs.
Therefore, great attention has to be paid to the national legislation that has an impact on the financial markets; also activities of various working groups have to be encouraged.
Therefore, we have to create favourable conditions in Europe not only for big players, but also leave some room for the activities of national businesses (small companies) and individual citizens at the national level.
One area in which I definitely do not want to see new legislation is that of corporate governance or the way in which companies are run.
There is a great risk of our obtaining a financial market full of legal disputes, proceedings, advisory court judgments and yet more legislative measures to plug the gaps in the legislation.
The terms harmonisation and level playing field have been the gateway to a suffocatingly legalistic system.
That, I think, is something we should tackle as a matter of priority. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report on the Financial Services Action Plan comes at an important time for the integration of financial markets in Europe.
As legislators, we should be extremely sensitive to this concern and focus our efforts on what is essential and beneficial.
This approach should take due account of evolving market practices and the principle of subsidiarity.
As we move beyond the FSAP, however, the process itself should take into account the new environment in order to ensure that the appropriate balance of legislative and horizontal measures, structures of transparency, parliamentary control and stakeholder consultation improves further.
For instance, structured dialogue between the EU and the US and other global capital markets could thus be better fed into the process, thereby strengthening both the European financial playing field as well as these relationships.
With a longer term perspective, provided that the parliamentary accountability of any new body thus created is guaranteed, we can see the benefits of moving towards a more uniform supervisory regime for financial markets.
All these options should be left open and used if the Commission thinks it is necessary. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that we believe that both the services directive and the internal market in finance are safe in the Commissioner’s hands, thanks to the good cooperation between the Commission and this House.
Let me say, secondly, that the action plan for financial services in the period up to 2005 is a success; with 39 out of 42 measures already having been adopted, it is a success on the road that leads to the internal financial market, and it is successful as a result of the work Parliament has done.
Necessary although these measures are, there are too many people who regard the great number of new and necessary regulations as excessive.
The answers to the last question are obvious: as yet, not all the Member States of the European Union have the euro as their common currency; that weakens the internal market.
Although we are in favour of Lamfalussy, it must not be allowed to result in a loss of democratic control, of democratic legitimacy and of clarity in the reaching of decisions and the formation of opinion.
I thank Mrs van den Burg for her very stimulating report and the considerable effort that has gone into producing it.
Based on this report and our consultation with other stakeholders, next week, on 3&#160;May, I intend to present to the College of Commissioners a Green Paper on financial services policy for the next five years.
The Commission’s Green Paper will be open for public consultation until 1 August.
Mrs van den Burg and Mrs Kauppi referred to the ‘Himalaya’ report.
The Commission thinks integration needs to be accompanied by matching supervisory structures: the more integrated the markets, the more integrated and convergent the supervisory structures must also be.
That regime may sound attractive in its simplicity, but in practice it will require some degree of harmonisation across the board, whether legal or in terms of tax, language, etc.
Both Mrs van den Burg and Mrs Berès mentioned retail markets.
However, this should not be the conclusion but our starting point.
Product characteristics, distribution systems, consumer protection, contract law, differences in consumption, culture or other economic or structural realities play a prominent role in the retail area and create considerable complexity for cross-border supply and demand.
Mr Purvis and Mrs Berès raised the question of asset management.
We might also need to address this question of legislative changes if they present the only way to secure single market freedoms in the area of investment funds.
Mr Radwan raised a number of issues, including one on the standards issued on clearing and settlement.
Mr Radwan also raised the question of the democratic governance and political accountability of rule-setters.
During that recent visit to the United States, we made good progress in some of these areas.
Mr Wohlin raised the question of the new framework for capital requirements.
Members raised other points, which I hope will be taken up in the time ahead.
In conclusion, I refer to what I said earlier: there is a considerable degree of convergence between the thinking in the European Parliament, the Council, industry, consumers and the Commission.
On the one hand, reciprocity is an essential principle when considering visas.
On the other hand, the mechanism laid down in Regulation 539/2001 to ensure respect for reciprocity is unsuitable, essentially on account of its inflexible and automatic nature.
As a result, the mechanism has not been used in more than three years, in fact not since the Regulation entered into force, even though situations of non-reciprocity continued with regard to old Member States and the number of cases of non-reciprocity increased at a remarkable rate with the arrival of the new Member States.
The Commission will play an active role with regard to third countries that enforce visa requirements.
It will draft a report to Council on the situation of non-reciprocity thus created and, if necessary, it will propose the reintroduction of the visa requirement for citizens of the third countries concerned.
The amendments proposed by Mr Lax pursue three different objectives.
The first objective is to extend the mechanism to a set of situations that do not exclusively relate to visa exemptions, but also to the conditions for issuing visas.
Furthermore, in seeking to incorporate a whole series of issues which are in reality of lesser importance, it runs the risk of weakening the reciprocity mechanism, which must remain focused on an essential issue, identified as such by the citizens, namely the continued visa requirement by third countries that are themselves exempt from this requirement by our Member States.
I am anxious to point out to the rapporteur that I share the general approach of this amendment and I must also tell you that the political orientation that emerged at the JAI Council of 24&#160;February takes the same line.
I cannot, however, accept the binding of the Commission’s power of initiative as far as proposing provisional measures is concerned, nor, for reasons of legal basis, the extending of the Commission’s right of initiative within the present contexts to proposals for measures relating to areas other than that of visa policy.
The necessary transparency must of course be ensured, but the reciprocity mechanism must remain a flexible instrument which can be accessed quickly, and which – and this is the key point – must allow provisional measures.
The temporary restoration of the visa requirement for third countries is, in actual fact, situated in a plan other than the transfer of a third country to a list of countries subject to the visa requirement, which is annexed to Regulation 539/2001.
Finally, with a strengthened reciprocity mechanism, the Commission will be equipped to respond to the formal invitation of the European Council of 4-5 November: to continue with our efforts to ensure that, as soon as possible, citizens of every Member State can travel without a visa, for short journeys, to all of the countries whose citizens undertake visa-free travel within the Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
Citizens of quite a few of the new Member States require visas to travel to the United States, in spite of the fact that American citizens do not need visas to travel to the new Member States.
It is easy to understand why people assume that the EU should make vigorous efforts to promote freedom of movement, especially since visa policy is harmonised and falls completely within the Commission’s area of competence.
A few months ago, Poland’s former President, Lech Walesa, spent the night in a tent outside the White House in Washington in protest against the American visa requirement – a good example of just how loaded the issue is.
The EU has a weapon for cases such as this, namely the reciprocity mechanism.
For example, Poland and Greece can issue a notification to the Commission to the effect that, in their cases, reciprocity is not being respected by the United States.
Finland can do the same in connection with Venezuela, etc.
The EU should have recourse to other sanctions and not just automatically introduce a visa requirement.
The report gives the individual Member States three months – a longer period than that proposed by the Commission – in which to negotiate with the third country.
Citizens of the Member State concerned must have a guarantee that their cases will be referred to the highest level and that this will result in a decision.
A very broad majority of the committee was in favour of this policy.
I myself believe that the report’s recommendations will lead to greater efficiency and better results, strengthen the Commission’s negotiating position in respect of third countries and, through the European Parliament’s involvement, give people more insight into the process.
The report also has a new element, and one that I believe the Commission and the Council should ponder carefully.
Lithuanian motorists have been required to have special motor insurances in order to be able to drive over to Kaliningrad, and they have had to register with the local authorities within three days.
From a Brussels perspective, these issues may appear trivial, but they cause a lot of inconvenience and financial losses for those affected.
Because the EU has to operate in the interests of our citizens, it is, as Commissioner Frattini asserts, extremely important that these problems be taken seriously, even though they may appear less serious than the main issue of whether or not there is a visa requirement.
When Parliament – presumably with a clear majority – now approves the report, this will be a clear signal to the Commission and the Council of Ministers to begin outlining a mechanism that takes account of people’s everyday needs when there are visa requirements.
If this matter had been brought to our attention at the beginning of the year, the codecision procedure would have applied.
In saying that, I still wish to thank all those who have helped with the work, including my fellow MEPs and the Commission’s and Parliament’s officials.
I am looking forward to the debate that is now to follow. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the reciprocity mechanism that has applied to date under the European Union’s visa policy meant that extremely harsh sanctions could be imposed on third countries if a country reported that the mandatory use of visas was placing them at a disadvantage.
On 7&#160;July&#160;2004, after the ten new Member States had joined the EU, the Commission relaxed the rules contained in this regulation in such a way as to do away with the reciprocity mechanism that had featured in the draft regulation.
This resulted in an absurd situation whereby 9 of the 10&#160;new Member States were forced to accept citizens of third countries, for example the USA, without visas, whilst citizens of the Member States in question needed visas to travel to these third countries.
I believe that Mr&#160;Lax has drafted what is, on the whole, an excellent report, but although this report introduces a number of additional procedures and deadlines that can be enforced by diplomatic means, it does not oblige the Council or the Commission to impose more stringent sanctions.
Such an approach would send out a clear signal that mutual solidarity between EU Member States and towards third countries has been thin on the ground since the accession of the new Member States.
Since the latter joined the EU, dual standards have been applied, with one mechanism for the 15&#160;old Member States and another, in which solidarity is rather less apparent, for the EU of 25.
The end result of this is that the difference in status between the citizens of the new and the old EU has become even more pronounced, as citizens of the new Member States are subject to additional restrictions when travelling outside the EU.
We were obliged to bring our legislation into line with the EU’s visa policy, which proved extremely expensive, and to introduce visas for our eastern neighbours.
We are still unable to issue Schengen visas, and we cannot count on the EU’s help as far as visa reciprocity is concerned.
I should also like to receive a clear answer to the question of whether we can expect the Commission to present an action plan setting out clearly defined deadlines for the achievement of objectives relating to the abolition of visas for travel into the USA, and using the Schengen assessments of the new Member States as a frame of reference.
Behind the dryness of technical terms lies, in fact, a very vital reality: that of giving substance to, and advancing, in a tangible and positive way, cooperation between Member States, in the face of the complex relations of an enlarged Union with third countries on the subject of visas.
We are dealing here with something that lies at the heart of what constitutes the richness of Europe, namely respect for the law in all its forms in rediscovered peace and harmony.
We are attempting to build a harmonious space between Europe and the rest of the world, where borders are not walls rising up between one party and another, dividing people and nations.
We must ensure that Europe is a recognised space, where it is possible to come and go without interference, on good terms with third countries near or far.
It is also an act of confidence towards our 420 million citizens.
In this context, I express my full interest in the principle of pushing aside the systematisation of sanctions currently implemented in the event of a lapse from one side or the other, between the European Union and the third countries in question.
In the last resort, in fact, it is our citizens who pay a high price for it by not being allowed to travel freely, not to mention the very costly inconvenience that that causes.
In particular, we must succeed in guaranteeing all European citizens free, unimpeded movement outside the borders of the Union.
The reciprocity mechanism is not applied in the case of nineteen countries.
Discrimination between EU citizens is simply unacceptable.
We hope that adopting the new regulation will contribute to a more efficient application of solidarity.
It is high time the Commission acted firmly in the name of the Community on the basis of solidarity between the Member States and I hope that Mr Frattini will seize this opportunity and take appropriate measures.
It proposes an increase in the notification period from 10 to 90 days to allow for direct negotiations between the individual Member States, but after 90 days, the reciprocity mechanism must come into effect.
It is also important that it draws Parliament into this process not only because it emphasises the authority and importance of Parliament, but it also improves democratic transparency.
Another important point is that it not only talks about visa obligations, but also of any kind of procedure that becomes an obstacle to free movement.
What is needed is a mechanism designed to ensure that European citizens do not have to obtain a visa in order to enter those third countries whose nationals do not require a visa to enter EU territory.
Victim Member States, such as my country, Portugal, have always held back from using it.
The situation has deteriorated since the enlargement.
Consequently, we agree that there needs to be a more flexible mechanism in order to ensure greater interoperability and more effective implementation, thereby enhancing solidarity between the Member States.
The Commission will also have a crucial role based on its competence in the area of visas.
Hence my support for this proposal and for the proposals made by the rapporteur, Mr Lax, whom I congratulate on his excellent work. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mr&#160;Lax for his work, which has made it possible for us to discuss the reciprocity mechanism and to take decisions on the matter.
I should merely like to draw the House’s attention to an issue addressed by Mrs&#160;Kudrycka, and which Mr&#160;Lax in fact also mentioned a short while ago.
In principle, proposals to award the Commission and the Council powers in this field are an eminently good idea.
I should like to reiterate a point made by a number of other speakers, namely that this is one of the many instances, and indeed perhaps the most important, where we should invoke a founding principle of the European Union.
I refer to the principle of solidarity and equal treatment for all Member States and their citizens.
After all, the latter are all citizens of the European Union, and as such on an equal footing with each other. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the concept of reciprocity is as old as the history of international relations.
It has its roots in the tradition of mutual respect and equal treatment for citizens of different countries.
After the 10 new Member States joined the EU, however, people’s attitudes towards this principle suddenly began to change.
In my opinion, the proposal for a Council Regulation amending the Regulation on the reciprocity mechanism is a further example of .
Firstly, Poles have always regarded the lack of reciprocity in visa arrangements with certain countries, in particular the United States, as unfair.
Secondly, they had every right to expect that when we joined the European Union, which is a community of nations, this community would take on some of the responsibility for defending Poland’s interests, in line with the principle of subsidiarity in its broadest sense.
I can assure you that we have already established relations and contacts at a political level precisely with the non-EU countries that you have mentioned – the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand – in order to arrive at a system that will guarantee all Member States, whether old or new, free movement without a visa.
Furthermore, we are making efforts for every new Member State to join the Schengen area by 2007.
The vote will be tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A6-0084/2005), on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14&#160;June&#160;1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders as regards access to the Schengen Information System by the services in the Member States responsible for issuing registration certificates for vehicles (14238/1/2004 – C6-0007/2005 – 2003/0198(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr&#160;Coelho). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, we all want to combat theft and the illegal trade in stolen cars.
Fresh measures to combat crime of this nature must therefore be taken.
The purpose of this proposal is to provide the public vehicle registration authorities direct access to certain categories of data contained in the Schengen Information System (SIS) and, in turn, to restrict private vehicle registration services solely to the right to request indirect access through a public authority with access to the SIS.
It is necessary to check quickly and efficiently whether vehicles presented to them for registration have been stolen, misappropriated or lost.
We have also improved the functioning of the internal market by strengthening the principle of free movement and, in so doing, we have fostered the gradual creation of the area of freedom, security and justice, along with the implementation of the common transport policy.
This direct access will ensure that cars stolen in one country cannot be registered – and thus made legal – in another, a process that sometimes takes less than 24 hours.
The range of data to which the competent vehicle registration authorities will have access is clearly laid down and limited in terms of what is necessary and appropriate.
I should also like to point out that Directive 95/46 on personal protection data is applicable here, along with the specific rules of the Schengen Convention on data protection.
The authorities in charge of data protection must therefore have sufficient resources at their disposal to carry out their work and the Member States must be firmly committed to upholding the fundamental right to data protection.
I wholeheartedly welcome this common position, and I am delighted that, in accepting seven of the ten amendments put forward, it largely took on board Parliament’s recommendations.
As for the three amendments not accepted, I shall first mention Amendment 4.
The conditions are thus in place whereby this legal act can finally be adopted and this useful measure can enter into force.
Our aim is to prevent and combat the illegal trade in stolen vehicles and improve the functioning of the internal market.
The proposal we are discussing today also offers a better use of the largest European database on stolen vehicles, the Schengen Information System.
We propose that under certain conditions national vehicle registration authorities should be allowed to consult the SIS data registers on stolen vehicles and stolen vehicle documents, prior to registering a vehicle that is already registered in another Schengen state.
This is an excellent way in which Europe can serve its citizens and promote concrete operational cooperation.
Our proposal will also make the law enforcement process more manageable by facilitating access to information.
Our proposal will grant this access on the basis of a transparent and common set of rules and data protection principles.
Compliance with the rules will be monitored in a manner similar to other searches in the SIS.
Finally, the Commission welcomes the amendments proposed by the European Parliament, in particular Amendment 3, which allows for a reporting system with a view to collecting reliable data.
The clear objective of this ruling is the fight against organised vehicle crime, which we all fully agree is one of our priorities.
We are, however, more reserved with regard to unlimited access to European databases.
An annual report from the Council to the European Parliament on the implementation of this regulation is an absolute prerequisite, in order to assure the representatives of European citizens that the principle of finality is genuinely observed.
Whilst European databases can prove useful in the fight against organised crime, they must, in reality, be rigorously controlled.
Our priority is the effective fight against organised crime in Europe, but in observing the rights and freedoms of European citizens, it is not always a pointless exercise to reaffirm it. &#160;&#160; I made some rather sarcastic remarks about this proposal at first reading and, as a lawyer, I have objections to its being defined as an aspect of transport policy when, in reality, what we have here is an arrangement that extends what, fundamentally, is dangerous access to very extensive information systems and the most comprehensive system of police supervision and control we have, namely the Schengen system.
Even if that were so, however, there are such major reasons for concern about extending the access in question that we in our group shall vote against the proposal, irrespective of the fact that we very much appreciate the rapporteur’s very commendable efforts to have an obligation imposed to report on whether the system is of any use.
We have these reservations about the supervisory system because we see it as a further extension to a system of police supervision and control that, in all probability, will have no useful effect at all. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The oral question before us was tabled by my colleague Mr Florenz and we also have a motion for resolution further to that oral question on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on the EU strategy for the Punta del Este Conference on Persistent Organic Pollutants.
For the record, next week the first Conference of the Parties of the Stockholm Convention on POPs or Persistent Organic Pollutants, takes place in Punta del Este in Uruguay.
They are spread through the air and through the food chain very far from their sources, even to regions where they have never been used or produced.
It is important, however, that the needs of developing countries are taken into account and that our response is proportionate and that we allow controlled exemptions.
I am thinking primarily of the use of DDT against malaria because, despite the best efforts of scientists and their redoubled efforts to find an effective vaccine, this is still many years away.
So our approach must be proportionate, particularly when we realise that every minute two children in Africa die of malaria.
Every day over 3&#160;000 children in Africa die of malaria.
Although it is a very toxic substance, the benefit still outweighs the risk when your child is less likely to die of persistent organic pollution poisoning than of malaria.
However, we must double our efforts to find an alternative to DDT because huge damage is being done to humans – it is biocumulative – and to our environment by our need to look after the children who are here today.
I should like to draw your attention to paragraph 9, which says that Parliament ‘believes that the Members of the European Parliament who are part of the EC delegation have an essential contribution to make and expects, therefore, that they will have access to EU coordination meetings in Punta del Este on the basis at least of observer status’.
Commissioner, I say this regardless of precedent or quoting interinstitutional agreements, because I would like to say yet again on the record that, just a few weeks after you were appointed, Commissioner, at the conference of the Parties in Buenos Aires in relation to climate change, COP 10, you made great strides in including the Members of the European Parliament, both before and after various meetings, in terms of full briefings.
I know you cannot join us in Punta del Este, but I would ask that you make it very clear to those honourable people who will be representing you there that you would like the precedent you created last December to continue.
Let us take it one step at a time, let us at least have observer status at the coordination meetings and at the meetings where the real work is done and of course be part of any press conference and press briefing that may wind up the week.
Somehow over the autumn and over Christmas and the New Year, by the time of the Council conclusions on 10 March, the seven had dropped to up to three additional substances.
But up to three could be none, one or two as well as three.
Maybe you could tell us, Commissioner, what has happened between 10 March and today?
Mr President, I agree with almost everything Mrs Doyle said and I should like to say that, with the entry into force of the Stockholm Convention, twelve of the most dangerous substances in the world will gradually be abolished.
In all events, the debate is continuing on the timetable and for submitting proposals and I believe and hope that the European Union will table good proposals during the first conference of the parties.
However, the first conference must find ways to help limit the reliance on DDT, such as by promoting research into alternative means and providing technical and financial support.
Similarly, the first conference must set further measures in motion in a bid to restrict the risks from the use and availability of PCBs, on the one hand, and to reduce and prevent the release into the environment of derivative organic pollutants, especially chlorinated dioxins and furans, on the other.
At the same time, we succeeded, with the three institutions, in projecting a very good and united image of the European Union to the outside world, mainly by using press conferences at which we appeared together and seemed united and unified in our opinions, thereby improving the image of the European Union.
In other words, we had both positive material results and results from the point of view of communications.
The ignorance of the past and the negligence of the present have come at a high price – environmental costs, financial costs and costs in terms of human lives.
The chemical industry currently produces more than 1&#160;000 compounds, some of which are very persistent, that is, highly resistant to environmental degradation.
Some of them are biocumulative, which means that they accumulate in the tissue of living organisms; they are also toxic.
The most prevalent of these toxic compounds are the persistent organic pollutants (POPs), which have been linked to various health problems such as cancer, endometriosis, cognitive disorders and learning difficulties.
POPs are also responsible for reproductive disorders and hormonal dysfunctions.
Being biocumulative, POPs accumulate in the environment and in the organisms of living beings.
With these characteristics, POPs can travel long distances and can be found in places as far apart as the Antarctic, in penguins, and in the Arctic, in polar bears.
In 1995, negotiations began to control the use, production and release of POPs. 12 pollutants were identified.
Against the background of the decisions taken by the Stockholm Convention, which, as I said, took place in 2001, and of the aims and agenda of the first Conference of the Parties to that Convention taking place in Uruguay on 2 to 6&#160;May, we should like to ask the Commission what its objectives are for that conference.
Furthermore, given that everything has its cost, I should also like to know, Commissioner, what financial resources will be available to help those countries that most need to ban POPs.
I shall not be going to Punta del Este to take part in the conference, but I should like to say that I share the concerns expressed by Mrs Doyle and that I agree with everything she said as regards Parliament’s delegation, which should be there on the basis of observer status.
