Harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Neris, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products - C6-0203/2008 -.
I wish, in this respect, to thank the Commission for its technical support, and I also wish to thank all of the shadow rapporteurs for their receptiveness and their willingness to engage in dialogue, which has enabled us gradually to arrive at the same positions and to reach agreement on major points of this issue.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Neris, for her efforts in working on such a comprehensive and technically complicated proposal.
With this proposal, we are aiming to create a solid basis for the consolidation of the internal market for construction products.
The proposal for a regulation on construction products is a very important proposal, in my view.
Commissioner Verheugen, I appreciate your opinion on the use of national marks for construction products, but as shadow rapporteur I support the original proposal of the Commission.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs Mrs Neris, Mrs Fourtou and Mrs Rühle and their team for their excellent cooperation, as well as my colleagues Den Dover, Malcolm Harbour, Andreas Schwab and Tereza Pinto de Rezende for a great piece of work.
Commissioner Verheugen, the decision by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to drag the compromise agreed then into this directive also has to do with the fact that the study that you commissioned was possibly not effectively represented in all parts of this House.
There needs to be a careful reconsideration of whether there should be lex specialis regulations in this case.
For us, it is important for this sector to be a little more structured within the Community, but, above all, for the standard, which we would like to be a little more exhaustive as regards the CE label, to be much more consistent.
