I think that Parliament can be pleased with the way in which you have taken on board the suggestions from those previous reports, and I hope that this will also be the case with my report.
In your introduction to your 2001 annual report, you described the EIB as a policy-driven public bank whose mission is to help achieve economic, social and, ultimately, political goals.
The EIB can play an important macro-economic role and underpin EU policy in key areas.
It is with these considerations in mind that I have written my report and I have emphasised a number of aspects in this respect.
Parliament welcomes this decision and believes that funding this capital increase from the bank itself is a wise decision.
Parliament also applauds the decision to increase the funding of some projects in the sectors hardest hit by the economic slow-down from 50% to 70% of the total project budget.
With its triple-A rating and long-term bonds in different currencies, the bank is a major protagonist and a very safe investment for pension funds, for example.
For example, the EIB could be an interesting partner for pension funds.
The EIB can also do its bit by giving a high priority to activities in the accession countries and by allowing those countries to take part as fully-fledged participants.
Finally, Parliament urges an intensified co-operation of the EIB and the EBRD on the basis of a well-considered and efficient division of tasks.
As a public investment bank, the need for adequate monitoring is obvious, but there is still room for improvement in this respect.
This is largely due to the EIB's dual position as, on the one hand, originally a tax-funded public institution and on the other hand, a normal bank which, in the case of the EIF, which also forms part of the group, is also a venture capital fund.
I think that this can also play a part in the case of the EIB.
I would briefly like to consider the following four points: collaboration between the EIB and the Commission, the EIB's work in the partner countries, the EIB's work in the candidate countries, and the Tripartite Agreement between the EIB, the Court of Auditors and the Commission.
Furthermore, again as required by the same decision, the Commission will submit an external assessment report to the Council and Parliament by the end of December 2004.
In this context, the Mediterranean Investment and Partnership Facility, launched in Barcelona last October, will constitute an important initiative to boost economic development in bordering countries in the south.
The Commission has given substantial backing to this initiative, pledging EUR 255 million of the Community budget over the next four years.
Moreover, the EIB, again in conjunction with the Commission, is preparing to implement the new investment fund for ACP countries laid down by the Cotonou Agreement.
The third point: with regard to the EIB's work in the candidate countries, the Commission endorses Parliament's view that absolute priority must be given to the Bank's activities in these countries.
We believe that the funding requirements are considerable and that the EIB and the EBRD must work closely together in order to contribute to the growth of the new Member States of the European Union.
Lastly, the fourth and final point: a very brief comment on the Tripartite Agreement between the EIB, the Court of Auditors and the Commission.
The Commission feels that the basic principles of the Tripartite Agreement reflect a fair balance between the rights of the Court of Auditors and those of the EIB, and that these principles must not be altered.
As for the Community budget, in accordance with the Tripartite Agreement, the Court has access to a wide range of information about the Bank's operations under mandate and is entitled to additional information whenever it so desires.
The Commission warmly welcomes Parliament's initiative calling on the interested parties to review the agreement, an initiative which will doubtless constitute an opportunity to update a number of technical and administrative aspects in the light of changes which have taken place.
Madam President, I want to say a few words about the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control regarding this report.
At the same time, the EIB has very great influence by virtue of the extensive loans both to the Member States and to the candidate countries.
It is a bank which, moreover, is basically owned by the Member States, at the same time as being a part of the European Union.
We should like to see increased cooperation between our committee, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Investment Bank.
Madam President, Mr Maystadt, this is the third time that Parliament has been able to give its opinion on the EIB's annual report.
First of all, I should like to comment on the role of the Bank.
This macro-economic clout does not require the EIB to have its own macro-economic policy.
The EIB is to promote economic and social cohesion within the EU by financially supporting the goals which the European Union has in mind.
For this reason, the increase in social capital recently decided on can be considered to be in line and consistent with these structural objectives, which are so important to achieving a global European economy that is prosperous and fully sustainable.
The European Investment Bank is already responsible for more than 5% of all investments made in the Union, which has enabled more than 400 000 jobs to be created, specifically through the support that the bank gives to small and medium-sized enterprises.
It should be remembered that the European Union has recently taken on increased responsibility for the funding of venture capital, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, through the EIB.
Unfortunately, as the rapporteur also points out, the work of the European Investment Bank is sometimes limited by the orthodox and rigid rules for the consolidation of public finances, which must be complied with under the growth and stability pact.
We must remember that a large part of the EIB's remit is geared towards investments of a structural nature, such as infrastructures or venture capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that the success of these investments is often dependent on the possibility of mobilisation in partnership with public spending.
The quality of expenditure, whether public or private, must be the guiding framework for investment policy and the European Investment Bank has an irreplaceable role in this framework.
My first coming into contact with the EIB a number of years ago was due to the fact that independent organisations complained about the EIB's lack of transparency and its failure to appreciate the need to contribute significantly to the EU's efforts to devise a policy in favour of a sustainable environment.
Crucial progress has been made within both these important areas.
As we all know, nothing is so good, however, that it cannot be improved, and that applies too to access to information in several languages.
Madam President, the rapporteur's ambition has been further to emphasise the EIB's overarching role in macro-economic and financial terms and in terms of political strategy.
As you can hear, the EIB now already has more than enough on its plate.
The European Union guarantees a large portion of what the EIB lends and its loans in this respect do not carry any risk.
With that purpose in mind, the Bank must listen very attentively to the totally justified opinions of the NGO, Bankwatch Network.
Madam President, Commissioner Monti, President Maystadt, please allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on her calls for the EIB to attain higher targets in terms of support provided for the Member States' economies.
We should pay special attention to the Bank's Statute, which can only be amended in accordance with the procedure for amending and revising the Treaties laid down in Article 48 of the Treaty on European Union.
In particular, Article 5, which provides for 6% to be paid in by the signatory Member States, should be amended.
I have had the satisfaction of working on EIB matters for many years, and I often say that it is more difficult getting into the EIB than into Fort Knox.
The bank is still very unwilling to open its accounts and projects up to external supervision.
The bank always refers to banking secrecy or to the fact that the money does not come from the EU budget but from its own resources.
In March 1999, the EIB, the Commission and the Court of Auditors signed an agreement concerning the Court of Auditors' being able to supervise the EIB, but I firmly believe that the agreement must be altered so that it gives the Court of Auditors the same right to supervise the EIB as it has to supervise the ECB.
Madam President, allow me first of all to tell you how much I appreciate having this opportunity to continue the dialogue with the European Parliament, in particular at a time when this House is opening up to members of parliament from States that are soon to join the European Union.
Two weeks ago in Vienna, speaking before the annual European Investment Bank Forum, President Cox recalled the historical importance of enlargement and emphasised, with particular eloquence, that this move is the essential extension of the work towards peace and stability commenced by the founders of European integration.
The European Investment Bank, which already has a portfolio of loans of around EUR 18 billion in this region, making it by far the main backer, will, of course, continue to back the necessary investments in the future Member States.
Then what we call the i2i (Initiative innovation 2000) programme, which was implemented following the Lisbon European Council and which aims to encourage investments that contribute to transforming the European economy into an economy based on knowledge and innovation.
Another priority axis is environmental protection and improvement, with the objective of devoting between one quarter and one third of our total loans each year to environmental projects.
The fifth and final priority axis is our support for the European development aid policy, in particular with the launch of two new facilities: the Euro-Mediterranean Facility, which was established by the Barcelona European Council, and the new Investment Facility created by the Cotonou agreement between the European Union and the ACP countries.
In the United Kingdom, pension funds have already invested in long-term EIB bonds.
I believe, however, that it would be dangerous to make the number of jobs created directly by a project the deciding factor in the decision on whether to finance the project.
In this regard, I share some of the reservations expressed by Mrs Peijs.
With regard to the financing of SMEs, I would remind you that we finance small and medium-sized enterprises in two ways: on the one hand, through global loans, as half of our global loans go to small enterprises, and, on the other, through the provision of risk capital from the European Investment Fund.
With regard to the important matter of monitoring the European Investment Bank, I would say that, naturally, we are entirely open to monitoring by the Court of Auditors within the scope of its competence.
Mr Blak, I can assure you that the Court of Auditors has access to all the documents it wishes to obtain within the context of the tripartite agreement concluded between the Commission, the Court of Auditors and the European Investment Bank.
The Court of Auditors has the power to monitor the use of Community funds and, insofar as the EIB uses Community funds, the Court of Auditors must clearly be fully able to exercise its monitoring powers.
Mrs Lucas raised some interesting points, but I have already exceeded my speaking time.
The debate is closed.
Once again, they both reflect Parliament's overall support for European competition policy, support which is so important for the Commission and its departments.
Allow me to set out the main features of our competition policy in the state aid sector.
The Commission has continued its efforts in this sector in order to simplify, modernise and clarify the rules and practices.
Another important example is the use of block exemptions, which allow Member States to grant aid without the need for prior notification.
With regard to the reduction and adjustment of state aid, the Member States undertook to reduce the level of aid in the Conclusions of the Stockholm and Barcelona European Councils.
In effect, we have seen a clear downward trend, but undeniably, the cumulative effect of aid totalling EUR 82 billion is continuing to substantially distort competition in the Union.
In my view, this variance is, in the majority of cases, more imagined than real.
The aim of state aid control is to ensure that the positive effects of one particular measure are not counteracted by the distortion in competition which the measure itself creates.
As regards competition law, our activities have been characterised by our debate on the Commission proposal to update its procedural rules.
It is expected that the Council will agree on the text of a new regulation next week.
I am sure that we will also see considerable improvements in our procedures with regard to the aspect which Parliament emphasised most in its resolution, that is the fact that European competition rules should be applied in all cases where trade between Member States could be affected.
In 2001, the Commission issued five prohibition decisions.
Even though this is the highest number of prohibition decisions issued in a single year, this figure continues to represent only around 1.5% of all final decisions.
In this connection, it probably will not have escaped your attention that, in October, the Court of First Instance overturned two of these prohibition decisions, in the Schneider/Legrand and Tetra Laval/Sidel cases, and there was also the judgment in the Airtours/First Choice case, already referred to in your report.
As you know, we initiated a vast reform of merger control procedures a long time before these recent rulings.
Therefore, we will not relinquish the benefits derived from these short investigations - which exist in Europe but not in the United States - but we will also propose the introduction of a certain amount of flexibility through a series of provisions to extend certain deadlines.
Judicial control, which exists and is strict, should not, however, only be effective in terms of thoroughness, but also in terms of speed.
I must say that, following the publication of the Commission Green Paper, there were very few calls to abandon or make radical changes to the current system.
If forced to choose between our system and the US system, many businesses - several of which are American - have indicated a preference for the European Union's system during consultations.
Moreover, as you know, systems grounded on administrative decisions in this field are certainly not exclusive to the Commission.
My proposals will therefore significantly improve the current system: in some fundamental aspects, they will completely transform the present system.
Our committee was not, in actual fact, unanimous on the report I am about to present to you on his behalf, in contrast with its unanimity on the report on the European Investment Bank.
Despite the differences of opinion that are quite traditional within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on this type of report, I shall emphasise the points on which we agree, first of all highlighting our warm support for the work carried out by Commissioner Monti and his staff.
Everyone in our committee is in favour of a well-organised European competition policy and the Commission's report for 2001 bears witness to the efforts that you and your staff have made.
The report therefore emphasises the need to strengthen international cooperation in the field of competition.
Paragraphs 4 and 5 of our report clearly state: 'the European Parliament does not consider the recent judgment of the Court of Justice (?) as disqualifying the work of the Commission'.
Another point of agreement of great political importance concerns the fact that state aid should, as laid down by the Treaty, focus on horizontal objectives.
In this context, the opportunity for recourse to state aid in order to achieve these horizontal objectives should be reiterated.
There is one last point of agreement between Members: we need to strengthen the legislative role of the European Parliament in all aspects of competition policy.
The report specifically calls - this work is naturally the responsibility of the Commission - for Parliament to have the right of codecision with regard to legislative procedures concerning competition.
The first concerns our stance with regard to the candidate countries.
There is a consensus within the committee that competition rules should be considered to apply without discrimination to all the Member States.
Although we must be strict in combating corruption - and the Commission's reports emphasise how serious these problems still are in many of the candidate countries - some of us would like to see a degree of flexibility in the assessment of this state aid, along the lines of the attitude of the European Union during German reunification, when it seems that we adopted a particular attitude towards the new, reunified Länder.
The last point of agreement between committee members is their favourable view of the liberalisation of several economic sectors.
Madam President, in order to avoid having to speak again, I would like very briefly, on behalf of my group, to highlight the importance we give to a number of amendments we have tabled on our assessment of the examination of state aid in the candidate countries.
As you know, the Convention has already received a number of contributions on the subject of services of general interest.
Others will follow and I believe it would be appropriate politically for the Commission, also, to communicate to the Convention a contribution on the way in which it envisages the relationship between competition policy and services of general interest.
Like any competition policy, the policy on state aid is facing new challenges.
Its prime objective remains to reduce all aid that distorts or could distort competition, but other objectives should also be taken into consideration: competitiveness and growth - the Lisbon objectives - and social cohesion, which involves support for struggling regions to catch up and develop.
This is why the Stockholm and Lisbon European Councils made the commitment not to reduce all aid, but aid in the sense of Article 87, in other words aid that creates unfair competition.
All of these Council decisions must be implemented firmly, but with discernment.
I stress in my report that the effectiveness of horizontal aid must be evaluated.
However, it is not always effective in terms of the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives, and we should therefore move forward with our recommendations.
We are aware that the Commission has also itself opened the debate on the interaction of competition and industrial policy.
We therefore want the Commission to speed up its discussions on this basis and to propose new tools soon in order to ensure free choice, resources for services of general interest, and competition, as well as to safeguard non profit-making activities.
Ladies and gentlemen, the scoreboard is a step forward in achieving transparency and in the public debate, and we welcome this.
The comparability of data between Member States is not guaranteed, the effectiveness of aid has not been evaluated and a comparison between the Union and its major world competitors has not yet been provided.
Allow me to add a few words on competition policy as a whole.
However, the European Union has a great deal of progress to make in terms of industrial and technological development.
We should not move backwards in terms of competition policy, but we need to bring industrial and competition policies to the same level in the treaties and in practice, otherwise the Union will fall behind in terms of innovation, scale effects, networks and creation of companies.
In the reform under preparation, we would prefer a much more open, deliberative instruction procedure, which allows for reasonable timescales, while the decision would still be the responsibility of the Commission.
Mr President, thanks are due to the Commissioner for the competition report, but congratulations also go to both rapporteurs for presenting us with their analysis of the issue.
The competition report is based solely on the accountability of the Commission.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I should like to make a few comments, which are mainly procedural in nature.
What we need is a European appeal option against decisions taken by national competition authorities.
Thirdly, the network of national competition authorities requires a clear and transparent statute.
Such a statute should clearly set out how the Commission and national competition authorities should relate to each other and how mutual cooperation takes place, particularly, for example, in the exchange of confidential information.
I think that very sound and clear agreements are needed in this respect and I also believe that the candidate countries should be involved in this.
In this opinion, which was adopted by a large majority, we firstly welcomed the State Aid Scoreboard, which provides greater transparency and openness and gives a clearer overview of the situation.
Finally, in particular where services of general interest are concerned - other Members have already commented on this - we want the Commission to at last get round to doing its job, as it has been saying it will for so long.
Our final point in the Committee on Industry is a long-standing demand on the part of Parliament.
It concerns the regulations on which you have just reported, Commissioner, and which will entail an update of Regulation No 17.
In the last few years, the European Union has rightly focused on the need for greater competition and consumer choice and has often used its powers to great and beneficial effect.
Just as policies of this kind produced handsome rewards for businesses and consumers when my country, under a Conservative government, rediscovered and pioneered these practices in the 1980s, they are now doing the same in the rest of the European Union.
The disparities between countries show that some Member States provide up to three times as much state aid as others.
The report rightly congratulates Commissioner Monti and his staff on their approach.
We in this Parliament should urge him further along the path he has chosen to take.
I hope Parliament will support our amendments and I look forward to even greater progress in the years to come.
To take an example, here we are at the end of 2002 debating the content of a Commission report relating to 2001.
Given these constraints, any report by Parliament is unlikely to be a suitable document and provide an overview of the present state of the debate on European competition policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Monti, on the subject of the report concerning the scoreboard, I wish, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, to say that we are not satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee and have therefore, together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, tabled a number of amendments.
I would also thank the Commission for the work done on the scoreboard, which is a very useful tool for achieving the objective of a general reduction in state aid.
I welcome the report on the Commission's 31st report on competition policy.
I am especially pleased with the support given by the committee to my proposal that consideration should be given to setting up a competition court, Article 225 A of the Treaty of Nice having paved the way for such a possibility.
I want to support Commissioner Monti and all the other forces for good in their view that, in the future too, competition policy should remain precisely that, with no interference from other policy areas, such as industrial policy.
Throughout the reform process, the ELDR Group has supported the Commission in stating that reform is necessary.
The Commission has assured us that this will not happen and has referred to a network's being set up, consisting of the Competition Directorate-General and the national competition authorities.
Mr President, Commissioner, now that the internal market is complete, our regions are obviously operating in a more competitive environment.
Since, however, the European Union does not exist in isolation from world trade, a competition system is also needed in the WTO context.
If we are to take seriously the task that we set ourselves at the Gothenburg Summit, following on from the Lisbon Summit, then competition policy must not only be limited to economic conditions, but must also take into account social and environmental factors.
Our colleague quite rightly states that this aid could be allocated to regions of the candidate countries.
In professional football we have noticed, in the Netherlands for example, how a Commission measure on state aid triggers reactions.
In my opinion, the granting of state aid is, and continues to be, a measure which is explicitly temporary in nature.
With regard to the accession of the candidate countries, a new chapter should be added to competition policy and the question of state aid.
I therefore endorse Amendments Nos 20 and 21 to the Lipietz report which clearly state that the accession countries are faced with problems that are different from those of the current Member States.
However understandable state aid is from the standpoint of the candidate countries, this is, and always will be, a form of state aid that does not fit within the rules on state aid and competition.
A clearly defined exemption position gives the new Member States the scope to improve healthy economic relations.
Over the past couple of years, it has become clear that the accession countries have an economic structure that is different from that of the EU Member States.
Mr President, the Treaty establishing the European Community does not prohibit dominant positions, only the abuse of them.
It is not only the services of the Directorate General for Competition that need to be reformed, but also Commissioner Monti, who knows nothing about industry, who should be disowned, and the Commission in Brussels needs to be put back in its place.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see we have before us a whole host of topical matters and decisions related to competition policy.
It is a balanced report, which points out that state aid policy also has to meet other EU objectives, in particular competitiveness, growth and employment, and this in accordance with the Lisbon strategy.
That is why I am very pleased, Commissioner, that you also mentioned this principle explicitly in your introductory remarks and expressed your support for it.
My second point concerns a request that I wish to make in the field of regional policy.
Today we are already discussing how regional policy will actually work after 2006.
But in this context we really do need to consider how we are going to rebalance regional aids across the Member States.
Incidentally, I believe and would like to say that this influence on competition is positive when it enables land to be developed, the provision of efficient public services, a reduction in inequality, better social management, consideration of the long term and more research and development.
The Commissioner thus concluded that we need an even more vigorous competition policy than that in the United States, and we should give him credit for having pursued it, even accepting the risk of making mistakes or in any case, making judgments different from those made by judicial bodies called upon in some cases to decide.
There are other unresolved issues: former state monopolists - starting with EDF, Enel, France Télécom, Deutsche Telekom - state aid for broadcasting, state aid in the event of structural adjustments and, in this context, also state aid disguised as something else.
Mr President, European competition policy is one of the European Union's central policy instruments and that is why I would very much welcome it if the Commission were to stand alongside Parliament and also include this sector in the codecision procedure.
These considerations should also play a role in our debate about a constitution and in the revision of the treaties, and I very much hope that they will also be even more visible in the application and reform of competition law.
Finally, this policy must also be brought into line with the Lisbon process and its objectives.
I hope that the Commission will produce a proposal for a framework regulation or framework directive as quickly as possible and that it will take account of national specificities and traditions and in particular leave it up to the Member States to define public services.
The view that competition policy is the sine qua non to job creation has proven to be misguided, because exactly the opposite is happening in practice.
This is why we need, on the one hand, a European public bank to fund infrastructure projects and, on the other hand, a degree of state interventionism in order to do what private capital scorns and to dress some of the many wounds opened up by your economic system.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the final speaker in this debate I should like to stress once more that competition policy lies at the very heart of the internal market and I believe that for the European Union it is a very important policy instrument for strengthening Europe's position in the world and pursuing the Lisbon objectives.
It fights measures that distort competition and it is a precondition for all companies to have fair opportunities in and on the market.
We are on the right track because we are seeing a fall in the number of cases investigated and because there has been an increase in the fines imposed.
The debate is closed.
Further, contact between the Syrian Parliament and the European Parliament could trigger ongoing dialogue within the Euromed Forum.
Mr President, it is possible but we have to say 'where appropriate after consultation of the social partners '.
Mr President, I would like to ask the movers of Amendments Nos 31 and 37 to clarify whether they intend that this should ban the therapeutic cloning of human embryos.
The wording I have used is taken from Parliament's own resolution of September 2000 on human cloning, where we called for a universal ban.
The debate has already taken place.
It will then read: ...'welcome the bank's commitment to improved transparency and efficiency of its global loans and its response to critical questions regarding these instruments'.
If, following the floods that engulfed Central Europe this summer, the earthquakes in Turkey, Greece and recently in Italy, there were still a need to demonstrate the necessity of an aid fund for victims of disasters, the news of the sinking of the Prestige should finally convince us.
The interinstitutional agreement in question was proposed jointly by the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council, in the aim of laying down the technical arrangements that will enable the revenues necessary for this Fund to be raised.
Under the terms of the agreement, an accelerated procedure was established, guaranteeing the necessary financial flexibility and the speed of the Fund's intervention, starting in the 2002 financial year and running until 2006, in other words, throughout the current financial perspective.
The recent disaster involving the oil tanker Prestige, which has already affected the coasts of Galicia and is also threatening the northern coast of Portugal with the crude oil that it has spilt, is a typical example of the effective and rapid use of this Solidarity Fund, which could only persuade me to vote unreservedly in favour of this proposal. . (NL) At first reading, I concluded my contribution with the words: 'I am pinning my hopes on the Council's good judgment'.
The Commission has now made the first proposal for granting aid from this Fund.
I hope that as these aid applications are dealt with, it will become clear that the Solidarity Fund functions as a supplement to national measures, both in terms of prevention and correction.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund.
This vote is the realisation of the fast legislative work that has been done since the proposal was presented by Commissioner Barnier on 18 September.
When the political will is strong enough, Europe can move forward quickly and effectively.
The EUR 728 million will provide additional comfort for the families that have suffered as a result of the natural disasters in the summer.
In my region and in several departments in the South of France, violent storms and torrential floods hit around 400 municipalities on 8 and 9 September, causing the deaths of 24 people and causing very considerable damage.
Mr President, the proposal for a Council recommendation with regard to the prevention of tobacco smoking only partly corresponds with my views.
I am not especially happy, however, with all of the recommendations in this report.
The recommendation to the Member States to raise the price of tobacco products artificially by increasing the tax burden will not, I think, be effective in the fight against tobacco consumption.
In the United Kingdom a packet of cigarettes costs twice or three times as much as it does in Luxembourg.
In many cases, I wish that decisions from this Parliament had this status, particularly dealing with such matters as the liberalisation of the economy or the reduction of government spending.
Unfortunately, according to the UN Treaty, the prevention and control of smoking do not fall within the scope of the market but under public health, an area in which the Commission can merely make a recommendation to the Member States.
I have come unstuck on this point before, when I made proposals for protection against asbestos.
May we emphasise once again, however, that an anti-smoking campaign is not the same thing as an anti-tobacco campaign and that the anti-smoking campaign should not take the form of a campaign against tobacco cultivation in ?U member states, as the EU argues in Amendment No 17 of the report.
These proposals are hypocritical and underhand and run counter to consumer interests and public health, given that 70% of the European Union's tobacco is imported.
We wish our position to further emphasise that the concern the European Parliament is showing for public health must not interfere with the competence of national legislators and particularly with protection measures and measures to find economic alternatives that are needed for all those who are economically dependent on tobacco production.
The figures are most edifying: in Europe, 500 000 people are struck down by this plague each year.
In Belgium, 33% of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are regular smokers and 51% have smoked.
This is why I am also categorically opposed to the sale of chocolate cigarettes or liquorice pipes: mimicking a gesture at the age of 5 carries a risk of registering it and getting used to it.
The Commission is proposing to make the regulations on additives in animal feed more coherent, and we approve of that approach.
We also share the principle of continuing to consider coccidiostats and histomonostats as additives until we find other methods of protecting animals against those illnesses.
With regard to the authorisation procedure, we cannot support the Commission's proposal granting the European Food Safety Authority sole responsibility for investigating applications, which until now was under the authority of the Member States.
The report explains that these medicinal products will be available over the counter, thereby shifting the entire responsibility for selecting a suitable product on to the patient or consumer, whose only source of information will be the manufacturer's advertisements.
The second question which arises is whether these medicinal products should be sold through pharmacies and by qualified pharmacists or whether they will be available on supermarket shelves.
We therefore welcome the Commission's proposal to create a Committee for Herbal Medicinal Products, which is autonomous and separate from the Committee on Proprietary Medicinal Products, which will be responsible for the regulation and monitoring of all aspects of herbal medicines.
It was 40 years in the future and so she was in her sixties.
In accordance with this fundamental idea, I will also vote in favour of the amendment obliging the Member States to prevent the use of temporary workers to subdue a strike movement.
The social reality is intractable.
And this directive, which is dead before it is born, will certainly not bring them justice. . (NL) My concern when voting was primarily with the protection of Dutch legislation dating from 1999, which intends to put temporary work on a more equal footing with normal work and to protect against abuses.
Temporary work is admissible only if it is a free choice on the part of the people involved, albeit in the service of the temping agency, and if they have all the normal rights of employees.
The two largest groups have reached a compromise that prevents the more far-reaching protection that my group has proposed.
Despite this, Dutch employers are trying to persuade their counterparts in other Member States and the Right-wing section in this Parliament to reject even this minimum level of protection and to ensure that the rules are either rejected or relaxed.
With this proposal for a directive, the Commission is seeking to regulate working conditions for temporary workers in the Member States.
The choice of this restrictive measure is going to force regulations on the Member States that are not necessarily adapted to their specific national characteristics and which could therefore penalise this way of working, whereas the aim was to encourage it.
The EPLP voted for Amendment 73 to support comprehensive and effective impact assessments.
In the particular case of Portugal, specific legislation is in place that respects this type of work, and which guarantees the basic rights of these workers, whilst also respecting the particular circumstances that determine the use of temporary labour.
It would have been more useful for us to have seen a statistical breakdown of the use of temporary labour in Europe, which successive European Councils have seen as another instrument with which to combat unemployment and for the suggestion to have been made to impose limits on its use, thereby combating not temporary work itself but rather the unacceptable abuses of such work.
We voted against this motion for a joint resolution as, behind its convoluted words and self-congratulation, it is mainly seeking to clear the Russian authorities of responsibility for the dirty war that it is waging in Chechnya.
We could have voted in favour of this joint resolution, as it contains a number of sound recitals regarding General Musharraf's military regime in Pakistan.
There is no mention of that in this resolution and the condemnation of the Musharraf regime does not go far enough.
I am in favour of maintaining the moratorium on genetically modified food, but on no account do I oppose research and biotechnology in general. . (EL) It is clear from advances over recent years that biotechnology can help us enormously to understand how life develops, to combat disease and to develop new drugs.
Research policy within the EU must be based upon the principle of subsidiarity.
Research cooperation between the Member States is good, but the EU must not take charge of it.
Except in the case of its own research programmes, the EU lacks competence in the research area, and that is how matters should remain.
We are in favour of the development of life sciences, biotechnology and, more broadly, of science in general.
These companies are in no way concerned with what is useful to humanity in terms of the development of science, but rather with what can be sold to customers who have the means to pay for it and provide a profit.
I do not support the cloning of human beings.
Mr President, the document concerns the European Investment Bank annual report for 2001.
It is for this very reason that I want to emphasise the importance of Corridor 5, which links southern Italy, the Puglia region, with Tirana, Skopje, Sofia, Plovdiv and Burgas.
Above all, I would call for the European Investment Bank's funds to be increased in order to finance the construction of the stretch of road and railway between Skopje and Sofia, which is completely non-existent at present, something which is preventing the swift completion of Corridor 5, so important for work in the whole of the Balkan area.
Parliament is right to highlight the impact of the EIB on the growth of SMEs and on employment, particularly through risk-capital transactions.
In the same context, increasing investments in the field of accommodation will enhance the important construction sector.
Mr President, the van den Burg report on prudential supervision in the European Union is particularly interesting for the elderly and pensioners, who give their money both to the State which arranges their pensions, through compulsory national insurance schemes, and to private funds, through shares, bonds and investments.
The implementation of careful supervision rules in the European Union will protect saving and give people confidence in investments in stocks and shares.
The globalisation of risks should further encourage the European authorities to develop supervision rules at international level.
In this context, the invitation made by Parliament to the Commission and the European Supervisory Committees to organise, jointly with the American Federal Reserve and the Security and Exchange Commission, a transatlantic financial forum, is going in the right direction.
The mistake is to think that, by integrating the EU's financial markets and establishing rules for minimum prudential supervision, under the auspices of new supranational bodies, and by increasing the powers of the Commission, we will resolve the problem of the financial markets' volatility when the main issue is the 'free' international movement of capital and its speculative and parasitical use, with enormous volumes of money concentrated in pension funds and in hedge funds, frequently using the platform of tax havens and instruments that encourage speculation, such as derivatives.
Furthermore, the fragmentation of the financial markets could be a positive factor in avoiding the risks of this financial globalisation, maintaining more localised supervisory systems and markets that are more flexible and adaptable to specific local characteristics. . (DE) The appeal to national authorities to cooperate more closely in the fight against so-called white-collar crime is certainly to be welcomed.
The 'naming and shaming' method appears at first sight to be very attractive if the sole objective is to fight against this form of crime, but it actually reinforces the law of the most powerful in international relations.
The unprecedented crisis in the financial system is the result of the deep economic crisis in the capitalist system and the clash of interests and acute competition between monopolies.
The wave of scandals to hit large monopolies and financial service groups in the USA and Europe has exacerbated the lack of faith in the financial system by highlighting its unaccountability and revealing how the market, small investors and savers, pension funds and insurance companies are constantly deceived, with new ways being found of exploiting and sucking the masses dry.
I should like, however, to emphasise that although I broadly agree with the rapporteur's support for the Commission's commitment to reducing State aid in the Community, there are still European regions, specifically the outermost regions, in which State aid is a vital measure for supporting their economic and social development.
As the rapporteur states, we must acknowledge the fact that the Commission is successfully pursuing its objectives by boldly applying the instruments at its disposal and therefore effectively protecting consumers and their best interests.
The Court of Justice also put on another brake with the Ferring ruling of 22 November 2001, which exonerates public aid when it solely compensates for the excess cost of a public service constraint.
It seems to us that now the corresponding section of the Treaty (Articles 87 to 89) should be updated in order to better define acceptable public aid, for example for employment, the environment or compensating for public service constraints.
The reason why this aspect is only mentioned in passing is that the rapporteur deprived it of all importance in advance by swearing allegiance to the neo-liberal dogma.
The report closes the discussion before it opens by stating that it supports 'the objectives of reducing aid granted by states or from state funds, in any form whatsoever, which distorts or threatens to distort competition'.
In the framework of competition policy, the half-yearly publication of the scoreboard for State aid since 2001 is an important tool for transparency and debate.
Many companies only managed to start up or survive thanks to government aid, and this is not likely to change a great deal in future.
In the specific context that led to the drafting of this report, I welcome the clear reduction in State aid granted and its redirection towards horizontal objectives, such as SMEs, the environment, R&amp;D, employment and training, which fall beyond the strict remit of economic efficiency, but promote the better preparation of economic actors and Member States for the internal market.
I am told that Rule 120 did not apply, and also that the very Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament did not apply during that extraordinary debate.
We as Parliament have therefore seized the earliest opportunity - and I believe that the Council of Ministers will be taking a decision on 3 December next - to establish the rights of these citizens - their duties have already been set out.
When the amendments will be adopted shortly, we will say to the Council that if further amendments are made to our opinion or if the legal position of the people concerned is changed, we will retain the right to join this institutional battle with the Council over these points.
It is an extremely important proposal and its adoption would be a significant political signal from the Union regarding the integration of third-country nationals legally residing in the European Union, since it offers them, in terms of social security, the same protection which Community citizens moving within the European Union enjoy.
It is therefore a major contribution to a balanced, coherent Community immigration policy.
On 27 October 1999, this House called for prompt action regarding the fair treatment of third-country nationals legally residing in the Member States, so that they might be granted rights similar to those enjoyed by citizens of the Union.
The proposal in question responds to this call and goes even further, granting third-country nationals rights that are identical, and not just similar, to those enjoyed by Community citizens moving within the European Union.
The proposal will also encourage worker mobility, the importance of which was illustrated by the Commission's action plan presented at the start of the year.
The proposal will therefore simplify the rules, reducing the number of national and international instruments which govern the coordination of social security systems for this category of people.
It simply extends the scope of Community regulations on social security to third-country nationals, regulations which are and will continue to be based on Article 42 of the Treaty.
This means that, for any future amendments to Regulation 1408/71, Parliament will continue to be a codecision-maker.
As you know, the Commission proposal already contains a recital which refers to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but I agree that there is a need for a specific reference to Article 34(2) of the Charter.
I fully agree with the assertion that the coordination of social security for third-country nationals is of great importance, but this is so obvious that it - and likewise a recital in this regard - is superfluous.
The importance of coordinating social security systems for third-country nationals is already amply conveyed in the first nine recitals proposed by the Commission.
While it agrees with the underlying concept, the Commission therefore cannot accept Amendment No 2.
I understand that it is appropriate to refer to the forthcoming, imminent enlargement of the European Union in the recitals: the Commission can therefore accept Amendment No 3.
With regard to Amendment No 4, it must be said that it is inappropriate to refer in a regulation to a proposal for a Community instrument, the outcome of which is still unknown.
First of all, the aim of the proposal is to grant third-country nationals legally residing in a Member State the same rights as Community citizens moving within the Union.
Amendment No 5 seeks to grant third-country nationals different rights to those given to Community citizens.
Lastly, Mr President, I am extremely grateful to this House for having included the proposal on today's agenda, thereby enabling the Council to formally adopt it at the meeting on 3 December.
I would like to stress, because it should be done, the important contribution that the residents of third countries make to the European Union, both in terms of boosting the economy and in terms of a rich cultural diversity and when we talk about them we are potentially talking about around 13 million people in the Union.
However, like the rapporteur, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of the legal basis chosen by the European Commission following pressure from the Council.
The European Parliament had the consultation procedure imposed on it, whereas the first proposal in 1997 was based on Article 51, now Article 42, which assumes codecision.
That decision, the motivation for which seems to be more than questionable, as pointed out by the rapporteur, and therefore contestable, in fact places the European Parliament in a dilemma, that it can only solve by giving in, because that is exactly what is happening here.
We do not wish to cross swords, but the question is there: in the future, should we penalise the citizens who are awaiting decisions from this House simply in order to ensure that Parliament's position is respected?
I think that this decision, the quite reasonable position of the European Parliament, should be used to help discussions on matters that will arise in the future or that we know are already being considered by the Council.
I think it important that agreements reached by way of European coordination now also apply to third-country nationals.
Parliament has already expressed its desire that the Tampere conclusions should be transposed into real action in a similar way as regards the rights of third-country nationals.
Around 170 countries, representing over three-quarters of the world's population, met in New Delhi for their eighth regular meeting as parties to the United Nation's Framework Convention on Climate Change.
The CDM is an important tool for reaching emission targets in developed countries and, at the same time, for reducing emissions in the developing world and contributing to its sustainable growth.
The meeting ended with the adoption of the Delhi Declaration.
Allow me to briefly outline the Commission's political assessment of the New Delhi Conference.
The Delhi Ministerial Declaration represents the political outcome of the conference.
Although it includes the call for all countries to ratify the Kyoto Protocol and underlines the need for greater efforts to combat climate change in the coming decades, we would have liked it to be stronger in other areas.
This must be used as an important input for furthering the work of the climate change convention and the Kyoto Protocol.
Secondly, our mandate as agreed by the Council on 17 October was to seek a forward-looking discussion on more inclusive and longer-term global cooperation based on broader and balanced action and participation consistent with the ultimate objective of the Convention.
Regrettably, the EU did not succeed in persuading other parties to recognise the need for starting such a process.
However, through a number of bilateral contacts with other parties and groups of parties the EU did seize every opportunity to explain our way of thinking.
The issue is now on the table and these discussions have provided a solid foundation on which we can build.
The first threshold has been largely met - 97 countries as of 13 November - as ratification continues steadily.
It seems that Russia is still inclined to ratify, especially after the results of the recently published study on the effects of climate change in that country.
It is the Commission's intention to continue to encourage Russia to live up to its responsibility as a key player on climate change and to ratify the Kyoto Protocol as soon as possible.
At the same time we will also continue to build on the good bilateral relationships we have established with some developing countries and with the majority of the developed countries in order to reach a better understanding on what needs to be done in the future.
I would like to conclude by stressing once again how deeply grateful the Commission is for the Parliament's support and for its very dedicated presence in Delhi itself.
The latter both recognised the essential role of delegations from Parliament in conferences of this sort.
These all no doubt constitute the most important aspects of our continued strategy for trying to progress further.
One factor, for example, is the one I have just addressed, namely the situation in the developing countries and our relations with those countries.
Even though we in the EU cannot accept responsibility for all these forms of climate change, we must nonetheless regard ourselves as one of the parties which, together with the rest of the industrialised world, has contributed most to creating the climate change now under way.
We must adopt a clearer role in helping the developing countries to protect themselves against climate change.
What is perhaps most important is that, in spite of everything, the EU should continue to push for something's happening after 2012 and that we should not give up, in spite of the surrounding world's actually wanting something different.
We knew, even before the Conference started, that the outcome would be extremely hard to achieve: this Conference was designed to prepare for the second phase of the Kyoto Protocol, whereas the political priority is still, unfortunately, to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol enters into force in order for the first phase to begin.
It is also a pity that the developing countries have fallen into this trap.
It is precisely in the developing countries that the consequences of climate change are having the most damaging effects.
We believe the choice remains clear: firstly, the Kyoto Protocol is the only instrument capable of mitigating climate change.
Secondly, the second phase of the Protocol must be set even more ambitious targets than the first phase, which represents only a tiny step forwards.
Thirdly, action must first be undertaken in the industrialised countries and only later in the developing countries.
I concur with what colleagues have said and also express my frustration with the exclusion of the parliamentary delegation from the daily coordination meetings.
The Council and the Commission were on one side and Parliament on the other.
It is very hard to talk about these issues, be objective and keep the focus on climate change if it is suggested that sustainable development is not included.
Had it done so, the Prestige would have been banned since 1 September 2002.
In any case, the resolution calls for the establishment of special maritime fishing areas.
I studied Article 2 and it certainly does apply in this instance, especially if the reports approved by the House are borne in mind.
I do not think that this legislation is completely incontrovertible.
This is also a task for the Council; we cannot do this on our own.
However, we should, first and foremost, help the people involved and alleviate the despair in that region.
I believe this to be the duty of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, my mother tongue is very rich in popular proverbs and sayings.
This saying is relevant here because we are once again having to express our regret at something we should have prevented through stricter control measures and by bringing forward the date for the disappearance of single-hull ships - and please note, Commissioner, that I wrote this before hearing you speak and I am therefore in agreement with what you said at the beginning.
The wrecking of the Prestige once again damages an area which has suffered three serious accidents of this type over recent years: in 1976, the Urquiola, the Mar Egeo in 1992 and the Prestige this year.
But we must prevent anything like this from happening again, because, as well as the social and economic disaster it represents, it is an ecological disaster which affects areas belonging to the Natura 2000 network, biodiversity and the wealth of a region such as Galicia.
Commissioner, when it comes to voting in this Parliament, we must remember this catastrophe, because in the coming months we are going to discuss a very important directive, which relates to responsibility for environmental damage, and all of us here will remember what it is we are voting for.
The Prestige disaster is now the fourth to have occurred off the coast of Galicia in recent years.
On the Coast of Death and in the Rias Baixas and the Rias Altas, these misfortunes are remembered even more sharply.
As a Galician and a supporter of European integration, I wonder, what major action have the Galician and EU authorities taken in this tragic situation?
It is precisely in this Parliament that reactionary positions by Members contributed - and in this context I must agree with the Commissioner - to changing the legislation contained in the 'Erika' package, which would have prevented this accursed ship from continuing to move around our seas.
Let us not be under any illusion: this disaster has consequences identical to those of a natural disaster, but it is really a political disaster and we know who the guilty parties are.
Mr President, the location of the European Safe Seas Agency has still not been decided on, in contravention of the 'Erika' legislation.
We must respond to the present in four ways: we must mobilise all available means to monitor and minimise the polluting effects, rigorously investigate the risks arising from the sunken ship with 60 000 tonnes of oil in its tanks and keep them under strict control, we must make those responsible pay, provide sympathetic help for the frightened and worried populations by giving them all the help they need and by assisting the recovery of the local economy.
Parliament and the Council must prove themselves able to provide what these communities are calling for.
Commissioner, you were just saying: 'I want it hic et nunc', but the system replies: 'non possumus'.
Inadequate for two reasons.
First of all, because the Treaties do not allow the countries that are threatened, such as France and Spain or Portugal, to protect themselves unilaterally and rapidly when circumstances require it, and equally because those countries have to admit defeat with countries for whom maritime safety is not a priority.
If we are to do something about this, I think that, first, the European Commission needs to be strict in applying the Community legislation which is already in place.
Secondly, we really must speed up the application of the Erika I and Erika II packages.
We adopted 5 directives almost unanimously here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and they obviously need to be applied, together with a previous directive on dumping waste at sea which - theoretically - is being applied.
We also need to push ahead with the European Commission's other proposal on a European Solidarity Fund.
May I remind you that the European Parliament approved these proposals by the European Commission and that the proposal has stuck with the Council.
Unfortunately, it is recorded in the Minutes of the European Parliament but was not accepted because certain know-it-alls popped up left, right and centre and said that the proposal was not feasible.
Most importantly at this stage the European Union needs to show its solidarity with the people of Galicia.
The combination of an ancient tanker that is only fit for the scrap heap and a flag of convenience - this time of the Bahamas - is usually the cause.
That, Commissioner, is the reason for Paragraph 3 of our motion.
As soon as all of the information is on the table, we will expect to receive a report from you stating who was responsible for this disaster, when, how and why.
I think that a few words will also have to be reserved for the Spanish authorities in this context.
Clearly these transport ministers have forgotten that, for example, the regulation on compensation in cases of liability for oil pollution, which the Commission and Parliament have passed, has been lying on the table in the Council for over a year without any action being taken.
Commissioner, you have Parliament's full support if you want to put a bomb under these gentlemen in the Council so that we finally get legislation soon.
The system of flags of convenience cannot continue in its present form, Commissioner.
Mr President, I as an EU citizen feel greatly affected by the fact that it was possible for this disaster to take place.
I also think that we should adopt this resolution and that we all need to ensure that it is accepted across the political spectrum so as to avoid another repeat.
The true scale of this economic and ecological disaster is starting to dawn ever more clearly.
There is something fundamentally wrong with our transport sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to begin, of course, by expressing my solidarity with the communities that have been affected.
On these occasions, we must focus on what is most urgent: the need to mobilise technical and financial resources in order to minimise environmental damage, to regenerate ecosystems and to support the economic activities that have been affected by this accident.
As for the future, I hope that the Member States will heed the well-drafted call and the leadership of Commissioner de Palacio, with a view to immediately implementing the 'Erika I' and 'Erika II' packages and give a boost to the creation of the European Safe Seas Agency.
Mr President, first of all, with the sincerity that everyone will acknowledge in a Frenchman from the Atlantic region, I would like to express my solidarity and compassion to all the people and professionals in Galicia and Portugal who are affected by this further disaster.
The problem is that we are in a field in which there is urgency, in which the task of the public authorities to ensure security is highly desired by the people and in which, in reality, joint sovereignty creates considerable problems.
I think that we will only overcome this situation if one day, as soon as possible, we manage to create an independent European area of maritime safety, with independent legislation, which would use regulations rather than directives - as the directives are still not practically transposed in any Member State - with independent checks and penalties.
I think that this should be our ambition, or we will fail and will condemn our people to the sad spectacle of a ping-pong match between the Commission and the European Union, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other hand, each of them trying to beat the other in dramatic circumstances that the people do not understand.
What has happened off the Galician coasts with this peculiar oil tanker, originating from a tax haven, with a flag of convenience and furthermore, in unfair competition and trading oil in a very strange way, cannot and must not happen again in any of the seas of the planet.
Mr President, Commissioner, the feelings that we have in the face of this tragedy are feelings of anger.
If we had followed the Commission, if we had followed the European Parliament, we would not be in this position.
The legislation needs to be applied and that is the problem.
After the sinking of the Erika, France, which then held the presidency of the European Union, and the Socialist government at the time, had made maritime safety an absolute priority.
We have had enough of the failings of the Member States and the Council.
Indeed, the President of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, has just asked for maritime safety to be a priority on the agenda of the next European Council meeting.
Today the Council is responsible for having blocked the legislation that we adopted.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Prestige disaster once again demonstrates the insufficiency of Community actions to put an end to the strategies of certain ship owners and owners of oil cargoes of ignoring the legislation on safety in maritime transport.
It is clear that a problem that is repeated so often and which has such serious consequences for the economy of a region and for its marine and coastal ecosystems must be dealt with rigorously and quickly by means of joint measures in all the Member States of the European Union.
These people deserve, by means of this debate and the urgent measures stemming from it, a decisive contribution from the European Union aimed at recovering their confidence in the future.
There must now be effective solidarity, particularly with the communities of northern Portugal, which will be the first to suffer the consequences of this accident, of this shipwreck, the likes of which must never happen again on our coasts; unless we adopt such measures, the people themselves will make their scepticism about Europe and European governments clear.
On the other side are the people responsible, whose faces are obscured behind flags of convenience and legal procedures distorted to this end, and with a view to fraudulently avoiding the rules of the internal market, without caring about possible ecological damage - which is now real - and social and economic harm, and, without wanting to be alarmist, the damage which may also be in store for other coastal areas as the result of a domino effect.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by expressing my deepest political solidarity with our neighbours and friends in Galicia, for the suffering that this tragedy is causing them now and will cause in future.
The European Union and its Member States must therefore spare no effort to help to minimise the scale of the effects of the disaster and compensate the main victims as far as possible for the damage caused.
The first is that this accident must be subject to a rigorous inquiry, not only with regard to the EU's safety rules covering this type of transport but also into the reason for the course taken by the ship, which having moved away to the west, suddenly headed southwards, and sank only thirty miles outside Portuguese waters.
The fisheries sector, as a matter of fact, has already begun to be affected.
I therefore feel it is crucial that, in the framework of the aid that is to be mobilised, thought is given to the need for a specific emergency plan for these sectors.
I do not think that the EUR 117.7 million Commissioner Fischler announced for Spain and the EUR 15 million for Portugal will resolve the problems, not only because of the overall amount, which is limited, but also because, where Portugal is concerned, the option must be left open for this amount to be increased if the situation on its coasts grows worse.
What is needed, perhaps, is to think about another, more fundamental type of measure to provide alternative employment for these fishermen, for example, fishing in other waters in the medium term.
As someone who lives on the Baltic coast I now wish to express my deep sorrow for the residents of Galicia and all those whose livelihood is now in great peril.
We have to switch to these practices swiftly and without making any exceptions.
I have here for your perusal the precise movements of the Prestige during 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002, provided by the maritime authority of the Bahamas.
I have asked about controls and the application in these ports - Kalamata and Gibraltar - of the Directive currently in force.
And precisely because only 23 months have passed and because there was a lack of ambition - as we all know - there has been another disaster.
The Heads of State and Government said in Nice that the implementation of these measures had to be brought forward and then they do not apply them...
Infringement procedures have been opened against some of them for lack of application, not of the new rules, but of those currently in force, which are much less strict and much easier to comply with.
What we clearly have are the FIPOL funds.
We are also looking at issues relating to fishing to see what possibilities there may be for support in terms of the FIFG funds.
We are looking at the possibility of applying the Solidarity Fund, but I believe it will not be possible - I say this clearly.
We would be talking about more than EUR 3 000 million, ladies and gentlemen.
We are therefore also looking at the support that can be provided if, despite everything, that EUR 3 000 million is not reached but there is a significant effect on the region of Galicia, in which case support could also be provided by means of this Solidarity Fund.
In any event, if Portuguese coasts were also affected, the funds would be available to them as well, in the same form and the same way that they are available to the Spanish authorities and the Spanish people affected.
There is a whole range of measures which form a coherent global whole, with a Maritime Safety Agency to guarantee, together with the Commission, the appropriate application of the rules.
Mr Savary spoke of an autonomous European area of maritime safety.
The debate is closed.
There can be collaboration with the European Union only when there is a lasting peace and when the government restores all freedoms and puts an end to all the abominable injustices.
Mr President, Commissioner, in this afternoon's topical and urgent debate we must also turn our attention to the war in Sudan, one of the largest and most populous countries in Africa.
Civil war has been raging there for 19 years.
More than two million people have lost their lives because of this war.
In the larger part of Sudan that is under government control there is no freedom of thought or religion and no possibility of peaceful assembly.
More than 200 death sentences have been passed by unconstitutional emergency courts in Darfur State.
While the situation remains critical and the peace process has not yet made sufficient progress, there is no prospect of holding the sixth meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in Sudan in spring 2003.
I should like to stress that Sudan's Ambassador here is doing a great deal through diplomatic channels to hasten a return to peace.
We therefore call on the African countries to organise the next ACP-EU Assembly in another, more peaceful country in Africa.
In the meantime, the warring parties appear to have concluded an agreement to extend the memorandum of understanding on humanitarian aid and the suspension of hostilities to 31 March.
I would therefore call upon the Council and the Commission to proceed extremely cautiously during the EU Troika mission to Sudan, planned for 9 and 10 December.
Finally, I would ask the Council, the Commission and also the Member States, if possible in cooperation with the Sudanese Government, painstakingly to investigate the rumours of a potential revival of al-Qa'ida's financial centre.
Mr President, we have to bear in mind that the situation in Sudan varies greatly depending on the region.
In the south we have a brutal and bloody civil war, which it would be too simplistic to describe solely as a conflict between Islam and Christianity.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is true that the war in Sudan is the result of certain interests and ethnic tensions, but, in my opinion, the religious nature of the current conflict should be highlighted.
The Socialist Group is deeply concerned by the continuing civil war that has claimed around two million casualties over the last 19 years.
Of course we welcome the signing on 15 October of the peace agreement between the government in Sudan and the SPLA.
It may be possible in the future but we will have to see how things develop in Sudan.
Mr President, promotion of a peaceful solution and respect for human rights and humanitarian law remain at the heart of relations between the Commission and Sudan.
The Commission firmly believes that respect for human rights would enable peace to return to Sudan.
In accordance with the conclusions adopted by the Council in June 2002, the Union intends to proceed step by step.
Until a peace agreement has been reached, the Union will continue political dialogue on the basis of the commitments made by the Sudanese Government for 2002 in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, with particular emphasis on reaching a peace agreement.
We plan to endorse a national strategy document and a national indicative programme following the conclusion of the peace agreement or whenever the Commission considers it politically appropriate, following consultation with the Member States.
Members of Parliament are put in prison.
The European Union must actively concern itself with the situation in Bangladesh on the basis of the cooperation agreement we have with that country.
In the last month alone there were 25 deaths.
The European Union must also make its contribution, Commissioner Monti.
The agreement between the European Union and Bangladesh is based on consistent respect for human rights and on democratic principles.
Such important signals are easily understood throughout Asia as well as in other countries.
Mr President, on 17 October this year 40 000 members of the armed forces launched Operation Clean Heart in Bangladesh.
We call upon the Government of Bangladesh to hold an independent inquiry into who is responsible for this, to release members of parliament and opposition political leaders and to establish a Bangladesh national human rights committee.
The Commission should take steps to demand the withdrawal of the army, which is being used without a proper legal basis as a means of policing the public and of political repression.
Last January, when answering a parliamentary question, Commissioner Patten said that the situation in Bangladesh was improving and that the Commission would undertake to monitor it.
The European Union is very concerned about the general human rights situation and the continued reports of torture and deaths in custody, following the launch of Operation Clean Heart, aimed at halting the decline in law and order in Bangladesh, to which several Members referred to a few minutes ago.
We are also very concerned about the possible bias in the implementation of this operation and about the delays in implementing or failure to implement reforms such as the separation of the judiciary from the executive, the ombudsman and the creation of an independent human rights commission.
The EU consequently welcomes the European Parliament's resolution on Operation Clean Heart and the general human rights situation in Bangladesh.
However, there are a couple of points in the resolution which we believe no longer reflect the current situation or are not substantiated by evidence on the ground.
If one compares the situation of politically-motivated violence against the Hindu community before and after the national elections, we can see that reported violence and intimidation of minorities has significantly decreased.
While we acknowledge the need to improve the law and order situation - and we are ready to support the government of Bangladesh in its attempt to restore law and order - we firmly believe that this must be done under the rule of law and with full respect for human rights.
Mr President, even if Doctor Hachem Aghajari does not receive the death penalty, Iran nonetheless remains condemned to domination by its ultra-conservative religious leaders.
The success of the student demonstrations cannot conceal the fact that the human rights situation has not improved but has, in fact, deteriorated.
It is therefore astonishing that the European Union has not tabled a resolution concerning the situation in Iran in the UN General Assembly Third Committee.
The dialogue must not be a reason for failing to put the human rights situation in Iran on the agenda in international fora.
That is why, in the spring, the European Union must submit a resolution to the Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
The situation in the country is becoming more explosive by the day, and it is therefore also high time that there were genuine reforms in Iran.
Mr President, it was on 23 October, not even a month ago, that we discussed, here in this Parliament, the human rights situation.
In this situation the European Union is continuing to negotiate a cooperation agreement involving economic cooperation.
But I think it would be better - and I am saying this on behalf of my group - if there were no cooperation agreements at all and if they were not even concluded while human rights are not respected.
Of course it is positive that President Khatami is saying that this verdict is unacceptable.
Of course it is positive that the Speaker in the Iranian Parliament is taking the same line.
I think that we too have a great responsibility here.
That is why we are calling on the Commission to make it quite clear at the next negotiations that there will not be any cooperation with Iran, economic or otherwise, for as long as this inhumane system remains as contemptuous of human rights as it is at present.
I share the view expressed by the Speaker, the Speaker in the Iranian Parliament, Mehdi Karroubi, who called the death sentence a disgrace to the country's judicial system.
This is clear, amongst other things, from the most recent proposals for reform put forward by the Iranian Parliament, which seek to restrict the absolute power of the Council of Guardians.
I call on the Council and the Commission to pursue the dialogue on human rights in all their contacts with Iran and to be clear that without the European Parliament there will be no agreement on cooperation and trade.
The opposition in the Iranian Parliament, both in Iran and abroad, is also very hopeful that economic interests will not be our only reason to hold contacts with this country.
I think that we will also be able to make our views and basic position known when we welcome members of the Iranian Parliament on the occasion of their return visit to this House.
That is why the EU is currently engaged in negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement with Iran.
That was true then, it is true today and it will also be true in the future! (Sustained applause) Mr President, we are greatly concerned about the new series of arrests and sentences which reformists and those who exercise their fundamental right to freedom of expression in Iran have been subject to.
Following his speech last June on religious reform, given in western Iran, the university professor, Hashem Aghajari, was arrested and, this month, was sentenced to 74 lashes, followed by eight years' imprisonment and the death penalty.
For several days, Teheran has been the scene of heated student protests and, I am glad to say, President Khatami has announced that he does not support the sentence, which was ordered to be reviewed on 17 November by Supreme Leader Khamenei.
In its Conclusions on 21 October, the Council agreed to initiate a dialogue with Iran on human rights, thereby confirming its concern over this area, including violations of civil and political rights and, especially, freedom of expression.
The dialogue on human rights is, in effect, an appropriate forum for the consideration of individual cases.
The Commission will monitor developments extremely closely and remain in contact with Parliament and the Member States.
I would like to add that the Commission feels that initiating the talks, which will also include a political dialogue, is in the interests of Iran and the European Union - see the Conclusions of 17 June 2002 - and, furthermore, the Trade and Cooperation Agreement will contain a clause on human rights.
Mr President, as a point of order I would like to request the floor before the vote on the two amendments, because I would like to propose an oral amendment to each of them.
In Recital B, where it talks about oil, it should say 'fuel', because we have agreed that 'fuel' should always be included.
And finally, in point 11, it says 'maritime and/or fishing areas ' and, in Spanish, it should say 'maritime-fishing areas '.
We are once again going to condemn the sinking of a waste boat that is 26 years old, was last inspected in 1999, belonged to a Liberian company, was flying a flag of the Bahamas, was operated by a Greek company, chartered by the Swiss subsidiary (Crown) of a Russian conglomerate (Alfa Group) that obtained a navigation certificate from the American navigation office ...
We have had enough of the impotence of the European Union, which, on the orders of the United States, is capable of establishing anti-terrorist legislation that is an attack on freedom within a few weeks, but is incapable of applying the resolutions in the Erika I and Erika II packages.
We urgently need an international maritime law that can break with the complacency that can force shipowners, charterers and oil companies to take on a security attitude and high social standards for those working in maritime transport.
In short, we need the human (inspectors, checkers, coastguards), material and financial resources to apply the law.
