State of the negotiations on the climate change and energy package (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the state of the negotiations on the climate change and energy package.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, today's debate is very important because we are close to reaching agreement on the climate and energy package.
Prospects are extremely good that within the next few days we will be able to confirm our agreement to set a 20% share of renewable energy in the Community in 2020.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today on this very important issue.
The package of measures on climate and energy proposed by the Commission is one of the most significant initiatives undertaken by the European Union during the past years.
With these measures, the European Union will not only meet its environmental goals but at the same time it will make a decisive contribution to the new international agreements to combat climate change.
Adopting this package of measures on climate and energy is necessary in order for the European Union to maintain its international credibility.
Furthermore, it will give European industry the opportunity to play a leading international role in clean technologies and will therefore give it a competitive advantage.
The current economic crisis cannot become a reason for apathy; on the contrary, it is a further incentive for us to take measures on climate change.
This is the reason why the package of measures on climate change and energy is part of the solution to today's crisis.
I would like to thank the European Parliament, the Presidency and the Council for their excellent cooperation with the Commission both on the package of measures on climate change and energy as well as on relevant proposals for cars and carbon dioxide and the directive on fuel quality.
There has been significant progress on the various issues that concern us and I am sure that we will reach an agreement at first reading.
The final agreements must maintain the whole architecture of the Commission proposal and our environmental goals, as well as guarantee fair effort sharing among Member States.
The international agreement on climate change is the most effective way of tackling that danger.
The discussion regarding this issue between the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the Commission is still continuing at a fast pace.
Regarding the system for effort sharing among the Member States outside the trading scheme, the Council and the European Parliament have made significant progress on a number of issues.
One of the main issues in our discussion was to find an appropriate balance between the flexible and effective implementation of our goals.
The Commission has set the annual limit for the clean development mechanism to 3%, because in that way it achieves a balance between flexibility and emission reduction within the European Union.
The Commission believes that the flexibility to achieve the goals of the Member States must go hand in hand with a transparent and effective compliance system.
This principle has already been successfully applied in the European Union's emission trading scheme.
Finally, significant progress has also been made on the Commission's proposal to shape the legal framework on carbon capture and storage.
Mr Borloo is on his way here.
I would like to thank you, Mr Piebalgs and Mr Dimas, for allowing us to hold this debate and for your intense collaborative work on the energy and climate change package, on which you embarked after Bali under the Slovenian Presidency, then at the informal Council meeting in St Cloud, in August, and which has continued throughout the five months of this Presidency.
Our common commitment is to secure an agreement at first reading, based on a timeframe that is compatible with international obligations and the European Parliament elections.
Basically, during this debate, I want to listen to what you have to say before rejoining the European Environment Council, which is taking place at the same time, all day.
Our work could not be coordinated better, and I am grateful to you for this invitation, which demonstrates our common desire to reach a comprehensive agreement on the energy and climate change package.
When it comes to the energy and climate change package, this is the first economy in the world - 450 million consumers and 15% of greenhouse gas emissions - to attempt to demonstrate that sustainable development is possible on a scale of 27 States, notwithstanding such varied industrial, climatic, geographical and economic backgrounds.
For the other continents, this also shows that one of their main partners is already committed; it is the proof that this is possible.
The Commission has translated these objectives into five major draft regulations: the ETS Directive or CO2 emissions trading scheme for industry and energy providers, which aims for a 21% reduction in industrial emissions by 2020; the Effort Sharing Directive, which aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 10% in non-ETS sectors such as construction, transport and agriculture by 2020; the directive on renewable energy sources, whose aim is to increase the share of these energy sources from a little over 8% in 2006 to 20%, with a 10% reduction in the transport sector; the directive on carbon capture and storage, which aims to set out the conditions for storing carbon; and, lastly, the legislation on CO2 emissions from motor vehicles, which seeks to bring CO2 emissions down from 160 to 120 grams, between 2006 and 2008.
Owing to the global calendar - the European Parliament's electoral timetable and the meetings in Poznań and Copenhagen - all parties wanted to try to arrive at an agreement by the end of the year.
This objective, which was laid down at the European Council under the German Presidency, was reiterated in October, under Mr Sarkozy's Presidency, even though certain States, in the face of the crisis, expressed their concerns and wanted to postpone any decision.
The agreement reached in October therefore confirmed what we achieved under the German Presidency.
I believe that we all, and I should like to thank you for this, recommended holding this in-depth debate today, and postponing until this afternoon the conclusions of these debates at the Council, the Council of 11-12 December, a trialogue during the following weekend and then a debate with, I hope, a vote on 17 December.
I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this will perhaps go down in history as a turning point on the road towards the agreement, which remains our common goal.
We are aware that we have to take action because this is a vital issue, but that we have to do it in such a way that each directive is socially, financially and economically acceptable to the Union as a whole and to each Member State individually.
We do not have long left to reach a conclusion: less than two weeks, in fact.
Looking ahead to the Council of 11-12 December, the Council of Environment Ministers, today, and the Council of Energy Ministers, on Monday 8 December, will tackle the issues on which an agreement between the Member States still seems possible.
I shall also present your agreement on the proposal for a regulation on the CO2 emissions of light-duty vehicles and fuel quality.
This gives you an idea of the difficulty facing us, but we must reach an agreement where Europe's economic and industrial competitiveness is maintained.
It falls to us to find, for these countries, progressivity systems that do not, under any circumstances, alter the global targets or the final deadline, namely 2020, but that are still acceptable to the other countries.
At the end of the process of this first stage, before Parliament meets again, there will inevitably be a strong commitment by the Heads of State or Government.
We cannot propose a change such as this to the economic and social foundations of the lives of 450 million European citizens without having an extremely powerful political process.
We will have failed in the eyes of our children.
In any case, how could we meet our African counterparts, with whom we have arrived at a common Europe-Africa platform, as confirmed in Addis Ababa a few days ago, then go to Copenhagen and talk of changing the global paradigm, if Europe, which, whether we like it or not, is a white knight in this affair, as it was in Bali, does not adopt this package?
I do not see how an agreement in Copenhagen would be possible without this essential prerequisite.
If, on the other hand, our 27 countries which, admittedly, still have substantial disparities in terms of wealth and a priori different industrial and energy backgrounds, and different climates too, manage to agree on a public process that can be assessed, verified and financed, thereby setting in motion an historic change in trends, then I believe that this will fill us with hope for Copenhagen and for the future of our planet.
The simultaneous consideration of these texts is a challenge and constitutes a heavy workload for each of our institutions.
I should like to thank all of the parties concerned, and the Presidency and Mr Borloo's team, in particular, for their efforts.
This work was difficult even before the financial crisis exploded.
However, this is not a question of imposing our will but of being persuasive and making the necessary efforts to ensure that balanced, forward-looking decisions can be made.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been working relentlessly on the energy and climate change package, in the firm belief that it is an essential structural policy and also, above all, with the sentiment that it is an historic policy, and thus a huge responsibility towards future generations.
Above all, however, our task is to reassure the citizens about their future and to secure their support regarding Europe's strategic options in the medium term.
I feel able to say that, with this prevailing climate of goodwill, we are giving ourselves the chance to succeed at the vital meetings in Poznań, in a few days' time, and in Copenhagen, next year.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, it is not my job to go into the details of the legislation we are discussing.
I will try to describe a larger framework for our Group in which we must arrange this climate change package.
We have heard many great titles, 20% - 20% - 20%.
Only the rigorous work on the details of the matter takes place here in this Parliament.
The rigorous work on the details takes place here in the European Parliament.
Joseph Daul rightly said that we have an initial agreement in connection with the Car Emissions Directive.
Therefore, the heading for this legislative procedure which we have brought to an initial agreement should not read Sarkozy but Sacconi. (Applause) I will therefore stay with this procedure which has reached an agreement.
The European Parliament has agreed to take an unusual path together with the Council and the Commission.
This means that a great many Members of this House cannot participate in the detailed consultations but must restrict their entire parliamentary involvement to being able to say Yes or No at the end in a kind of ratification of the result obtained.
Our Group has discussed this in depth.
It does not mean that this Parliament is ultimately prepared to accept any particular wish of any individual Member State, which has still to be worked out behind closed doors.
It must not be possible for us to go into the details here only for the European Council to say, well, I still have something to fix here and I still have something to request there, and then for Parliament finally to be told: take it or leave it!
Our national leaders like to talk in shades of green, but now we are going to see the colour of their money.
In March of last year they agreed to a 20% cut in carbon emissions by 2020 and now we hear the shuffling of cold feet in the Council.
As you have said, Mr President, climate change is the greatest challenge facing us.
It is also a question of the ethical reconstruction of this country which President Bush bankrupted in terms of its economy, peace policy and ethics.
At the same time that we have this enormous historical opportunity, here in Europe we, who have always been international leaders, we, who have always set the standards for international climate policy, risk our long-term view being restrained by the dirtiest enterprises and their accomplices.
This climate package is also about the political future.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new 20/20/20 formula used to sum up Europe's targets to combat climate change, is an ambitious commitment which would make Europe the undeniable leader in this global battle.
To be honest, I should highlight the difference between the universal nature of this target and the unilateral approach of Europe's obligations.
It is essential that these two conditions be combined, as having one without the other would frustrate all our efforts and could even have irreparable consequences for our industry.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Borloo, Mr Piebalgs, Mr Dimas, some say that the European 20/20/20 directive imposes excessively high costs on the economy of the European Union.
The EU directive focuses on innovation and in particular tries to tackle, in time, the upheaval caused by the climate change now underway.
This should also be the case to ensure the future of the renewable energy-based system.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, in recent weeks, we have worked with might and main on the negotiations concerning the climate change and energy package.
I should equally like to thank the Presidency and the Commission for their relentless efforts during the negotiations.
I would urge the Presidency to hold onto the promising efforts that were accepted at the European Council in the spring of 2007 and 2008.
The fact is that the sea level is rising no faster today than it has been for centuries.
The fact is that total global ice mass is broadly constant.
The fact is that extreme weather events are no more frequent today than they were a hundred years ago, and that the polar bear, far from being threatened as a species, has in fact shown a dramatic increase in population over the last few decades.
Without this involvement it will not be possible to combat climate change even if Europe makes the most strenuous efforts.
Admittedly, we are behind the targets for 2020, but we are not only responsible for the climate, but also for the retention of jobs and for the competitiveness of our economy.
I am the PSE Group's shadow for the emissions trading scheme and we want a number of things.
Yesterday some of us met some of the key players from China and the United States, who were going to be in Poznań and will be in Copenhagen.
I think the Council really has to appreciate just how much potential this technology has to make a huge difference in abating CO2 emissions into the atmosphere.
If we are to secure an international agreement, if we are to lock China in - which gets 80% of its electricity from coal - we have got to deal with the problem of big power stations, big fossil-fuel, carbon dioxide-generating power stations.
I have the feeling that we have actually gone backwards in the debate and I am constantly presented with the argument that industry and the economy must be taken into account in difficult times and that it is not possible to make any demands of them because otherwise progress will be halted.
We are once again delaying a regulation which we already deemed sensible in 1995.
In 1995 it was discussed: 120 grams for 2012!
What we are now permitting with this regulation - it beggars belief - is for the average emissions from the new European car fleet to be higher in 2012 than it is today. (Protests) Who is lying, Mr Langen, you alone do not decide, but it will be obvious. (Applause) I think that in this European Parliament we must in fact decide whether or not we can really change our manner of pursuing economic affairs, which is based on over-consumption, 'excess' and a philosophy of 'ever larger'.
If we are unable to change this, Mr Langen, then the future is bleak.
In this century no one will be able to remember the phase of climate policy or crisis policy in Europe. (PL) Mr President, the European Union's attempt to adopt this development strategy, which assumes that a drastic reduction of carbon emissions generated by human activity will have a significant impact on cyclical climate change, and the attempt to impose such a strategy on the whole world, is the most utopian idea of our time.
For instance, the International Energy Agency maintains that reducing carbon emissions by 50% will have cost the world approximately USD 45 billion by the year 2050, and that this amount of money will reduce temperatures, and I quote, 'by 0.02 degrees', that is, by less than the statistical error, which can have no effect on the progress of cyclical climate change.
At the same time, it will result in a rapid decline in the development of human civilisation. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a report, a brief one this time, a few days ago, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change announced that CO2 emissions have again started to rise faster than was forecast.
Therefore, we too need to speed up our decisions and ensure they are satisfactory.
Europe must play a decisive role in Poznań, remembering, among other things, that it is in Europe's own interest to secure a post-Kyoto agreement with China and the USA.
To say that the economic crisis makes taking action on the climate impossible is foolish; on the contrary, combating climate change is precisely what our point of reference for a green industrial reconversion must be, and which must lie at the heart of our action during this dramatic crisis.
The environment is not a problem for the economy, but the key to its solution, along with a different social approach to a crisis resulting precisely from a sick economy that harms the environment and employment. (DA) Mr President, it is with great pleasure that I am following the renewed interest in green growth that has followed in the wake of the financial crisis.
I therefore welcome the new green line and would like to say that what we need is a truly visionary focus.
If we focus our efforts on this area then we will really be able to do something about CO2 emissions and reduce emissions of noise and particulate matter. (NL) Mr President, whilst I support the gist of the objectives, particularly as regards the climate change plan, to wit the objective of reducing CO2 emissions and dependence on energy imports from outside the European Union, I am also convinced that more realism is called for in the specific objectives that are being put forward.
The key standard for determining the share of renewable energy is the Member States' gross domestic product and not the natural potential to produce this renewable energy.
But be warned: we will not just 'sign off' on any deal.
Any signing off will be done at a subsequent trialogue between the French Presidency and the European Parliament.
I would, however, just add - and I would ask Minister Borloo to deliver on this, and make it very clear to President Sarkozy - that a generous percentage of the auction revenues should be earmarked for adaptation and mitigation in developing countries, because legislation without generous financing will not result in a global agreement.
I hope to see a comprehensive agreement reached in Copenhagen in 2009, but adjustment of the European effort within the framework of this comprehensive agreement cannot take place via comitology, as the Commission proposes and as my fellow Members in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, in particular, want.
An ambitious climate change policy, Mr President, cannot be decided on behind closed doors and without the citizens' knowledge. (SV) Mr President, the period for the climate negotiations - the EU's climate change package - is running out and responsibility for our being ready on time lies with the French Presidency.
The energy package is also being discussed.
Secondly, if the measures force the businesses to move out of Europe through carbon dioxide leakage, naturally they must be compensated.
Therefore we must not be too hasty and pinpoint victims before the climate conference in Copenhagen.
The money received from climate measures must also be invested in climate measures.
This would totally undermine the credibility of our climate policy.
The IPCC says that the industrialised countries should reduce domestic emissions by 25 to 40% and developing countries by between 15 and 30% compared to business as usual.
If we want to offset the majority of our emission reductions, then de facto we demand more from developing countries than from ourselves.
It is very hard to see how this would help international negotiations and I really hope that the French Presidency understands this basic point of international climate policy. (PL) Mr President, we have now said virtually everything about energy and climate change.
We know that climate change is happening, but we also know that a much more significant global warming occurred in the past.
We know that in the natural environment carbon emission occurs largely without human intervention.
The main source of CO2 is the ocean, which contains 50 times more carbon dioxide than the atmosphere.
The expected 20% reduction of CO2 emissions by the year 2020 on the proposed terms will destroy those economies.
The plan to reduce CO2 emissions by 80% by the year 2050 would result in the collapse of the energy economy not only in Poland but also in many other countries, and would undoubtedly lead to a total economic disaster.
We must therefore study the problem in greater depth and take protective action.
I hope that the Poznań meeting, and the subsequent Copenhagen meeting, will result in an agreement and in a solution which will be beneficial to all. (EL) Mr President, the discussions in Poznań, and in Copenhagen a year from now must succeed.
The interests of European citizens and the historical interests of the European Union itself must come first.
The European Union must continue to lead this effort and avoid undermining the European Parliament's will to contribute. (PL) Mr President, the imposition of the drastic solutions contained in the energy and climate change package on European Union states which account for only 15% of global carbon emissions will have a destructive impact not only on Poland, but also on Europe and the world.
While the old EU states have reduced their carbon emissions by approximately 3%, in Poland, as a result of industrial transformation and the modernisation process, emissions have been reduced by approximately 30%.
In spite of this, the European Union demands further reductions, which are supposed to represent implementation of solidarity and burden sharing, but which are certain to lead to the collapse of our industry and to a huge rise in costs.
We must therefore consider our next steps carefully.
It allows certain Member States to produce more emissions in 2020 than the Kyoto target set for 2010.
Europe's historical responsibility and opportunity also means assuming a pioneering role in this third industrial revolution.
I would like to explain why, intentionally and in agreement with the French Presidency, which has done a wonderful job - I wanted to say so informally - why, to stay on a car theme, I speeded up the securing of this agreement, putting my foot on the throttle, so to speak.
This was for two reasons: the first is because I felt it important for the package to move forward, at least on one issue, to show that it really is possible - difficult, but possible - to reconcile different requirements: protection of the environment and combating climate change, on the one hand, and the economic dimension of competitiveness and social issues, as well as employment, on the other.
I thought that it would be much better to conclude this dossier ahead of the European Council next week so that, if I may put it bluntly, no one can put their oar in.
I would like to tell you something, Mr Borloo, if you will allow me one moment longer: we do not always manage to reach unanimity here, so take heart, and do not allow a similar situation to what happened yesterday on renewables, where one country, unfortunately my own, vetoed the proposal, thereby making an agreement impossible. (DA) Mr President, it has been fascinating to be involved in negotiating the climate package, first in the committee and then in the trilogue negotiations in which I am taking part in the capacity of shadow rapporteur on the effort-sharing directive.
Similarly, we must not lack the motivation for energy technology modernisation in Europe and we must ensure, through this package, progress towards a future where we base our energy use on forms of energy that are CO2-neutral.
The impact of greenhouse gas emissions on climate change is real, although other factors are currently being underestimated.
We must also take into account the situation of countries such as Poland, whose power generation industry is largely based on coal.
It would be appropriate to recognise the huge progress in reducing carbon emissions recently achieved by those countries.
The energy and climate change package must therefore be sensible and at the same time imbued with the spirit of solidarity.
It should also be innovative, and supportive of the economy and the environment, whilst ensuring security and looking to the future, which is especially important at this time of major economic downturn. (SV) Mr President, in March 2007 the EU's Heads of Government promised that the EU would reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020.
Last Monday an informal agreement was reached between the French Presidency and Parliament's large groups on how we will reduce carbon emissions from cars.
As far back as 1995 the Commission proposed that carbon emissions be limited to 120 g.
I am also tired of hearing the financial crisis being used as an excuse for not taking responsibility for climate impact.
The car industry has had more than a decade in which to switch to greener technology.
The CDM projects are a case in point.
Of course we must support climate projects in developing countries, but this must be in addition to our own emissions reductions and must not replace them. (PL) Mr President, under the guise of noble environmental protection objectives, the richest states and companies are forcing through a climate change package which will hit the less well-off European Union states.
We cannot close coal-fired power stations or coal mines overnight.
There are three major demonstration projects in the world which have other targets, that is to say, to accelerate oil and gas production.
However, we need our European demonstration plants because we are responsible for mines, for technology, but also for the regulatory framework for the time after the closure of mines, which we must then set in motion in Europe.
I think that we and the Council should make an effort to get funds via whichever instrument we can, be it ETS or others, so that we can blaze a global trail in precisely this technology. (PL) Mr President, the problem of climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity.
The European Union has developed an ambitious programme of reducing carbon emissions by 20% by the year 2020, improving energy efficiency and increasing the share of energy from renewable sources.
These plans demonstrate that the Union wants to lead the world in combating climate change, but the European Union is not an island, and cannot act alone.
This will have an adverse impact on household finances and on business competitiveness in those countries.
The allocation system should be designed so as to ensure that less well-off countries do not lose out to the others.
It was disappointing not to reach complete agreement last night, but the one clause at issue is not just about keeping inviolate the 20% by 2020 target: MEPs have worked long and hard to ensure that there is legal certainty in the flexibility mechanisms which Member States can use to help them achieve their renewables targets.
A review of the flexibility mechanisms in 2014 risks undoing all that good work.
Of course the world is watching, observing us today, but its gaze is also focused on the Obama Administration.
This really should inspire our manufacturers, who are preoccupied with using the environmental, financial and economic crises to make staff redundant, after years of making profits that were not redistributed to employees and after years of negotiating voluntary agreements on pollution, which were just as much of a failure. (PL) Mr President, major climate changes are influenced by heat emission from the sun, which provides our planet with approximately 96% of its heat.
Excessive CO2 and methane emission has an adverse impact on the environment and must therefore be reduced.
I really believe that it is important that all of this legislation is scrutinised properly and that everybody has the chance to contribute to the debate.
However, I already referred to the problem of carbon leakage at that time, and it was clear to me then, Commissioners, that the Commission has not done enough work in this field.
The benchmark system, which has already been mentioned, must also be put into an appropriate form.
It must be used for environmental protection. (DE) Mr President, the environmental policy of the EU is facing a reality check.
Economic performance in Europe is collapsing, and here we are considering how we can set up additional hurdles for our industry.
China really only has to bide its time, then steel will be produced there and no longer in Europe.
I welcome very much what Mr Swoboda has just said about the benchmark system, but the insight of the Social Democrats was very late in coming.
A policy of particularly expensive and ideological CO2 avoidance, like that we are currently operating in Europe, will not lead to success. (DE) Mr President, honourable President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Commissioners, fellow Members, I think the climate protection package is on track.
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, increasing the proportion of renewable energies, reducing energy consumption, reducing oil consumption, introducing a million plug-in hybrid vehicles by 2015.
That is also where the big difference lies in relation to what we are doing in Europe.
I believe that the question of how our domestic industry is to remain competitive, and how we are to prevent our jobs from leaving Europe is justified.
I only support a regulation in the climate protection package which guarantees that we have no carbon leakage and that our domestic industry is also retained in Europe. (Applause) (BG) I would like to note that for me and my colleagues, it is important that an outcome is reached in the talks on climate and energy, so that Europe can be a leader in the talks for an international agreement.
I consider that a solution should be found which, within the framework of the compensatory mechanism, will also take into account the efforts made by these countries because, as well as their level of economic development, the issue of restructuring the economy in these countries has been quite topical these past years.
It is very important, in relation to electrical energy trade quotas, that this process takes into account the integration of this sector in various countries.
In some countries there are long-term agreements and therefore the gradual implementation of these quotas, in countries where the market has not sufficiently integrated with the emissions trading system, will be a good solution.
Therefore it is crucial to reach a first-reading agreement on the climate change package, not only to meet those expectations but to go to Copenhagen with a unified position.
I would like to thank my colleagues who have been working long hours to try to achieve this.
It is important to keep our ambitious targets, but at the same time we cannot ignore the dramatic impact of the financial crisis on the competitiveness of European industry, which has been greatly affected by it.
Given this new economic context, it is even more important to consider the wide variety of industrial infrastructures in Member States and it should be recognised that some of them have achieved a rapid and large-scale reorganisation and modernisation.
So our effort, in my opinion, is too small.
Nevertheless we have to make a decision, hoping we can enhance our efforts step by step in cooperation with the rest of the world.
In my opinion we are thus postponing the necessary technology transformation in our part of the world.
The most difficult area has been the sustainability criteria.
We can negotiate the detailed level of budgets, for instance, but we cannot negotiate with nature. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the climate and energy package which we are debating today represents a compromise.
It is a compromise between the interests of industry, the need to protect the environment and also of course the need for employment and for the protection of jobs in Europe, which is all the more acute in view of the current economic crisis.
The climate and energy package also represents a compromise between the industrially-developed countries in the European Union and the countries in Europe where industry does not play such a significant role.
I firmly believe that we can reach a compromise which will suit all Member States, old and new, large and small, more industrially-developed and less industrially-developed, whether in the west, east, north, south or centre of Europe.
This applies also in the areas of energy and climate policy.
I hope that this will also be taken into account when the decisions are being finalised. (PL) Mr President, I should like to congratulate the French Presidency on the serious attention it has devoted to the energy and climate change package.
Above all, I should like to thank the Presidency for listening to comments which were repeatedly made in Parliament, but were not treated with sufficient seriousness.
Fellow Members, the European Union has been able to manage in the most difficult circumstances.
We most certainly need a climate change package, and we need it as soon as possible.
This is why this discussion is so important, and why it is important for us to listen to each other's arguments. (FI) Mr President, I would like to stress what many here before have already said, which is that now that we are talking about the decisions which are under discussion, we have to remember that will only result in the implementation of the decisions that the Heads of State or Government took back in March, 2007.
Only in this way can we guarantee what many of us are speaking about, which is beating the economic crisis by means of eco-innovations and investing in new technology and new development.
For this reason, I am slightly concerned if we are going to allow some countries special flexibility, as then in the worst-case scenario they will be losing out, which is to say they will not receive the technological benefits that the other EU countries will. (BG) The long-term continuity of policies at a national and European level in the use of energy from renewable sources and the long-term continuity of investments are the key factors for the sustained development of the green energy market and for achieving the goals set for 2020 in an economically effective way.
This should be applied without this damaging competition between various market players in the energy sector.
I would therefore like to wish the French Presidency luck and congratulate it once more on the work it has accomplished. (PT) Mr President, climate change is the great problem of our time.
Urgent action to slow global warming is necessary.
With the election of President Obama, the European Union must present a credible and ambitious proposal in order to mobilise other regions.
The European Parliament is doing its homework: it is to be hoped that the Council does the same, without giving in to national selfishness and false arguments.
The development of new technologies brings opportunities for the economy and for creating jobs.
I close, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and my dear fellow Members, with an appeal for us to all make an effort to reach an agreement at first reading.
The world needs an international agreement and the citizens expect us to take measures. (BG) Climate change is occurring at ever faster rates than were envisaged.
If the European Union wants to be a leader at the UN meeting in 2009 in Copenhagen on reaching a global agreement for a real fight against climate change after 2012, then there must be a reduction in greenhouse emissions within the European Union.
In order for the new Member States to achieve effective reductions in harmful emissions, it would be good to consider the gradual application of a 100% Auction for the electricity production sector, as well as extending the transitional periods.
The new Member States still rely, to a high degree, on coal as the main primary energy source.
I call upon the Commission and the Council to take into account the fulfilment of the obligations of the Kyoto Protocol up to now and the true preparedness of every single Member State, so that the measures set have an impact. (ES) Mr President, first of all I should like to thank all those who have spoken, including the Commission, the Presidency and my fellow Members, for the work that they have done and their willingness to address the issue.
I am referring to power industry problems.
The Commission's proposal to Lithuania authorised a slight increase in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 2005, but the proposal does not take into account the consequences of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant decommissioning, and indeed after that the Lithuanian power plants will generate nearly double the volume of such gases.
The climate change package is extremely important and sensitive.
Some of us have just returned from the ACP meeting in Papua New Guinea and we know that the low-income countries are the biggest victims of our past growth and they need our support.
Unfortunately, we were unable to conclude the negotiations with the Council overnight, even if, from Parliament's side, we were aiming for an agreement and we were ready to make concessions.
As the rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on this directive, I had been looking forward to standing here this morning with a fully negotiated package.
A dependence that has damaged our environment and has caused wars, unrest and inequality all over the world.
The problem is that a single Member State is blocking an agreement.
All I can do, therefore, is to make a vigorous appeal to the Council to re-evaluate its position in order to allow Europe to obtain the energy agreement that we so badly need. (SV) Mr President, it is one of the most important tasks of Europe and the European Union now to ensure that we get an international commitment to take seriously the global targets relating to climate policy.
I believe it may be important when discussing these issues to remember that success in Copenhagen, with a broad international commitment, means much more than the various details of the package that we are now discussing.
If we are pragmatic about the various means and at the same time ensure that we achieve the targets, we will also guarantee that we get broad support for what needs to be done and ensure that the various Member States have an enduring will to live up to the various commitments made.
This does not mean making lesser demands of ourselves, but it is essential to realise that we must focus on what we can do to help other countries.
Finally, the resources that are now released through auctions should accrue to the Member States for different measures in the various countries. (NL) Mr President, emotions are running high now that the finishing touches are being put on the climate change package.
A 10% reduction in CO2 on the basis of a well-to-wheel analysis sends a positive and powerful message, certainly in times when oil companies are expending increasingly more energy on producing petrol and diesel.
The Fuels Directive thus gives an important impulse for worldwide reductions in emissions, burning off, greater use of electricity in road transport and opting for more efficient biofuels that meet strict sustainability requirements.
I should like to examine one point with which you are familiar: I should like to draw the attention of the European Union to the question of whether we should really begin this highly determined auctioning straight away in 2013, when we know very well that our American friends and our friends in India and in China will not have such instruments by then.
I propose that these regulations be adopted in the Kyoto Protocol II or in Copenhagen and we start this auctioning in Europe on the day on which the Copenhagen or Kyoto Protocol is passed.
That, Mr Dimas, we do not want. (SV) Mr President, the Council and Parliament are after all negotiating at present on the climate change package.
For a number of reasons the majority of the EU's emissions reductions must take place on home soil: firstly, because we have a moral responsibility to reduce our own emissions; secondly, because it is by taking the lead and showing that reduced emissions are compatible with high economic growth that we can get other countries to sign up to an international climate change agreement; thirdly, because we must have an incentive in place if our industry is to develop the new green technology required in order for us to be competitive in the future.
I would therefore urge Parliament to oppose the Swedish Government's position and to assert that the bulk of the emissions reduction must take place in Europe; and also that a proportion of the revenues from emissions trading should go to developing countries.
We do not need free allocation up to 100% in the industry affected by carbon leakage, we need 100% allocation, and we need ex ante benchmarks.
For those businesses not at risk from carbon leakage, I believe the 20/20 solution is the best so that we can start with 20% increases and also achieve the target with 20% increases.
We also want the small and medium-sized businesses to be exempted here, that is to say, in particular, the businesses with 25 000 tonnes, which are to be increased to 50 000 tonnes.
We also need a formula in the international agreement which specifies up to 30% and not 30% as an absolute figure.
As the basis for the reduction here in the current proposal is 2005 and not 1990, some older Member States could raise their emission values without any consequences.
This is very unfair to the new Member States.
I think that the use of carbon capture and storage should be judged by the market and the competition.
