Freedom, security and justice (annual debate) (Articles 2 and 39 TEU) (debate) (IT) The next item is the debate on the oral question by Jean-Marie Cavada, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, to the Council on the 2007 annual debate on the progress made in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (Articles 2 and 39 of the EU Treaty) - B6-0006/2008), and the oral question by Jean-Marie Cavada, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, to the Commission on the 2007 annual debate on the progress made in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (Articles 2 and 39 of the EU Treaty) - B6-0007/2008).
deputising for the author. - (FR) Mr President, President of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is taking place, as you know, in a context characterised by two essential elements.
The second element, Mr President, is even more significant from our point of view.
This is that the prospect of the entry into force of the new treaty, you know as well as we do, will lead to major structural changes in our area of competence.
Indeed, President of the Council, Commissioner, it was by an overwhelming majority of 537 votes that Parliament adopted an amendment stipulating that this decision would be revised within six months of the date of entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is in this spirit that our committee confirms both its determination and its availability for a genuine interinstitutional dialogue.
Two years ago we began debating two items of legislation which were intended to enable a giant leap in the quality of our cooperation.
In accordance with the new legal basis, Europol will be able to respond more rapidly to changing trends in terrorism and organised crime and it will further improve its analytical capacity and ability to support the Member States.
This will substantially help in a more effective struggle against the organised crime and terrorist organisations which are active in several States of the European Union.
In accordance with the programme which I presented to your colleagues in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, we are planning to reach a consensus on both items by June of this year.
In view of their importance, a delay in adopting them would not be justified, especially as we have already approved them and harmonised them among the Member States and among all three institutions to this current level.
The Council is currently discussing proposals for legislation of general application to do with combating all forms of organised crime and terrorism.
The Presidency will continue to do its utmost to reach an agreement with Parliament that will enable the directive to be adopted as soon as possible, preferably at first reading.
It is a year of transition to the Treaty of Lisbon and its ratification, with a view to its entry into force - which we would all like - in January 2009.
I believe that the best working method is the one we have begun to explore with the Council: not working in six-month periods, but bringing together the trio of Presidencies, which the current and previous Presidencies have done, to look at initiatives over an eighteen-month period rather than a six-month period, because it is clearly the case that if we work only with initiatives over a limited timescale, we do not have the vision that should carry us - I believe - reasonably, at least to June 2009, because the date of the European Parliament elections is, in my opinion, the only real deadline we should be looking at.
The opening up of the Schengen area has been a great success and we are also able to confirm to our citizens that if all the investigative authorities in Europe have access to one database system, this will not reduce security, but increase it.
Sections of the Commission appear to be ready, but now a new political group of specialised interior ministers is being set up to deal with the SIS II.
Their aim as regards SIS II is to make real practical progress in combating organised crime and crime in Europe.
As you know, unfortunately not all sections of the Prüm Treaty have been incorporated into Community law, but in particular essential issues of police cooperation were not adopted.
I should therefore like to encourage our Committee Chairman, Mr Deprez.
One in particular is that 18 months' detention is not considered an improvement in the effectiveness of this directive, but an oppressive measure on which a good many in this Parliament will continue to express their displeasure.
I agree with Commissioner Frattini that we need an agreement between the Commission, Council and Parliament about the way forward in the transition from the unsatisfactory intergovernmental procedures in criminal justice to normal Community decision-making.
With a population of 500 million, in what are now 27 countries, it is vital that international borders should serve as a protection against the illicit activities of criminals.
At last we will get an agreement on something more positive and more open, even if it is only affects a small part of those people coming to the European Union.
We think that 2008 will be a year of transition, and therefore a number of priorities in terms of freedom, security and justice must be identified in the course of it.
I am thinking about the need to introduce a common asylum policy for 2010 and the need to speed up the process that could lead to defining this common policy; I am also thinking of the need to come up quickly with a general plan for legal immigration, not just to encourage the admission of qualified or highly qualified immigrants, but to prepare a plan that covers all admissions to the European Union; I believe that we also need to focus on the freedom of circulation of men and women within the Schengen area, profiting from the results achieved in 2007, and to try to capitalise on these aspects.
I think that a genuine assessment must be made of the usefulness and effectiveness of Frontex.
My question to Commissioner Frattini is this: what do you intend to do to avoid this kind of problem in future?
It does not require that a person spreading pro-terrorist propaganda do so intentionally and... 'and' that propaganda be likely to lead to a terrorist act.
We in Europe, however, can do as much work as we want on the common area of freedom, security and law when third countries' legal systems are apparently impeding us in this exercise.
The civilised world wants to defend itself against the risk of terrorism: never drop your guard against the deadly threat of Islamic terrorism! (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have not made any considerable progress in the matters of freedom, security and law.
In this context I am especially interested to know whether implementing the Schengen standards and securing our safety will hinder cooperation between our police forces and the police forces within the Balkan countries. (FR) Mr President, we are at a turning point for the European Parliament in the setting up of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice, and the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon allows us to strengthen democratic and jurisdictional control.
Indeed, you know that we encouraged the adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar.
There is still no system for the protection of personal data in the third pillar.
In my opinion, this dossier is far from ready; the European Parliament would first like to hear why this programme is necessary. - (PL) Mr President, the most important event of 2007 in the area of freedom, security and justice was clearly the enlargement of the Schengen area.
The Schengen Agreement is being introduced on the Polish-German border in a way that discourages people from crossing the border.
This is not in line with the aim of that agreement and demands urgent action by the European Commission. (RO) The efforts of the Commission and the Council to ensure the free movement of persons across Europe came to fruition in December 2007 with the extension of the Schengen area.
I would like to draw attention to a topic that I believe to be of utmost importance: transitory measures are still in force, imposed by some Member States in order to limit the movement of the labour force from other European Union Member States.
It is all very well to promote a single policy to deal with legal immigration from third countries, but it is not normal to impose restrictions on EU nationals.
In particular, the subjection of this area to the competence of the European Court of Justice requires good preparation on the part of both countries and EU institutions.
In this context I would like to ask the Council: are we to begin work on a common list of priorities in the area of freedom, security and justice, and if so, when?
Parliament, through my committee, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, also knows what needs to be done.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Portuguese Presidency for enlarging the Schengen area, and at the same time appeal for a regular evaluation of the functioning of this system.
As a result citizens are being left with no protection against abuse and limitations of rights are being approved with no assessment of proportionality or evaluation of effectiveness.
We have turned airports into areas in a state of emergency where neither the law nor the most basic guarantees apply, but rather police authority with no type of control. (FR) Mr President, I would like to mention three matters that are particularly close to my heart.
Indeed, this seems to me to be the sine qua non for an effective and transparent collaboration.
As rapporteur on the Framework Decision on combating terrorism, I made a commitment to cooperate in a close and structured manner with the national parliaments.
Finally, I would like to say a few words about our future action on immigration.
If this debate is important, it is because with the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon last December and its entry into force planned for 1 January 2009, the policies linked to fundamental rights and the progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice must and will undergo substantial changes, changes that Parliament - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - has been calling for incessantly for some years now.
To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that a strategy of this kind would mean that, once the new treaty comes into force, we will not constantly be having to amend proposals that have just been adopted, and it will guarantee full jurisdictional control for the Court of Justice and the full and complete involvement of Parliament in defining policies that go to the very core of citizens' rights.
I would like to say very clearly that we in the Council feel that security in transferring from "SIS I for all” to the SIS II system is of the utmost importance and we cannot allow data to be lost in any way or the operation of the system to be subject to any kind of threat.
I would further like to touch on a question posed by a number of MEPs regarding cooperation between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament.
I think it is necessary for this cooperation to be close in most cases.
However, we must work and operate in a way which will not threaten the ratification process in any of the Member States of the European Union.
I would also like briefly to mention the Returns Directive and Frontex.
Regarding Frontex, I would simply say that the evaluation of the Frontex work is in progress and the Presidency is planning a more detailed discussion at ministerial level during the conference at the beginning of March, when we will talk about Frontex and its future and evaluate its work so far.
In December, all the Member States received a detailed questionnaire about the results achieved by the counter-terrorism measures being applied.
It is not the whole discussion, but it is an extremely important aspect: harmonising the rules on judgments in absentia - a matter I think Mrs Lambert touched on - is a matter that deserves to be dealt with as a priority in 2008.
On 13 February we will publish our first comprehensive assessment of Frontex.
Clearly, the Commission document will be discussed in the Council and in Parliament, and will form the basis for action, which I would also say is a priority, in 2008: how Frontex has worked, how we can improve it, how we can encourage Member States to participate more.
I believe that we should now continue with the general approach to immigration, as the European Council in December said, to think, in view of the future French Presidency, about what the French Government intends to propose as a European pact on immigration, and I have already planned for the Commission to be fully available to work on this matter.
I have given examples to show how, in this spirit, Mr Deprez's proposal, which I think should be welcomed, is to get together and define in concrete terms what can be done immediately because it is ready - and there are many things we can conclude during the Slovenian Presidency - and what we can continue to discuss between now and, say, June 2009.
Thank you Mrs in 't Veld.
