Culture programme (2007-2013) (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by the Committee on Culture and Education on the Council common position for adopting a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the Culture Programme (2007-2013)(06235/3/2006 - C6-0269/2006 - (Rapporteur: Mr Graça Moura).
In addition to all of this, I would like to highlight the provision for special actions aimed at raising awareness among Europe's citizens of cultural diversity in the Member States.
We will have EUR 400 million at our disposal.
Our programme should therefore provide an opportunity for increased awareness and understanding of the cultural diversity of the nations of Europe and the cultures suppressed by Communist totalitarianism in Central and Eastern Europe in particular.
Culture should be perceived as a means of facilitating the cultural integration of 27 Member States, rather than as an integrated world view.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, allow me to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, on the work he has done on the fundamental topic of the Culture 2007 programme and, in particular, on the agreement he has reached on behalf of the European Parliament.
We have called for a substantial increase in the budget allocated to the programme, so that it can play a part in the rise of a European culture and identity, which will enable us to move beyond national self-interest, and hence to escape from the crisis from which the Union has been suffering for a year and a half now.
As Aristide Briand said, if we cannot have the means for our policy, we must have the policy for our means.
I am therefore very disappointed that the Commission has not understood the vital role that culture plays in our European identity, and I find it particularly serious that it felt able, on the basis of the interinstitutional agreement containing the financial perspective for 2007-2013, to approve such a tight budget, amounting to only EUR 354 million, compared to the 600 million called for by the rapporteur and the 408 million proposed by the Commission.
There were invitations to do ten times more - 70 cents per culture.
The citizenship programme is also based on the cultural Article 151 of the Treaty.
For the programme in question, the sum at current prices amounts to EUR 400 million.
