Medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments and social conditionality (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission, by Tatjana Ždanoka and Jean Lambert, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Alejandro Cercas, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, and Marian Harkin and Elizabeth Lynne, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments and social conditionality - B7-0215/2009).
But when Member States do receive that aid from the European Union under this provision, they should be encouraged to spend it in a way that respects the principles of the Union - in other words, not ignoring the need for social protection and social inclusion.
author. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, before asking the question, I carefully read the previous questions and the positions that Parliament had taken on those questions.
It is a fact, not an opinion, that on 24 April this year, Parliament adopted a legislative resolution with the aim of amending Regulation (EC) No 332/2002 which, under Article 100 of the treaty, governs those financial instruments.
Mr President, Commissioner, you will very clearly recall that when, on 24 April - as my colleague, Mr Cercas, pointed out - we endorsed, validated and ratified the increase in the balance of payments facility, we did so on two conditions: firstly, that this aid come with conditions attached, particularly in the case of social aid; and, secondly, that there be transparency, so that this House would be clear about the conditions under which such agreements were concluded with the Member States in question.
The Commissioner says that we have attached harsh conditions to these loans, but I was not exactly clear as to what these conditions are and, indeed, if they include social conditionality.
On 24 April of this year, the European Parliament repeated this request.
If we present the problem in this manner, we must bear in mind that there are insurance and social assistance systems in these countries which have contributed to the imbalances that required the financial assistance for the balance of payments.
The day before yesterday, here in Brussels, I was still trying to convince a representative of Latvia's Government to make the measures to be included in the budget for 2010 more progressive.
The financial crisis has obliged some Member States to call on assistance from the EU (Council Regulation No 332/2002(1) of 18 February 2002) and from the international community (International Monetary Fund).
