Preparation of the TEC meeting and the EU/USA Summit (2 and 3 November 2009) - Transatlantic judicial and police cooperation (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the Council and Commission statements on: 1.
Preparation of the TEC meeting and the ΕU/USA Summit (2 and 3 November 2009) and 2.
Mr President, honourable Members, as you know, our relations with the US and the transatlantic cooperation between the US and the EU are extremely important.
Shortly after that, on 3 November, there will be a summit between the EU and the US.
These are two important opportunities to strengthen our relations.
We must work together with the American administration to achieve a comprehensive, globally binding agreement in Copenhagen.
Another important issue is, of course, the financial and economic crisis.
Together, we will work to conclude the Doha round with a positive result in 2010, because this is extremely important in the efforts to promote recovery and combat protectionism.
We have regular and ever closer cooperation in connection with crisis management, which found expression, for example, in the US's participation in a civil CSDP task, the Eulex mission in Kosovo.
I would like to say a few words about the economic partnership and the Transatlantic Economic Council, the TEC.
The Transatlantic Economic Council is even more important today in light of the financial crisis.
We are currently working on what is referred to as the Washington Statement, which will describe the situation with regard to legal and domestic policy issues and the cooperation in this area between the EU and the US.
Naturally, we need to establish our common values, namely democracy and the rule of law, along with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
We are, of course, interested in cooperating in all areas that constitute a threat to these common values.
An important example is the agreement on airline passenger data.
The agreement has now been transposed in all 27 EU Member States and a joint working group has been set up between the EU and the US to ensure that the agreement is implemented.
The first concerns the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The cooperation and dialogue in this area is continuing and should be stepped up.
We need to cooperate with one another in connection with the damage that could be done to critical infrastructure in the event of a natural disaster or a terrorist attack or attacks on our information systems.
Thirdly, the EU and the US have undertaken to work on the basis of the principles of freedom, democracy and justice.
We also need to coordinate our technical assistance better.
I am very pleased that the American administration is showing such a strong interest in cooperating with us.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, in my remarks, I shall touch upon the forthcoming EU-US Summit that will be an important milestone in our transatlantic partnership, as well as addressing certain EU-US aspects, particularly on climate change negotiations under way and also some critical GLS issues.
The change in the US Administration in January has had a very significant impact on EU-US relations, and our partnership has got off to a good start.
I would say we have re-energised our relations and I am convinced that the Lisbon Treaty, once in force, will also contribute towards the further strengthening of this vital relationship by providing the European Union with an even stronger foreign policy identity.
That is also what our friends in Washington expect.
The first formal summit with President Obama took place after our informal meeting in Prague this spring.
The global economy and climate change are likely to be the two major areas of focus of the summit discussion, in addition to a number of key foreign policy challenges.
On the economy, the focus in Washington will be on joint efforts to combat the economic and financial crisis and securing a sustainable global economic recovery to secure jobs and create growth.
We will move further on governance issues for the global economy, notably on financial regulation and a timely follow-up to the G20 Pittsburgh Summit.
The Commission will also emphasise our joint interest in countering protectionist tendencies and we will call on the US to renew efforts to bring the Doha Round to a successful end.
I will have a separate foreign policy meeting with Secretary Clinton and Foreign Minister Bildt to discuss these matters in greater detail.
Last but not least, a further major summit outcome will be the creation of a new EU-US Energy Council which will have its first meeting on 4 November.
The Council will look at global energy security, energy markets and product regulation, at new technologies and research.
Now there is also a new Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC).
The TEC meets in Washington next Tuesday - so before the Energy Council - and its outcome will obviously feed into the summit talks as well.
A promising area in our transatlantic cooperation is what we call upstream cooperation.
Upon a US initiative, we also intend to launch closer cooperation in the area of innovation.
And the Commission, of course, will also repeat our European concerns on some critical issues such as securing trade, potential distortions of competition from State aid and procurement policy in the US.
There will be a Troika meeting on GLS affairs on 27 and 28 October in Washington, in the framework of our cooperation on justice, freedom and security.
We are in the final stages of preparing a statement that will aim to renew our transatlantic partnership in these areas.
A transatlantic market with no trade barriers would result in economic growth of 3.5% in the US and Europe and 1.5% worldwide.
In the context of this economic crisis, this issue is very closely linked with jobs.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, we should also make sure that security policy in the field of energy is handled by the new energy security council and that the regulatory issues are dealt with in the TEC.
It is important that these two areas are not mixed together in order to prevent duplication and to ensure that we have a solution at the end of the day.
This involves, in particular, the question of the legislators.
I would like to wish you success in ensuring that all of this is included and I hope that the new Nobel prize winner, in cooperation with the European Union, will achieve major success for all of us in these areas.
Many of us will be in Washington in the next few days, where we will have the opportunity to hold discussions with our colleagues from Congress.
Finally - and this has also already been mentioned - regardless of our friendship and mutual affection and regardless of our good relationship, there are certain things that we cannot accept.
These include the repeated protectionist measures, for example, in the market for defence equipment, the discriminatory visa policy aimed at some Member States and the visa charges demanded by the US which have already been referred to.
It is important to establish a partnership, but also to explain what we cannot accept, which in this case, is a policy that discriminates against Europeans.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, on behalf of the ALDE Group, I strongly welcome the fact that this resolution calls for a strengthened strategic partnership between the EU and the US as a cornerstone of EU external policy.
We must not let the trees of myriad disagreements on specific issues obscure the wood of an overwhelming interest in common values and objectives, and action on promotion of democracy and human rights, resolution of conflicts and protection against security threats among others.
In that respect, it is a pity that MEPs have not been consulted on the joint statement to be agreed next week - especially as, with the Lisbon Treaty, almost all of these matters come within codecision.
It is puzzling why the Commission and Council are promoting a new agreement on access to SWIFT financial data on EU citizens when the Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement allows for specific requests.
Very finally, I fully support what Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner said about visa-free travel for all EU citizens and we are very critical of a 'visa lite' fee for the ESTA.
In order to achieve this, we would like to suggest that progress be made on two very important points.
This is our responsibility.
A little closer to our borders, Russia is becoming an increasingly unpredictable and authoritarian neighbour, and the Kremlin is exerting neoimperialistic pressure on the countries which lie just across its borders.
In this day and age, they do it in the name of the fight against terrorism.
We have 16 very probably political prisoners in prison, charged with terrorism, without any evidence whatsoever.
We have to be very careful when we talk about the fight against terrorism and we have to do it in a very professional and very careful way. (ES) Madam President, the relationship with the United States is, strategically speaking, the European Union's most important relationship.
We need to further strengthen our relationship and create new institutional mechanisms.
The resolution we will adopt tomorrow specifically supports the strengthening of the institutional mechanisms, something which Parliament called for in its resolution of 26 March.
The decision to create the Transatlantic Economic Council two years ago was the right one.
That is why this House, this Parliament, supported the creation of a Transatlantic Political Council which, in the future, must include the energy council that you wish to establish at the next summit.
This time we should go beyond superficial policy differences and evaluate our deeper common interests which, until now, have simply been taken for granted.
If Europe wants to realise its ambition to be a true player in world politics, it should eliminate such differences between its members, thus trying to motivate them equally around true common economic interests. (DE) Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, the fourth meeting of the Transatlantic Economic Council represents the ideal opportunity for this forum to turn over a new page.
The TEC must be more ambitious.
Both parties to the transatlantic dialogue agree that overcoming the economic crisis and combating climate change are our overriding priorities.
In addition, it is also important to involve various stakeholders more closely, such as the Transatlantic Consumer Dialogue, a forum consisting of 80 consumer organisations.
The objective of establishing a common transatlantic market by 2015 may be too ambitious, but it must be judged on the basis of the fact that it will improve the lives of people on both sides of the Atlantic.
If you want Parliament to cooperate on saying how we now need to see how to open markets, please release this report, as the resolution says, by 15 November. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that the European Union needs partners, as all the previous speakers have said, then this becomes particularly clear in the area of the economy.
I would be pleased if we succeeded in convincing him that he should not wait until a few days beforehand to decide whether the TEC meeting should take place, but instead that he should support the TEC with complete conviction over the next few years.
We must prevent anti-terrorism measures from obstructing all these activities as is currently under discussion.
I believe that we should take the opportunity, on the one hand, to work together with the Americans to solve our common problems and, on the other, to attempt to play a joint role throughout the world in making progress within the WTO or other international organisations, such as the International Labour Organisation.
It is a telling sign that the book by Gordon Goldstein describing the dramatic spiral towards failure in the war in Vietnam has been flying off the shelves in Washington, and there are no copies left in the shops.
Washington's emphasis on resetting US-Russia relations appears to excuse the Kremlin's blatant interference in its neighbours' affairs, notably in Georgia and in Ukraine.
Focusing on the financial issue, I would like to highlight the efforts that are being made by both the United States and the European Union towards a policy of better lawmaking, with emphasis on the involvement of stakeholders in the debate on the report.
That is also why, in sensitive matters such as the protection of data and fundamental rights of persons, agreements on Passenger Name Record and SWIFT data should always be consistent with the resolutions adopted by this Parliament in order to guarantee the protection of personal data and, in particular, the resolution adopted on 17 September.
Secondly, when there is a conflict, either it relates to defending our economic interests - for example, as in Airbus - or it poses a risk to our health or environmental rules - in the case of beef containing hormones, for instance, or chlorinated chicken - and we should therefore not prioritise the improvement of economic relations over our own internal model, our social model, our environmental model, or development model, as if economic relations were an end in themselves.
Adoption of high-quality global standards for accounting by 2011 is something which needs to be concluded quickly on the US side.
On insurance, too, Solvency II has helped to set global regulation - one which needs an answer, frankly, from the US side - and I thank Chairman Kanjorski in the US Congress for the work he has done on the Federal Office of Information.
TEC needs our support, but the TLD needs to be at the heart of the discussion - not just on the side and not just as advisers, but very much part of the central aspect of this whole transatlantic relationship. (PL) Madam President, I would like to thank you for giving me the floor.
The changes which have taken place in the United States have largely been very well received in Europe.
I believe that international trade is a decisive factor.
The fall in world trade is one of the causes of the economic and financial crisis and I would like to see a greater focus on world trade, even now in the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC).
I believe that this would send out the wrong signal, particularly because there will be many areas where the level of data protection will be brought into line as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon over the next year in agencies such as Europol and Eurojust, etc.
We must strive for partnership, but if our only consideration is for the United States to regard us as a partner, and we do not get involved in conflicts on behalf of Europe's population, we cannot achieve success in important matters.
Madam President, I would like to thank all of the honourable Members for their contributions to this debate.
The economic partnership is a particularly important forum for us.
As regards the question of visas raised by Mrs Ludford, both the Council and the Commission are doing everything they can to ensure that visa-free travel will apply to all EU Member States.
There is currently no basis whatsoever for an international, global agreement on a Tobin tax and therefore the Presidency will not push this issue.
With regard to SWIFT, we are in agreement with the US on the importance of being able to exchange information on financial transfers.
Bruguyère found that the legal certainty requirements and the protection of personal data in the current agreement are adequate.
In the more permanent agreement and once the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force, there will eventually be opportunities for the European Parliament to take an active part in shaping this.
The meeting that we are to have next week is a very important one, but it is nevertheless just a meeting.
I believe that we can make progress, resolve some issues and get some important processes off the ground relating to those matters that we have in common and need to resolve in a close and strategic partnership with the American administration.
I will, of course, report to you the results next time we meet in the plenary sitting in Brussels.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would first of all agree with James Elles about a greater strategic dialogue with a great strategic partner.
We have been one of the driving forces behind the activation of the G20 Summit process which was raised, as you know, to leaders' level last November on the initiative of President Barroso and President Sarkozy, but we are not the only ones that are needed.
We need to intensify our work towards effective global convergence policies on crisis management and systemically important financial institutions.
We should also achieve a single set of high-quality global accounting standards on financial instruments by the end of 2010 and, hopefully, complete convergence by June 2011.
On climate change, we had a very first exchange on climate change with President Obama in Prague.
With regard to the TEC, this is a very important new mechanism, or re-energised mechanism, to work on all matters regarding the free market and market barriers.
In our work on the summit, we are discussing with the US how to move towards closer cooperation in the fight against terrorism, especially in the light of the plans to close Guantánamo.
The conclusion of the mutual legal assistance treaties will also help us in this respect.
We have spoken about all the political issues before, but I agree with the Council President that although this will be an important summit, it will only be one meeting of a few hours.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 22 October 2009.
Relations between them must be based on the values and objectives that we share, and ever closer cooperation is in our common interest and benefit.
The European Parliament has been a leading force in advancing transatlantic cooperation, having proposed in its resolutions the creation of a transatlantic free market, as well as establishing new structures for closer political and interparliamentary relations.
The Transatlantic Economic Council has done good work so far.
The role of legislators in this relationship will be important.
We should encourage the US Congress to fully commit itself to a routine Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue and thus also to an active participation in the TEC.
in writing. - Relations between the US and the European Union have always been strong.
Now the world again faces a crisis and it is more vital than ever that we retain this link and work together to resolve the problems which have beset the world economy.
It goes without saying that the economic relationship between the US and the EU must be maintained.
Europe must maintain its economic independence and find its own way out of the crisis, particularly as bonuses amounting to billions of dollars are being paid out on the New York stock exchange as we speak.
Therefore, I am calling for the European position on the Transatlantic Economic Council to be strengthened.
At the EU-US Summit in Prague in April 2009, President Obama pressed the European Union to offer Turkey full membership in the near future, claiming that the EU would be contributing to better understanding with the Islamic world.
The fact that the US is supporting its strategic NATO ally (so that Turkey would clear the way for Rasmussen to become Secretary General of NATO) should not result in the negotiations on full membership being accelerated.
In the light of the economic crisis and the preparations for the climate conference in Copenhagen, it is important for us to take the opportunity of the Transatlantic Economic Council meeting to strengthen further the relationship between the EU and the US.
In the area of the environment, we must discuss new types of foods in particular.
In the area of chemicals and toxic substances, we must work towards high standards of protection and better coordination.
This will not only make trade and economic relationships easier, but will also guarantee in particular that consumers in Europe are protected against toxic substances in the environment and in the products they use.
Constructive discussions will help to ensure that the special relationship between the EU and the US is maintained.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that the resolution on preparation of the Transatlantic Economic Council meeting and the EU/USA Summit (2 and 3 November 2009) calls, on page 17, for the United States to treat citizens of the European Union equally and to include all EU Member States in the Visa Waiver Program.
The position of Parliament in this matter is all the more significant because not all the governments of the Member States understand the necessity of applying the principle of visa reciprocity.
I trust that the forthcoming EU/USA Summit will be a turning point, at least in terms of visa policy, and that in the new year, in 2010, the citizens of all EU Member States will be able to travel normally.
