It was not by chance that, back in 2005 and 2006, the top priorities for European cohesion policy were: the Lisbon strategy, innovation and competitiveness, climate change, energy security and efficiency, water efficiency, investment in new skills, attractiveness of territories for young people, and quality of life.
The purpose was to know what the cohesion policy priorities should be after 2013.
Jacques Delors once said that the European single market is about competition that stimulates, about cooperation that makes us stronger and about solidarity that makes us united.
The 2006 reform of cohesion policy has made it a modern place-based policy founded on a balance between equity and efficiency, between bottom-up and top-down approaches, between common strategic European objectives and local flexibility.
The new treaty has cemented the new understanding of European subsidiarity already deeply rooted in the cohesion policy, that is, subsidiarity extended to local and regional levels of governance.
Those who suggest that cohesion policy can be limited to Brussels and national level either do not know the European reality, or do not understand that excluding local and regional Europe from the pursuit of common European objectives is economically at best unwise and politically dangerous.
They are our common European public good.
The challenges are well known; the EU 2020 strategy has been opened to public consultations.
Today this energy can be released through the direct engagement of local and regional levels of European governance in the pursuit of common European objectives.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the questions put forward are very pertinent.
As regards your question on multi-level governance, multi-level governance has been recognised as a fundamental mechanism in delivering EU policy priorities.
The growing interdependence between different levels of government in the Union was stressed by the consultation paper launched by the Commission on the EU 2020 strategy.
On your two questions concerning the eventual abandonment of Objective 2 and the eligibility of all European regions, in the period 2007-2013, all regions are eligible for structural funds support.
As to your question on the regional dimension of cohesion policy after 2013, the Lisbon Treaty maintains the objective of reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions as part of the Union's remit on economic, social and territorial cohesion under Article 174.
In addition, Article 176 points out that the European Regional Development Fund is intended to help to redress the main regional imbalances in the Union through participation in the development and structural adjustment of regions whose development is lagging behind and in the conversion of declining industrial regions.
As regards your question on the involvement of regional and local levels of governance in the pursuit of European objectives within the framework of post-2013 cohesion policy, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the Commission's consultation paper on the EU 2020 strategy, which looks for the active support of stakeholders, such as the social partners and civil society, and recognises that the take-up of the EU 2020 vision across all the regions of the EU will also be crucial to its success.
The Commission has not yet developed a position on what role cohesion policy will play in the delivery of the EU 2020 strategy.
Policy conclusions resulting from the public debate on the Green Paper on Territorial Cohesion will instead be incorporated in the comprehensive cohesion policy legislative package for post-2013 prepared in the context of the Fifth Cohesion Report which, according to the new treaty, is due for submission in 2010.
This is also the case for the European Social Fund, which will continue to pursue its objectives as defined by Title XI of the new treaty.
With regard to your question on the role of cohesion policy in relation to other EU policies, cohesion policy provides the EU with its largest source of investment in the real economy.
The Commission's current focus is on ensuring that the implementation of the planned investments can be delivered in partnership with national and regional authorities as effectively as possible.
This effort involves close cooperation between relevant Commission services and between the Commission and relevant regional and local authorities.
As far as the ESF is concerned, the close alignment of its priorities with the Employment Guidelines provides for a direct link between EU employment policy priorities and EU financial support.
The cohesion policy and the use of the funds now and in this subsequent period up to 2020 forms a key part of this.
As far as the PPE Group is concerned, we wish to focus the cohesion policy rather more on the key elements of this EU 2020 strategy, whilst retaining solidarity among all the regions and also Objective 2, about which the Commissioner spoke so vaguely just now.
These are being disbursed faster and are being fully utilised: in 2009, virtually 100% has been mobilised for innovation and new objectives in my region, the South Netherlands region.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to see a more exciting introduction to this topic, because I believe that the European cohesion policy must change after 2013.
The focus for my group is on the fact that solidarity between the regions is not negotiable.
Of course, we must also bear in mind that in future, the European cohesion policy will have to respond appropriately to challenges such as climate change, demographic change and globalisation.
This is not because I want to neglect rural areas, but because we know that 80% of citizens live in towns, cities and urban hinterlands and because rural development unfortunately does not form part of the cohesion policy at the moment, but is covered by agriculture policy.
However, this also means that the European Social Fund (ESF) must continue to be integrated with the cohesion policy.
However, the disparities between some regions are fairly extreme and we must not ignore this fact.
Mr President, Commissioner, not much has been said about the significance of the European cohesion policy in Europe.
It is an instrument for all the regions.
This is why the European Parliament is so concerned that this solidarity mechanism may simply be abolished behind our backs.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current cohesion policy is a living organism.
This is unquestionably a reason for focusing strategic investments on this area not only at a local authority level but also at a Member State and even EU level.
As a result of the economic crisis, our debate on the future of the cohesion policy has become even more urgent than it ever was in the past.
The values given in statistics are often fictitious, as the European Union itself admits, which is why it created the transitional support regime for a series of regions, three of which are in my country, Greece.
The rule of unequal development in the capitalist system is implacable, especially in times of crisis, during which contrasts are even more marked.
It calls for new forms of regional and local governance, as proposed in Greece by the PASOK and New Democracy parties, extended and more direct intervention by the European Union in regional bodies and differentiated territorial cooperation which will also cross national borders.
on behalf of the EFD Group. - Mr President, regarding post-2013 cohesion policy, a leaked draft budgetary document entitled 'A Reform Agenda for a Global Europe' reveal that EU funding from 2013 onwards could change entirely to a nationally coordinated rather than regionally allocated distribution.
The proposal to limit the policy to national level would lead to qualifying Member States governing redistribution.
The last payments to projects under the 2007-2013 EU structural funds programmes will be made in 2015.
The likely result of the reduction in funding to Wales and the UK will have a major impact on our country as a whole which will affect the farming sector as well.
It now must be time that the people of Wales and the UK have a referendum on its relations with the European Union so the people can decide if they want to be governed by Westminster or Brussels. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us just imagine for a moment the European regions without the European regional policy.
I am also in favour of making it easier to measure the European contribution to the regions.
Reforms yes, renationalisation no! (EL) Mr President, I agree with the members who have spoken so far and I, too, should like to point out that we cannot accept a post-2013 cohesion policy which, firstly, will distinguish between the regions of the Europe with proposals such as abolishing Objective 2 (competitiveness); secondly, will include the renationalisation of policies; and, thirdly, will exclude local authorities from the programming and implementation of Community policies.
On the contrary, we envision a post-2013 cohesion policy, a period in which there will still be a common European policy applied to all regions of the European Union, that will continue to have adequate funds to achieve its objective and will have simplified application rules so that it acquires even greater added value.
Unfortunately, however, in the European Commission, they forget this or they appear to ignore it and they process proposals that change the principles and form of cohesion policy.
However, you can be sure that we shall take every opportunity to remind them. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, funding for the regions and structural funding form part of our practical economic policy and make Europe widely visible.
Lastly, the eligibility of all EU regions to benefit from cohesion policy must be judged on an individual basis, of course, according to their level of wealth, but the European Union must be able to make its contribution whenever cohesion policies are at stake. (DE) Mr President, this is a central debate about the character of the European Union.
The structural funds must be strengthened and not weakened.
After the last phase of enlargement of the European Union, the differences between the regions in the Union have increased.
In specific terms, the draft includes plans to abolish Objective 2, in other words, competitiveness and employment policy.
As there are Objective 2 regions in every Member State, this would, of course, sadly affect two thirds of all the EU regions.
However, I would like to say quite clearly that at a regional level, the success of the cohesion policy lies in its proximity to local economic problems.
We, Parliament and the European Commission, must design this policy together, with maximum transparency.
I welcome the creation, by Parliament's Committee on Regional Development, of a working group on the future of cohesion policy.
Consultation on the post-2013 budget and the future objectives of this policy must involve all the actors concerned: the Member States, the regions, the European Commission and Parliament.
Where financing in particular is concerned, we are today faced with great uncertainty regarding the future of this cohesion policy.
With regard to the distribution of these funds, we do not want egalitarianism but financial equity, and we want this in conjunction with a form of harmonious development that is based on findings and on situations that vary according to territory.
That means maintaining tight objectives in this area and not attempting to nationalise the costs of Community policies in either agriculture or fisheries, which would harm less developed countries and regions as well as outermost regions.
There are various signs, however, that moves are afoot to subvert the cohesion concept even further, either by trying to make it include and finance all kinds of actions and actors that have no connection with cohesion objectives - especially the European Union's strategy for 2020 and climate change policy - or by changing eligibility and management criteria.
This debate on the cohesion policy after 2013 is therefore much needed.
The post-2013 financial framework must be built on the basis of solidarity and territorial cohesion.
I should like to make three brief remarks in this respect.
Secondly, I believe it is vital to maintain the proximity criterion in the cohesion policy.
The European Parliament should say clearly that there is no consensus on rationalisation of the cohesion policy.
It is important that realisation of the cohesion policy be based on regions and macroregions. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly about three matters: equality of rights and status, secrecy and, last but not least, the importance of rural development.
Twenty years after the collapse of the Berlin Wall and 20 years after our fellow Member, László Tőkés, broke through the wall of silence at the start of the Romanian revolution in Temesvár (Timişoara) in Transylvania, it has been said more than once that in the 21st century, we no longer have old and new Member States in the European Union, but a single European Union.
If the European Union's Member States enjoy equal rights and status, it is inconceivable that the cohesion policy should be reformed in such a way that the European Union Member States who joined in 2004 and 2007 lose out in the new cohesion policy.
It is a ridiculous state of affairs where the European Commission either pronounces some meaningless statements on the cohesion policy's future or says absolutely nothing at all on the subject.
Based on the technical position adopted by the European Council of Municipalities and Regions, I think it is important for us to think through the possibility of integrating rural development policy with the cohesion policy after 2013. (PT) The cohesion policy is the European Union's main instrument for ensuring that all European citizens have an equal chance of success wherever they live.
They have also helped with cohesion within, as well as across, regions.
Like my colleague, I, too, would be concerned about rural development policy - albeit not as part of the cohesion policy, more in line with the CAP - but, at the same time, it is absolutely vital that it is not squeezed in any future proposals because rural development, and particularly the family farm, is vital for the social infrastructure of society.
New initiatives are appearing, such as Aviation Valley, but at the same time, Podkarpacie is one of the most poorly developed areas in the European Union.
It shows that Europe is united and that it is worth participating in this exceptional project. (DE) Mr President, the regional structural funding is an important tool for European integration and the Objective 2 funding in particular has, in the past, been seen as an engine for local structural and economic development by the people in many regions.
We do not want structural funding to be renationalised.
Therefore, I think it is absolutely vital that all Members of this Parliament urge the Commission to bring forward proposals which are acceptable to us - and by that I mean proposals which would allow every region across Europe that qualifies, to access structural funds - and also to ensure that those areas ceasing to be eligible for convergence funding after 2013 also have some transitional status in the future.
Lastly, global warming does not seem to me to come under cohesion policy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the concerns of many of my fellow Members.
I strongly believe that GDP returning to barely positive growth rates such as those forecast for 2010 will not mark the end of the economic crisis we are experiencing.
In this context, it is necessary to implement an investment policy and it is vital in strategic terms that Objective 2, or something similar, is maintained, since it represents an effective instrument for helping our regions overcome the crisis.
Maintaining Objective 2 is in the interests of Italy and of many other European countries, since it fulfils an essential need: development of lagging regions and strengthening of the competitiveness of the most developed regions.
In view of these arguments, Commissioner, Mr President, do you not think that your abandonment is extremely harmful for the regions of Italy, Europe and the Mediterranean and also for other countries? (DE) Mr President, all or at least the majority of the speakers are talking about the European social model, but this is not reflected sufficiently in the EU budget or in the cohesion policy.
Therefore, I would like to see an independent European Social Fund (ESF) which is separate from the European structural policy.
By separating the social fund from structural policy, it will be possible to make sufficient funding available to those regions which are not economically underdeveloped and have therefore largely been ignored by EU structural fund policy.
The European Social Fund should therefore be used more effectively to combat problems on the labour market, such as high levels of unemployment, low employment rates for women, large numbers of early school leavers and low levels of further education. (EL) Mr President, I consider that our parliamentary committee took a very important decision for today's debate, which is proving to be extremely interesting, with so many issues and very important dimensions being raised which relate not only to an effective post-2013 cohesion policy, but also to the character of the European Union.
Firstly, is there any intention in your plans for innovative proposals, which we are happy to accept, of renationalising Community cohesion policy and, secondly, what is to happen with Objective 2, because this is actually what is needed for the competitiveness, not only of certain areas, but ultimately of the entire European market. (DE) Mr President, I believe that the job of Parliament and of the European Union is to establish the basic conditions to allow people from all the Member States to have the best possible quality of life in the regions in which they live.
We must think on a European level, but act on a regional level. (RO) I find this debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2013 particularly useful.
The disparities between the different regions must be reduced at a faster pace, without delay.
Many countries in the European Union base their development efforts and national economic policy on the cohesion policy objectives as well.
It has increased unemployment, inequalities and social upheaval at national and regional level.
However, the present global economic crisis is also a challenge.
If we want to be optimistic, we obviously have to strengthen the areas with the greatest need and, more importantly, if I may say so - and I should like a reply from the Commission here - the social groups in greatest need of support.
The EU 2020 Strategy will respond to numerous global challenges, and the cohesion policy will be among the key and fundamental instruments at the disposal of the European Union and Member States to address these challenges.
Secondly, the Commission does not have clear answers at this stage to many of the questions and issues raised by honourable Members, such as on geographical coverage, the coverage or existence of Objective 2 regions, the appropriate funding base, transitional arrangements, or the status of individual groups of regions.
Strong emphasis must also be focused on the development of the least developed areas, especially small regions falling behind the regional average and struggling with far more severe disadvantages than even other areas surrounding them.
With this purpose in mind, it would be worth considering earmarking resources at EU level, aimed specifically at bringing LAU 1 (formerly NUTS 4) planning-statistical regions into line where the decision about the use of these resources can be made by the relevant small regions or their associations.
The various EU projects in this area allow citizens to experience Europe directly and bring the freedom of action characteristic of European policy down to a regional level.
However, there is still work to be done in the future.
I fear the provisions put forward by the Commission - especially those concerning the ending of Objective 2 and abandonment of the regional aspect of cohesion policy in favour of a sectoral approach - may mean a return to the concept of a two-speed Europe and an increase in the distance, in terms of economy and civilisation, between the old and the new Europe.
Such a model would be a departure from integration of the entire 27 and from the idea of solidarity enshrined in Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
That idea, surely, lies at the root of the entire cohesion policy, which is intended to bring about equalisation of opportunities and elimination of differences between regions.
Please remember that between the richest and poorest areas of the EU there is a greater than 11 times difference in wealth.
It concerns a lady who has supported us in the European Parliament for many years - Mrs Birgitte Stensballe.
