Peace process in Spain (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the peace process in Spain.
The issue of security is a particularly topical one, and one that affects all Europeans.
The Commission also recalls the statement made by the President of the European Commission on the announcement by the Spanish Prime Minister on the launch of a dialogue with ETA, sharing the hopes of all those who look to a future in which Spain is free from the scourge of terrorism.
For this reason I ask that everyone here show great respect in this debate today and that we do not deny each other the mutual good will that sustains our conviction.
We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats would like to know how it is that we can trust that ETA and Batasuna want peace when they have not expressed a single word of regret or apology or made any kind of appeal for forgiveness to the families of the over 800 people that they have murdered.
Today, our sympathy, our respect and our solidarity are with the victims of the acts of terrorism and violence carried out by ETA and Batasuna.
We call upon ETA and Batasuna to give your victims - who are surely on your consciences - a sign of conciliation and of apology.
A statement was issued on Euronews on 24 October from a high-ranking representative of ETA and Batasuna.
Terrorism is always an attack on everything that we in this Parliament defend on the basis of our common European convictions.
It is thus a European problem that we are discussing today.
It is, however, a path that is best described by a quotation that I would like to read to you. (ES) For the sake of peace and your rights, we shall not close ourselves off but, rather, we shall open ourselves up to peace, hope, forgiveness and generosity and we shall do the best we can to ensure that peace is lasting with the help and hope of everybody. (Applause) (DE) What I have just read out to you is a wonderful sentence that describes what this is all about.
In this spirit we can agree, as one, that we are prepared, for the sake of such a fundamental right and through dialogue, to find a solution.
When John Hume und David Trimble, Members of this House, set off together on the road to peace they were also aware that it is a road fraught with risk and that there is no guarantee of success.
That is why my group appeals to all sides of this House today to set aside party politics and unite for the prospects of peace, as much as we stand together in revulsion at acts of terrorism. (Applause from the left) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the process opened up in Spain to finally put an end to the terrorism of ETA and find a solution to the Basque conflict.
We support this process because it rejects violence, it leaves all options for a final solution open, it is not exclusive and it also gives the Basque political parties and Basque society in general responsibility in terms of putting an end to the so-called Basque conflict.
We believe that it is appropriate to debate this process here and we have always been in favour of doing so, even when the People's Party was determined to bring this conflict to the European Parliament in order to gain support for its policy, a policy that we always believed to be mistaken, because it was based on the idea that, in order to defeat terrorism, it was necessary to divide Basque society rather than unite it.
We therefore also greatly appreciate the open and responsible attitude with which the Spanish Prime Minister, José Luis Zapatero, has taken this opportunity to endeavour to achieve peace, in particular in his speech on 28 June 2005, by choosing the path of dialogue while taking care to respect the laws and legal procedures in force in his country.
In all our deliberations we have to remember the victims of terrorist violence and, today in particular, the victims of ETA violence in Spain over the last few years.
There are, however, only around 10 to 12 countries in the world where people, nation and geographical unit combine to form a higher unit.
So what can the EU do in the Basque Country to end terrorism and ensure a durable solution with peace and tolerance?
My father was conceived in Germany, but born in Denmark after Northern Schleswig rejoined Denmark following a referendum.
In late 2004 they purported to engage in genuine political negotiations while, at the same time, planning the biggest heist in UK history - the Northern Bank robbery - and weeks later IRA men murdered Robert McCartney.
