However, I will be unable to give the floor to all those who wish to speak, because 100 requests would take an hour and a half, whereas we have only 30 minutes available. (GA) Mr President, since this is my first opportunity to speak in Parliament, I would like to begin in my native language.
As you know, the campaign for the Lisbon referendum is well underway in Ireland at the moment, and we are hopeful that there will be a positive result on 2 October.
The Slovak minority has also been cut down from 300 000 to 10 000 members.
Over the past two years, six Roma citizens have been murdered in Hungary and dozens have been seriously wounded.
This aggression is not being handled properly in Hungary and it must be condemned.
European institutions should take a stronger approach to these manifestations of extremism. (PT) The coup that took place in Honduras on 28 June was an outrage against the Honduran people's freedom of political expression and most basic democratic rights.
We were able to witness all that during the recent visit of a delegation from the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left to Honduras and Nicaragua, where we met the legitimate president of the country, Manuel Zelaya.
Now, as these farmers have been trying to compete in these unjust and illegal circumstances, they had to take loans - huge loans - to be competitive.
Now they have become bankrupt, and they have to sell their lands under circumstances of colonialisation where we have to open our lands for countries that have 10 times more GDP than we do.
However, a recent article published in the Wall Street Journal attracted my attention in particular, and this is why I am making it a duty of honour to present this article to Parliament and to put forward the requests made by its authors.
The European Parliament has a duty to ensure that these measures are implemented properly and efficiently because they are needed by the 20 million plus small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union. (BG) Mr President, in early August, an incredible drama unfolded in the Republic of Macedonia which shocked Bulgarian public opinion.
Spaska Mitrova, a 23-year-old Macedonian citizen and mother of a small child still being breast-fed, was forcibly taken to a police station and then transferred to the infamous Idrizovo prison, while her child was taken away from her.
It is using international deception to attempt to build an onshore terminal at Žavlje (Aquilinia) in the Gulf of Trieste, which is already extremely narrow.
It is degrading the environment, destroying the prospect of communal coexistence on the border and setting a very poor example to future Member States. (PT) Mr President, what is happening to the former German footwear factory, Rhode, in Santa Maria da Feira, now called Sociedade Luso-Alemã de Calçado, is very worrying.
We want that money spent in the UK on our schools, on our hospitals and our infrastructure, not wasted on corruption with your accounts in auditing for 14 years.
Last week, in the latest of a series of incidents, a 600 lb bomb was planted by dissident republicans and was discovered in South Armagh.
We must constantly bear this in mind, even when there are problems between two members of our family.
Rational mutual dialogue on a constant basis is also the way to deny sustenance to extremists on both sides of the border and thereby nip in the bud or severely restrict potentially dangerous activities they might undertake in the future. (RO) The fight against racism is being waged through strong European policies, but in less than a week, German and British politicians have been engaged in mudslinging at Romanian workers, whether out of ignorance or because they are motivated by winning sympathy and votes from the population.
This House has a problem, which it stated in the Resolution on piracy on 23 October last year.
Finally, I would like to reiterate our conviction that Europe needs a common foreign and security policy that makes the European institutions more effective and credible in response to this type of crisis. (EL) Mr President, the deadly attacks by the German troops which form part of the occupying army in Afghanistan, together with the United States of America, the European Union and ΝΑΤΟ, during the attack in the region of Kunduz on 4 September 2009, turned into a massacre, with victims numbering over 135 civilians dead and dozens injured, including many children, and are war crimes against the Afghan people.
This attack was not, of course, against the Taliban; it was against 500 civilians.
The European Union is destroying democracy in its Member States.
Thank you, Mr Batten.
I gave you an extra 14 seconds even though you said something incorrect, namely that the Treaty of Lisbon is the same thing as the Constitution. (RO) Mr President, I would like to talk to you today about a European project, 'Voices of Youth', of which I have the honour of being asked to be a patron.
I ask not only you, Mr President, but also the President of the European Commission, to ensure that we pay more attention to the suggestions they make to us.
A state would lock up 15 citizens, accuse them of treason and ban them from leaving the country because they are going to discuss minority-related concerns with like-minded compatriots at the Forum of Hungarian MPs from the Carpathian Basin.
Not even immigrants are treated like this within the European Union, let alone people who have lived on this territory for a thousand years, where a new state has been formed for only 17 years.
He was arrested, charged and convicted of a brutal attack on Martin Georgiev, a Bulgarian waiter, in 2005 in less than eight weeks, despite the lack of forensic evidence, a flawed identification process and a signed confession to the attack by another man, Graham Sankey.
The problem is that these banks treat consumers in Estonia differently from consumers in their home country.
Interest rates, for instance, vary from 0.21% in Sweden to 12.2% in Estonia - that is a 600-fold difference.
And I would like to ask Sweden, which currently holds the presidency of the European Union, what it has to say about this, and how long this situation with their banks will continue in Estonia. (DE) Mr President, we need a democratic revolution, I said, and now we face a situation that represents an untenable state of affairs for all those of us who, of our own free will, are not represented in a political group in this Parliament.
Less than one quarter of the materials and supplies needed by the people there are getting through the checkpoints - just 18 items in all.
Mr President, I want to raise the case of Mr John Zafiropoulos, who is in prison in Greece.
Mr President, during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974, a Turkish journalist photographed 14 Cypriot soldiers surrendering to the Turkish army.
The soldiers' bodies were identified through DNA a few weeks ago after they were killed 35 years ago and thrown down a well in the occupied northern part of the island.
In some cases, a fine of EUR 5 000 may also be imposed.
The European Union is committed to cultural and linguistic diversity, and a commissioner for multilingualism was even appointed with this in mind.
The government has been unable to privatise the shipyards, the Commission has taken no account whatsoever of Parliament's position, the yards are not producing, the future is uncertain, people have lost their jobs and have been left in limbo.
Then we would have a large arena to develop the world revolution.' I would like to remind Members of the European Parliament resolution of last April to mark 23 August as a joint day of commemoration for victims of all totalitarian regimes. (SK) Both in the last session of parliament and in the current one, we have heard speeches by many Hungarian MEPs criticising the Slovak language law.
In my opinion, the Hungarian MEPs are pursuing a very dangerous policy of pointedly and directly provoking extremism, both in Hungary and in its neighbouring states.
In my opinion, they ought to realise that this is a highly dangerous policy and, as we have heard today, they should call a halt to these fabrications. (SL) I have received requests from a large number of Slovenian and Italian citizens asking me to draw this House's attention to Italy's intention to build a gas terminal in the Gulf of Trieste.
I also expect that, as a result of carrying out such an assessment, the governments will be able to agree on a more appropriate site for this gas terminal than the Gulf of Trieste. (FI) Mr President, I agree with my Estonian colleague, Mrs Oviir, that the economic crisis is far from over.
I would like to point out to my colleague, Boris Zala, that we would be very happy not to have to raise the issue here in the European Parliament.
NATO and the European Union are both affected.
In particular, I wanted to highlight the need to place greater emphasis on the requirement for humanitarian, social and economic aid for the Afghan people, who have unfortunately been subjected to the effects of war for 30 years.
