Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 4 December 2002.
Today we should have been debating the Napolitano report on the role of regional and local authorities in European integration.
After the ceremony, at 6.30 p.m., there will be a special exhibition on the fifteen years of the Prize which will take place in the area outside room WIC 100.
As recently as last month, we drafted a resolution on this very important topic, and a form of words relating to this terrible accident was to have been incorporated in the declaration adopted in Copenhagen.
Mr President, this disaster, without going into the issue in depth and in view of the information becoming available to us, currently involves at least four Community countries: Spain, France, Portugal and Denmark.
Therefore, not just in view of the dramatic situation in Galicia, but also thinking of the whole of the European Union, we must provide a response and also consider something which is important and which I hope has the agreement of the Group of the European Peoples' Party, at least it did last week: the creation of a committee of enquiry.
A number of issues of specific institutional interest to Parliament arose.
I would like to point out to the groups that by that time we need to bring closure to the calendar for the year 2004 on the issues of the appointment of the Commission, dates of election and our own internal procedures.
We have a commitment in principle across the institutions to try to bring closure to this matter before the spring summit meeting in Brussels.
With regard to the Prestige, I noted that Parliament would seek to give as much urgency as possible to the question of financial solidarity and urge the Commission to bring forward specific proposals to the House.
My speech is available and the groups may wish, on institutional points in particular, to raise some of these issues in the course of our debate with the Council.
Therefore, Mr President, and in view of the European Union's commitment to democracy and human rights, I would ask you, on behalf of this House, to urge the Asamblea Nacional del Poder Popular to process the Varela project, which has become a draft law thanks to the more than 11 000 signatures accompanying it, so that the people of Cuba can finally regain their voices and freely determine their own destiny.
You gave permission to send a parliamentary mission on 9 December on the basis of a resolution adopted on 10 October.
This mission has not been able to take place, however, due to the fact that neither of Parliament's two main groups, the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group, was able to provide two MEPs.
In my view, it is a matter of regret, and particularly damaging, that Parliament, which is in fact contributing to the development policy, is unable to intervene in a country at war, and is therefore content with observation missions or investigations into the massacres and does not take part in the prevention and the management of a conflict with such important implications as that affecting Côte d'Ivoire, one of the most strategic countries in the whole of West Africa.
This is a question of honour and dignity for this House.
I want you to know however that, among those Cubans who are not allowed to leave the country, are dozens of people who, after having put their names to the Varela Project calling for a referendum, have been expelled from their universities, imprisoned, harassed, maltreated and arrested.
The only crime they have committed is to endorse a referendum on democracy.
He had already been assaulted on 11 December when he was violently attacked whilst on his way to visit his lawyer.
Mr President, as of yesterday, train No 299 no longer exists: the glorious, legendary poor man's Orient Express, which ran from Brussels-Midi through Luxembourg, France and Switzerland to Milan in Italy, has been withdrawn.
As you know, the current government of Teodoro Obiang did not allow the presence of observers from this Parliament nor international observers at these elections and, therefore, we believe that there are ample reasons for expressing a very firm and categorical condemnation of this electoral parody, which reflects the dictatorship suffered by the people of Guinea.
We have carried out 'everything but arms'; this is laudable, but entirely insufficient.
Mr President, as you may be aware, there were a series of disgraceful riots in Oldham in the summer of 2000, provoked by members of extreme right wing groups such as the British National Party, the National Front and Combat 18.
The head of the family had been condemned to death 20 years ago for belonging to the organisation known as Muslim Brothers.
We fear that the sentence might already have been carried out in Syria.
I would ask the President to consider contacting President Xanana Gusmão in order to find out what is going on in East Timor, given our great concern for that country, which has only recently gained its independence.
Mr President, I should like to point out to the House once again that, despite UN Security Council resolutions on Iraq and despite the fact that Saddham Hussein's regime appears to have kept to the dates set in Resolution 1441 and handed over a 12-page report on his weapons systems, President Bush is still telling anyone who will listen that they are unreliable and that he has decided to bomb Iraq.
At the same time, we have learned that the United States are funding Iraqi opposition parties, including the Conseil suprême de la Révolution islamique en Iraq, to the tune of USD 92 million.
Added to that is the problem of pillars and the fact that, absurdly, and I struggle to understand why, we decided that it was possible, that it was even necessary, given the sensitive nature of some of the decisions to be taken, for example decisions relating to fundamental rights in criminal matters, to have recourse to procedures that are less democratic - not involving the European Parliament - less effective and which could be adopted unanimously.
The report proposes to sort all this out and to apply a simple principle: one act, one procedure, one description, one name.
Your rapporteur put forward proposals, not all of which were supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but it is clear that we must develop them if we want to avoid 25 States rejecting the possibility of developing this legislation outright.
We must call a law a law, and we are obviously proposing to make a distinction between organic laws, which would be rather formal laws that are subject to a specific procedure, framework laws, which would replace directives, and ordinary laws, which would replace legislative regulations, and then to make a distinction between laws on financial and budgetary issues, which would, obviously, deal with financial and budgetary matters.
Let us call all of these laws, however, because they are laws.
And above all, let us state very clearly that what characterises a law is codecision, and that codecision must become the only decision-making procedure for the whole legislative bloc.
The third and last element is the implementing bloc, in other words the implementing regulations.
In this respect, we must apply three simple principles.
The powers that are currently bestowed upon the Council, particularly under Article 202, must therefore be exercised by both arms of the legislative authority.
Moreover, we must admit that we cannot regulate with 25 Member States in the same way as we have up to now.
There are, of course, many other things to say about this report, but we believe that if we were to introduce this major distinction between a constitutional bloc, a legislative bloc governed by codecision and an implementing bloc which would put an end to comitology procedures at least as far as consultation is concerned as the Commission desires and which would replace comitology with a genuine monitoring by the two arms of the legislative authority, then we would gain in transparency, democracy and effectiveness, and perhaps some people in Europe would, at last, begin to understand what we are doing!
There are obviously subcategories - we cannot simplify too much, unfortunately - but nonetheless there are these three main groupings.
Mr Bourlanges has indicated what we agreed in the committee, indeed amending his own original draft report, but coming to a text which will have a broad majority in this Parliament.
We have proposed that if either the Council by a qualified majority, or Parliament by a majority of its Members - in other words, not a narrow majority on a Thursday afternoon of 29 to 36 - decides to call back an implementing measure, then the Commission must either withdraw the measure, or their original measure will be subject to the full legislative procedure under codecision to confirm, amend or repeal the act in question.
It is a report which will be of great interest to the Convention, which is itself studying these questions.
The primary achievements are: firstly, to make a clearer distinction between legislative and executive acts; secondly, to rationalise the choice of the instruments available so that force will more clearly follow form and, thirdly, to bring in a clearer class of subordinate legislation which should contribute not only to the quality of primary legislation but also to the parliamentary scrutiny of what is passed.
My main amendment on behalf of my group seeks to insist upon a separate amendment procedure for the second part of the Constitutional Treaty.
It is essential that the policy chapters are susceptible to a softer form of revision than the existing unanimity, plus national ratification in all Member States.
If the Union insists on the same procedure for the first and second parts, what is the point of splitting the Treaty in the first place?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is intended to define Parliament's position and, as such, to help with the work of the Convention, which is already concerning itself in very great depth with the simplification of European lawmaking, especially in its Working Group IX.
The report describes a hierarchy of five types of act in the European Union: constitution, organic laws, agreements in international law, laws, framework laws and their implementing regulations.
Paragraph 1 sets out this five-type hierarchy in terms of three principles, something that I find rather confusing and hardly likely to simplify matters, but the public will perhaps forgive us for it.
Paragraph 5 abandons the hitherto valid principle that the Member States are masters of the Treaties, the objective behind this being that their consent should no longer be required when powers are transferred in future.
I would sincerely like to thank him for this, not least in that his proposals contain a number of points which my group considers to be important and positive.
We cannot have it both ways: either we accept the principle that it is possible to revise the Treaties even without the unanimous support of all the Member States or we do not.
On reading the description provided however, one realises that this is what, in his speeches and in his draft constitution, President Prodi calls supranational democracy.
To sum up, this means taking away powers from the national parliaments and giving them to the European Parliament, which forms the heart of the codecision procedure with majority decisions in the Council.
Unfortunately, however, Mr President, this supranational democracy seems highly artificial, as the nations currently grant principle legitimacy to their national democracy.
The current essential political question is that the nations are basically calling for a closer Europe, but we will not bring Europe closer by somewhat simplifying procedures that are by nature far removed from the nations and which deprive them of their powers.
Quite regardless of the subject matter, some of which we Conservatives like and some of which we do not, we shall be voting against the report because we believe it looks at its subject matter the wrong way around - in a way that we believe is wrong for Europe.
I have to say that, over three and a half years, we have, in this Parliament, discussed a whole raft of proposals.
However, we managed to sit down and have a proper talk, and we can be pleased with the outcome, because we managed to considerably reduce more than 30 types of decisions at European level, which easily outrival Gaudi's Sagrada Familia in terms of complexity, down to a clearer proposal.
We will therefore be voting against this particular point.
We remain adamant that the Treaty should be unanimous and should be changed unanimously.
You call for Article 202 to be reformed.
That said, we must also take account of what is really happening, and I fear that the work that we have done in relation to your report does not bring us totally into line with what is really happening in terms of the changes to European legislation.
The first point concerns the procedure for revising the treaties.
I am in actual fact afraid that such a procedure would in itself stand in the way of development in this Europe of ours because people back home would be very sceptical about giving Europe more competences if, for example, they were not to feel that they were in control of what was going on.
The second point concerns the place of the social dialogue in the Community.
The rapporteur is trying to have a procedure of approval by the Council and the European Parliament introduced whenever the two sides of industry have arrived at a proposal.
Mr President, it appears that we are currently welcoming the enlargement of the European Union, from 15 to 25 Members from 2004, and possibly, a couple of years later, to 27, and possibly to 28, 30 and so on.
The danger is that we will transform our European Union into a kind of Council of Europe, an ineffective parliamentary forum - the only thing that works is the European Court of Human Rights - a kind of big UN, with the difference that in the UN only five States have a veto, while in the European Union 27 or 28 States would have the right to veto.
As regards the constitutional level, it is my view that there will have to be a less cumbersome review procedure for the second part of the constitution.
If we are to require unanimity from 25 or more states in order to amend any of the provisions in the second part, we know perfectly well that we will have a blockade on our hands.
For legislation on the budget - and decisions on the budget are another very important prerogative of Parliament - there will surely be a need for a special procedure, but the principle of codecision should remain the same.
The proposal would allow States that represent 2.4% of the Community population to veto the adoption or ratification of a Treaty that might thus be supported by States representing 97.6% of the Community population.
If one is in favour of Member State sovereignty, I can understand that one would not want a treaty to be ratified by just some of the States.
First of all, because it covers in depth one of the fundamental points of the issues raised at Laeken.
On the contrary, Mr Bourlanges, your spirited report leads to a very well-argued resolution.
My second point, ladies and gentlemen, which is fundamental to this report, concerns the creation of a genuine legislative bloc.
My third point concerns the role you would like the European Commission to play in implementing legislation.
We need to carry out fundamental rationalisation to know who does what in the European Union and introduce greater transparency and accountability into the exercising of these implementing competences.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must avoid encouraging or facilitating what could be perceived as dismantling regulatory power in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
a Council regulation concerning the introduction of some new functions for the Schengen Information System, in particular in the fight against terrorism.
I must express my regret that this report, for internal European Parliament reasons, confines itself to these two Spanish initiatives and does not also cover, as initially intended, a resolution on the Commission communication on the development of the future SIS-II, which contains proposals to increase the system's capacity, and to introduce new technical and research possibilities.
I am sorry, in particular, because the two Spanish initiatives seek to include improvements in the current version of the SIS that must necessarily reflect the long-term aims of SIS-II and, consequently, must be considered to be an integral part of the process of transition from SIS-I to SIS-II.
Some proposals contained in the Spanish initiatives are acceptable, such as access by Europol or by Eurojust, provided that appropriate guarantees are put in place to ensure the legitimacy and the legality of any use of data.
On the other hand, these two initiatives contain other proposals that, in our opinion, must await the development of SIS-II, when appropriate guarantees are put in place.
Although I have no objections in principle, I feel that, in the absence of additional measures to protect the rights of persons whose documents have been stolen, whose identity is used illegally or those whose data are simply input incorrectly into the SIS, the European Parliament cannot, at this stage, approve this proposal, which is likely to aggravate the problems of citizens whose identity has been usurped.
The Commission has commissioned a feasibility study to be undertaken on the development of SIS-II, which should be available in March 2003.
I hope that the European Parliament will then have the opportunity to deliver an opinion on these conclusions.
It appears that there is already political agreement on the need to create a new SIS - this is a Council decision with a legal basis for the development of SIS-II, and with the necessary budget.
I wish to recall that this has been the clear position of this Parliament: this management must be undertaken by the Commission and must be subject to parliamentary and judicial control.
In fact, I can even add that some of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are already included in the texts of the Council working group studying these initiatives.
In particular, I agree with the opinion on the need to limit Europol's access to the categories of data recorded under Articles 95, 99 and 100 of the Schengen Convention and to ensure that the data in question will be neither copied nor downloaded.
This is, as a matter of fact, the type of information that Europol is already authorised to request and obtain directly from Member States.
With regard to data protection, the Commission believes that the new provisions concerning the SIS, which falls partially within the sphere of Community competence, particularly with regard to Article 96, must be studied in light of their compatibility not only with the Council of Europe's 1981 Convention on data protection, but also with the content of Directive 45/96/EC.
This matter must be addressed now and must above all be accompanied by the necessary information to the citizens about the existence of the Schengen Information System and on the conditions governing its use, including the need to delete some details in the event that documents are stolen or lost.
As to Schengen Information System-II, as the rapporteur said, the Commission was given the task of developing the new generation SIS in January 2002 and we anticipated a global approach to its functions in the communication that we presented to the Council and to Parliament on 18 December 2001.
Europol and Eurojust are now at last to be given the right to access the Schengen Information System, something that in the light of new threats from organised criminality and terrorism is also an urgent necessity.
As this House's former rapporteur on the development of the second-generation Schengen Information System, I would like to take this opportunity to again urge the Commission and the Council to act with speed.
This development must be complete by 2006 at the latest, and even that is actually two years too late, because, as we all know, the eastward enlargement is to be accomplished in 2004.
In addition, a lack of parliamentary and judicial oversight has resulted in a democratic deficit such as would make Montesquieu turn in his grave.
Mr Krarup, you are opposed to the Schengen Information System and would like to see it abolished.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Coelho, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work.
The report makes a balanced evaluation of the two Spanish initiatives on giving new functions to the Schengen Information System, which is especially important in the fight against terrorism.
Following the attacks of 11 September 2001, the Council, together with the Commission, drafted a package of measures intended to increase the level of security in Europe and to ensure the highest degree of effectiveness in combating terrorism.
Giving Europol and the national members of Eurojust the opportunity to access certain data in the SIS is one of the most important practical proposals of this initiative.
The need to improve cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and, in particular, the linking and crosschecking of information from databases, is one of the aims that the European Union and the Member States must pursue.
Against this backdrop, the fact that the SIS was created to support the Member States in areas involving public order and domestic security, areas that are covered by the action of Europol and Eurojust, leads us to approve the principle of exchanging information underlying the proposal contained in the Spanish initiative.
Nevertheless, as emphasised by the Schengen Joint Supervisory Authority, the body responsible for monitoring the SIS, access to the database by Europol and the national members of Eurojust raises doubts in terms of data protection and can only become a reality if the basic principle of the legitimacy and legality of access to the database and its use is respected.
There is the supervisory body provided for by Article 24 of the Europol Convention, but all that may be said with certainty about this supervisory body is that it is genuinely powerless in relation to the huge scope for abuse in the overall system.
The debate is closed.
Amendment No 1 does this by specifying that Member States, in accordance with their normal tradition and practice, will consult with both sides of industry and lay down practical guidelines for determining work of this kind.
Amendment No 2 makes provision for breaks for workers obliged to wear individual breathing equipment because of their potential exposure.
Overall, we have had very good cooperation with the Danish Presidency on this dossier - to such an extent that we feel we can reach agreement at second reading with the assurances we now have from COREPER that the Council will be willing to accept these three amendments adopted in the Employment Committee.
It is my hope that, with these three amendments adopted and voted upon tomorrow, the Danes can take this forward as an 'A' point on 20 December and they will be adopted very quickly.
I want also to express my satisfaction at the unanimous conviction that the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to asbestos must be improved.
We have emphasised this interest in the social agenda and confirmed it in the Commission's communication on a new Community strategy on health and safety at work.
The Commission is convinced that the three proposed amendments improve the text and contribute to a better application of the directive.
You are aware of the great breakthrough already achieved by the Council's common position: the banning of all activities which expose workers to asbestos fibres during the extraction of asbestos or the manufacture and processing of asbestos products, or the manufacture and processing of products containing intentionally added asbestos, with some unavoidable and very limited exceptions.
We should not forget that the effects of exposure to asbestos have dramatic repercussions for workers' health and even for their families.
Periods of incubation vary, according to the academics, from 20 to 50 years.
I believe that, given the imminent enlargement of the European Union already agreed upon, it is extremely important that we modify Directive 83/477 on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work owing to the use of products and materials containing asbestos in the future Member States.
We will therefore be complying with the provisions of Article 31 of the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Every year 4 500 people die from asbestos-related diseases in the UK alone.
It is predicted that 250 000 will die in the European Union of these diseases in the next 35 years.
However, there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos in Europe's buildings throughout the European Union.
On 10 April, at first reading, I insisted that more should be done about asbestos than the Commission had proposed.
This is necessary because this illness-inducing substance has for far too long been treated as the solution for everything, because dwellings and industrial buildings in Eastern Europe contain high levels of Russian asbestos and because also people other than those handling asbestos can become affected.
On that basis, I suggested inviting the Commission, before the end of 2003 and independently of this directive, to make additional proposals for damages and the protection of victims other than those exposed to asbestos in the course of their employment.
The Commission is against this extension, and the Council feels even more strongly about it.
The compromise that has been thrashed out and the three corresponding amendments are therefore, in my view, inadequate.
It is estimated that, over the next 35 years, up to 500 000 deaths will be directly related to the serious illnesses caused by asbestos.
I would also now call upon the Member States to go still further than the directive, and I believe that the three amendments adopted by the committee will improve the directive still further.
That, however, would mean forgetting the generations of workers who have died as a result of working with asbestos, even though its harmful nature was already known.
It would mean forgetting the thousands of others who will die from it even once it has been banned, in a few months or years.
So we must set the tone through implementation of this directive, pay tribute to the way Parliament has discussed this and ensure that we in the EU Member States and the candidate countries make something of this directive to reflect the level of debate in this House.
The asbestos scandal is a blatant example of the cruelty of the capitalist system and it is high time action was taken to ban the extraction, processing and use of asbestos products.
The debate is closed.
The third option proposed that the current positive list should be regarded as complete, which would mean that only dried aromatic herbs, spices and vegetable seasonings could be irradiated in the European Union.
The report adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy provides the possibility of adding further products to the current positive list if the safety of these products can be proven.
The adoption of Amendments Nos 2 and 3 tabled by the rapporteur and other Members of Parliament would, however, result in the third option, which is the most restrictive one.
The Commission will take note of Parliament's conclusions but must await the reaction of the Council before making any formal proposal.
This is a similar situation to cooking and freezing: not all foods are cooked and not all foods are put in the refrigerator.
The Commission has financed the development and standardisation of methods for the detection of irradiated foods.
The EU is now, again, faced with the decision as to whether only herbs and spices should continue to be permitted to be irradiated, whether this list should be extended to include a few foods with problematic hygiene conditions, such as frogs' legs and prawns, or whether the list should include foods permitted to be irradiated by the transitional arrangements in the individual states, such as potatoes, poultry, vegetables, prawns, shellfish, frogs' legs or protein.
At the same time, in item 4, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy proposes that irradiated products, which are numerous in some Member States, should be added to the positive list in so far as this technology can make certain foodstuffs safer.
What this actually does is to make clear our lack of an unambiguous position, as, on the one hand, we state in item 3 that we want a very restrictive decision, whilst, contrariwise, in item 4 making it clear that we favour a decision that goes further.
Parliament, though, is quite clear about its position, expressed in item 5 of the report, which is that each foodstuff must be subjected to detailed analysis before any proposal is submitted to add it to the positive list, the object being to demonstrate that each of the conditions for authorising food irradiation have been met in accordance with Annex I of the 1999 directive.
Even Eurotoc, an independent association of consumers promoting healthy eating - with whose chefs we are all familiar - has made it clear that the irradiation of food is incompatible with its conception of its own purpose and gained, within only a few days, quite enormous approval for its resolution rejecting food irradiation.
I cannot, by way of conclusion, do other than to reiterate that in items 3 and 5 the committee has adopted very divergent positions, and tomorrow's vote will show whether we will take our stand on the side of consumers and of consumer protection, or whether we will make concessions to the industry, which has engaged in energetic lobbying over recent weeks.
I hope that our decision tomorrow will be in favour of consumer protection, enabling the Commission and the Council to get on with their work, that we will also somewhat clarify the Committee on the Environment's rather contradictory report, and will be able to come up with an unambiguous position, one that will serve as a basis for further work by the Council and the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have always believed that consumer and health protection should take precedence over all other considerations.
With regard to the ionisation of foods, therefore, the communication from the European Commission - because I must specify that this is indeed a communication and not a legislative text - emphasises that the scientific community believes that irradiating foods poses no risk to consumer health if good manufacturing practices are applied.
It is essential that we avoid the confusion caused by some Members.
My group considered that a balance had been struck and that this report could be accepted as it was, even though some particularly crowd-pleasing paragraphs remained.
Lastly, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to make a general comment.
We would earn increased respect, we would streamline our overloaded agenda and be able to spend more time on legislative procedures, and lastly, we would avoid doing the work of the Commission by establishing our position on a dossier before even having received a proposal from the Commission.
It is therefore safe to say that recitals I and J of this report are quite misleading.
The technology is presumably good for those parts of the world in which food safety quite simply means having anything at all to eat.
That is something there are good reasons for doing, because other methods of sterilising spices are still less appropriate from health and environmental points of view.
First of all, experience has taught us that food irradiation is common practice in countries both inside and outside the European Union.
In my own country, the Netherlands, potatoes are irradiated but I have never seen this displayed on the label.
If the substance were labelled explicitly, this industry would die a slow death.
After all, food has been treated with ionising radiation for some 50 years, as the rapporteur rightly said.
In my country, the UK, products include vegetables, fruit, cereals, poultry, fish, shellfish - not too many frogs' legs!
There is a need, for instance, in hospitals, to protect the food of some very vulnerable patients from dangerous bacteria.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the Commission for the clarity with which it has presented the situation as regards the treatment of foodstuffs with ionising radiation in the European Union.
As long ago as 1999, when we were working on the directive, our fear was that the Commission would not succeed in producing a comprehensive positive list by 31 December 2000.
It is noted in the Commission communication that the most important conditions for treatment with ionising radiation - licensing, labelling and control - have been met and that the methods for detecting irradiation have been validated, in other words, that they also meet requirements.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0386/2002) by Mrs Langenhagen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on Special Report No 2/2002 of the Court of Auditors on the Socrates and Youth for Europe Community action programmes (RCC0002/2002 - C5-0257/2002 - 2002/2125(COS)).
The Court of Auditors confirms that some resources have not been used in accordance with the programmes' objectives, and that, in some cases, the goals have not been clearly defined.
Despite this, my report on the Special Report and on the Socrates and 'Youth for Europe' programmes has something very positive to say.
This amount doubled in the following programme for the years from 2000 to 2006.
It concerns, in particular, recourse to a Technical Assistance Office and, although this is not clearly defined, to national agencies, as well as delayed and incomplete implementation.
As regards improving the management of the decentralised parts of the programmes, the Commission decisions adopted in 2000 establish, with the necessary changes made, for each programme, the responsibilities of the Commission and the responsibilities of the national authorities with regard to national agencies and beneficiaries.
With regard to control of the national agencies, the Commission decisions adopted in 2000 stipulate that the ministries are to establish systems to control and audit the operation of the agencies, including their management of decentralised actions.
The Commission, within the scope of contractual relations with the national agencies, carries out controls and audits of both their operation and projects funded.
Despite a number of shortcomings in the design or management of the programmes during the period 1995-1999, it should be emphasised that the Court recognises the European added value of these programmes since it also indicates, by way of introduction, that these two programmes have contributed to increasing cooperation between universities in the Union and in other participating countries and have enabled young people to take part in multicultural exchanges and, in conclusion, they have had an undeniable impact on young people and students.
Lastly, the Commission will give the greatest consideration to the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which stresses the importance it will attach to the interim evaluation of these two new programmes for the period 2000-2006 and to the simplification of the new generation after 2006, in order to guarantee the implementation of more effective management as well as simplified procedures, in particular where the granting of small subsidies is concerned.
In order to nip in the bud any tall tales about post-2000 implementation, I would also like just to remind the Commissioner - and I know this is not exactly his area of competence - that, as at 6 December this year, we had EUR 500 million left over in the B31 budget line covering education and youth programmes.
