rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all my fellow Members who have contributed to the drafting of this report.
We believe that this is the first time that a complete study has been dedicated to the islands, taking account of their specific characteristics with regard to all areas of Community competence: although the 2007-2013 cohesion policy pays particular attention to structurally disadvantaged regions, no specific measures are provided for island regions.
Parliament has highlighted this gap several times and, although the situation in European islands is varied - there are 121 islands in all, with a population of roughly 15 million inhabitants - they share a series of difficulties that constitute a competitive disadvantage: higher prices due to additional transport costs and little competition; difficulty in accessing the single market, the need to import raw materials, higher energy costs, lack of infrastructure, immigration, limited diversification of economic activities and vulnerability to environmental risks.
Among other things, we propose 2010 as the European year for the islands.
In the draft 2007-2013 Cohesion Policy General Regulation, issued in July 2004, the Commission specifically proposed granting a co-financing rate top-up to these regions.
At the same time, the Commission would point out that statistical data for islands or other territories that are NUTS II or NUTS III regions are already available.
Turning to the practical implementation of the notion of territorial cohesion, despite the lack of an explicit legal base as provided by the Constitutional Treaty, the Council already agreed in 2004 in Rotterdam to introduce the territorial dimension into the Lisbon process.
However, Commissioner, we want islands to be considered in all the various policy areas within the European Union and not simply viewed through the lens of regional policy.
I would like to highlight paragraph 10 of the report.
Once again it has clearly stated in this report - and I should like to congratulate Mr Musotto on a job very well done - that island regions need special treatment.
We must support these advantages, we must highlight them and we must promote them through the policies of the European Union, especially through the cohesion policy, if we really want fundamental economic and territorial cohesion between the regions of Europe.
In paragraphs 12 and 16 of our report, we call for the creation of a specific cross-cutting administrative unit within the Directorate-General for Regional Policy to deal with islands.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how can we not take into account the structural disadvantages of our islands in Europe?
The main causes of this state of affairs are the undeniable structural deficits directly resulting from island status, and for too long the European Union has all but ignored this fact.
I support the call for these problems to be recognised in regional policy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Musotto on his excellent work.
The European Union must be able to sustain and promote these areas, providing the resources they need for harmonious development while complying with the principle of territorial cohesion, allowing a more flexible implementation of policies on State aid and ensuring effective protection of special environmental features.
There is no relationship.
It is therefore important for the European Union to be innovative in responding to the problems specific to the island regions and affecting their competitiveness.
Only in that way will due account be taken of the very specific circumstances of the island regions in the context of policies relating, for example, to transport, energy, the environment, tourism, taxation and State aids. (PL) Mr President, I first want to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his thorough presentation of the natural and economic constraints of island regions with regard to regional policy.
The economies of island regions are often dependent on a limited number of economic sectors.
Another important issue addressed by other speakers is illegal immigration.
We do not want too large an agency. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
Coming from an island region that is also an outermost region and, for that reason, recognised and dealt with specifically in the Treaty on European Union, I can state that, by means of this initiative, Parliament is offering not only a useful perspective on the permanent structural difficulties peculiar to all the island regions and affecting the lives of their citizens but also a helpful view of what the islands, and by extension the EU too, have by way of potential.
Hence, I would ask the Commissioner and also the Commission to consider how best to transpose the policies to be adopted in future in the areas of development and regional policy. (ES) Mr President, I must express my satisfaction with this initiative report by Mr Musotto, since it represents a step forward in terms of viewing the islands, within the framework of the European Union's regional policy, as disadvantaged as a result of the geographical, natural, structural and permanent limitations that slow down their socio-economic development.
It is therefore necessary to integrate emigration and development issues within the framework of the Union's aid policies, and also in its programming, both through the funds making up the new framework programme on solidarity and management of migratory flows and through the regional policy instruments, in particular the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund.
We therefore call upon the Commission, the Member States and the Council, in addition to specific measures to alleviate these disadvantages, to provide help and offer understanding in relation to this special situation. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank Mr Musotto for his excellent work in having highlighted the problems of island regions.
That being said, it can be granted exceptionally in the poorest regions that are lagging behind in terms of regional development.
They are characterised by a large diversity, and in terms of regional development and their GDP per capita, a significant number of large islands are rather wealthy, as some of you rightly pointed out.
Granting operating aid to an island that has a GDP per capita among the highest in the EU would completely distort competition in the relevant markets without any justification in terms of regional development.
It must not prop up structurally loss-making activities, particularly those that are very damaging, for example, to our environmental or climate change objectives.
They do not have an aid element and, in the case of very small islands in particular, the de minimis aid and the EUR 200 000 threshold can be sufficient, as I mentioned.
Finally, we will look carefully at your proposal for designating 2010 as the Year of Islands, but I assure you that the Commission will continue to pursue the best interests of islands in 2007, 2008 and 2009, so do not think that we are neglecting this important issue.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - One of the contexts where Malta is concerned relates to illegal immigration: 'islands are in the front line of defence against this problem; all are suffering under the weight of illegal immigration'.
The economic activities prevalent in islands, notably tourism, agriculture, fisheries and crafts, need special attention.
In theory it is well recognised and accepted in the EU that islands, especially small ones, have to be assisted to overcome these natural disadvantages.
It is time to translate the well meaning objectives into concrete action.
