Women in Turkey (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Bozkurt, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on women's role in the social, economic and political life in Turkey.
There are 40 million women in Turkey.
My report alone will not be able to bring this about, but it is a means for the women and the women's movement in Turkey to claim their rights in respect of their husbands and their fathers, the Turkish Government, but also the European Union.
Fighting violence against women must be priority number one in government policy for women.
This year, a committee on women's rights and gender equality must be set up in the Turkish Parliament.
More objective and accurate data are needed about the situation of women in Turkey, particularly in relation to violence, illiteracy and discrimination.
Ladies and gentlemen, 2007 will be an important test for Turkey to see how seriously this country is taking women's emancipation.
It is an accurate and carefully balanced description of the situation as regards women's rights in Turkey and it is also a valuable contribution to the debate on women's role in the social, political and economic life of the country.
There has indeed been progress in the area of women's rights: legislation has been passed; an Advisory Board on the Status of Women has been established; an official circular has been issued by the Prime Minister, instructing the administration to deal with domestic violence; a joint EU-Turkey project is setting up a database on violence against women; and the 'Let's go to school, girls' campaign has resulted in the enrolment of 177 000 girls in school.
All this is positive and is acknowledged in the report.
We also agree that political participation by women in Turkey is dramatically low and that important efforts have to be made to deal with this issue.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to our rapporteur for her work, and I welcome the lively and fruitful debate that took place within the committee responsible on women's role in the social, economic and political life in Turkey.
Firstly, there is still some misunderstanding in terms of the difference between the simple act of debating the role of women in Turkey and that of concluding from the debate whether Turkey can or cannot join the European Union.
During our meeting in Istanbul, Prime Minister Erdogan clearly confirmed his opposition to violence against women.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say 'thank you' to Mrs Bozkurt for having now presented the second report on behalf of the women's committee and for her very judicious and expert approach to the subject.
The possibility of Turkey joining the European Union means that we in this House must give pride of place to respect for human rights - and in this specific instance women's rights as an integral element in them - as an indispensable precondition for its accession.
It is a document that addresses subjects of prime importance and highlights the status of women in Turkey and hence in the European Union.
Many people say that the progress made by that country on its journey towards EU accession should be judged first on respect for human rights and then on equal rights for men and women.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank Mrs Bozkurt for her report, which described the situation of women in Turkey very well.
The problem lies mainly in the high level of illiteracy, which stands at 25%, rising as far as 40% in some regions - and the still very small number of women in decision-making positions at local and national level.
Mrs Bozkurt rightly takes a critical line in her report on the regrettable and continuing lack of exact data on this, and what I find disconcerting in this regard is the fact that, in Turkey, which has a population of 70 million people, there are no more than thirty women's refuges, even though Turkish law requires that a refuge for victims of violence be set up in communities with over 50 000 residents.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the report on the role of women in the social, economic and political life of Turkey calls for a more effective implementation of community concepts as regards the equality and rights of women.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (DE) Mr President, although the legal situation of women in Turkey has improved to some degree, we are a long way from being able to talk in terms of success.
The report gives a good overview of the role of Turkish women in their country's social, economic and political life.
Eighteen of the 27 Members of the EU have not yet reached this landmark.
It is unacceptable that Turkish women suffer discrimination in nearly every area of life: in the labour market, in decision-making and in education, and that they experience considerable disadvantages in comparison with their male counterparts.
Looking back many years ago, women in Turkish society were regarded more as objects than human beings.
Indeed, despite all the declarations of intent from the Turkish authorities and the pseudo-reforms undertaken in the area of human rights, the reality is that domestic violence, honour crimes and forced marriages keep increasing, and that discrimination against women in the workplace and in education still goes on.
However, this finding should not make us forget that, while it is true that these violations of women's rights are incompatible with the concept of human rights, as they are laid down, for example, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the fact remains that Turkey is not European and that its future should not lie in the European Union.
This was a great day for Portugal, and an absolutely marvellous day for women. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was probably not the rapporteur's intention, but there is actually no denying that the Bozkurt report is yet another illustration of the fact that Turkey simply does not belong in Europe.
Let us therefore stop treating the symptoms, rather than the cause, which is the fact that Turkey may well be a neighbouring country, but can never become a European one. (PL) Mr President, the lack of female involvement in Turkey's social, economic and political life is mainly the result of a lack of proper access to education.
Estimates provided by UNICEF show that every year between 600 000 and 800 000 Turkish girls do not attend school because their families forbid it or because just getting to school is difficult.
Women play a very small role in Turkey's political life, and the Turkish parliament does not have a permanent committee on women's rights and equality.
The social partners should also play an important role by promoting the rights of women and organising debates or courses to promote the image of women as equal citizens of Turkey with an important role to play in their country's economic and political life.
Finally I would like to congratulate Mrs Bozkurt on her important report, which I hope will contribute to further positive changes in the situation of women in Turkey. (ES) I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Bozkurt on her work and on her monitoring of the situation of women in Turkey.
I think we can all agree that despite recent positive developments, the situation concerning women's rights in Turkey needs to be improved.
