We are nevertheless aware that the effects of climate change are already being felt in many parts of the world, especially in the poorest areas as well as in large parts of our own continent and the European Union.
I have also read, if I am not mistaken, that the programme of work drawn up last week in Bangkok to follow on from Bali - Bangkok being the first major meeting since Bali - has scheduled another meeting in Bonn this June to focus specifically on the subject of adaptation.
The European Union must set about developing cooperation and financial, technical and scientific collaboration with the countries most in need of help, countries less well-equipped to confront the sometimes devastating effects of global warming.
We focused on adapting and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for limiting the document to cover only issues relating to adapting and reducing the effects of climate change.
Nonetheless, I would like to emphasis four matters I consider to be very important.
We should remember that beyond Europe, that is to say, in Asia, Africa and Oceania, the effects of climate change are very considerable indeed and bear no comparison to what we are experiencing on our continent.
This must come about in Poznań and Copenhagen, and it is our responsibility as the European Union to ensure that it does.
The energy products market is turbulent because there is no more equilibrium.
However, other rival powers such as China and the United States will also take action, in a bid to redistribute productive capital and production factors.
Secondly, local, regional and central administrations should cooperate with each other; all policies, such as employment, cohesion and agricultural policy, should be coordinated; this is an important issue touched on by the rapporteur.
However, we must act on all fronts at once in a consistent and determined fashion.
In any case, reductions in carbon dioxide emissions are really only possible in Europe.
That money could be put to many other uses.
In our amendments, we have concentrated to a very great extent on soil protection.
We must act immediately to counter the effects of climate change, beginning for example with new buildings and new infrastructure, ensuring that town planning takes environmental impact assessments into account; there should be no investment in infrastructure which is already obsolete in terms of the new requirements associated with climate change.
The European Union has, in my opinion, an historical responsibility in this area.
The EU will then be able to speak with a single voice to the other parties in the international climate debate at the upcoming climate conferences in Poznań and Copenhagen.
Even those who believe in global warming accept that the whole of the Kyoto process, if it were fully implemented - and it will not be - would make a tiny difference in 100 years time to global temperatures.
As Mr Pęk rightly said, we are pouring truckloads of money into a doomed project and causing huge damage to ourselves, to European economies and to our children and grandchildren. (RO) The creation of the Committee on Climate Change was determined by the direct impact climate changes have on the planet, endangering the existence of humankind in general.
Studies are very clear and we can also see here, in Brussels, how weather phenomena of all four seasons happen in one day, which is clearly not normal.
The mandate of the Committee on Climate Change is extremely clear: it has to analyze the present situation, to make a list of possibilities for combating climate change and formulate concrete proposals regarding the European Union policy in this field, at all decision levels.
It is all this that our healthcare systems must be able to respond to, with everyone having guaranteed access to healthcare services. (SV) I would first like to thank the Commission and the Commissioner, Stavros Dimas, for the Green Paper on adapting to climate change.
It may frighten many people, but we must make this investment in order to cope with climate change and technical development and in order to hold our own in competition with other parts of the world.
I would therefore like to issue a challenge to the Commission: the Solidarity Fund must be boosted and given more resources, and aid from the EU must also focus on climate questions.
We should link countering climate change with limiting changes in the global market that are detrimental to us.
These are fundamental questions, Mr Dimas, that you are asking us to raise today, because this is not just a matter for the Commission or for the Temporary Committee on Climate Change.
It is encouraging, but the revolution you are proposing will have to be quantified in order to convince the other Commissioners that we need to go in another direction.
You will have to convince Mr Louis Michel that we need to mention climate change in the partnership agreements with Africa.
The right to water must become a top priority for adaptation policies.
I say 'right' because this right has still not yet been sanctioned.
It is therefore necessary to sanction the right to water and pursue policies enabling that right to be implemented.
In this sense it may be useful - and here I am addressing the Commissioner - to draw up a water protocol for inclusion in the text of the post-Kyoto agreements.
Mr President, the EU is proud of its commitment to the IPCC's recommendations on how to combat global warming by persuading its Member States to inject massive funding into carbon-emission control projects.
Scientific findings show that nuclear energy does not produce CO2 and that it minimises the aggravation of climate change.
Since 1990, these emissions have fallen by around 14%.
Commissioner, if we really are to get a grip on climate change, energy avoidance and increased energy efficiency must be our goals. (RO) Climate changes are more and more obvious and humankind should change its behavior, giving more attention to environmental protection.
Europe should examine the possibility of investing in an irrigation system that would assist the Member States in danger of diminishing their agricultural production following desertification in building or improving their irrigation systems.
To this end, our policy on support for European research should give priority to these areas.
The European Union must make every effort to establish at global level a policy on adapting to climate change.
The policy must help poorer countries with a technology transfer and resources package so that they can take part in the global alliance.
The European summit in March of this year stipulated that greenhouse gas emissions must be down 20% by 2020, with renewable energy meeting 20% of the Union's demand.
The Green Paper must also include a commitment to support the regions requiring substantial investment to counteract the effects of climate change.
Sound and solid sources of financing must be found, and here to the obvious thing is to look at the ETS revenue. (SV) In this report we ask for measures to make agriculture face up to its climate responsibility.
When IPCC Chairman, Rajendra Pachauri, spoke to us in the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, he called for a reduction in meat consumption.
I call on the Commission to develop a plan for the reduction of meat consumption.
With this proposal, Europe would inflict a double hardship on businesses, which would have to pay for CO2 emission abuses over and above the quota, but also for any CO2 emissions from the first tonne produced.
However, even global warming of less than 2°C would have negative economic and environmental consequences for certain regions of Europe.
However, it is important to remember that agriculture produces food and without food we are not going very far.
In terms of the Irish situation we have actually reduced our emissions from agriculture by 3% since 1990, but look at what has happened to transport, where emissions are up by 163%.
It will contribute to the debate on climate change but it can only do it in a way that recognises its real present situation.
This is something that is close to the people, in the regions and in the cities, and Europe has a role to play in this regard.
People can live in Helsinki, with its average annual temperature of 6°C, or they can live in Dakar in 30°C.
We cannot have money if we are wasting and damaging our economy by applying measures that are counterproductive and very costly.
Therefore, we need to strive for a consensus and listen to everyone. (SK) The motion for a resolution prepared in response to the oral question by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change appears to be consistent, but in my view it does not pay enough attention to water, which can mitigate micro and macro-climatic issues caused by land drainage and thus contribute to a healthier climate.
The new water paradigm advocates renewal of water resources in the countryside.
It advocates improving the water cycle with a view to gradually ensuring that there is sufficient water for all.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Sacconi and Commissioner Dimas for their efforts.
On this point, the legislation on the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, for which I am rapporteur, must include some political direction on auction revenues, which will test the European Council's commitment, resolve and understanding on the 2°C target and, might I say, its understanding of the serious global impact of climate change, as we strive to create low-carbon economies throughout the EU, as our contribution to a global deal in Copenhagen. (FR) Mr President, last week I was in Argentina with the Mercosur delegation.
I would like to underline that, without the continued support of the European Parliament, most of our policies that are in place today would not have been adopted, and the leading role of the European Union in the world would not provide the hope that an international agreement will be achieved in Copenhagen in 2009.
We also have a moral duty, which many Members stressed, towards those who have not contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon - the least-developed countries in the world, which not only have a very low income per capita but also have contributed only a very small fraction to the formation of this phenomenon.
This money could be between EUR 30 billion and EUR 50 billion every year, and we have recommended - and I hope that the European Parliament will agree - that part of it should go to adaptation policies.
I would like to speak for longer, because this is a very big issue and many questions were asked, but I would like to thank you again for your contributions.
in writing. - (HU) The fact that the European Commission's green paper summarises all the tools we have at our disposal for mitigating the adverse consequences of climate change is to be welcomed.
However forward-looking the European Union's proposals driven by the desire to combat climate change may be, we are already having to live with the impact of climate change.
The European Union and the Member States need to pay more attention to ensuring that the increasingly infrequent but all the more torrential rains do not place a strain on our rivers all at once.
With this in mind, possibilities for natural water storage must be explored in areas of flat, open countryside, while at the same time reducing flood risk by planting forests in hilly areas.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, climate change is a fact of life.
Ecobusiness is an important international growth sector and a major employer.
The IT sector is moving its jobs to Asia; green technology can create new employment for the Finnish people.
in writing. - (DE) It is clear to all of us that climate change is a major challenge.
More efficient use of energy and our already scarce water resources is one of the measures which must be taken.
I think it is important that Member States which have already done more than others to combat climate change are not put at a disadvantage.
