Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission strongly condemns any form of violence against the Roma and asks the authorities of all the Member States to ensure the personal safety of all the people within their territory.
The events last week in Ponticelli are not an isolated case.
The authorities of the Member States must not only refrain from such conduct, but also set an example in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
Let us be honest about what the Commission can do and what the governments of the Member States must do.
As was rightly underlined in the conclusions of the European Council in December 2007, which your Parliament welcomed, the Member States and the Union must do everything in their power to improve the inclusion of the Roma.
The fight against crime must be done with full respect for the rule of law.
The events of the past week in Italy require joint efforts on our part.
In response to the call from the European Council and the European Parliament, we are currently examining the Community instruments and policies that can be implemented in order to promote the inclusion of the Roma.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Madam President.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament requested this debate and I thank you, Commissioner Špidla, for having addressed the essential elements of what needs to be said.
Human dignity in the European Union is non-negotiable.
We must also insist that the Roma community allow itself to be integrated in our society.
I would like to express myself in response to the anti-Romany pogroms which took place in Naples on 13 May this year and the subsequent developments in Italy.
I had written a letter to Silvio Berlusconi on 23 February.
Together with 88 other NGOs, we were seriously concerned that the political campaign which had been carried out associated Roma with negative stereotypes and used the whole Romany nation as electoral scapegoats, which is totally in opposition to European values.
The Roma emergency was declared when the media reported that a 16 year-old Romany girl had attempted to kidnap a 6 month-old baby from her mother in Naples.
On 13 May a mob of approximately 60 people used Molotov cocktails to set fire to five Romany camps in Naples.
To conclude, I would like to thank Commissioner Špidla for his contribution, because he took a courageous stand and clarified some of the points that we have always maintained with respect to Directive 2004/38/EC and how this has been misinterpreted in places by the Italian government.
Of course, there have also been acts of atrocity, and these must be condemned and indeed have been by the current government.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with Commissioner Špidla: we are facing political acts and events of unprecedented gravity.
The directives and declarations of the European Parliament must apply to everyone, even Italy.
This is the same Signor Frattini who, when he was an EU Commissioner, said that Europe needed at least 20 million new immigrants from Africa and the Third World.
I think - in fact I am convinced - that it would have been far more plausible if the Commissioner had spoken about solidarity with citizens in general, rather than just some of them.
I believe that this issue, which is extremely sensitive and extremely important, as we all agree, must be tackled in earnest, and not with political gestures.
I have always supported the idea that Parliament, the European Union, must abandon political posturing once and for all, and have a credible European integration policy without attacking individual governments. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Špidla was right when he said that the recent attacks on Roma camps in Rome and Naples were very serious incidents, and that these must be dealt with by finding answers that neither absolve Europe of the blame, nor make scapegoats, nor use discriminatory and humiliating language.
This debate, Mr Zappalà, is not a trial for Italy or its government: the Commissioner has sent out a clear message of cooperation.
I would like to say that Italy, a country held in high esteem and loved for its civilised values, asks Europe to fulfil its role in strengthening security and fostering integration. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to say this: despite the gravity of these incidents, which I think everyone here recognises, there is a certain mindset and an ignorance of the situation in Italy and in Europe which frightens me.
This case in Italy with the Roma is a clear example of government-sponsored racism.
The violence against the Roma scapegoats in Italy reminds me of the anti-Jewish and anti-Romany pogroms of the 1930s.
We need to redouble our efforts and to stand up for the people living in the Romany camps in conditions that are absolutely inhumane and unacceptable; we need to forget the mother whose baby was almost abducted and the family of Mrs Reggiani, raped and killed just under a year ago, sadly a case that has occupied this Parliament.
Our proposals, which we have been making for years, are clear: they were incorporated into both the last European Parliament resolution on the situation of the Roma in the European Union, and into the European strategy on the rights of the child.
Finally, I make this appeal to the entire European Union, given that the problem concerns all Member States, as the Council of Europe, among others, recently pointed out with regret. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Špidla, I am extremely worried by the recent events in Italy.
The Italian Government is waging an obsessive security campaign that calls into question Europe, the Schengen Treaty and free movement in the EU.
The Roma question is an insurmountable problem, given that this 'solidarity' is represented by camps - as shown on yesterday's Porta a porta [Italian current affairs programme] - which are theoretically legal, but where there is continuous child abuse and the sanitation conditions are absolutely appalling.
The steady erosion of the rights and dignity of these people and the Italian victims involved in the escalating violence over the last 18 months are an example of the contradictions demonstrated by those governments and institutions that on the one hand preach understanding and on the other allow human beings to live in squalor and to be robbed, raped and killed at the hands of mob justice.
The events and developments in Italy are only the shocking expression of a tendency which is latent in many other places in Europe.
One does not need more police but more justice, and especially social justice.
If we do not pass this test, the flames in Naples will set fire to all Europe. - (DE) Madam President, more than 10 million Sinti and Roma live at the margins of society within the European Union.
True integration of the Roma into our society would be good evidence that the cornerstones of democracy, the rule of law and human rights form the foundation of the EU. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, it is up to the people of our country to ask the government to tackle the crime emergency, including Roma crime, realistically and without adopting a do-gooder attitude.
I will personally campaign so that the government in our country makes it a criminal offence to be a member of a criminal gang, much like the typical Roma gangs, who commit thefts, burglaries and even more serious crimes.
It belongs to the Camorra, who we must fight.
We are not convinced by the idle talk of the Commission: citizens in Italy and in Europe are calling for protection from uncontrolled immigration and from the influx of people who are not emigrating in order to work but are often criminals who emigrate, rather than emigrants who commit crimes. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult law and order situation and the natural public reaction following the numerous episodes of violence that have shaken public opinion in my country have led the Italian Government to adopt new security measures.
The European Union and its 27 Member States must each do their bit, and we must monitor the situation to make sure that civil rights are respected throughout Europe. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not mind I am going to stick to the facts.
I would like to mention just two implications of this: the first we witnessed in Naples a few days ago, when the Camorra were appointed as stand-in law enforcement officers and dislodged anyone who remained in the city's Romany camps with Molotov cocktails.
Madam President, I am very sorry, but I believe, from what I have heard here today, that this debate was prompted by a persecutory, accusatory and punitive attack on a Member State and a government that was elected by an overwhelming majority.
Please, Mr La Russa and Mr Pannella: we are not in the Italian Parliament, please behave properly - and stop making those gestures, do you understand?
It fills me with dismay to note that, after Tibet and Kosovo, we have now arrived on European Union soil.
Social issues and xenophobia are always connected.
Next, we must not forget that the issue of minorities is many-layered: there are Roma, new immigrants, and national minorities, but they are all alike in that every European Union country must find a solution to their problems.
The minimum would be to establish a human rights committee for minorities from 2009 and ensure that legislation is uniform throughout the European Union.
For this reason we think that placing arbitrary limits on the free movement of persons within European territory would be a serious step backwards for the European integration that we so much dream of.' Allow me to conclude, Madam President, by addressing Commissioner Špidla, who, along with Vice-President Frattini, presented a plan, a roadmap for legal migration here in Parliament three years ago.
I think that Vice-President Frattini did a good job as Commissioner and I hope that he will also help to deal with this situation in Italy. (HU) Thank you, Madam President.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has not been silent.
As the person reporting to the European Parliament on Roma issues, I offer the Commissioner our cooperation and ask my fellow Members of this House to do the same. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, having listened carefully to the whole debate, I would like to put forward a final opinion.
The Italian government has the obligation to investigate the authors of these violent acts, who must be tried and the Italian justice must decide.
It is an issue concerning all gypsy people living within the European Union, and one that demands and warrants more than just case-by-case or symptomatic treatment. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a political and media campaign is under way for the criminalisation of migrants and the Roma in Italy.
Statements of the kind that we have heard here are often expressed by various ministers in the Italian Government.
This is why, Mrs Muscardini, we are having the debate now and did not do so sooner.
Only one thing needs to be said, and I will conclude on this point: there are 200 000 Roma in Italy.
Of these, 80 000 are Italian citizens.
Of the remaining 120 000, 50 000 were born in Italy.
Human rights are indivisible and must be protected by all constitutional systems throughout Europe, in all Member States.
The debate also clearly showed that the issue of minorities is very complex and, as I said before, it must primarily be dealt with by the Member States, although there is also a role for the European Union and the European Commission.
Thank you, Commissioner Špidla.
I just need to remind you that under Rule 145, you must not enter into the merits of the debate, but simply state whether there is a personal matter or comments that you think were wrongly attributed to you. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this should be a place of free and educated debate, but it fails to be that if it tolerates rudeness and insults that were perhaps unfounded.
As you know, there is no resolution and no vote. - (DE) Madam President, I fully understand that often it is not possible to allow everyone to speak under the 'catch the eye' procedure.
That is a legitimate political concern, but it is not what was intended by 'catch the eye' in the Rules of Procedure.
Written statements (Rule 142) , in writing. - (RO) The increase of violence against Romanian immigrants and the Roma population in Italy is the direct result of extremist speeches of fascist type, promoted by the right-wing and extremist right-wing parties in the recently ended electoral campaign in Italy.
This involves an individual liability and it should be sanctioned as such by the Italian justice, according to the Italian laws.
in writing. - (RO) I welcome the fact that the European Parliament decided to organize a debate on the situation of the Roma community in Italy.
in writing. - (RO) The recent events in Italy and the xenophobic position of the representatives of right-wing and extreme right-wing parties, which have formed the new government, against the Roma people prove that, unfortunately, speech and actions of a fascist nature are present in 2008 Europe.
Thus, I remind the European Commission that the European Parliament approved the Resolution for a European strategy on the Roma in November 2007.
The area of freedom, security and justice should ensure the security and, particularly, the respect for the rights of all European citizens.
Also, Article 19 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights mentions explicitly that collective expulsions are forbidden.
I request the Italian government to ensure compliance with the rights of the Romanian citizens in Italy, as well as their safety.
