Guinea The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in Guinea.
I have no idea whether Captain Camara is genuine in his endeavours, or whether he will succeed in improving matters in Guinea.
On Wednesday 24 December, the unknown captain declared himself the President of the Republic, he was cheered by thousands of Guineans and, on 25 December, he made a display of the allegiance offered by the civil government, who agreed to his ultimatum.
Mr President, on 15 February 2007, we discussed the state violence of dictator Lansana Conté in Guinea as a matter of urgency.
If Captain Camara wants, even in the slightest, to be a Guinean Obama, then corruption and poverty in that country would have to be radically reduced.
Mr President, the day after the death of President Lansana Conté, on 23 December 2008, a military junta, led by Captain Camara, took power in Guinea, suspending the constitution and the right to political activity and dissolving the government.
The junta has declared war on corruption and intends to hold presidential elections by December 2010, although previous legislation had, until that point, stipulated that elections must be held 60 days after the end of a term.
It took place immediately after the death of President Conté, who came to power following a coup 24 years earlier.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the news of the death of Guinean President, Lansana Conté, which arrived on the morning of 23 November 2008, was followed several hours later by a military coup led by a junta which established a National Council for Democracy and Development and which declared the suspension of the constitution and the dissolution of government institutions.
The challenge facing the international community in the following months is to support Guinea in its transition to democracy and in the arrangement of free and democratic elections for a law-making assembly and a president.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in March 2004, following elections which did not respect democratic principles and which violated fundamental elements of the Cotonou Agreement, we decided to begin consultations between Guinea and the European Union under Article 96 of the Agreement.
