The conflict in Georgia and also the gas crisis in Ukraine are just two examples of the periodic crises and the instability affecting this region.
On 3 December 2008 the Commission put forward an ambitious communication on the Eastern Partnership on my initiative.
We suggested making the European Parliament's Euronest initiative an integral part of the Eastern Partnership and setting up an Eastern Partnership parliamentary troika for the European Parliament, the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
To implement all these proposals and step up support for internal reforms, the Commission asked for EUR 350 million additional funds over four years.
I know some of you would like to do even more for our eastern partners.
I hope that today's debate sends a strong signal to the 27 Member States in the run-up to next week's European Council and in preparation for the Eastern Partnership Summit on 7 May 2009.
However, I hope that the Eastern Partnership will not lead to new dividing lines being drawn between those countries in the Partnership and those countries further east and outside of it.
We must therefore be careful not to lose sight of our responsibilities to Central Asia simply because we wish to strengthen relations with countries adjacent to the EU to its immediate east.
I would like to underline what you said, namely that we are facing huge challenges in our neighbourly relations as regards stability, democratic change and now, of course, economic development as well.
Now is therefore also a good time for us to express our commitment and our readiness to cooperate closely with our eastern neighbours.
However, we want to extend our influence, not by violence, not by threats and not by coercion, but by offering to support precisely those countries in their search for stability and democratic change.
It is absolutely vital that we do not see this Eastern Partnership as a tool to use against Russia, but rather as a strengthening of the countries which, in terms of neighbours, have the European Union on one side and Russia on the other, as - all being well - Russia should become our partner, particularly with regard to this policy.
I have already mentioned that our offer, our Eastern Partnership, does not mean that we approve of everything that is happening in our neighbouring countries.
For example, if I consider the situation in Ukraine, it must not be a case of 'no matter what you do, what disputes you have and what problems you fail to solve, you will have the support of the European Union'.
The same applies to Georgia and to all other countries.
Indeed, they have a lot to do in guaranteeing human rights and democracy before the road to cooperation opens up for them as well.
The Eastern Partnership has obvious budgetary consequences: EUR 350 million have been appropriated for the next few years - and even this will probably not be enough.
Attempts to use the crisis as a pretext to refuse the Eastern Partnership funding and to slow down the process of signing agreements on free trade and visa freedom are a recipe for disaster for the European Union in this part of the world.
Association agreements are the key element of this and should be similar but, at the same time, differentiated according to the possibilities and performance of every one of the six parties in this multilateral framework.
So far I hope that this 600 will be fine, but I have one important remark in order to eliminate all the controversies.
The southern and eastern neighbourhoods should be both synergetic and symmetric in this context. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, we cannot but give a positive assessment of the Commission's proposal.
Therefore, such an initiative will offer them a significant assurance that the European Union is still thinking about them and is prepared to invest in developing relations with them.
With this in mind, I would like you to tell us, Commissioner, based on your contacts, how this initiative is being received by our eastern partners.
We are aware, of course, how delicate this matter is, given that the countries we are talking about are neighbours not only of the European Union, but of Russia as well.
It is also very important for us to develop relations with Russia in respect of these countries so that no rivalry emerges between the European Union and Russia, no clash between the two main influences in these countries, resulting in political instability.
I would like to conclude by saying that I support the easing of visa requirements, which is a very important step, but I want to see as part of this initiative more measures linked to education and exchanges, all of which is related to expanding contacts between citizens in these countries and the European Union, as well as, of course, to increasing the knowledge in these countries about the European Union.
Therefore, I am convinced that we must find the additional EUR 350 million required to implement the Eastern Partnership policy in the coming four years.
Regarding Belarus, three weeks ago a delegation from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament visited Minsk.
Belarus has little in common with, say, Georgia.
What all these countries have in common is the fact that they were all part of the Soviet Union, and they are all neighbours of Russia as much as they are neighbours of the European Union.
It could be compared to establishing four common spaces between the EU and Russia, but the main element of this relationship will be reciprocity and conditionality.
I would like to stress one more principle.
I welcome the platform for cooperation promoted by this new partnership framework as the need to readjust our relations with our neighbours is vital, not only with a view to making cooperation with them more effective, but also in order to be able to resolve the major problems which we are facing at the moment, such as the economic crisis and energy security, and which cannot be handled solely internally.
The partnership encourages projects of the utmost importance to the EU by promoting an institutionalised framework which puts both relations with neighbours and intraregional cooperation among neighbours at a higher level.
It is clear that Lukashenko does want good relations with us, but this is not out of the goodness of his soul: it is because he has very serious economic problems and wants to stay in power.
Young people, who are aware and educated, are the future of our continent. (LT) During my visit to the Ukraine I noticed that little attention is being paid to the development of the legal framework in our eastern neighbourhood.
I hope that the Eastern Partnership Programme will devote ever more attention to the development of the legal framework in our neighbouring countries.
I want to congratulate the Commission on its initiative on the issue of making energy security one of the prime objectives for dialogue and for the political agenda.
We saw the recent spat between Ukraine and Russia and the downstream effects it had on consumers in countries as far afield as Bulgaria and Slovakia.
I believe in fact that this Eastern Partnership is welcome because there is a need, in the first place, to stabilise these regions and to avoid falling into the trap of the area of influence because there is us, there is the United States, there is Russia and there is Turkey.
I also believe that our fellow citizens should get to know these regions and, for this, I believe that the Commission must invest in some projects.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this is a really interesting debate, and I wish to thank the Members very much for their overall great support for this Eastern Partnership approach.
Therefore, it is very important that you also use the new Euronest and all other means in order to really instil our ideas.
We are going into greater depth: the association agreements are already very broad and deep.
There is a move to more political cooperation and mobility for security, which many of you have mentioned.
I also agree with those who said that we should not see this as a threat to Russia.
It is absolutely right to say that differentiation is also key here, because the various countries are very different: Ukraine is in the forefront, in principle, then there are Moldova and Georgia, and then there is a country like Belarus, in which the situation is very delicate.
I am preparing for a visit to Belarus, where we have to work a delicate balance, because we want to offer something - particularly to the population.
From the very beginning, the Commission has supported the students in Vilnius, and I would like to see more support from the various Member States, because the ones that always speak up about this should also do something.
The outcome will most probably be along the same lines as now, because we are not yet satisfied but, at the same time, we have seen some positive steps.
We are working very hard on Azerbaijan, on the question of Nagorno-Karabakh, on Moldova, Transnistria and on Georgia, and are sticking very firmly to these questions.
In a multilateral framework it is very good to have civil society involved, in all its different forms, and also presents a great opportunity for them and for us to work on energy security.
Secondly, bringing our eastern neighbours into the European family, even if the prospect of actual membership of the EU is probably still a not a realistic option in the immediate future, is a long-term project.
Thirdly, even if the leaders of some of our eastern neighbours, such as the Belarusian President, and, to a lesser degree, bickering leaders in the Ukraine, may discourage us from tightening these ties, we must remember that our eastern neighbours are more than their current leaders and, in the light of their internal political problems, they need our support, example and encouragement.
In December 2008, the European Commission adopted a proposal, tabled by Poland and Sweden, to strengthen the European Union's cooperation with six of its eastern neighbours.
I hope that this project will not remain on the figurative drawing-board, and that it will be implemented in the context of our relations with Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Belarus.
The Eastern Partnership provides for a real increase in the level of political cooperation, including new types of association agreements, far-reaching integration with the EU's economy, easier travel throughout the EU for citizens of the countries covered by this partnership (provided that security requirements are met), agreements aimed at improving energy security, which benefit all those involved, and increased financial assistance.
