&#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr Vittorio Agnoletto on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the human rights and democracy clause in European Union agreements (2005/2057(INI)) (A6-0004/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the human rights and democracy clause has a long history within Parliament and is based on the assumption that civil and political rights and, in a broader sense, economic, social and cultural rights as well need to be at the heart of European Union policy.
Every year, in its annual report, the European Parliament calls for this clause to be given greater weight and urges the Council to grant Parliament a more important role in overseeing its implementation.
In that respect, I must stress the importance of the Cotonou Agreement signed with the ACP countries in June 2000, which enhanced the role of this clause.
The first point that I should like to address concerns the European Parliament.
Parliament maintains that it has to play a part in defining the negotiating mandate for new agreements with third countries and, above all, in drafting their political and human rights objectives.
In addition, Parliament asks to be involved in the decision-making process for initiating consultation or suspending an agreement, or indeed for suspending any appropriate negative measures that have already been imposed on a country.
Lastly, Parliament asks to be associated with the Association Councils and their subcommittees on human rights and hopes that its interparliamentary delegations can play an enhanced role in that respect, by regularly including debates on the democracy clause on their meeting agendas.
A structured dialogue must be established between the Association Council and its subcommittee on human rights.
It is important to underline that we call for these subcommittees to include and to consult representatives of parliaments and of organisations representing civil society.
This resolution recognises that the need for unanimity within the Council in order to initiate a consultation procedure has made it more difficult to apply the clause.
We therefore call for the abolition of this unanimity requirement and, in that respect, for the revision of Article 300(2) of the EC Treaty, which limits the role of the European Parliament in such cases.
Human rights clauses have been inserted systematically into external agreements since 1995 and, ten years on, it is timely to take stock of what has been achieved.
All EU institutions need to work together to this end, and I emphasise my commitment to an ongoing, but also very practical, dialogue with the Council and Parliament, for which this report provides a good basis.
After often difficult discussions and very difficult negotiations, the Commission has secured the inclusion of a human rights and democracy clause in, as you said, more than 50 agreements, covering over 120 countries.
A notable example is, indeed, that of Articles 9 and 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The impact of human rights clauses is already evident, and many of our human rights activities are supported by their mere existence.
Human rights feature prominently in every political dialogue with our partners.
The Commission, as part of the troika, makes numerous démarches on human rights issues every year, and the European Initiative on Democracy and Human Rights funds human rights projects throughout the world.
The Commission is also funding numerous technical assistance projects with an impact on human rights, ranging from, for instance, improving police training to modernising the judicial system in partner countries.
The rule of law is one of the most important areas where I think we can really make a difference.
I would also like to mention how active both Member State embassies and Commission delegations are in this regard.
EU Heads of Mission collectively draw up human rights fact sheets periodically, report on the implementation of the various EU human rights guidelines and make detailed analyses of developments in particular countries concerning human rights and democracy.
The human rights and democracy clause is, in itself, an important way of demonstrating the shared commitment of the European Union and its partners to upholding, and also to promoting, human rights.
The human rights clause opens the door to developing a deeper and more intensive dialogue on human rights issues.
Moreover, the existence of these clauses may, in some cases, even help deter potential human rights violations.
As far as sanctions are concerned, I would like to underline that the frequency of imposition clearly depends less on the wording of the human rights clause than on the political will of the Member States, as well as of the other states.
For its part, the Commission would sometimes like to see a more robust use of these clauses but the solution is not, however, to include more clauses in the agreement.
Instead, we need to build up awareness and the consensus throughout the European Union on the importance of human rights issues relative to other priorities.
This report therefore makes a valuable contribution in this regard.
As regards Parliament’s involvement in negotiating or suspending an agreement, you will be well aware that these procedures are clearly established by the Treaty and reflect the interinstitutional structure of the European Union.
Parliament already plays an invaluable role in focusing attention on human rights issues, through the extremely active work of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, through its annual report on human rights in the world and through the many resolutions and debates on particular human rights issues.
I also favour revising the format of the current EU Annual Report on Human Rights in order to make it a fully interinstitutional report and to include an analysis of the application of human rights clauses.
In conclusion, let me reiterate that the success of human rights clauses should be measured by the progress made in engaging partners in a genuine dialogue and in consultations on human rights, and the resulting improvements in human rights.
Over the last ten years, human rights clauses have provided an indispensable foundation for developing a truly effective human rights dialogue with our partners because it is in this way that these countries slowly change their behaviour.
Its content has been evolving over time and in accordance with the nature of successive agreements: currently more than 50 with more than 120 countries, as the Commissioner has just pointed out.
Secondly, we wish to stress that the fight against poverty is our priority and that we will not be successful without a global approach to processes of democratisation and development.
We ask that the Commission establish a monitoring mechanism that links the implementation and temporary suspension of trade agreements and autonomous trade measures to beneficiary countries’ compliance with basic democratic standards and respect for human and minority rights, as set out in the European Parliament’s annual report on human rights in the world.
However, we ask the Commission, by its own initiative, to involve the European Parliament more systematically in the assessment of the implementation of the human rights clauses and similar requirements in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to start by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Agnoletto, on the excellent work he has presented.
It is important, I think, that Mr Agnoletto refers in his report to the new role which needs to be given to the European Parliament, not only with respect to negotiating agreements with third countries, but also with respect to application and control.
This would change significantly the institutional framework within which these agreements are concluded.
Mr Agnoletto is right to recommend the extension of the human rights clause to all sectors and to all countries and the precedent which he uses to support this opinion is interesting.
Mr Agnoletto is right to call for better control and a better monitoring procedure to establish if the parties are adhering to what they have signed, because often, as you all know, signature is easy, but adherence is hard.
Finally, he is right in his final conclusion that the time has come, at long last, for us to look at a new clause with a content which reflects everything we are debating and everything that we commend on many occasions or that, on other occasions, we criticise through the European process.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has, as you know, tabled an amendment which, as far as I understand, Mr Agnoletto accepts and, consequently, it supports his report. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights, as stated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, inspires the internal and external policies of the parties and constitutes an essential element of the European Union’s international agreements.
The result is that the clause is often used as an alibi or rhetorical example, without having any real consequences.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Agnoletto and thank him for his work and understanding.
This initiative report will once again come face to face with reality when we come to applying the clause.
We shall continue to need great political will on the part of the Union so that respect for human rights genuinely provides added value in international agreements and in the promotion of dignity and so that the introduction of the clause is not a dead letter and so that it is not used in a hypocritical fashion and only applied when it suits our interests.
Europe must act in an honest and clear fashion.
We must demand an end to torture wherever it takes place, whether in Guantánamo, in Iraq or in Syria.
If the Council and the Commission cannot spell out to this House how it uses the human rights clause coherently, effectively and transparently, then how can it expect this House to be prepared to give its assent to new international agreements?
The vague criterion and inadequate procedures contained in this instrument have not helped me to penetrate the logic behind some EU decisions, nor does it help the EU to defend itself against accusations of ambivalence and discrimination in the face of serious human rights violations.
The significance of this latest twist in the war on terror cannot be exaggerated, effectively shattering EU complacency about its own human rights record, with enquiries launched by the Council of Europe and this House with warnings that the sanctioning mechanism of Article&#160;7 may be used.
Whilst the EU has struggled to consistently and systematically promote a coherent view of human rights, this Parliament has been praised by NGOs for the positive impact of the revival of the Subcommittee on Human Rights.
I, and the rapporteur, would advocate a better clause, in order to increase its political and legal impact.
In order to be consistent, the European Union must establish such methods.
We cannot expect to retain our credibility in the eyes of our partners if, on the one hand, we claim to want respect for human rights to be an essential part of our policy but, on the other, we do not take the necessary measures if these countries systematically violate those rights.
We must not see them just as reprimands for human rights violations, but also as ways of helping to strengthen human rights in third countries.
The second vital point is the link between the clause and the structures for political dialogue.
I also find it regrettable in this connection that the European Union's requirements have been relaxed, particularly for certain of our neighbours.
If we want to implement this clause effectively, we must create the forums needed for a frank and constructive exchange of views on human rights.
With regard to the reciprocity principle, this dialogue must also be reciprocal, particularly at a time when some of our Member States are having fingers pointed at them because of their anti-terrorism policy, for example, or because of inhumane prison conditions.
That is why I, like the rapporteur, am advocating that the clause be an 'essential element' in all agreements and, finally, that Parliament should no longer give its assent to new agreements that do not contain a human rights and democracy clause. &#160;&#160; () Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an outstanding piece of work.
In my view it is well-balanced and objective, and above all it gives us an excellent summary not only of what has been achieved in the area of human rights, but also of the important aspects that we must focus on in the future.
Firstly, I endorse the view that human rights should not be understood only as civil and political rights, but that it is absolutely necessary to focus on economic, social and cultural rights as well, and not only within the context of achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals.
Secondly, we should draw on the positive experiences that have emerged so far from the Cotonou Agreement, and ensure that clauses on upholding human rights and democratic principles are included in all sectoral agreements or all agreements with developed states, in order to achieve a level playing field for all parties to the Agreement.
Thirdly, it is necessary to place greater emphasis on implementing so-called positive measures to motivate states, and to use negative measures only where absolutely necessary, where other options have been exhausted.
In my view, one of the key factors from the standpoint of ensuring transparency is for the European Parliament and civil society to play a greater role in the implementation of clauses relating to human rights and democratic principles.
The work of the Commission and Council has so far had little transparency, and has often been misleading, giving rise to concerns that political, strategic and commercial interests are over-ruling the consistent implementation of clearly defined standards.
It is absolutely necessary, if we are to increase transparency and democratisation in decision-making processes, for the European Commission to inform Parliament and interested parties in the public sphere regularly, ideally on an annual basis, about the implementation of clauses dealing with the upholding of human rights and democratic principles, including studies of individual cases and of the approach taken by the Council over a given period, the success of given measures and suggested approaches for the future, in case a situation does not improve.
This report wants new criteria which must apply between EU Member States and third countries.
This report criticises the fact that the clause does not exist in three big areas, namely agriculture, fisheries and textiles.
Of course democracy and human rights should be encouraged in all the states of the world which are unfortunate enough not to enjoy them already.
All decent democratic states should use their relations with other countries – diplomatic and trading, cultural, etc. – to encourage the growth of democracy and human rights, something that my country, Britain, has done for many years.
Today the United Nations has called for Guantanámo Bay to be closed and there are many human rights questions hanging over what the Americans are doing in Guantanámo Bay.
If this agreement is to apply equally to all countries, are we going to suspend relations with the US if we think that it is contravening human rights in Guantanámo Bay?
I think that is an unbelievable intrusion into the democratic and sovereign right of other countries to have a penal system that suits them and their citizens rather than the European Union.
I know at first hand how democracy in Britain has been undermined by our relationship with the European Union and our increasing political integration into a United States of Europe.
Perhaps it could make a start by paying attention to the results in the Dutch and French referendums on the Constitution.
However, when it comes to the largest countries or countries that are particularly important in economic terms for businesses in the Member States of the Union, we are just as prepared to remain silent on the subject of human rights or we speak about them in whispers.
However, we are also in favour of monitoring the implementation of Union aid to ensure it is not used to prop up dictatorships in Africa and Asia.
He has produced a report that the Subcommittee on Human Rights of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has described as one of the most important reports for some time.
Human rights clauses have been included in EU international or trade agreements for more than 50 years.
This report assesses the effectiveness of such human rights clauses as regards implementation and adherence and proposes new ways to strengthen the clause to make it more effective and better monitored.
Therefore a trade and cooperation relationship develops as a result of an agreement, yet basic and clear breaches of human rights continue; human rights clauses are ignored or not taken seriously, but there are no consequences.
An important precedent was set in Uzbekistan following the Andijan massacre, but the fact that the reaction took four months is a sad commentary on the lack of seriousness given to the clauses in the past.
Despite huge human rights concerns and EU influence in the Middle East, human rights clauses have never been invoked in relations with Egypt, Israel or Tunisia, in the latter case despite strong EU statements last year on curbs on freedom of expression and the blocking of NGO funding.
With the ACP countries, I acknowledge that so-called Article&#160;96 consultations have taken place with 15 countries over the last eight years, in 11 cases leading to appropriate measures.
We agree with the Commissioner that political reasons too often block action by Member States.
I find it breathtaking that the UK Independence Party this morning said that we could turn a blind eye to human rights violations with China simply because we trade effectively with it.
I congratulate the Commissioner and the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am genuinely pleased with the high degree of consensus in this House with regard to the idea that the development and consolidation of democracy and the Rule of Law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, are — though they should be more so — an overall objective of the common foreign and security policy and must be an integral part of the European Union’s foreign policy.
I say that they should be more so because, as has been said, there are many, too many, examples of these principles being toned down, or even over-ridden, in favour of certain particular economic, commercial or political interests.
It is true that what is known as the human rights and democracy clause has been incorporated into more than 50 agreements and that this affects 120 countries, but it is also the case that the degree to which it is complied with or the degree to which we demand that it be complied with varies considerably.
Firstly, I would like to stress that we must remember that many agreements with developed countries and sectoral agreements, such as those relating to textile products, agriculture and fisheries, do not yet contain such a clause, and that is clearly a deficiency.
Secondly, although the clause applies both to the European Union and to the third country, full use has not yet been made of its reciprocal dimension and, as Mrs Valenciano Martínez-Orozco has said, I believe that the European Union must begin by offering an example.
Thirdly, one of the factors that have compromised its application is the generic nature of its wording, since it does not provide for precise methods for positive or negative intervention in cooperation between the European Union and third countries, leading to the Council’s demands and the national demands of the Member States taking precedence over more general human rights demands.
For all of these reasons, we support the drawing up of a new text for a model clause to improve the current wording of the so-called Article 2, with a view to guaranteeing a more coherent, effective and transparent approach to European human rights policy in the agreements with third countries. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are discussing the clauses on respect for human rights that the EU imposes on the countries with which it deals.
In theory, you can say what you like about contemporary history, but, in practice, you can only do that provided you comply with a Communist-inspired law, otherwise you risk being imprisoned.
A mayor does not have the right to give a fellow countryman preference over a foreigner when allocating social housing, nor can an individual give this sort of preference in any field.
Every group, every lobby, every minority and every deviancy has developed its own methods of pressurising, intimidating and persecuting the majority, with the active or passive complicity of the authorities.
In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, before we impose on our partners a clause that you seem to interpret completely unilaterally, we would do well to start by putting our own house in order. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the democratic principle in the Union's foreign relations, which we are debating today in the wake of the report by Mr Agnoletto, whom I congratulate, raises a series of crucial questions.
The answer is obvious.
The credibility of the invocation of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms must obey the rule of uniform standards.
Fourth question: does the Union intend – do we the democratically legitimised Chamber intend – to adopt qualitative indicators for measuring and evaluating the democratic conduct of our private economic and commercial partners and, more importantly, of third European countries which are being called on, or will be called on, to satisfy the so-called Copenhagen criteria?
On the one hand, the European Union can freeze relations and agreements – Mr Ford spoke and gave examples – and, on the other hand, it does nothing about infringements of human rights in Tunisia, Egypt, Israel or Turkey.
Strategic interests take precedence in relations with Russia, China and the United States over respect for human rights and minority rights.
The provision of unanimity for the taking of measures and the suspension of an agreement will continue to cancel in practice any serious effort.
This dimension needs to be retabled in the debate on the future of Europe.
I agree with all the proposals made by my honourable friend, Mr Agnoletto.
However, we must understand that the serious deficit in foreign policy and in human rights policy is due to and connected with the transnational character and unanimity provision, behind which hide national interests and various political expediencies and priorities.
Otherwise, however strong the clauses are, they will, unfortunately, remain inactive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, Commissioner Frattini, I too would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur for this report.
We very much agree with many of the points made in this report.
I would like to point out, though, that we will be addressing a similar issue – that of the Fundamental Rights Agency – in a forthcoming debate in this House.
I would like to raise Members’ awareness of the fact that we will be able to use this Fundamental Rights Agency not only to improve the protection of human rights within the European Union’s Member States, but also as a sort of early warning system to inform us what is going on in the states around us and how things stand as regards human rights in them.
This presents us with a unique opportunity to improve Europe’s policy on human rights.
This House will be taking a decision on this very soon, and I ask you all to support this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make three observations with regard to the human rights clause.
First of all, it has to be noted that this clause is very rarely invoked: only 12 times since 1995.
My second remark concerns the Member States’ immigration and asylum policies, which the rapporteur wishes to bracket together with the human rights clause.
That strikes me as not very realistic and in any case not very desirable, certainly when developing countries would be invited to criticise the reception of their own nationals who apply for asylum in Europe.
Such organisations have no democratic legitimacy whatsoever, and should not be given political responsibility of this kind.
If anything, Europe should be able to give more account of what happens with taxpayers’ money. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, proper respect for the human rights clauses depends, above all, on the political will of the Member States.
The task before us today is to ensure that human rights clauses are introduced in a way that will make it possible for us to exert effective pressure on third countries.
A permanent feature of this policy should be an ongoing struggle to defend the principles of freedom and democracy.
Indeed, the Human Rights Agency would be a more appropriate title for this body.
In its annual report, the human rights organisation Human Rights Watch concluded that during 2005 the European Union’s main interests had been in the fields of business, politics and energy.
In conclusion, I should like to express my support for the protest action against the search engine.
This is a way of censoring material that runs counter to the official Chinese line. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, human rights and democracy are the foundations on which the European Union was built.
The human rights policy of the European Community and indeed of the wider international community played an important part in the fall of the undemocratic regimes in Southern Europe in the 1970s and in Central and Eastern Europe after 1989.
At present, human rights and democracy form the axis around which the European Union’s external and security policy is being constructed.
The Union’s foreign policy is aimed at creating a global world order based on peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and stable growth.
The human rights and democracy clause should now be applied more widely and included in all agreements entered into by the European Union with third countries, regardless of whether they are industrialised or developing countries.
The aforementioned clause should also feature in sectoral agreements, trade exchanges, and technical and financial aid.
General principles encompassing the protection of human rights, the rule of law and respect for democratic values are a for the eradication of poverty.
A good way of dealing with this issue would be to include in such agreements a recommendation that the EU and the country party to the agreement should exchange reports on human rights on an annual basis.
Election monitoring missions play a vital part in protecting and supporting human rights and democracy beyond the Union’s borders, as does the aid the Union should provide to civil society in third countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, Mr Agnoletto, that Parliament must not only give an opinion but must also have a role in human rights, democracy and respect for diversity in agreements with external countries.
Economic development, social peace and a growing economy are clearly related to democracy and human rights.
Cooperation for development can only be assured in the context of democratic societies.
If we analyse the efficacy of our cooperation for development, we will confirm that in those countries where democracy and respect for human rights are improved, everything works better.
In cases of dictatorships, non-transparent regimes or corrupted governments, our work can be completely distorted.
I wish to point out that we must fully understand democracy and human rights.
Democracy means respect for diversity; human rights are not complete without respect for diversity, plurality and cultural differences.
We have seen how minorities in countries close to joining the European Union rely on us in order to achieve this respect for their rights.
We have to enhance the role of our Parliament, because it is the house of our European representatives. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the rapporteur for his determination to lend more transparency and consistency to the expansion and consolidation of human rights.
When the Council is debating the human rights situation in a state where there is cause for concern, usually one EU country or another insists on acting in its own national interest and vetoes the decision.
The sanctions instrument, directed against one regime or another or a government, which has behaved inappropriately, must be employed with extreme precision.
The stick of sanctions should not hit people, who often live in particularly harsh conditions and do not have the opportunity to oppose the regime.
Human rights will form an important part of these negotiations, so the procedure for defining this negotiation process should also be more transparent. &#160;&#160; () Ladies and gentlemen, the development and strengthening of democracy and the rule of law, along with the upholding of human rights and freedoms, has become an integral part of the running of the European Union and of foreign policy.
The human rights and democracy clause in EU agreements constitutes one of the instruments of this policy.
The clause, as has already been stated, has so far been incorporated into more than 50 agreements and applies to more than 120 countries.
In this context, the Agnoletto report provides many important and interesting suggestions.
It points out, for example, that the concept of human and civil rights and freedoms also includes economic, social and cultural rights.
It also emphasises that the EU, in its support for human rights, should focus on implementing policies in the area of gender equality and women’s rights and should oppose any form of discrimination on the grounds, for example, of sexual orientation, or of the rights of disabled people.
I should like to lend my support to the idea that the European Parliament should play a greater role in the preparation process for implementing and assessing the democracy clause, and I should like to add that both civil society and the international network of non-governmental organisations involved in human rights should play a much greater role in this process. &#160;&#160; – I am amazed at how, in this Parliament, we often detect small shortcomings in Europe, when everybody knows that this continent is actually a standard-bearer trying to export these fundamental and noble rights to other parts of the world.
It should be pointed out that there has always been a discussion as to whether human rights can be administered internally by the State or government or whether they are universal.
The problem is that of how Europe is to make use of its resources to try to export these noble aims.
In this area, we sometimes criticise Europe for not employing its rights and its power, including economic power, and, at the same time, we criticise the administration or the institutions for closing their eyes to certain shortcomings.
I would conclude by saying that we have to give our institutions all the resources to ensure that our values are made sufficiently coherent to be exported by the Community.
It is regrettable that the implementation of the human rights clause has until now been contingent on geo-political and geo-economic considerations which have nothing to do with the Union as a whole, but which often depend on the narrow strategies of some Member States and some Commission services.
Only the Commission and one Member State – the United Kingdom – have suspended direct aid to the budget of the Ethiopian Government, the minimum they could do in the circumstances.
Given, however, that they did not clarify the terms and conditions, this had no impact whatsoever on the Ethiopian Government, and sent out a disastrous message not only to the Ethiopian people as a whole, but also to all Africans – the headquarters of the Organisation for African Unity is in the Ethiopian capital – as well as to the EU Member States and to all countries with which the EU maintains relations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there can be no doubt that promoting respect for human rights and democracy in third countries is one of the main aims of the European Union’s foreign policy.
The European Union will be able to act more quickly and effectively to defend human rights if it has the option of suspending economic cooperation in the event of serious infringements of fundamental rights in third countries.
In parallel with this process, the European Parliament should become more involved in consultations concerning the content of agreements and clauses as well as their implementation and enforcement.
Once we have an effective system of monitoring fundamental freedoms in place, backed up by the option of imposing economic sanctions, we shall at last progress from words to deeds.
To date, it has frequently been the case that fine words of European Parliament resolutions on the defence of human rights have simply remained on paper. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this ambitious work, and I thank him for it.
The protection of democracy, human rights and the rule of law and good governance are fundamental elements of the European Union; they must also be an integral part of the EU’s external policy.
I would like to lay special emphasis on the promotion of equal opportunities and on the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation.
In order to improve implementation of these aims, the European Union must prepare new procedures and new criteria for applying human rights and democracy clauses.
Let us not forget that human rights issues are already being raised systematically with partners in political dialogues.
The purpose of the human rights clause is not simply to make it possible to impose sanctions, but also to create a basis for human rights dialogue and for the setting-up of institutions concerned with it, because we need to give such institutions a chance and encourage them to develop.
Institution building is as important as the clause, and the existence of the human rights clause in the association agreement, or in partnership and cooperation agreements, creates the basis for this.
We also have to contribute to the development of a population – look at the African, and some Asian, populations, as some of you mentioned.
There are many other clauses to defend, such as the clause against terrorism, the clause against weapons of mass destruction and the clause for democracy.
It is not easy to harmonise this clause, because we are negotiating with every partner and we have to find solutions in the end.
Finally, I should like to say that, with all due respect, in many individual cases we have been able to get people out of prison and to talk about them.
I am very pleased to note that once again the three institutions – the Council, the Commission and Parliament – have been able to work together very effectively and very quickly within the framework of the codecision procedure.
A very good precedent for interinstitutional cooperation was set last year by the agreement reached on the Schengen border code, to which this regulation represents the necessary complement.
We can therefore say that with the adoption of this regulation the legislative component of our integrated border management strategy is fully completed; and, if I may say so, I very much hope that we will continue to work together effectively in the future, for instance on the decision-making process and on other very sensitive issues such as the legal basis for the VIS and SIS.
The adoption of this proposal will be a very important and balanced step forward, as it will provide the necessary flexibility at our external borders to facilitate crossings by bone fide people residing in a border area without, however, creating any security loopholes.
This is particularly important for the new Member States, especially in view of their forthcoming integration into the Schengen area, where they will become responsible for the control of the Schengen external borders and will thus carry out checks on behalf of all Schengen states.
In this context I wish to recall that the adoption of Community rules on local border traffic is included in the much broader European neighbourhood strategy.
A differentiation between the various external land borders will not be necessary, since in the coming years Member States will sooner or later enter into the Schengen area.
In bilateral agreements Member States lay down the longest permitted period of residence, which may not exceed three months in total.
In other words, this is a decision whereby an individual from a third country may reside in that border zone for three months in total.
There are, for instance, farmers that have half of the property they own in their own country and half in another country, and of course they cannot take their implements with them every time they cross the border.
The adoption of this regulation will show that the European Union is not closing its borders, and is not setting up inhuman conditions along its external borders.
The European Union wishes to ensure adherence to the relevant security standards, but in no way to make life harder along the border.
The coexistence of people on both sides of the border and their cooperation are important elements of stability and security along the external borders.
For this reason another extremely important achievement of this regulation is that through bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries, in other words third countries, Member States will create the conditions for the development of border areas, which are for the most part less well developed.
These borders must be as secure as possible, and that will require the use of the most modern technologies.
The fact is that a border is truly secure and flexible only when those on both sides of it work as closely as possible together, and it is certainly one of the tasks of our new neighbourhood policy to get this aspect of bilateral security addressed by both sides jointly.
We can also, on the other hand, make daily life easier for those who live on opposite sides of the external borders, but do so nonetheless as good neighbours.
It is only reasonable to secure our borders against the entry of unwelcome persons in so far as possible, but it is equally reasonable to want to make it easier for the people at the borders to live together, for – as many Members have already said – we do not want Europe to be a fortress, but rather a community that coexists amicably with its neighbours.
We are, after all, working on the assumption that the Member States will by then have transposed the Schengen , that SIS II will be successfully up and running, and so Europe will no longer need additional internal rules of this kind.
This report by Mr Brejc is a good example of successful cooperation between Members of this House across party boundaries, and a model to follow as regards successful cooperation with the Council under our codecision arrangements.
As the rapporteur on the Schengen border code, I believe that we did set the precedent for close and effective cooperation.
We all know the substance of this report.
It is about making people’s lives easier and improving the daily lives of our citizens.
Like Mr Brejc, Mr Lax, and others, I myself have adopted that approach.
That must be our approach.
The regulation on local border traffic that we now have before us has proved to be very important to the EU’s external border regions, especially in the east.
There are no doubt many people living on, for example, the Russian-Estonian border or the Slovenian-Croatian border who will be grateful for the very flexible solution now being proposed.
The fact is that the trend should be in the opposite direction.
After the introduction of the so-called Schengen system, the removal of customs barriers between the Member States of the EU and the implementation of a series of measures to regulate relations between states in the area in question, the realisation of this goal came a lot closer.
The issue today is not whether it will be possible in the near future to secure the free movement of persons between the Member States of the EU, but rather to determine a realistic and rapid timetable for the implementation of this freedom.
Such an arrangement would in the meantime improve the outlook for bilateral relations between states that are not in the Schengen system but which do belong to the EU or to the European Economic Area.
The authors of the measures under discussion are aware that the EU covers only one half of Europe’s geographical area.
These measures create the possibility for setting up local border traffic with non-Member States.
The introduction of special kinds of visa and other conditions contained in the measures will make it possible, on the basis of assessments, to make use of this special regime to strengthen cooperation with all of our neighbouring states.
In my view, there are a number of proposed amendments aimed at improving the chances of these measures working, with only a minority seeking to amend the rules to make them less workable.
Do not forget that the Directive represents a model of neighbourly relations and thereby gives a signal of whether or not the EU wants to be an open society or to erect barriers against neighbouring states along its borders. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are many people living on our borders for whom the eastward enlargement changed little, since the people in many border regions had stolen a march on the politicians and local border traffic had long been part of daily life.
That makes it all the more important that we, while agreeing on common rules for local border traffic, should, as is provided for, allow the Member States to conclude bilateral agreements relating to their implementation.
There must also be guarantees that these persons constitute no danger to public safety and order, and it is for these reasons that I endorse, in particular, the Committee’s proposal for thorough and recurrent checks to be carried out at irregular intervals. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to commend Mr Brejc on his outstanding report.
This is a well-balanced proposal which will not only facilitate traditional population movements at border crossings, but will also guarantee appropriate security levels at the EU’s external borders.
There is also a need to facilitate local border traffic, that is, to facilitate crossing for border residents with legitimate reasons to cross the border frequently.
Our efforts to increase security at our external borders, not least by means of the adoption of the second generation of the Schengen Information System (SIS), sends out a positive political message.
Borders must not act as a barrier to commercial, social and cultural interaction or to regional cooperation.
People living in border regions should be able to sustain traditional contact without having to face excessive administrative obstacles. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome the fact that simplification of local border traffic has taken the form of a regulation.
This is a very important regulation for the Union as a whole, but especially for the countries responsible for security at its external borders.
This regulation ensures equality within the Union, and solidarity with its closest neighbours.
In addition, it will stimulate cooperation between regions.
To conclude, I should like to say that if this regulation is adopted, we shall be sending out a signal that the European Union is not an inaccessible stronghold, and that there is no such thing as Fortress Europe.
To end on a poetic note, our closest neighbours will be able to enter the Union, albeit for a short time, with their heads held high, instead of on their knees as has been the case to date. &#160;&#160; The new Member States would like to join the Schengen area as soon as possible.
A great merit of the report and of the cooperation created between the Commission and Parliament is that they give a reassuring answer to the anxieties.
This report and this text is now more favourable in every respect than the original proposal of the Commission.
These provisions make it possible to conduct freely all the activities related to cross-border cooperation.
However, this requires the amendment of the Council Regulation concerning Schengen, and the introduction of such a local border traffic permit must be made possible.
Mr Frattini’s words are very positive; I hope that the Council will have the same constructive attitude as the Commission, and they will amend the Schengen Agreement and the Regulation as soon as possible, to enable this excellent text to finally come into force. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the simplification of procedures for local border traffic at external borders is a step in the right direction.
Other factors to take into account will be the size of the target group of beneficiaries of these movements, and whether the reasons for which the new regime is introduced reflect those highlighted in the proposal for a regulation.
Neighbouring countries will also be challenged to ensure full reciprocity of the effective implementation of readmission agreements.
It will be necessary to establish whether it is actually worthwhile in terms of real benefits for communities living in border areas, whilst also complying with security requirements.
The outcome of this assessment may vary in the various Member States located on the Union’s external borders.
I have in mind cases in which the community is seeking access to the entire territory of the neighbouring country, not just to a small, clearly defined area. &#160;&#160; I welcome the draft regulation to be accepted today, and congratulate the rapporteur for contributing to the preparation of a better text that really serves the purpose for which it has been created.
This regulation is particularly important to us, Hungarians, as it ensures a further form of contact for Hungarians living in the border areas in neighbouring countries, and it makes their everyday life easier.
It is now the responsibility and opportunity of the governments to use the conditions provided by the Regulation when they conclude their bilateral agreements.
Thanks to the contribution of each institution, the balance between facilitation on the one hand and security on the other has been maintained and this regulation, as was rightly said, will also be very helpful in strengthening the local development of important European regions near to the external borders.
The introduction of a specific local border traffic permit for border residents will help in identifying those people who have the right to benefit from the facilitated border crossing regime.
To counterbalance that, Member States will have to ensure regular surveillance of border areas in order to avoid the misuse of the local border traffic regime and provide for specific sanctions.
Finally, the Commission will report on the implementation of the local border traffic regime two years after the entry into force of the regulation, proposing modifications if necessary.
I would like to conclude my remarks by stressing that I very much hope Parliament will confirm with its vote its support for the proposal made by the rapporteur, and I will encourage the Council to do the same as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The fact that the subsidies accorded by at least some Member States are dependent on their own budgets has, however, meant that development has not been really continuous but has been on a stop-start basis.
With this report, we urge the Commission to present a proposal for a directive obliging the Member States to legislate in favour of heating and cooling from renewable energy sources and also to draw up action plans for future development.
In this draft Green Paper, incredibly, there is scant reference to renewable energy sources at all.
I hope that you, Commissioner Piebalgs, will be able to allay my concerns following the reading of this draft Green Paper, and also that you will again display the commitment to efficiency and renewable energies for which we know you.
My services have already started to prepare an impact assessment on an action in favour of heating and cooling from renewable energy sources.
There is no doubt that the very complete and balanced report presented by Mrs Rothe will be very useful to the Commission when preparing action in this new field.
The international energy situation, our strong dependency on imports and the fight against climate change remind us of the urgent need to address the issues related to renewable energies.
It will also show that all these measures are necessary to build security of supply, to fight climate change and to achieve environmental objectives, as well as to increase competitiveness.
However, there is still some time before the Commission completes its work on this Green Paper.
While we now have legislation on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy and on the promotion of biofuels, the production of heating and cooling from renewable energy – the third pillar of the renewable energy portfolio – lacks a specific strategy.
Promoting heating and cooling from renewable energy will contribute to a number of important objectives: it will reduce our external energy dependency, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and it will create a European industry and promote local employment.
I can promise you that we will work hard to table a legislative proposal as quickly as possible and certainly before the end of this year, since that is already in the 2006 work programme.
This directive is, in actual fact, the keystone of European energy policy.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament have decided in favour of doubling the present share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption for heating and cooling by 2020.
If this rate of development in the sector is set to continue, many jobs will also be created.
Finally, I should like to ask Commissioner Piebalgs to make better use of the scope for financial support from the Structural Funds in the period 2007-2013.
The guidelines provide for opportunities, but it is up to the Member States to decide whether or not to seize them.
This is a cry from the heart which I would like you to take home. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks go to Mechtild Rothe.
There needs to be support in the European Union for new technology and innovations which make use of alternative forms of energy for heating and cooling.
I believe that our Commissioner has now heard what we wanted to say. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by echoing this own-initiative report and calling on the Commission not to delay in presenting draft legislation concerning the proportion of renewable energy within the heating and cooling sector.
In accordance with the ambition stated in the Commission’s 1997 White Paper for a Community Strategy and Action Plan, ‘Energy for the future: renewable sources of energy’, we are eager to supplement the two directives on the promotion of renewable energy sources in relation to, respectively, electricity and transport with a third directive, this time in relation to heating.
Given today’s warning signals concerning climate change and in view of the fact that we are so dependent on imports of traditional energy sources with consequent high carbon dioxide emissions, it is extremely important for us to exploit the huge potential for renewable energy sources in Europe, together with our existing resources in terms of such renewables.
The fact that the choice of renewable energy source would be made in the light of each Member State’s requirements would mean that we should be contributing to regional development.
These are the needs and the benefits, but how do we meet these needs and obtain these benefits?
I believe that nationally binding targets for the proportion of renewable energy is a first step, but it is not enough.
Technical solutions and choices of energy source go hand in hand.
This own-initiative report shows clearly and unambiguously what Parliament wants to see in terms of future draft legislation.
I hope that the Commission will quickly follow up this initiative so that we lose no time in obtaining the incentives needed for changing over to using an ever higher proportion of renewable energy sources for heating Europe or cooling it down.
Parliament has made important efforts in this direction.
It provides an accurate outline of the current situation regarding the use of renewable sources of energy for heating and cooling.
On the other hand, the European Parliament has repeatedly declared the need for greater use of renewables, and adopted the correct decisions and recommendations, only for little to change.
One reason for this may be that the Member States have not been able to create the right conditions for the greater use of renewables and have not convinced people of the case for them.
Consequently, as the report states, northern Denmark uses more solar energy than southern Italy, for example.
The price of these types of energy is therefore important and this is part and parcel of creating the right conditions for the use of renewables.
Now, however, after several major increases in gas prices they are returning in large numbers to types of fuel that are very bad for the environment, such as cheap and low-grade forms of coal, along with the inefficient burning not only of wood but even of plastics and tyres in local heating plants.
It is therefore just as important to create the right conditions as it is to take sensible decisions, to make use of all the elements in the energy mix and to support energy saving measures.
Otherwise, we may find ourselves following the example of the moth which, in its longing to draw closer to light and heat, often finds only death. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Rothe for the report before us.
I refer to increasing the cost of fuel, with negative implications for the financial health of businesses and the citizens’ standard of living.
I should like to mention three concerns.
Thirdly, the use of currently unexploited agricultural land for the production of biomass and sustainable fuels should be speeded up.
The area of unexploited land is set to increase, leading to an increase in poverty and unemployment in rural areas.
If the production of the biomass and fuels I mentioned is developed quickly, it will create employment and improve the security of energy supply for our countries. &#160;&#160; () Mr President, Commissioner, heating and cooling accounts for 49% of the energy consumed on our continent.
The less we use fossil fuels for these purposes the better, not only from the standpoint of global climate change, but also from the standpoint of reducing dependence on imports from outside Europe.
This report, which the rapporteur has drawn up on the basis of detailed investigations and discussions, presents a whole raft of strategic measures that must be implemented if we are to overcome the obstacles to greater use of renewables.
All of the new Member States are in the same situation.
At the same time, our domestic market is seeing an increase in energy costs and, rather than switching to renewables, people are instead opting for cheaper energy sources, which in our case often means low-grade brown coal.
I therefore strongly endorse the call from the Commission and the Council for a revision of the Sixth Council Directive, allowing the implementation of lower VAT rates for renewables.
I support the report and I would like to thank the rapporteur for doing a good job.
I should also like to say that this offers a promising way forward for the Commission and the individual Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to emphasise that Mechtild Rothe’s report should be greatly commended, above all for the establishment of binding obligations on Member States in the use of renewable energy.
In several Member States, this situation has been brought about by the monopolistic position of those power plants that use fossil fuels.
This situation has also been the primary obstacle to the formation of a common energy policy in the European Union.
At the moment, given that our external supply reliability is inadequate as well, one can only hope that the lesson Russia taught Europe at the beginning of the year will offer an additional stimulus to the development of renewable energy in the European Union, and that improving cooperation between the Member States will indeed lead us to a common European energy policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak in place of my colleague, Fiona Hall, who cannot be here this morning because of a pressing engagement with Commissioner Mandelson.
I should like to thank both Mrs Hall for the valuable work she has done on this resolution, along with the other shadow rapporteurs, and the rapporteur herself, whose skilful mediation and collation work has led to a text that enjoys broad support in this Parliament.
The sector also needs to be given some certainty.
Secondly, Parliament’s objective is also important and ambitious in that it sets a deadline of 2020.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a share of over 20%, we are hoping to achieve a significant percentage, more than double the current share for renewable sources of energy.
To conclude, I believe that there is a clear commitment in Parliament and from certain Members – I see Vittorio Prodi is here for the subject of biomass.
The association for that industry in my own country, Germany – the one I know best – talks in terms of our being able, in the space of ten years, to increase the proportion of newly-installed plant running on renewable energies from 8 to 80%, that is to say ten-fold.
It is not Greenpeace that is saying this, but an industrial association.
The use of renewable energies for heating purposes is also good value in comparison to other sources of energy, such as solar radiation or photovoltaic cells; prices can often differ by a ratio of 1 to 45.
There are only a&#160;few regions in Europe that have formulated and implemented successful strategies for energy generation from renewable sources.
Differences in development are not based on differences in opportunities but on political agendas.
I&#160;would like to emphasise that it is essential to offer incentives to investors who go down the road of renewable energy sources.
One of the proposed incentives, also mentioned by my colleague, Mr Březina, would be to offer a&#160;lower VAT rate.
However, we need to take account of the fact that countries that have already implemented the flat-rate tax will not be willing to give it up.
In conclusion, allow me to provide an example.
The city where I have held the office of mayor for the past seven years is generating 15% of its energy from renewable sources.
Furthermore, over recent weeks, the price of a barrel of crude has oscillated between 60 and 65 dollars, a price that would have seemed unthinkable a few years ago.
If we add to all of this the unstable situation in the Middle East, the conclusion is clear: the European Union must act urgently.
We must act intelligently and decisively, because there is no time to lose.
I do not doubt that the initiatives announced by the Commissioner will have significant benefits for the Union’s future, but we cannot forget the legislation that has already entered into force and that has not been transposed into national legislation by certain Member States with sufficient rigour.
Biomass must play a fundamental role, since its potential is under-exploited.
The directive on energy efficiency in buildings already contains certain provisions, on the use of biomass in heating, which need to be enhanced.
We believe that a new directive on heating and refrigeration that takes account of the excellent report by Mrs Rothe, and hence of renewable energy sources, must include objectives that are both ambitious and realistic: clear guidelines on funding mechanisms and an exemplary role for the public sector.
This initiative will encourage EU states to embrace the use of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling and to create economic incentives for this.
When discussing standards of energy efficiency in buildings, it is worth underlining a problem common to Lithuania, all of the Baltic countries and some of the other new EU Member States.
Both national governments and the European Commission should devote more attention to this problem.
The Commission could collate the best examples of similar house reconstructions, in order to help national governments decide whether to renovate or demolish such buildings. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very clear report, particularly the explanatory statement, which uses illustrations.
This report is to be welcomed by the industry and the European Parliament and will ensure that we have safe and secure energy supplies in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs&#160;Rothe on her excellent own-initiative report, which clearly calls upon the European Commission to draw up a legislative proposal on increasing the share of renewable energy in heating and cooling by July 2006.
Heat and cooling networks and biomass, particularly woody biomass, are important outlets for the timber industry, fit in perfectly with a sustainable European forestry strategy and can support European efforts towards sustainable development, particularly the aim of 12% of all energy consumed being from renewable sources by 2010.
However, there is currently no legislation governing the use of renewable energy for heating and cooling, and this gap must be filled following the publication of the European Commission's biomass action plan on 7&#160;December last year.
First of all, on 28&#160;January, the Ecofin Council concluded a political agreement to extend the experimental reduced VAT rate on labour-intensive services until 2010.
The Member States can therefore now put an end to this disparity in the tax treatment of sales of heating energy and subscriptions to heat and cooling networks using renewable energy, and the supply of natural gas and electricity.
I fully support the rapporteur's recommendation regarding the use of the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Funds and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). &#160;&#160; Promoting the use of renewable energy sources signifies a direct implementation of the goals of the Lisbon Strategy.
Indeed it brings to the fore concern for the environment, the encouragement of innovation and the infrastructure that must facilitate competitiveness and independent growth in Europe.
A recent Eurobarometer survey showed that people support a common European energy policy.
For this reason in Europe we must also formulate clear guidelines and incentives in the area of cooling and heating.
The European energy policy must also be formulated to accommodate this. &#160;&#160; Europe is the largest energy importer in the world.
These facts are forcing us to reduce, and if possible, eliminate our dependency on imported energy and our vulnerability.
To this end, apart from rationalising our energy consumption and making it more efficient, we must also increase the use of renewable energy sources situated in Europe.
I am against overregulation, but it would be difficult to deny that the legal constraints imposed by the European Union and the targets that we have jointly set are efficient means in urging Member States forward.
On average, renewable energy is used in 10% of European homes, but this figure is only due to the outstanding performance of a few countries, such as Austria, Germany, Greece, etc.
This area must be regulated at European Union level, to enable us to reduce efficiently and at a relatively low cost the utilisation of fossil energy in households, the emission of greenhouse gases and our energy-dependency.
These three considerations must always be seen in context.
Some of those Members who have already spoken have – in view of the services directive that we will be agreeing to adopt this week – highlighted the wholly new challenges that cross-border energy supply presents to each and every Member State and the need for simplified procedures in this area.
What matters in the final analysis is that domestic resources be used and small circuits promoted.
We have, since January, been debating our dependence on individual suppliers, and we have become aware of the need for action in this area.
It is right, then, that we should also be asking ourselves how we can develop new and additional capacities for heating and cooling.
This morning, we were told by the Commissioner that 42 directives have been adopted in the energy field alone, with 22 of them dealing with energy efficiency, and even so, we are not satisfied and claim that we are not moving forward fast enough.
I know that you all feel passionately about this subject, and this is definitely not the only answer that we should be looking for in the energy sector.
The vote in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the debate today have demonstrated very impressive support for the ideas expressed in the report.
In the Biomass Action Plan in December 2005 the Commission announced that it would work towards an initiative on heating and cooling from renewable energy sources.
But at the same time, as some Members have indicated, we care about better legislation and delivering legislation that can be implemented properly and respect the principle of subsidiarity.
That is why I have asked my services to deliver an impact assessment in this area, because it will also be very important later on in the debate to steer the proposal on the basis of a proper impact assessment.
However, at the same time I can tell you that the Commission will meet your expectations, as Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca mentioned, and we are working not only in this direction but also for the implementation of legislation.
I should like to thank the PSE Group for its invaluable backing.
Accordingly, following the amendment to the Combined Nomenclature, CN codes 1214&#160;90&#160;91 and 1214&#160;90&#160;99 should be replaced by CN code 1214&#160;90&#160;90.
I wholeheartedly support the rapporteur’s position in this document, but wish to highlight the importance of Amendment 5, which states that, when the first meeting of the Joint Committee is held, the Commission must inform the Solomon Islands authorities of the attendance of shipowners’ representatives at subsequent meetings of the Joint Committee.
The common fisheries policy is an unmitigated disaster which should be swept away, not perpetuated and exported to third countries. &#160;&#160; The report discusses an issue in connection with which the value of the internal market has to be weighed up against national self-determination.
We have therefore chosen to vote against this report, but we wish to emphasise that we are not adopting a substantial position in the continuing debate.
The European Court of Justice must first adopt a position and give a judgment.
Subsequently, the Greek authorities and the national parliament will have to discuss how they are to deal with the European Court of Justice’s decision. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with regard to the report by my colleague Mr&#160;Őry, I am torn between three feelings: satisfaction, regret and a wish.
My satisfaction is at the completion of the efforts initiated in 1994 to take a concerted approach to the risks faced by workers.
That would have relieved our fear that the states would be obliged to transpose the rules on solar radiation because they are referred to in the framework directive.
My wish is that in future we will be able to deal with the issue of solar radiation flexibly, without pointless legislation or bureaucracy.
The quality of life of many millions of people in the EU working in farming, fishing and building, in open air salt works, quarries and mines, as well as in leisure activities, is adversely affected due to exposure to solar radiation in the course of their work.
This text is a continuation of three previous directives that also aimed to protect workers from the dangers of various 'physical agents' such as exposure to noise, vibrations and electromagnetic fields.
This directive primarily relates to radiation sources such as lasers and infrared lamps.
It refers in particular to adapting working methods in order to reduce the risks of radiation and the duration and level of exposure.
It is therefore a specific example proving that, contrary to the ideas propagated by the specialist and non-specialist new Eurosceptics, the European Union takes care of both salaried and non-salaried workers, in the East and in the West, and often advocates standardising the social legislation of the Member States at the highest level. &#160;&#160; I voted against this proposal at first reading, but the governments of the Member States have now improved it.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that it is unworkable for the EU to oblige employers in the 25 Member States to assess the health and safety risks to workers exposed to sunlight.
I am glad that Parliament was able to make this legislation sensible by doing our job, and I am pleased to vote for it today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to give an explanation of vote to clarify why we in the CDA Party have voted against the report.
We have done so because, whilst we are in favour of animal welfare, certainly in the poultry sector, it is unacceptable that we should not prescribe the same requirements for imports.
I would, above all, though, draw your attention to the fact that our European companies have to face unreasonable competition from meat imports from non-European countries, such as Brazil and Thailand, where totally different standards apply to such things as stocking densities, food safety, retracing, the use of animal meal and antibiotics.
It is understandable to be concerned about poultry welfare, but there is no sense in so hyping welfare requirements in the EU that we drive producers out of business and become dependent on imports from Far Eastern and South American countries where no enforceable welfare restraints apply to production.
That serves only to increase the number of poultry reared in appalling conditions.
We therefore advocate an extended deadline to allow for a trial period and subsequent adaptation to a system that does not exist in Portugal.
The proposal addresses public concern that the current welfare standards for chickens kept for meat are too low.
Detailed issues relating to periods of darkness, foot pad lesions and first-week mortality in connection with chickens kept for meat production are difficult for a layperson to decide about.
What we have here is a consultation procedure for the European Parliament and not a codecision procedure, which might have enabled us to make a more principled statement on the matter.
The proposal addresses a difficult issue of public concern as the current welfare standards for chickens kept for meat production are very low, leading to painful leg disorders and lameness, ascites (enlargement of the heart), sudden death syndrome and ammonium burns.
True, this is not the first time that the European Parliament has expressed its opinion on subjects unrelated to the concerns of the citizens.
Those are just a few examples among many equally grotesque proposals.
With quite a few of the countries represented on the Council wishing to exceed 38&#160;kg, it will be possible to invoke this proposal against the Council.
The principle objective is to enable countries to take action to implement their strategic policies, to guarantee funding for public services and to compensate undertakings that promote so-called ‘services of general interest’.
Although it is regrettable that it has taken until 2006 to consider taking account of common-sense criteria such as employment, innovation, growth, economic and social cohesion and so on, we must not reject this reorientation of the policy, because we cannot prevent its existence.
I am also worried about the way in which respect for competition is given priority over all other criteria, which is characteristic of a policy that continues to favour its dogmas over the interests of Europeans.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that many activities, even emerging ones, would not need subsidies or aid if they had the benefit of a favourable, international fiscal and regulatory environment&#160;–&#160;an environment that Brussels' policies are largely helping to destroy. &#160;&#160; Any analysis of State aid must be based on a clear idea of differences between income and costs relating, on the one hand, to private finances and, on the other, to public finances, that is to say an idea of the existence of external effects.
This report bypasses fundamental analysis and thus ends up with general conclusions that cannot be substantiated.
From my point of view, as a rapporteur, I wish to express my broad support for this EU initiative.
State aid is presented as a means of rectifying market shortcomings, yet, as the rapporteur rightly points out, often leads to injustice and inefficiency.
Accordingly, we share the Commission’s concern in this area, in line with the rapporteur’s position.
In other words, State aid is a model that ought gradually to be replaced by fairer and more efficient ways of fostering a genuine market. &#160;&#160; The Swedish Conservatives have today voted in favour of the report on the effects of globalisation on the internal market.
We agree with the assumption underlying the report that, as a result of globalisation, economic reforms will be required in order to maintain European competitiveness.
That could apply to any of the many reports that Parliament dedicates to globalisation and its impact, bemoaning its negative effects but offering no definitive solution except giving Brussels, and Europe, more powers.
The European Union is sacrificing our jobs, our industries, our agriculture and our social protection systems on the altar of global free trade and the dogma of international competition; it does not protect our economies from unfair competition or social or monetary dumping, or from piracy and counterfeiting; it does not support our businesses when they are faced with multiple tariff and non-tariff barriers in the competing countries where they want to trade, or when they are faced with increased competition at home, because our economies are some of the most open in the world; it piles on the disabling standards and regulations.
The inescapable conclusion: Europe is the fall guy in the farce of globalisation, and the citizens of Europe are its main victims.
This is an issue whose importance was emphasised on 27 October 2005 by the Heads of State and Government of the European Union at the UK Presidency's informal summit at Hampton Court.
As a member of the International Trade Committee I have been pressing for social and environmental concerns to be taken into account in an era of globalisation and against the background of the rise of China, India and Brazil.
This is not simple protectionism: my concerns arise from the need to ensure that liberalisation of the world economy, particularly through the multilateral trading system, should not lead to a lowering of employment and social standards or a race to the bottom.
The EU must meet these challenges head on, without abandoning its historical and social values, which are reflected in the core characteristics of existing social protection systems.
At the same time, the EU must offer incentives to increase the competitiveness of European industry by developing a whole range of instruments, as referred to in the Lisbon Strategy.
However, there are other reasons to oppose Mr&#160;Agnoletto's report.
The only problem with that is that the European Union is the sole arbiter of this circumstance, which seems to me to be a totally abusive interpretation.
That is not acceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the EU may well have made a great thing of respect for human rights and democracy – indeed, admission to the European Union is dependent upon them – but it has certainly failed in that respect where Turkey is concerned.
The fact that, in 2004, 11% of applications for asylum by Turks were accepted, and that Turkey, in 2005, was the member state of the Council of Europe most frequently condemned by the European Court for Human Rights have to be seen in this light.
Over and above that, the recent murder of a Catholic priest in Turkey – a crime motivated by politics and religion – shows that Turkey is either unable or unwilling to protect the minorities within it.
The clause has existed for ten years, which is why the rapporteur now thinks it appropriate to evaluate it.
The rise to power of the Islamist party, the AKP, in 2002 is threatening, in particular, the few rights previously granted to women.
Indeed, accepting the principle of protecting human rights was a great step forwards.
However, there still seem to be some gaps in the implementation of this principle.
Alongside the human rights clauses, there are also analogous requirements regarding compliance with basic democratic standards and respect for minority rights.
That being said, if this simply becomes a mantra repeated in all our agreements, and fails to make a genuine difference, especially when its terms are violated, it will of course be worthless.
The EU cannot, and must not, compete with economies which are based on export subsidies, which fail to comply with basic environmental and social rules, and which violate human rights.
European integration is based on solidarity, respect for human rights, compliance with environmental and social rules, and sustainable development.
In this particular case, the EU would be well within its rights to impose minimum social and environmental rules in its forthcoming agreements with this partner.
The move to maintain the Shetland Box and the Plaice Box is a timely and balanced response to the review of the functioning and effectiveness of these boxes and to the consultation carried out into this area.
The recommendations in this report will make it possible to defend the fundamental principles of the new common fisheries policy, namely to manage the exploitation of marine living resources in a sustainable manner whilst guaranteeing sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
I therefore support the adoption of this report. &#160;&#160; The June List is opposed to the EU’s common fisheries policy and wishes to see this policy area phased out in the long run.
I was pleased to support the report, as the measures in it are important in ameliorating the disastrous effects of the common fisheries policy.
These renewable energy sources should take on a dominant role in the field of heating and cooling, which currently represents almost 70% of energy consumption in Europe.
However, we will be particularly vigilant in ensuring that the sovereignty of the Member States is respected with regard to energy supply, and on the taxation aspects of any proposals put forward.
We have not yet seen all the consequences of the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets on national energy balances.
This report shows how the EU can help encourage growth in this vital future technology and I am pleased to support it, even though a few of the key recommendations were not passed by the house. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A6-0409/2005) by Evelyne Gebhardt, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market (COM(2004)0002 C5-0069/2004 2004/0001(COD)) Parliament is fully aware of the importance of this debate. &#160;&#160; .
It is however, regrettable that the impression has been given that this draft is intended to set the interest of the 15 ‘old’ Member States against those of the ten ‘new’ ones that joined us in May 2004.
The reason for my putting ‘old’ and ‘new’ in quotation marks is that all members of our community of states have the same rights and responsibilities irrespective of the length of time that they have belonged to it.
Such a directive must respect the idiosyncrasies of the Member States and obviate the danger of a downward spiral in working conditions and wages, in quality, and in the protection of consumers and the environment.
The simplicity of this reflects our experience of real life; for example, a German driving licence entitles me to drive in England, but I am not allowed to drive on the right there.
In its first ten years of existence, the European internal market has chalked up some considerable successes, not least the creation of 2.5 million new jobs.
Now is the time for the Commission to revise the means by which that is to be achieved, and the vote in your House will be essential as a basis for this.
If they are to get one, the services directive will have to be neutral in terms of labour law; there will also have to be clear and unambiguous rules to ensure that the directive on the posting of workers is not compromised, not least as regards the options for monitoring.
We have now been informed that, according to two studies – one from Copenhagen and the other from Vienna – the possibility exists of the services directive resulting in the creation of some 600&#160;000 jobs.
The Presidency also welcomes Mr Barroso’s announcement in Vienna to the effect that the plenary vote would very soon, and in good time for the March European Council, be followed by a proposal as to the points essential to a political agreement.
We have the opportunity to maximise our potential for growth and job creation by means of an internal market in services, while at the same time building up public confidence in a social Europe.
I am therefore delighted to see that the European Parliament is prepared to express an opinion on this proposal and to accept its responsibilities to the citizens of Europe.
I would especially like to thank Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and all the Members most directly involved, particularly the shadow rapporteurs, who, over the past few months, have done some admirable work to enable us to reach the stage we are at today.
Today's debate and the vote to be held on Thursday represent an important moment for the future of the European Union, and this, may I say, even goes beyond the very important matter of services in the internal market.
There is no doubt that we still have much to do if our economies are to be able to make the basic freedoms laid down in the Treaty a reality and to benefit from them.
Before that, however, I would like to stress a very important aspect that goes far beyond the purely economic dimension: is the enlarged European Union of 25 Member States capable of reaching agreement on appropriate solutions to deal with extremely difficult and sensitive problems?
I would add to that, can we deal, in particular, with the problems that are seen as most sensitive by public opinion?
I am confident that, this week, Parliament will be able to give shape to the acute sense of responsibility that it has demonstrated throughout this process.
We also want to respond to the legitimate concerns that have been raised.
By definition, we need a compromise&#160;–&#160;a compromise that honours and respects the principles of the Treaty and forms part of our programme for growth and jobs.
It is time to prove to our citizens that the Union of 25 Member States does work, that it is conscious of its common destiny, and that it is able to achieve results in everybody's interests.
If the first reading in plenary on the services directive leads, on Thursday, to a vote that balances the demands of competition against our social concerns, it will be a victory not only for you, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Parliament, but also for the Union as a whole.
Today, the two main sectors that can create jobs in Europe are services and small and medium-sized enterprises.
We must therefore give priority to those sectors, by creating a true market in services and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises.
Both its supporters and its opponents see it as a symbol.
During all the controversy about this proposal, which focused on a relatively small number of issues, it was easy to forget that there are many other areas in which, I believe, broad agreement exists and in which the benefits of the proposal are recognised.
Firstly, thanks to administrative simplification, it will be easier to establish a business in the EU.
This is crucial for fostering entrepreneurship, a vital element in promoting growth and jobs.
Service providers will be able to obtain information and to complete administrative formalities through single points of contact in any Member State, thus simplifying, accelerating and reducing the cost of the authorisation process and obviating the need to deal with different levels of authorities.
It will also be possible to fulfil these procedures electronically, so that businesses save time and avoid incurring considerable costs in having to make visits in person – sometimes several times – in order to complete the necessary formalities with the relevant authorities.
Rights of consumers are clearly set out, and any discrimination on the basis of nationality or place of business must be removed.
Thirdly, Member States will have to implement administrative cooperation to ensure that businesses are properly and efficiently supervised across the EU, while avoiding duplication of control.
The Commission broadly welcomes amendments put forward by the European Parliament which aim to clarify and improve the Commission’s initial proposal.
These relate mainly to administrative simplification, establishment and administrative cooperation.
The Commission also broadly welcomes many of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection in relation to services of general interest.
This is a sensitive question that has split opinions during the entire debate and it is clear, in my view, that the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection vote has achieved a great deal in this respect.
The compromise texts I have seen give us a good basis for producing our amended proposal if they are adopted.
The compromise texts also recognise the freedom that service providers should have to access markets in other Member States and to exercise their activities there.
I welcome the fact that they recognise that a whole range of barriers to the provision of these services will have to be abolished while, of course, permitting certain restrictions on well-defined public policy grounds.
It seems to me to be the essence of the compromise amendments on Article&#160;16.
Where there is broad consensus in this House on the amendments to be made, the Commission will, subject to what I said earlier, base its modified proposals on these amendments.
Parliament has a real opportunity to show that, after two years’ work, it can provide the basis for taking forward in a consensual way an important but hugely controversial proposal.
You can deliver a better services directive which unleashes the enormous economic potential of the services sector.
It took note of the fact that the services sector was one of the most important in terms of our economy, yet Europe was making no use whatever of its potential.
It will make European service providers more able to compete; it will help to create jobs in this sector and will give consumers and commercial customers greater freedom of choice.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats came up with some substantial improvements to what the Commission had proposed, and I am most grateful to our rapporteur, Mr Harbour, and to all those in our Group, those in the other groups, and also the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, for all the work that they have put in.
We want a directive that really does make us better able to compete internationally, that ensures the rapid integration of the new Member States into the internal market, a directive that enable us to make the best possible use of all our potential for growth and job creation while remaining faithful to the principles of the social market economy.
We have to show the people of the European Union that we take their concerns and fears seriously.
This directive is the most controversial and contentious draft to come up for debate in recent years, and rightly so, for it has to do with the question of what social model we want in Europe – no more and no less than that – and we will be giving the answer to that question this week.
That is what we mean when we talk about our social model.
The second point that must be central to our debate is that Europe will not allow itself to be divided.
In both the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and our own group, it has become clear that the attempt to divide us, inherent in this Bolkestein directive, has been fought off.
In my own Group just as much as in the PPE-DE, delegations from the old and new Member States are working together to solve this problem.
I did get the impression that, for a time, that was what Commissioner McCreevy wanted as well, but, in the light of the real balance of power, of which he will get written evidence on Thursday, he has come to see reason.
If I may spell it out in plain language, that means – and I am speaking for my group when I say this – that those who want to alter the European social model or destroy it will meet with determined resistance from Europe’s Socialists.
Both of them have grasped – and let me stress that it is a good thing that they have – that, irrespective of what fundamental decisions they try to take, decisions that will determine the future direction of the European Union, there is no getting round the European Parliament.
Down the route of reform lies a dynamic, competitive Union which creates jobs, wealth and opportunity for its citizens.
Mrs Gebhardt says ‘think of small businesses’.
Liberals and Democrats favour a search for compromise, but compromise between mutually exclusive policies is no compromise.
This directive does not usher in social dumping.
If they are in any doubt, Mr Schulz and Mr Rasmussen should read the 1996 directive on the posting of workers.
Rather, the draft before us transforms principles like the free market of goods, services, capital and people into reality for 450 million people.
These are founding principles of our Union which are simply not compatible with second-class citizenship for our new Member States.
If we can create a single market in services to rival our single market in goods, we can raise GDP by nearly 2% and create up to 2.5 million new jobs.
That is what Frits Bolkestein wanted for Europe.
To allow Member States to justify barriers to service provision on the basis of social policy and consumer protection would drive a lance through the heart of his proposal.
However, we would not be contemplating such an emasculation of draft legislation if Mr Barroso and his Commissioners had defended their draft directive instead of tilting at windmills.
No, rather than showing the way, this Commission cowers in the shadows of public opinion and Member States’ hesitation.
The provision of services across borders brings with it many problems that cannot be solved, as such matters formerly were, through the law courts, but need to be dealt with by those who have authority to enact European legislation, namely Parliament and the Council.
Our proposal also has to do with Article 16, the country-of-origin principle, which is such a bone of contention.
First of all, we cannot help but notice with pleasure that the exceptional social and political movements against this directive, which have been growing for more than a year, have achieved their first result: we have managed to put the supporters of the directive on the defensive.
That is why we are not turning our noses up at the changes made during the various negotiations on the directive in the Commission.
However, the question that arises is whether the directive, in its amended form, has become a good directive&#160;–&#160;whether its essential substance has changed.
In short, can workers now, as some claim, be reassured as to the future of their social rights?
Unfortunately, our answer to that is 'no', and I think that those who claim otherwise have a heavy responsibility.
The supporters of this compromise also greatly overestimate, in my view, the effect of the social guarantees they claim to have introduced into the draft directive.
For example, all a business based in a country with less rigorous social standards will have to do is provide its services throughout the EU using 'self-employed' people, and the host country will lose the right to require it to comply with local rules.
These same provisions are also supposed to guarantee respect for the collective agreements.
In fact, nothing is less certain.
The right message to give them is clear: we must reject the directive in Thursday's vote and, if we do not succeed in that now, it will remain our aim throughout the process.
It is going to give us a free market, liberal economics and the solution to all our woes.
When we talked in 1999 about the creation of a single market in financial services, all my friends in the real world in the City of London said: ‘Nigel, you have got it wrong’.
The application of this directive will vary from country to country.
The burden on business will increase and, worst of all, it will be the European Court of Justice that can legislate and decide on all this.
This directive represents yet another massive shift of power from the Member States to these failing institutions.
The thousands of provisions in place and permits currently required are an obstacle to the development of the whole European services sector.
I would remind the House that the services sector currently accounts for 70% of the European Union’s GDP.
The European Court of Justice has repeatedly ruled in favour of the right of service providers to benefit from their freedom as entrepreneurs and from the free movement of the services they provide in other Member States.
There are many reliable indications that full implementation of the proposed directive will lead to the creation of 600&#160;000 additional jobs across the European Union and will also reduce the existing barriers to the provision of services by more than 50%.
In addition, there will be a reduction in the cost of the services covered by the directive, which will benefit consumers and firms making use of the services alike.
European consumers, enterprises and governments will also benefit as a result of increased productivity, higher employment and higher wages.
This Parliamentary sitting will provide us with the opportunity to show what kind of Europeans we are.
I advocate compromise, an approach that has long been adopted by this House.
These barriers do not affect citizens of specific countries they actually restrict the freedom and mobility of all Europeans, consumers and entrepreneurs.
Not only do services of general economic interest, in other words public market services, still feature in the report, with a few exceptions, but some of the safeguards have also been removed.
The risk of social dumping has not been removed, inasmuch as the European Commission can rely on a majority of liberal states wanting to benefit from their comparative advantages.
Given that all of our powers have been transferred to Brussels, particularly when it comes to competition, we should not be surprised to see our public services challenged, our professional organisations opposed and our characteristics disregarded.
The new world order does not permit national resistance.
Everything must be standardised by the law or by the market; for lack of time, the market will take care of destroying the jewels of our industry, of our commerce, of our crafts and of our liberal professions, before it attacks our health and education services and our culture.
It is a shame that these compromises go so far from the text adopted in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, after some heroic efforts by Mr Harbour, the shadow rapporteur.
Whilst that may make them feel more comfortable in the short term, it does not help them in their employment prospects in the long term.
They forget the 20&#160;million people currently unemployed across our continent.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, our draftsman, Mrs&#160;Wagenknecht, wanted to propose to reject this directive on the basis that Article 16 laid down the country of origin principle, which is incompatible with the subsidiarity principle, endangers services of general interest and risks leading to fiscal, social and environmental dumping, thus endangering the very foundations of the European social model.
Our rapporteur also proposed to oppose the country of origin principle and the so-called 'Bolkestein' directive, which we should now call the 'McCreevy' directive, on the basis that it placed 25 legal systems in competition with each other, created legal uncertainty and risked resulting in unfair competition between businesses that would no longer be subject to the same conditions.
Unfortunately, in its vote, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not follow her recommendations.
Particularly with regard to the country of origin principle, our committee thought that it should be the rule, even though it will probably be challenged in plenary.
Fortunately, the risk of inconsistency in such a basis for exclusion was removed by the vote in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
Whilst I am aware that many of the Members present will probably back the directive, it is not the first time that this House has appeared totally incapable of representing the European public.
That is unworthy of a democracy.
With this compromise, Parliament is only displaying its political lack of power and soon, workers, consumers and the environment will be at the receiving end of this lack of power.
How different was this in the Committee on the Environment, Pubic Health and Food Safety, where an overwhelming majority had the political courage to reject the original proposal, the country-of-origin principle, and the undermining of public services and social structures.
The compromise had taken on board the justified criticisms levelled at the Commission’s original draft, while also ensuring that new dynamism would be injected into the EU’s services market.
My opinion was accepted by the Industry Committee with only six of its members voting against doing so, but the attempt at a compromise that we now have before us, the result of haggling between the two major groups, testifies to their contempt for the specialised committees and the laborious work done by them.
The common denominator is, in the final analysis, so small that it does not justify the efforts of the past years.
In the form put before us today, the proposal for a directive on services, which forms part of the economic reform process launched by the Lisbon European Council with the aim of making Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy in the world by 2010, represents a major political step forward for the European Union.
Over 18 months, the European Parliament has endeavoured to rewrite the Commission's original proposal to produce a significantly amended version.
This new version is balanced, and aims to reconcile economic efficiency, in opening up the market in services, with social justice, in preserving the social standards that protect the EU's citizens.
Furthermore, audiovisual services are also subject to a sectoral approach at Community level in the form of the 'television without frontiers' directive.
This directive meets the aims set by the services directive, in that it guarantees the free provision of services whilst still allowing other objectives to be pursued, such as promoting European content, respecting cultural diversity and promoting pluralism of programming.
Taking account of these principles, a large majority of the Committee on Culture and Education, followed by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, came out in favour of inserting a cultural reservation clause and of excluding audiovisual services from the scope of the directive.
It is vital that the 'television without frontiers' directive, currently undergoing revisions, must remain the only reference text on the subject.
Following the public debate, one could get the impression that freedom to provide services was something that this directive had invented, but it does in fact have the force of law.
The political and economic integration of Europe in the services sector, which accounts for 70% of GDP, will be of benefit to all.
Furthermore, the liberalisation of health and social services could lead to a deterioration of social welfare and health care cover in favour of private insurance, which would affect women in particular since they are the main consumers of these services.
In the course of our discussions and deliberations on the subject in the Committee on Petitions we also stated that, as we understand it, European integration is based on what we signed up to, and that was first and foremost the four fundamental freedoms.
The public actually needs to know that just as opinion outside is divided, so too is this House.
We do not want to create the impression that nobody actually wants economic freedom and that nobody wants to help Europe to become the main driving force and not one of many driving forces of European success.
I am also indebted to the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
We must prove that it is possible to create an internal market for services in a bid to fully develop our social model.
Accordingly, we must vote for a directive that leaves social dumping well and truly behind.
First of all, I think there is enough material on the table, such as the full observation of labour legislation, social protection, collective labour agreements and industrial relations, including collective actions, on which this House can build in order to provide absolute guarantees.
The Posting of Workers Directive, in particular, is of course a sensitive issue in this respect.
Invariably, these practices are simply illegal, but as the Services Directive threatens to make inspection even more difficult, it is important that we clarify that Articles 24 and 25 are deleted while the Services Directive remains fully in force.
It is too easy to side-step this legislation and there are too many instances of misuse.
Thirdly, my committee has spelled out that something really needs to be done about the scope of this directive.
It is a good thing that there is already consensus to remove social services, health services, temporary employment agencies and security services from this directive, for they work in a completely different manner.
In fact, my committee took the view that all services of general economic interest should be excluded, for the simple reason that they have no commercial motive, but that it is the intention, first and foremost, to provide a service of general interest with it, in other words guarantee basic human rights.
I can be brief about the country of origin principle.
According to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, this principle is unacceptable.
Firstly, I particularly want to thank all the members of my group on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection who have worked so tirelessly with me to reshape this text.
I calculate that three-quarters of all the amendments to the text that we will vote on on Thursday originated from our group.
I also want to thank our colleagues in the ALDE and UEN Groups who helped us achieve a very important result in the committee back in November.
This will be the final debate of this cycle, but I am sure we will have many more.
Even though she is not listening to me – I think she is working on her voting list – I want to pay tribute to her and the very courteous and painstaking way in which she has led our work on a very complicated and difficult proposal.
I said that I wanted to look at the impact of the directive as a whole, because we should be thinking particularly about small and medium-sized businesses, which are constantly frustrated at their inability to access the internal market at the moment.
There is a whole range of provisions in this proposal – no less than 81 provisions on Member States – to deal with these sorts of barriers, because businesses want to be able to go into markets; they want to be able to start up without unnecessary and bureaucratic barriers; they want to be able to send their experts to other countries.
The European courts do not think that is reasonable and that is contained in this compromise.
I say in conclusion to Mr Bartenstein – and I am still wearing my Austrian tie, because I told him I would wear it for as long as we were in sight of a clear agreement – he can still get this on the table of the economic summit in March if he puts his mind to it. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, it is rare for a draft directive to incite such passions.
There are currently 53 cases relating to the free provision of services pending before the Court of Justice.
If the European Parliament did not do its work, the Court would do its own.
I would encourage you to vote in favour of the compromise drawn up by Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and Mr&#160;Harbour, which opens up the internal market in services, whilst avoiding brutal and unfair competition and protecting the right of every state to defend its social model and its public services without discrimination.
Nevertheless, services are provided by human beings, who have to be protected against social dumping.
The country of origin principle encouraged a race to the bottom in regulatory terms, but the country of destination principle encourages stark and stupid protectionism.
We have to abolish the protectionism and barriers to trade that have built up since 1957, particularly in the founding Member States.
The Treaty of Rome enshrined the aim of free movement of services.
We are far from reaching that goal, even though our countries have essentially become service economies.
Not all services can be exported.
Public services will continue to be a matter for the public authorities.
In some countries, people are trying to deify the idea of public services without asking themselves whether public services are really services to the public.
It is hard to accept, for example, that France is trying to protect its markets in what it calls public services, while French public and private companies are plundering other markets.
The balance reached thanks to the work of Mrs&#160;Gebhardt, Mr&#160;Harbour, Mrs&#160;Van Lancker, Mrs&#160;Thyssen and others will guarantee that the states have control over the services provided to the citizens, whilst avoiding discriminatory measures.
Thanks to the new facilities, particularly provided via the one-stop shops, the Union's internal market will make progress. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the services directive has given rise to some powerful emotions, and we are still not completely out of the woods.
The directive has not been watered down with amendments: this is a matter of the workings of democracy.
Some say that the Members of the European Parliament are afraid of undertaking bold reforms and that we are afraid of pushing through the original directive.
On the other hand, we must take care that the Member States are not given a free hand to prevent the movement of trade in services on grounds that are just too flimsy.
In closing I would like to thank Evelyne Gebhard, and everyone here including Commissioner McCreevy. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I, for my part, should like to join others in thanking Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and Mrs&#160;Van Lancker not only for their excellent work, but also for the fairness and the spirit of cooperation they demonstrated with my, and other, groups.
That being said, having heard Mr&#160;Harbour speak after Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and Mrs&#160;Van Lancker, I am not really sure that the famous joint text means the same for everyone, which worries me and reinforces my belief in the idea expressed by Mrs&#160;Rühle that the text is perhaps a compromise that increases, rather than reduces, legal uncertainty.
It is clear that the misunderstanding mainly stems from this notorious country of origin principle.
That is why the country of origin principle not only does not legally exist in the Treaties, but would also be, in my opinion, economically disastrous.
We do not want a Union of 25 in which a ‘national rule versus national rule’ competition would take place.
If we want to send positive political signals to the citizens of the new Member States, then let us provide ourselves with a budget that is equal to the solidarity we need to show; let us follow the Commission’s advice – and, in saying that, I address the Presidency of the Council – and see to it that all the Member States remove the restrictions on the free movement of workers; and let us see to it that 1&#160;May 2006 is actually a 1&#160;May for all the workers of the 25 countries of this European Union.
Here is an election commitment we had made: to deal simultaneously with a framework directive on services of general interest and a directive on the internal market in services.
The feeble compromise on which the conservatives and social democrats have agreed still tends in that direction; in essential areas such as water supply or education, the radically free-market thinking of the original directive is still there.
For we do not want a Europe that uses the concepts of equality of opportunity and freedom to provide services as a pretext for creating the best possible conditions for big business and enabling it to maximise its profits at the expense of workers and consumers.
The resistance to this brutal neo-liberal project must go on.
This compromise, this window dressing, this deception is both a lie and a scandal.
The principle of national law taking precedence over European law is missing, and we heard several speakers explain to us on several occasions that this entire matter was passing under the control, under the arbitration, of the European Court of Justice, in whose case law we are already well versed.
Clearly, public opinion in the older Member States, to which both of the largest political groups have paid heed, currently perceives all market liberalisation measures as threats, although in fact the aim of these measures is to make the European Union stronger.
I would therefore firstly like to rebut the erroneous view that the liberalisation of the services market is beneficial only for the cheap end of the market, namely, for the new Member States.
Thus, for example, the proportion of the older Member States in total added value in the European Union construction sector constitutes 95%, while in the business services sphere the percentage is even greater: 98%.
For this reason the markets of the new Member States will definitely have a permanent place for the services sector of the older Member States, with its high added value, capacity and capital.
The application of the country of origin principle to the provision of services would open up the European Union’s internal market to the largest service providers in the Member States – small and medium-sized enterprises.
One of the arguments against the country of origin principle is the fear that living standards in the older Member States would be under threat, but the removal of the country of origin principle or its significant restriction would make the Services Directive ineffective, and that would definitely erode those standards in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the initial text of the Bolkenstein directive represented an opportunity for the Europe of the Twenty-Five, and also an opportunity for the Europe of the Fifteen.
In its initial form the Services Directive was an opportunity to redress the imbalance arising from the unfair accession conditions imposed on the new Member States.
Their citizens do not have the right to work elsewhere in the Union and the agricultural subsidies are very low.
The potential for creating 600&#160;000 jobs is not something we can simply ignore.
That is why we have never voted in favour of rejection and have, from the outset, been in favour of its revision, and so far, we have succeeded in our objective.
With the vote in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, we MEPs have given direction to the debate.
We have proven that the proposal can be amended in a way that the objective of cutting out the red-tape and irresponsible obstacles to the free movement is achievable without affecting social protection.
I am very proud of the result which our group, under the direction of Mr Harbour in that Committee, managed to achieve.
Instead of looking to the left or right, we should look at the total package that is before us and that will help us a long way in our common search for more growth and jobs.
An overwhelming majority in Thursday’s vote will also help us close a triple gap: the gap between the institutions and the public, the gap that has come about between the old and the new Member States – let us be magnanimous enough to admit this – and also the gap between the theory of the Treaty and the factual obstacles that have hindered the development of the services market far too long.
We are looking forward to the proposals which the Commission has announced, and I hope that we will succeed in our goal on Thursday. &#160;&#160; () Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate only confirms the level of passions aroused by the draft Services Directive.
Both opponents and supporters are producing arguments that in some cases are rather suspect.
It has already been stated here a number of times that the free movement of services, which is one of the four basic principles underpinning the single internal market of the European Union, is not being implemented in practice.
If the agreed changes are adopted, the trade unionists demonstrating in front of this building can rest easy.
The answer is because they feel solidarity with trade unionists from the old Member States and because the enlargement of the EU will continue.
What some may see as unnecessary today can look very different after another year has gone by.
In my view, just as in many previous cases, European institutions are failing to produce directives that are clear and concise, in a way that makes it easy to monitor whether they are being implemented and adhered to properly.
Let us take a step towards removing one of the elements of that dispute and vote in favour of the Directive, provided that the compromises we have reached are implemented. &#160;&#160; Mr de Villiers, I should like to point out that we had a problem with the timing.
I will now allow you one minute of speaking time as it is impossible to speak coherently in the remaining 30 seconds. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I obviously find it very regrettable that, as fate would have it, this mistake crept in when one of France’s leading spokesmen for the ‘No’ campaign in the referendum was speaking.
I also find it regrettable that I am being cut off, with my speaking time slashed by a third, just when I am in the middle of saying that the Bolkestein Directive was unceremoniously thrown out by universal suffrage, with a kick up the backside from the people of France, and now it goes and makes a comeback here in the European Parliament.
There is a real need to stop the Member States’ discriminatory and protectionist practices, and we are therefore in favour of a directive on services drafted in this Parliament and not via the case law of the Court.
We do, however, demand that a balance be struck between, on the one hand, this freedom promoting the economic development of Europe and, on the other, respect for labour law, environmental protection and consumer protection.
It is true that we would have preferred genuine harmonisation to the clumsy and foolish text proposed to us.
All of us in this Chamber ought to have known that this draft would be overwhelmingly and justifiably rejected by European public opinion.
We can, I hope, succeed in excluding social services and services of general economic interest from this directive by voting in favour of our amendments.
Throughout this process, we have supported the rapporteurs, Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and Mrs&#160;Van Lancker, whom I thank for their listening skills and their spirit of openness.
Nothing is out until we vote on Thursday morning.
As others have said, many of us here have found that the Commission’s behaviour during the whole debate about the directive has been highly problematic.
If we are looking at the international context, to some of us that is about GATS, where we have heard certain things about what is really, in theory, on the table and then we hear about background negotiating positions which are leading to something else.
I would agree that health should be taken out of this directive; it should never have been there in the first place, and many of us look forward to a speedy proposal from the Commission on the issues of patient mobility and not service mobility, which is why it should not have been in the directive in the first place. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a huge demonstration today in Strasbourg has told us loud and clear that there is a need for a different Europe.
That is why we shall vote against this directive and this poor compromise. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are and always have been against the directive, even in its amended version.
The amendments that have been introduced do not, in fact, entirely eliminate the serious consequences that the directive may entail in terms of social dumping and, above all, of weakening the role and powers of regional bodies.
Furthermore, the general proposal of bringing down barriers to the entry of foreign service providers is liable to reduce the quality of services rendered to the public, as regards ensuring that organic food is supplied to school canteens, for instance, and the actual licensing of certain services.
Then there is a whole raft of regulations that the Member States and local authorities have put in place to protect consumers and users that we shall have to give up for good.
That is why we say a decided ‘no’ to this surreptitious attempt to impose a principle that is said to have been toned down in the directive&#160;… &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say this, but the European Parliament is running the risk of creating a monster with this directive.
It is in fact important to realise that all the powerful sectors have been excluded from the scope of this directive – telecommunications, banking and financial services, insurance and legal services – in other words, all those sectors that have been strong enough to keep out of the directive, whereas it will apply to all the weak sectors that need greater social protection and are less able to be represented and to exert pressure.
In conclusion, I call for the body to monitor&#160;… &#160;&#160; Madam President, in the tension between totally free market access and the preservation of indigenous national employment, I unapologetically see the priority as protecting local jobs.
Hence the country-of-origin principle, particularly in its original form in the proposed directive, is for me a bridge too far: it would be injurious to home-grown employment to permit service providers to operate in the host country of their choice without, unlike local providers, being subject to the same costly restraints in labour, consumer and environmental legislation.
I cannot accept that it should apply to core public services.
Thus this is a directive which I cannot, and will not, support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, things have for some time been looking good for the services directive.
Unity between the social partners, the social market economy and the compatibility of economic growth and competitiveness with social security are also the principles on the basis of which the Members of the European Parliament have, over recent weeks, come to agree among themselves and to rewrite the Bolkestein directive.
To Mrs Wagenknecht, I have to say that this directive is not about liberalisation or privatisation, and our friends in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance need to be reminded that the first sentence of Article 16 reads: ‘Member States shall ensure free access to, and the free exercise of, services’.
What we have done by rewriting the Commission proposal and the resolution on the internal market, and through negotiations between the groups, is to produce a business card for the European model of the social market economy.
We have also listened to the people and have, in the work we have done in this House, taken their fears and concerns on board.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner McCreevy, the Commission President and Minister Bartenstein are in fact right when they say that Thursday’s vote will be a very important vote, both for the development of the market in services and of the internal market in general and for the question of enlargement.
Our criticism of the directive in its present form was in fact that it will produce those very things.
Much of what has perhaps not yet happened formally is in fact already reality.
We therefore need to prevent even a small number giving the enlargement process or the internal market a bad image, because the internal market and enlargement are good things in themselves.
I am sure you will be able to wear the Presidency tie in the next few weeks and months, Mr Harbour, because this directive will continue to be a good directive and will open the way for greater freedom to provide services.
With , too, which was on a similar scale, the European Parliament did some excellent work and really opened the way for a sensible chemicals directive.
The European Parliament can be proud of that.
In my view and in that of the presidency, this compromise text achieves a great deal, on the one hand delivering clear added value on the internal market in services and the freedom to provide services, while on the other saying a clear No to any risk of social and wage dumping.
I personally do not believe that social security in Europe is an obstacle to European competition and strength, but that it is in fact a prerequisite for making Europe even more competitive.
Our presidency will be continuing to work hard in the weeks ahead.
We will take on board Parliament’s views and position, we will be putting it up for discussion with the social partners on 9 March and in the Competition Council on 13 March, and it will be debated by the European Council on 23/24 March.
I promise you that, and I also promise the European Parliament that we take its position on this very seriously and we will follow it to a very large extent. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I deeply regret that the presidency cannot stay until the end, for we need to decide what our priorities are, and I find it deplorable that people from the smaller groups will have to take the floor this evening without the presidency being present.
It is also regrettable that the smaller groups are not involved in the negotiations.
The aim is to strike a balance between consumer and employers’ interests and to position our economy well compared to the rest of the world.
We need a services directive with a win-win situation, a services directive that combines freedom to provide services with recognition of each Member State’s social rights and the protection of workers.
The country-of-origin principle, on the other hand, risks a downward spiral of social rights in Europe.
If Parliament deletes Articles 24 and 25 from the Commission draft, you intend bringing forward a new proposal?
We cannot overlook the fact that this is one of the most important instruments of the so-called Lisbon Strategy – one of its very cornerstones, in fact – aimed at stepping up the liberalisation and privatisation of public services, and at fomenting social dumping and competition between workers to the benefit of economic and financial groups.
Rejection of this proposal is therefore crucial if we are to avoid letting this legislation in through the back door.
I wonder, though, whether the Council and Commission can guarantee that the Member States can render services conditional on the requirements of medical ethics.
Drinking water is a topic that is equally problematic and is, for that reason, best kept outside of the directive’s scope.
The directive is not about the working conditions of temporary staff, for those are provided for in the Temporary Employment Directive.
Consequently, there is no reason why the directive should not apply to the temporary employment industry.
The directive must be fleshed out in practice.
The quality of its enforcement will be decisive in this respect. &#160;&#160; Madam President, for too long Europe has been dominated by the politics of fear: fear of globalisation, of immigration and of a race to the bottom.
In Ireland, such fears have not been grounded on concrete economic analysis but on anecdotal evidence of the negative change that the Services Directive bring.
It is vital, therefore, that we support a compromise that ensures the effective control and enforcement of workers’ rights by keeping the original purpose of the directive.
Europe needs to take a confident and unified step forward.
Gaining a workable consensus on this directive will demonstrate to our citizens that the European Union is committed to, and capable of, competing globally.
Most reforms start off as good intentions but can lose their original purpose in Parliament through amendments.
We cannot allow a situation to develop in which, as one economist was quoted today as saying, ‘the Services Directive could end up as a good example of “death by Parliament”’.
It is only by adopting the Directive in this form that we will establish firm foundations for implementing a single market in the services sector.
I will now quote from the first agreement between the states of the Union on economic integration, namely the Messina Declaration, which it is now 50 years old.
We come now to Question Time and I would like to thank the Council Presidency representative, Mr Winkler, for being flexible and allowing us to run slightly over time. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0002/2006).
I should like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the new procedure, under Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure, which was already in operation during January’s part-session.
I should therefore like to ask for the cooperation of the Council and the Members of this House in order to ensure that the maximum number of questions can be discussed and answered.
May I remind you that at the November 2000 summit in Zagreb the Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States and the countries of the Western Balkans expressed their commitment to the stabilisation and association process.
It was made clear that accession to the European Union can only take place if the terms of the Treaty on European Union are observed, the Copenhagen criteria satisfied and progress is made on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
Now so far as Serbia-Montenegro is concerned, that country has enjoyed trade concessions and financial and technical assistance since the year 2000 as part of the stabilisation and association process.
Since 2001, the European Union has also provided Serbia-Montenegro with political advice through the consultative task force, which was later replaced by the strengthened permanent dialogue in preparation for negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
If progress is to be made in the various stages of the negotiation process, Serbia-Montenegro will have to continue to cooperate very closely and consistently with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
That applies just as much for Serbia-Montenegro as it did for Croatia and as it also applies for all the other countries at issue here.
The European Commission is also monitoring Serbia-Montenegro’s cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal during the negotiations for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
The honourable Member also raised the matter of Kosovo.
The stabilisation and association process is a process taking place under the auspices of the European Union.
We cannot at present say how this will be interpreted if the two parts of the existing state are separated.
However, and this is perhaps the direct answer to your question, we certainly do not want the process of convergence with the European Union to be interrupted, even if Montenegro should become independent.
We must be permitted to debate and discuss the functioning of the different institutions of the European Union, including the European Court, but, I repeat, that in no way means we are calling the institution itself into question.
We certainly accept that the Court is an institution set up, as you have described, by the Member States; and we accept that the Court decides and passes judgment and that the Member States have to accept that judgment.
That does not mean that one cannot comment on the judgment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, there was a material background to the Austrian Chancellor’s criticism, namely the fact that there are problems of numbers and financial problems between Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany over access to higher education, similar to those that have arisen between France and Belgium.
The Bologna Process, which will involve the establishment of a European area of higher education by 2010, is of great importance for our young people in particular.
The reason for this is probably that the rules governing access to higher education are caught between the rights of the EU’s citizens in the internal market on the one hand and the strict observance of Member State responsibility for course contents and the shaping of the education system, which is anchored in the EC Treaty, on the other.
This tension exists in other areas of the Lisbon Strategy as well, where national competences confront European objectives and solutions have to be found that do justice to both principles.
Nevertheless, in 2005 the Russian Government announced that it ‘does not intend to endorse’ two already finalised border treaties with Estonia, just signed by both sides and ratified by the Estonian Parliament.
The European Union is by no means an indifferent observer, as you put it, but is regularly and quite clearly voicing this concern in talks with Russia, most recently at the Troika meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Union and Russia in November 2005.
There is no doubt about that, and there can be no other considerations that would take away from this solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Russian side repeatedly complains that the Baltic States are not meeting their obligations, especially so far as the Russian minorities in those States are concerned.
The Council is therefore perfectly plain in underlining that the rights of the minorities are respected and that the European Union is also making great efforts in practice to combat every kind of discrimination in the Member States.
Such discrimination is not in accord with the relevant rules or the Copenhagen criteria.
It goes without saying that every Member State of the European Union is required to abide by those rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would just like to ask whether the Council is aware that the Baltic States’ problems arose because the Baltic States were occupied for decades under the Hitler-Stalin Pact in violation of international law.
The important thing is that, as Members of the European Union, the Baltic States should satisfy the relevant provisions, norms and rules of international law, of the Council of Europe and the OSCE in particular.
So far as possible and insofar as the rules allow, we want to achieve the greatest possible transparency between the institutions.
The site also provides information about the legislative acts finally adopted by the Council in a given month and the monthly list of the Council’s legislative acts.
We will act in relation to the services directive in the same way as in all codecision procedures – there are very clear rules – which means that at the beginning and end of the procedure there is an open debate.
We are trying to make the rules more transparent, but it will take a certain time. &#160;&#160; I welcome this excellent initiative taken under the British Presidency.
The European Council has stressed that the objective of economic and social cohesion must continue to be at the centre of the European Union’s policy for the duration of the next Financial Perspective.
The Council is prepared to act as swiftly and as constructively as possible.
If not, at what level and with what end in view can the talks at the level of the Permanent Representatives Committee II take place in the time until a mandate is given? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I can answer Mr Rack’s question by pointing out that according to the Presidency’s work plan the trialogue meetings will be prepared by the Permanent Representatives Committee II.
All that is already under way.
My question is therefore: Is the Council still convinced that the common agricultural policy and the policy for rural areas are making an essential contribution to achieving the Gothenburg and Lisbon objectives, and does the Council still consider ensuring the necessary resources are available, in the Financial Perspective in particular, to be a priority? &#160;&#160; Mr President, honourable Member, I have already mentioned, and I repeat, because this is the Council’s position: we stand on the ground of the agreement that was reached in December.
That is the framework in which we are moving, and the priorities that follow from that will now have to be set in the negotiations.
Diversification of energy sources, the promotion of domestic energy sources, renewables in particular, and energy efficiency are important aspects of the security of energy supply.
On security of supply, particular mention should be made of EC Council Directive 2004/67 of 26 April 2004 concerning measures to safeguard security of natural gas supply, on diversification of energy sources the directive from 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, which aims to see 22% of the Community’s electricity generated from renewable sources by 2010, and the 2003 directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport.
I should also mention the December 2005 proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and the Council on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, which is expected to be adopted in the next few months.
Neither should we forget the Sixth Research and Development Framework Programme and in particular the ‘Intelligent Energy for Europe’ Programme, which seeks, among other things, to promote new and renewable energy sources at local and regional level and in developing countries.
The Council is also showing the importance it attaches to renewable energy sources in the non-legislative domain.
In their contribution to the Spring European Council in March 2005, the energy ministers support giving priority to a strategy for renewable energy sources beyond the year 2010.
Energy policy and the security of energy supplies in particular will also appear on the agenda – no doubt prominently – for the Council’s next meeting in the spring.
In its contribution to the international action plan of the June 2004 International Conference for Renewable Energies in Bonn, the Council noted that EU energy policy should aim to increase the use of renewable energy sources significantly and that increased use of renewable energy, improved energy efficiency and sustainable energy use will also contribute to security of supply as complementary areas of policy.
At its meeting on 29 November 2004, the Council adopted conclusions on renewable energies which highlighted the importance of making renewable energies more competitive by reducing production costs, among other things.
I am sure that renewable energy sources – biomass in particular, of course, but not only biomass – will have greater market opportunities in the months and years ahead, because the price of oil is not going to fall to 10 or 20 dollars a barrel again; that will be a good thing, because it will be an opportunity to increase Europe’s independence.
Those are three reasons why we should rethink our position.
Their efficiency in terms of gross domestic product per unit of energy consumed is much lower than in the countries of the EU 15, where they began to break the link between energy consumption, gross domestic product and growth back in the 1970s as a result of the 1973 and 1974 oil shocks.
We need a coherent energy policy that does not overlook any of the possibilities already mentioned: renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency, but at the same time also diversification in fossil fuels, that is in gas, and of course also diversification in pipelines.
It is certainly very important that the European Parliament and the European Commission should also support the Nabucco gas pipeline project that could bring some 12 billion cubic metres of gas a year to Central Europe from the Caspian Sea via Turkey from 2011 and around 30 billion cubic metres of gas a year from 2020.
I also very much welcome the announcements made by Russia and its finance minister at a recent G8 summit in Moscow that they are going to reconsider or abolish Gazprom’s export monopoly.
Cooperation with Gazprom has stood the test of time, it is true, but this means that we will also be able to speak, negotiate and work with other Russian partners some time in the future.
However, we in Europe need to bear in mind that we are currently responsible for around 14% of global CO2 emissions, and by 2050 the figure will be about 10%.
In other words, currently around 86% and in future 90% of CO2 emissions come from elsewhere.
Another question, of course, is how we should deal with countries such as China and India, which have no obligations under the Kyoto Protocol.
We in Europe should go a step further, but at the same time we need to bear our competitiveness in mind and protect the climate as cost-effectively as possible.
If we can invest in European countries, for example in the new Member States, and thus reduce CO2 emissions for less investment than would be possible in, for example, the EU-15 Member States, then we should go down that route, and this is laid down in the Kyoto Protocol.
At the same time, however, we are also aware that energy prices have an effect on competitiveness and thus on employment.
We are going in the right direction, and in the next few months we will find out how the second post-Kyoto phase will be implemented in the EU Member States and what the national allocation plans will look like.
However, that does not of course mean that, even today, we can easily cope with an increase in the oil price from USD&#160;30 to USD&#160;60 just like that; and there are voices – which I hope will never be proved right – predicting three-figure prices in the near future.
With respect to gas, it must be said, to be fair to our Russian friends, that their intention was to get Ukraine to pay the world market price, although the world market price is a relative term, so it would be better to say the standard price in Europe, of about USD&#160;220 per thousand cubic metres.
The compromise provides – and the contracts have now been drawn up and signed – that a mixture will be produced of Russian gas at about USD&#160;220 and much cheaper gas from Central Asia, and Ukraine will pay about USD&#160;95 for that mixture.
With regard to world market prices and European gas prices, you should be aware that the US buys its gas at a much higher price than we do in Europe.
That, in turn, is an argument in favour of a more long-term approach to energy policy and in favour of increased partnership.
It is important for us in Europe to reach agreements with Japan, the US, and similarly with other consumers, to achieve a goal for which the oil-producing countries are also aiming: stable long-term prices.
It is quite incorrect to believe that it is in the primary interest of the OPEC countries to reach a price of USD&#160;100 as soon as possible.
There is therefore a common interest in creating stable, reliable energy markets and guaranteeing secure supplies and stable prices.
Supplementary occupational pensions are an important subject, including in connection with our concept of 'flexicurity' – flexibility through security.
The Council has already started examining the proposal submitted by the Commission at the end of October 2005 for a directive on improving the portability of supplementary pension rights.
By the end of February, the preparatory body responsible for examining the matter, in other words the Council Working Party on Social Questions, will have discussed the proposal in six meetings.
The Austrian Presidency has included the proposal in its draft agendas for the Council's meeting.
On the other hand, it is quite clear to see that, when it comes to social security, each country has its own traditions and therefore that any attempt at harmonisation would be doomed to failure.
In the field of pension rights, we should not forget that most European countries use a contributory system as the basis for state support.
At the same time, we know that it would be appropriate to supplement this contribution-based system in part by one based on capital, including in the state sector.
I am working on the assumption that the Member States will, and should, retain their decision-making authority and competence over the relatively long term, but that we should also establish – in particular through this directive – ways to make it easier for European employees with pension funds to transfer their pension rights throughout Europe, which the introduction of minimum standards would of course make considerably easier. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Bartenstein, I share your view that the possibility of transferring supplementary occupational pensions undoubtedly increases mobility.
Many of the available statistics show that mobility is twice as high in the USA as in Europe.
Nevertheless, in general it gives our young people an opportunity to increase their mobility and opens up to them a European market in interesting jobs and career opportunities.
I myself will have the honour of taking part, and Commission President Mr&#160;Barroso, Commissioner Špidla and the President of the European Parliament have also agreed to be there.
This therefore forms an important part of the Lisbon Strategy.
That concludes Question Time. &#160;&#160; We shall now resume the debate on the report by Mrs&#160;Evelyne&#160;Gebhardt on services in the internal market. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, as a new Member of the European Parliament, I should like to say that, having attended these debates for 18 months now, I have discovered the richness and the quality of the work done in this Chamber.
I should like to pay tribute to our Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, to its late chairman, Mr&#160;Whitehead, to its rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Gebhardt and to the draftsman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs&#160;Van Lancker.
I should like to thank those at the helm of our group, to whose work we owe the draft we are debating today: Mr&#160;Harbour, the shadow rapporteur and coordinator of our group; Mrs&#160;Thyssen, our vice-chairman; and our indefatigable secretariat.
Thanks to all these men and women, we have made a significant breakthrough: the compromise is a new text.
First and foremost, it establishes the internal market in services.
This draft takes away from the Court of Justice the de facto monopoly it has been exercising for the past 50 years with regard to implementing the principles of the Treaties.
The internal market in services is based on mutual confidence and entails administrative cooperation, the simplification of administrative procedures and the abolition of protectionist obstacles, in terms both of the setting up of service companies and of the temporary provision of services.
The compromise therefore proposes that Parliament vote in favour of a framework act geared towards economic growth, innovation and employment.
It is made absolutely clear that the compromise excludes social standards and labour law.
This is a true compromise: it is the subject of criticism from both sides, which clearly shows that we have found a happy medium.
The initial draft Bolkestein Directive was overwhelmingly rejected because it was seemingly designed to make the completion of the internal market dependent on the reduction of social rights and on the reduction of environmental standards and of the protection of those consumers who had attained a higher level of protection in some Member States than in others.
By seeking to base the internal market no longer on competition between businesses, but on competition between the social systems of the various Member States, the Bolkestein proposal has made it seem as though it is playing the Member States’ interests off against one other.
It has created a suspicious atmosphere between old and new Member States, running counter to the European Commission’s task, which is to unite all Europeans around a common project.
By including many social services and some services of general economic interest in the scope of the directive, the Commission has tried to subject activities that are crucial in terms of social cohesion to nothing other than the logic of competition and of the market.
With this draft, the European Commission has, for the first time ever, proposed a law that, unlike the Community method, encourages the disparity in national laws and rewards the least demanding Member States.
Nevertheless, it does have a responsibility: once you recognised that this text was badly thought out and badly put together – as you pointed out, Mr&#160;McCreevy – it was your responsibility to withdraw it and to propose another text that was more in keeping with European social principles and liable to restore people’s confidence.
Mr&#160;Barroso, you stated that the Commission was willing to include the amendments that would help us make progress with the internal market in services, but you did not state what you would do with the amendments aimed at safeguarding social rights, environmental standards and consumer law.
Nor did you state what you had in store for the amendments that would exclude social services and certain services of general economic interest from the scope of the directive.
On the contrary, Mr&#160;McCreevy even stated this afternoon that he wanted to retain some services of general economic interest in the scope of the directive.
They know that competition equals progress and growth.
Parliament and the Commission ought to erect a statue of Mr&#160;Bolkestein, the most famous European in 2005 and 2006, so that everyone remembers that we no longer want a proposal of this kind, based on an initiative of the European Commission.
Admittedly, we have moved on today from the stage we were at with the initial Bolkestein Directive: our parliamentary committees have worked, and they have worked hard.
Is that a good enough reason, however, to accept this compromise?
We cannot accept services of general economic interest, social services or social housing being affected by this directive.
If the aim is to restore confidence among all of our fellow citizens, who increasingly doubt the part played by European integration in improving their everyday lives, then we must quickly switch to a real form of upwards social harmonisation, not least by making it our priority to draft a directive that defines the notions of European public service. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the proposal for a Services Directive is reactionary.
It threatens employees’ rights and it is in danger of leading to social dumping.
We therefore want the proposal to be rejected in its entirety.
If it is not, we shall vote in favour of each proposal that limits the harmful effects of the directive, for example proposals to do away with the country of origin principle and to exempt certain sectors from the directive.
The proposed compromise between the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats removes important defects from the proposal, but major ambiguities remain, which are supposedly to be resolved by the European Court of Justice.
We cannot accept a situation in which employees’ rights, together with legislation designed to protect our citizens, are sacrificed on the altar of the free market. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the many demonstrators who, in a dignified manner, today showed their opposition to the Bolkestein Directive.
The compromise between the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not alter the crux of the matter.
The country of origin principle is being removed but is not being replaced by a clear host country principle.
The Posting Directive continues to give low-wage countries the right to undermine our own wages and the Danish model of collective bargaining.
These principles sound good, but the three words reflect the fact that it is the judges in Luxembourg who will decide whether national legislation can be regarded as unlawful if foreign companies are not in practice equally entitled under it to tender for work and to provide services.
We wish to see free competition, but it must also be fair, and we therefore propose services regulated by the open coordination method so that our democracies are not turned into unlawful trade barriers by the judges in Luxembourg. &#160;&#160; – Everyone agrees that the Services Directive would legalise the movement of services within the territory of the European Union.
On the other hand, particularly when one takes into account the dangers posed by most of the amendments, this directive could drift far from the original draft and become an insurmountable obstacle to the further development of the European Union.
I agree that in reality education, according to both the Community Treaty and the Directive, is, above all, a matter of national responsibility, and the European Union only funds general education programmes.
However, if there is a lack of national responsibility and the funding of general European education programmes does not increase, then the Services Directive, by only confirming the responsibility of the national authorities, while neglecting education services, does not help to solve the problems surrounding the expansion of education in Europe, it simply perpetuates them.
The mountain has laboured and brought forth a bureaucratic chimera.
It is those who actually want to stand up for the idea of Europe who will have to bear the consequences of all the problems that have now been built in, and also of the complaints that will be coming our way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the prosperity and well-being of the EU’s citizens are based on recognised freedoms: the free movement of goods, persons, capital and services.
While the promotion of the free movement of services fits within the framework of the Lisbon process, being necessary to achieve growth and jobs, the proposal that was before us, turned out to be a quick-fire solution, one which, whilst it may be lethal, can also have positive effects.
Being from a border region myself, I am aware that we must prevent administrative obstacles from hampering the posting of workers, or preventing it altogether.
Once everything runs along smoothly in the temporary employment sector, I for one will be in favour of bringing this sector within the scope of the Services Directive, but that point has still not yet been reached, what matters now is that this Temporary Employment Directive be put back on track.
This is what makes the process of the Services Directive so effective and I am pleased with the compromises that have been reached. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the compromise that we have before us and on which we are to vote on Thursday is a services directive quite different from the Bolkestein Directive.
I can therefore say to Mr&#160;Bonde that the thousands of honourable trade unionists demonstrating outside Parliament today support the compromise arrived at in this Chamber.
Mr&#160;Bonde needs only to read the press statement by John Monks, General Secretary of the European Trade Union Confederation, to know that this is so.
This arrangement will provide more jobs.
The public sector will be safeguarded, and we shall have avoided a split between the new and the old Member States.
That is something we have avoided by means of the compromise now before us.
We shall now obtain competition on fair and transparent conditions, and we shall obtain protection of those interests that serve the public and the individual citizen in the public sector as variously manifested in our societies.
I think that what we have here is an important compromise, and I also think that it represents a crucial developmental trend on which we must build further, irrespective of whether we are talking about the Working Time Directive or the many other matters we have to tackle.
It will definitely move us in the right direction. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have been discussing this Services Directive all around Europe for almost two years.
Sometimes, a lot of misunderstandings arise and, sometimes, these misunderstandings are exploited in a quite distasteful way.
The services sector is a growing part of our economies, offering major opportunities for jobs and growth.
The country of origin principle is clever inasmuch as it creates a genuine internal market without discrimination.
That constitutes significant progress for people and companies.
The compromise now circulating among the big groups has introduced an extremely woolly concept, namely that of social policy.
It can, indeed, be heard how representatives from the various groups are already interpreting the compromise.
The compromise means that the concept of the country of origin principle is being removed and replaced by a political vacuum.
Let us vote down this directive.
Instead of enforcing the liberalisation of everything, we should respect democratically taken decisions to preserve sectors from short-term thinking focused on the market.
We also need democratic efficiency in which people are not constantly ridden roughshod over by bad directives. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the directive on the free provision of services and freedom of establishment forms part of the more general anti-grass policy of the European Union and is based on the Maastricht Treaty and on the ratified objective of the Lisbon Strategy to create a single market, with the primary objective of strengthening competition, maximising the profitability of the monopolies, by privatising public and public utility services, and striking at the fundamental employment and social rights of the working classes.
The political agreement between the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, with the package of amendments, does not change the reactionary nature of the directive, the basic principle of which is the country of origin, in other words full unaccountability for capital and the destruction of thousands of small- and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed people.
The argument that liberalisation will mean cheaper services for the peoples does not stand up, given that, with the directive, services will be concentrated in fewer hands and the monopolies will determine quality and prices in keeping with increased profits, which is why we shall vote against the directive.
At the same time, we value national self-determination.
If we accept the country of origin principle, we give up national sovereignty.
We believe that the benefits of this principle are too limited for us to be prepared to do that.
This principle mainly affects services such as construction, cleaning and consultancy.
The second freedom allowed entrepreneurs from the old Member States to be involved in the privatisation of the Polish State Treasury’s assets on exceptionally favourable terms, notably in the baking and insurance sector.
Unfortunately, when it comes to free movement of persons, the very freedom that would be most beneficial to the new Member States, we face significant restrictions.
Regrettably, the current draft contained in Mrs&#160;Gebhardt’s report is a far cry from the version tabled by the European Commission and has very little to do with the idea of the free movement of services.
This is particularly surprising as services account for almost 70% of the European Union’s GDP, and the free movement of services would undoubtedly accelerate the rate of GDP growth in the old Member States as well as in the new ones. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine the follow-up to our work.
It is time we reminded ourselves that we are in a codecision procedure here.
Cleverly, our colleague, Mr&#160;Harbour, was able to abandon the idea of a parliamentary victory, which was the likely outcome but which led straight to the slow agony of drafting a crucial text on services.
To persist in wanting this kind of market would be a Pyrrhic victory.
On the basis of this observation, it is the logic of enlargement that is today called into question.
I identified a real problem in the discrimination felt by the new Member States when faced with the restrictions imposed on the free movement of workers.
That was the thinking behind the work that we, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, carried out under the aegis of Mrs&#160;Van Lancker when we deleted Articles 24 and 25 from the initial text.
However, a study of the text has also demonstrated the many shortcomings in the Community’s legal arsenal.
If I said today, ‘Ich bin ein Polish plumber’, I wonder whether all of us would realise that the issue is still the unity of Europe, and whether we would all agree.
The Services Directive extends beyond interests and it addresses values.
We want a Europe where service providers enjoy legal certainty in the Member States.
We want a better Europe, where service providers can create European jobs and meet consumer needs legally.
We must create a certain, stable and clear legal background.
This is particularly important for small and medium enterprises.
We cannot loosen the certain, stable and clear framework that is being established.
We cannot accept any undefined exceptions, because these would leave room for the arbitrary decisions of Member States.
We do not support the total removal of public services of an economic nature, but we are ready to examine sectoral exceptions individually.
We recognise and indeed welcome the protection that European consumers are entitled to everywhere and at all times, but we do not accept that consumer protection should restrict the freedom of service provision.
And last but not least: in the challenge of global competition, Europe cannot afford to spend the jointly produced GDP on administrative supervision. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this is a fateful time for Europe.
The Commission, has, unfortunately, already made its choice, Mr&#160;McCreevy, and contributed unhelpfully to the compromise between the two big groups.
We, in this Chamber, represent the citizens.
I believe that the demonstration was a healthy exercise in democracy in which the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs took part with the aim of rejecting the directive as it stands and of proposing some substantial changes to its content.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance obviously wants a European market in services, but is categorically opposed to its being governed by competition between national laws, which is what the country of origin principle implies and which, in fact, would result in downwards harmonisation.
That is why we will vote in favour of the proposal.
It disproportionately affects women, both as the majority of workers in the service sector and as users of those services, and I agree with points made this evening about decisions ending up with the Court of Justice.
The services sector creates the most jobs, but cheaper service providers are prevented from accessing the market.
The attempt to hold up the liberalisation of services is reminiscent of the attempt to hold up the flow of cheap consumer goods from Asia.
It is expensive because it requires a sprawling administrative system, and it is ineffective because it contributes to the boom in illegal services that is detrimental to workers.
Cheap services are the only way to resolve, or at least alleviate, the problem of finding resources for … &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the issue of the challenges facing the European Union in the contemporary world of global competition arises in nearly all the debates held in this Parliament.
We would like Europe to develop in a dynamic fashion and become the most competitive economy in the world in a few years’ time.
The citizens of Europe would like this too, and they are confident that the decisions we take in the House are driving the Union towards that goal.
The European economy is crying out for development and the citizens of the Member States are crying out for jobs.
The draft directive we are debating today, prepared under the previous Commission, was an appropriate and rational response to these demands.
Given that services amount to 70% of the income generated within the Union and provide jobs for the majority of Europeans, we ought to be doing everything in our power to ensure that this sector can develop without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles.
Unfortunately, this is the sector in which the most obstacles to freedom of movement exist.
The Union will be unable to compete successfully on the global market if it is paralysed by fear of internal competition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my predecessor, Mr Philip Whitehead MEP, would have been proud to have spoken on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
He would have been proud of the work done by our rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, and all the Members who have worked so hard to improve and amend the Commission proposal.
He would have wanted to have been here to witness the mature and responsible way in which this Parliament is building a consensus on behalf of our citizens for the opening of the market on services.
If we get it right, we can open up the market, boost jobs and growth across the EU and help Europe compete globally with the booming services market in India and China.
The black economy is thriving in Europe in the services sector because these complex and costly barriers are encouraging businesses to engage in undeclared and illegal work.
I believe consumers can see the benefit of choice and competition if they can be sure that if something goes wrong they can have a speedy remedy in a local court and they do not have to chase down a bad provider to Lisbon, Paris, Warsaw or London to have their rights recognised.
This is what we are trying to achieve in these compromises.
Citizens are looking to us to make the right choice: to get rid of crippling protectionism in the single market in services and protect working and consumer rights.
It should look at setting up an EU trust mark or an EU quality assurance scheme to give the consumer the trust and the confidence to use these services which respect consumers’ rights and working rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, every now and then one of the dozens of decisions taken by the European Parliament stands out as vital to the future of the European Union.
Implementation of the directive will promote economic growth and make the European social model more widespread.
That is also true in this case, and we should strive for compromise despite our differences of opinion.
The spectres of Frankenstein and the Polish plumber should disappear from European consciousness and be replaced by trust, freedom and solidarity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is calling for the withdrawal of the proposed Bolkestein directive and, in all events, we are seeking the abolition of the principle of the country of origin which is being maintained under the new name of the 'principle of the free provision of services'.
We are calling for uniform European specifications and for the prevention of social dumping and unfair competition levered by companies with flexible social and environmental legislation.
The fragile compromise between the European right and the socialists, under pressure from reactions and demonstrations by trades union, moderates but does not remove the neo-liberal philosophy and negative charge of the proposal.
The European Left rejects the disguised Bolkestein directive and calls for amendments limiting its adverse repercussions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the fear generated in the countries of Western Europe by the phenomenon of the ‘Polish plumber’ has manifested itself in successive attempts to weaken the draft Services Directive on liberalisation of the services market.
One can therefore conclude that such strong resistance to the adoption of the directive in its initial form stems from irrational fears verging on xenophobia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, next year will be the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, when the European Economic Community called for the abolition of the obstacles to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital as the main objectives towards achieving a common or internal market.
In Austria, foreign ski instructors cannot provide services for more than 14&#160;days.
In Belgium and France, emergency repairs can only be done after an eight-day prior notification, which is a contradiction in itself.
Nearly 70% of the working population in Europe is involved in the services sector, which represents 55% of the EU’s GDP, but, at present, services account for only 20% of trade between Member States.
The incomplete market has created nearly EUR&#160;1&#160;000&#160;billion of prosperity and 2.5&#160;million additional jobs in Europe.
I welcome Commissioner McCreevy’s undertaking to propose a separate directive on patient mobility and the whole issue of cross-border health service provision.
I support the provisions of Article 16 wholeheartedly ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, right now, everyone’s attention is on the European Parliament.
We have every opportunity to set the political agenda.
I shall give a few examples from the area covered by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
When it comes to services of general economic interest, it is up to the Member States to decide whether or not they wish to open up such services to competition.
This is a constructive compromise which combines the merits of the internal market with security in the labour market and, moreover, protects the public services to which people in our Member States and regions currently have access.
Some people believe that this is an unclear compromise.
The initial proposals of the Bolkestein directive were, however, contradictory and, in many respects, ambiguous and wrong.
On the one hand, there was the impression that the revitalisation of fair competition was essentially being reduced to a for social and democratic dumping.
On the other hand, because of the perfectly legitimate resistance to such ambiguities, there was a feeling in many countries, especially the new Member States, that the intention was to consolidate or uphold protectionist barriers and obstacles to the free movement of services.
I believe that, on the basis of the compromise texts that have been tabled, those contradictions and failures can now substantially be put right.
To counter that objection I would point out that it is preferable to run that risk than to create a scorpion, since the sting in that little creature’s tail would certainly poison the balance of the European social model. &#160;&#160; – () A commercial television station in the Union told us today that EU workers are protesting against the Services Directive.
The report forgot to add that these are workers only from the old Member States, whereas workers in the new Member States, second-class citizens in the EU, want the Directive.
The Berlin Wall has fallen, the new Member States have opened their markets to goods and services from all over Europe, and yet there are still EU Member States that have not duly implemented European legislation on the free movement of services.
These states are hypocritically protecting their markets against mutual competition, in contravention of the law of the Union and the rulings of the courts.
We are confronted with Chirac’s idiotic phantom in the form of a Polish plumber, hovering over France and other countries.
They have not presented us with any studies, but have rather used the rapporteur to foist false impressions on trade unionists.
The internal market is not an end in itself.
An efficient internal market without barriers and without discrimination, with fair framework conditions, is a win for Europe – for providers, service providers, consumers and employees.
The solution is not to reject, but to reshape. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to say that this is not about the East against the West, because I come from the West and I am all in favour of the Services Directive.
The services market offers marvellous opportunities to many, and innovative and quality jobs can be created in the services sector.
The directive must be adopted with the widest possible scope, which means that services of general interest or services of general economic interest – and it is perhaps time we defined those terms – that are currently on offer should fall within its scope without further ado, just like health care, temporary employment agencies and gambling.
I will vote for this directive only if it results in more free movement of services.
It is important for small companies, and it is especially important for small countries.
EU protectionism that hides itself behind social policy or consumer protection is preposterous.
If a group of Swedish tourists goes on holiday to Greece accompanied by a diving instructor, the person concerned must actually be able to speak Greek.
We therefore need better rules for the cross-border trade in services.
We can improve this compromise on Thursday by reducing the number of exemptions and also including private health care.
We should, then, carry through what the Austrian Presidency says it is seeking, namely an ambitious Services Directive that contributes to increased prosperity for us all. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on services in the internal market could be made beneficial, if you were to centre the debate on the harmonisation of employment arrangements, with the objective of their maximum possible improvement and the convergence of economic structures and technological capabilities.
However, this specific proposal for a directive, on the pretext of institutional deficits and emergent malfunctions, is trying to impose a strategy alien to social interests, which aims to further strengthen capital and reverse the working-class achievements.
Any attempts to find compromises for a better legislative text will fall wide of the mark, given that, if we take account of the recent circumstances, there is no reason to believe that a pro-worker or development regulatory framework will be achieved which will safeguard the Union's social model.
I hope indeed that we will learn the lesson for the future about communicating Europe. ' &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are today debating one of the most significant legislative acts for the future of Europe.
In fact, they are an effort to call a halt to the economic integration of Europe on the basis of four fundamental freedoms.
We cannot go along with hypocrisy and calls for the restrictions on enterprises’ freedom to provide services and for restrictions on consumers’ freedom to access these services, all under the pretext of protecting national sovereignty.
We are also concerned that, in certain Member States, the debate has centred on the Polish plumber and on the Latvian or Portuguese construction worker, whilst genuinely discriminatory administrative barriers are actually the most serious problem.
This tendency has become even more marked since the enlargement of the Union.
The result of the discriminatory restrictions affecting the cross-border flow of services is that small and medium-sized enterprises are missing opportunities to develop and create jobs.
Europe needs a Services Directive that will ensure the provisions of the Lisbon Strategy do not simply remain on paper.
A clear and unambiguous text is required if we are to achieve this aim.
Thanks to Parliament’s work, parts of the text that were unclear have been improved, but we must not create new difficulties as we vote on the draft.
It is a manifestation of the national bureaucracies’ lack of political ability to face up to the challenges of the real economic and political world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I want to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, Mrs Van Lancker and their shadows in the other groups for the excellent work they have done in seeking to strengthen the services directive.
It is obvious to most people in this House that a race to the bottom in any area will not win the allegiance, or indeed build the confidence of European citizens in the European project.
But then please support the broad progressive majority in this Parliament to deliver a ‘de-Bolkesteined’ directive by supporting the key compromise amendments which have been painstakingly negotiated.
This House will be abdicating its responsibility by refusing to adopt the amended directive now on offer and leaving our services market, our labour rights, our consumer rights and our environmental rights in this area to the uncertainty of case-by-case decisions of the European Court of Justice.
We will see if Europe is ready to establish the internal market, ready to liberalise it and legitimise the fundamental provision of the European Union.
The result of our vote is being awaited by the European Commission, the Council, small and medium-size enterprises and labour unions.
The Services Directive will directly benefit small and medium-size enterprises, primarily by simplifying and facilitating the provision of services in other Member States.
Complete services market liberalisation is particularly important to the new Member States.
I&#160;am therefore in favour of the articles on worker assignment being reinstated in the Directive.
I would like to praise the work of the shadow rapporteur, Mr Malcolm Harbour, who has managed, on the basis of an agreement between right-wing and liberal factions, to maintain the country-of-origin principle, and also called ‘the freedom to provide services’, while the Member States may turn down a service provider for reasons of health protection and environmental conservation.
However, I have a problem with the compromise amendment that includes, in particular, the possibility of registering a reservation for reasons of consumer protection or social policy, as this enables the authorities in the country of destination to block access to a service provider from another Member State at any time, and thereby negates the country-of-origin principle.
It seems to me that the public discourse on this Directive has focused too much on criticism of the country-of-origin principle.
Very little has been written up to now about the substantive benefits of the Directive, which simplifies administrative cooperation, and establishes single point of contact or a standard form available in electronic format.
In conclusion, allow me to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Evelyn Gebhard, for her hard work in drafting the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since the compromise that is before us is in the spirit of the best Dutch tradition of combining open markets with a reasonable level of social protection, it enjoys the full support of my delegation.
Our Economic Affairs Minister recently said that his main concern was that there were so many exceptions in the directive.
As you know, we reached a marvellous compromise on this very subject in this House four years ago, one that enjoyed broad support from us but has since been with the Council, frozen, for a long time.
For the temporary employment sector too, the directive we came up with then and which struck a balance between protection and opening up markets, was a much better basis for imposing European legislation on the relevant sector with more accuracy and care, and I should like to ask Mr McCreevy to deliver on his commitment and to create legislation in the areas of health care and temporary employment that is different from this directive’s. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, there has been much talk this evening about the need to open up the services market in the European Union and also the need to remove obstacles to the achievement, or implementation, of some of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
What requirements should this directive, this text, have in order to fulfil the role we have set for it, however?
In my view, firstly, it should set some clear criteria, which provide everybody with legal security, both consumers and entrepreneurs and, in particular, small and medium-sized businesses, which make up the majority — some 80 or 90% — of the European Union’s business fabric.
And furthermore, this text - which should offer legal certainty and, I repeat, be clear - needs to be applied to all of the countries of the European Union.
I must say that, in my opinion, the text approved in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection met these requirements.
I have to say, however, that, at this point, I have my doubts as to whether the compromise texts that have been agreed meet the requirements of clarity and legal certainty.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a brief observation.
I would like to say that the best kind of social policy is one that generates economic growth and creates jobs.
I would like to say that the only possible danger to the European social model is a European Union without economic growth, clinging to old prejudices and incapable of competing with other economies, because, if we do not grow, it will be impossible to maintain our social policy. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European Union is based on four fundamental freedoms.
Politicians have been either unable or unwilling to explain to the citizens that the freedom to provide services results in new jobs and faster economic growth.
The adoption of the directive will make life easier for consumers and entrepreneurs, accelerate economic growth and create 600&#160;000 new jobs in Europe.
We have heard time and again that opening up the services market will result in social dumping and poorer working conditions, but these views are totally unfounded.
I would remind the House that issues relating to employment and labour law have been removed from the scope of the directive, which should allay the fears expressed by the Trade Unions.
I believe that this will ensure a balance between the need for competitiveness and the need to protect labour rights.
It will allow competition to be strengthened and the labour markets to be opened up.
It will also make life easier for consumers and businesses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have two pieces of bad news, two pieces of good news and one recommendation.
My second piece of bad news concerns the Commission.
The second piece of good news is that we might get a broad majority in the European Parliament.
I hope that the Austrian Presidency can get a broad majority in the Council.
Furthermore, this proposed directive from the Commission does not even deal with the liberalisation of services, because the central issue is the liberalisation of the labour market.
That is to say, Article 16, in relation to the principle of country of origin, is not going to liberalise services; its intention is to liberalise the labour market, because there are certain concessions made by the then Commissioner that run counter to social protection, environmental protection and consumer protection.
I believe, however, that Parliament is currently on the point of presenting a genuine directive on the liberalisation of services.
The proposed services directive, which I believe will be approved on Thursday as a result of the agreement between the two big political groups, is now going to enable services to be liberalised, in accordance with normal procedures.
Furthermore, one of the amendments introduced calls upon the Commission, in agreement with social actors, to present concrete proposals for the liberalisation of services within five years.
If the Commission approves Parliament’s amendments, the Council could agree to it and we could see the beginning of a genuine liberalisation of services. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I personally had many reservations about the initial text which the European Commission presented two years ago.
In other words, it did not seek in the right way to overcome any administrative and legislative obstacles in order to facilitate investments in this sector.
The Committee on the Internal Market has made material interventions both in the scope of the directive and in workers' rights and I think that the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, improve the text of the directive still further, address certain problems with the initial country of origin and create the preconditions for broad social and parliamentary consent.
Similarly, it would be very useful to have labour law excluded from Article 2 so as not to cause a dangerous dispute.
Even if, in the end, the country of origin principle is no longer mentioned, the proposed compromise will hand over the actual power of the legislator to the Community judge, who will decide the direction in which European social policy is steered.
Applying the country of destination principle to the exercise of service activities and the country of origin principle only to the right of access would have been preferable.
As for those who falsely claimed that voting against the draft European Constitution meant the death of the Bolkestein Directive, the current situation shows them that, on the contrary, this directive is still very much alive and that it requires us to be extremely vigilant and to keep on fighting. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are addressing a topic that is important for truly creating the internal market.
I was the rapporteur for the directive on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts, on which some 800 amendments were tabled, and for the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, on which some 600 amendments were tabled.
Unfortunately, the Prodi Commission’s proposal incorporated neither the reasoning nor the content that made Parliament have to rewrite the two directives, just as today we are being forced to rewrite the directive we are examining.
The Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection has already stated a position that I share and, from my personal experience in this field, I do not appreciate those who, rather than seek a compromise, want to reject the whole idea, thus going against the Treaties.
Lastly, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;Gebhardt again for the work she has done. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial debate for Europe’s future, which resonates in the economic, social and political spheres.
The compromise solution obtained between the main political groups strikes me as a well-balanced one.
Although this process of establishing the internal market in services is very important for Europe’s economic development, the rules ensuring European social cohesion must be complied with.
If this did not happen with the initial version of the directive, we can now, as Members of this House, adopt a text that will make a balanced and lucid contribution to the creation of a genuine European market in services that will, at the same time, guarantee social cohesion.
To this end, clarity and courage are of the essence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall begin by saying that I am going to vote in favour of the compromise, that I much prefer the compromise to the original directive, and that I shall focus on a single issue: the reimbursement of costs generated by a citizen from one Member State for services they have received in another Member State.
If the President will allow me to employ the case method, I shall use the example of the Valencian Community, although I could be referring to any other region, an Italian region for example.
This pressure poses a threat to the health services.
But in practice the reality is that this right is not respected, that this right is a purely rhetorical statement.
At the moment, I do not know what the situation is with Article 23 or the amendments intended to remove it.
We want this article to be approved as it is, and that is how I shall vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are those who think that we have given misleading information about the directive.
Commissioner McCreevy, you would be able to win us over if you said to us today that the services of general economic interest are best kept outside of the scope of this directive, but you have stated the opposite.
A decision has been made in favour of legislation on the basis of the differences between the 25 Member States, and I do not consider that to be the right way to go about the integration of markets. &#160;&#160; Some say that a watered-down directive is still better than nothing.
However, this is not true, because there is a limit beyond which we are no longer helping the free provision of services, but creating further obstacles in its way.
If we vote for them, we will destroy the essence of this proposal.
We have a lot to lose, because in the past decades the European Court of Justice has repeatedly protected the rights of service providers against restricting attempts made by Member States.
If we now accept a directive full of new obstacles that are conflicting with the spirit and letter of the founding Treaties of the European Union, we cannot hope that the Lisbon Programme, intending to create jobs and new European growth, would be successful, because we would actually restrict this market for another 30 years.
This is why many of us, MEPs from new Member States, are shocked to see that now, when we should be jointly opening the services market, several old Member States with a strong economy are hesitating.
We, Hungarians, can only support a directive that does more than preserving the Treaty of Rome principle concerning free services in name only. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are debating will doubtless be remembered for the tortuous and difficult path it has followed.
We in Parliament have been working along these lines in order to contribute to development and growth in the important services sector in Europe, without ever losing sight of the social dimension that Europe must have and the need not to put off the harmonisation process indefinitely.
The amendments that have been introduced and the compromise we have reached to a great extent address the questions and demands that have been raised concerning both working rights and the so-called country-of-origin principle.
There are still some unresolved issues, however, including services of general economic interest, which I hope will find a solution during the final vote, on the basis of the amendments that have been tabled.
In the wake of the one-sided Bolkestein approach, the compromise now reached strikes the right balance between removing obstacles and national barriers in the internal market and the need for social cohesion.
Fears that it would result in social and wage dumping are no longer justified.
The Posting Directive has priority, which means that the construction sector and other sensitive sectors in the Member States can be protected, and minimum wages can be maintained.
In order to prevent business from simply registering a PO Box address in another Member State, a consumer-friendly regulation has been laid down: a branch office will only be recognised if it can be demonstrated to have appropriate infrastructure and a permanent presence.
People are entitled to protest in public, but they have greater credibility if the content of their protests is accurate.
The public, the Commission and the Council are awaiting the decision of this Parliament, and there is an awareness everywhere of how important this House really is.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been consistent in its basic intention both to give the internal market a new dynamism – with Lisbon as the watchword – and to maintain social standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is better to accept the proposed compromise than reject it.
In any case, this is the starting point for a single, viable labour market.
Europe needs economic growth.
This directive was supposed to make the European Union stronger at global level and better able to compete with other economies the world over.
Members of this House are increasingly of the opinion that it is the new Member States that are competing against the Union, not China or the USA.
The old Member States that joined forces against this directive have caused a recrudescence of combative jargon.
I believe that the new Member States will manage.
Economic growth in the eurozone is practically nil, and the economy is developing slowly.
Resistance to opening up the services market fully carries with it the risk of losing a key stimulus that would accelerate the Union’s economic growth and create new jobs.
The original draft of the directive represented a new opportunity for the European Union of 25&#160;Member States.
The way in which the majority in Parliament seems to have converged in order to drastically rethink the Services Directive shows the relevance of this institution.
We are converting a proposal that could have had disastrous effects on our societies – especially on those most in need – into a much more sensible one.
After our rejection of the Port Services Directive, for the second time in a relatively short period we are showing our commitment to a social Europe.
I believe that Mr Whitehead would have been proud of Mrs Gebhardt and the rest of us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, at the stage we are at with this matter this evening, I am aware that it is politically improper to oppose a compromise painstakingly drafted by leaders of two political groups.
Of course, this principle would be unable to prevail over all the others because we have controlled and managed it.
The bottom line is that the rules of the country of destination relating to the posting of workers have never been the subject of dispute.
Mr&#160;President, I am not willing to swallow just anything in order to reach a solution that, on the pretext of defending social standards, actually defends protectionist standards, and I will vote accordingly. &#160;&#160; An hour ago, this House heard that trade unionists only from the old Member States were demonstrating in Strasbourg against the Directive.
A compromise is very important for a fundamental document such as the Services Directive.
I&#160;think that the rapporteur has done a&#160;very good job.
In my opinion, we have achieved a number of acceptable compromises.
Therefore, I believe that we should vote for what represents a ‘win-win’ situation in support of Europe, offering the best solution for both the old and the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, having listened to the debate here in plenary, there is good reason for recalling why we need a Services Directive and why we are working to obtain a more open trade in services.
It is because we are all basically agreed that an increased trade in services will provide more jobs, more new companies, increased growth and greater competitiveness.
On the basis of the debate in this Chamber, it would seem, however, as if many have forgotten this.
I wish, however, to emphasise that I do not accept the picture presented, in terms of which we are concerned here with a conflict between East and West and between new and old Member States.
What we have instead is a division between those who want to see the trade in services produce further European integration and cooperation, borders that are more open and a greater number of new jobs, and those who take a different view.
We shall make efforts to have private health care added to the directive, to have the Posting Directive made clearly and unambiguously open to all and to prevent any discrimination against the people of any country.
I want to say the following to the Commission: this is a first step, and you have a responsibility to ensure that we take more steps in the direction set out by the Treaty. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am taking the floor to explain why I shall vote for this directive, together with the rest of my delegation.
We are certain that it represents the beginning of the way ahead and a step forwards in strengthening the idea of completing the internal market.
I should like, however, to comment on what has been happening within the political groups over the last year and a half, and above all in the last few weeks, as well as this afternoon and evening here in this Chamber.
It is the difference between those who believe that we can achieve growth and development by taking a gamble and investing in what is new, in innovation, flexibility, the possibility of working in a freer, more open market and, above all, in a market of almost 500 million people, and those who instead believe that what they have achieved so far can best be defended by closing in on themselves.
Instead, there has been a different division, which has led to a directive which, in my view, is only a first step.
In my country, opponents of EU membership used to conjure up nightmare scenarios that foreign workers would invade us and take our jobs.
The same Cassandras played the same act in the old Member States too, but now we know that the doomsday scenarios were just not true: they did not materialise, nor will they materialise with the Services Directive.
It is good for business – in particular for SMEs – and it is good for jobs.
This directive is attempting to achieve a massive amount in one brave step.
However, in the intensity of debate on specific amendments, particularly relating to Article&#160;16 on the freedom to provide services, let us not lose sight of the overall objective of what we are trying to achieve.
This is the first stage of a process that aims to create a directive that will promote a more open and better-functioning internal market for services.
If adopted in the right form, this directive can facilitate growth, job creation and increased economic activity in the services sector.
This directive can contribute to that.
In short, this new compromise directive may not give all political groups all of what they want, but it will remove many barriers to cross-border trade and services and reduce the red tape that businesses encounter when they try to expand into other EU countries.
A balance between the protection of employment law and collective agreements within the EU Member States and opening up a more efficient market for services has been achieved through compromise.
I hope this Parliament will give a strong mandate to the Commission to carry this directive forward with renewed momentum following Thursday’s vote, and I look forward to seeing a further improved version of this directive before Parliament in the not-too-distant future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it probably goes without saying that the adoption of this directive will be a highly important political event.
If Parliament adopts the directive by a large majority, however, the political signal it sends out will be even more significant, since it will once again confirm the role that we play in the legislative process as mediators between the bureaucracy of Europe and the individuality of each of the Member States.
I consider the compromise of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to be valid in leading towards the liberalisation of a sector that accounts for a very great part of our economy, a sector that the Treaty defines as a fundamental freedom.
The five-year revision clause will enable us to improve the text and continue the process of liberalisation.
With regard to the economic aspect, we have set ourselves ambitious targets in terms of growth and employment.
Amendment 13, moreover, excludes the obligation for Member States to liberalise such services or to privatise public bodies and existing monopolies, such as lotteries.
That opinion challenged the then prevalent hostility to this directive, with the absurdly exaggerated claims about Polish plumbers and social dumping that were then being thrown around.
From its very first directly elected plenary in 1979, this Parliament has championed the cause of a truly free and open single market, as envisaged in the original Treaties.
Out of an internal subcommittee of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, of which I was proud to be a member, came the Kangaroo Group and the 1992 single market programme under the Single European Act of 1985.
Now is our opportunity to emulate the courage and foresight of our predecessors and make sure that a real single market in services is implemented.
I must say that we politicians and people in power sometimes fall behind society, and I say this because there are two aspects of the directive that are of great interest to me and that are unfortunately not going to be taken up to a great extent: on the one hand, the recognition of qualifications and freedom to work for skilled people and, on the other, the issue of health.
These citizens have the right to speak in their own languages, to be treated in their own languages and to have services provided in their own languages.
This situation exists; society has created it, and we do not want to recognise it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;McCreevy, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of the Services Directive is to foster economic growth and employment in the European Union.
Currently a large number of administrative obstacles impede the effective functioning of the EU internal market.
The most negative impact of administrative obstacles and the costs associated with them is on the ability of the SME sector to offer services outside their own countries.
The services sector makes up about 70% of the EU economy, and so the removal of administrative obstacles in this sector would give a significant boost to its development.
Analysis by the European Commission shows that in the period from 1992 to 2002 measures taken to improve the EU internal labour market and to open up the EU’s internal borders increased the EU’s GDP by 1.8% and created two and a half million new jobs.
This increase was mainly achieved by ensuring free movement of goods and liberalising the telecommunications and energy sectors.
The European Commission’s analysis also shows that a properly functioning EU internal services market could bring about equal growth in the economy and jobs.
It is therefore important to vote for a strong Services Directive which includes the country of origin principle, at least in the variant voted for by the European Parliament’s Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, maintaining those articles of the directive that lay down the rights of service providers regarding the posting of workers to a country where services are being provided, and also restricting the list of exceptions.
Leaving out these principles would considerably distort the meaning of the Services Directive, and opportunities for additional EU economic growth would be missed.
Some of the European Parliament’s Members are trying to seriously distort the significance of the Services Directive and to implement a protectionist policy in relation to service providers from the new Member States, without taking into account the economic losses which that would cause to the European Union as a whole.
We have heard all the arguments for and against this proposal.
What is clear to me is that despite the divergences there is a strong body of opinion in support of a services directive, a common wish to arrive at a broad understanding of how we should go forward.
I said that the Commission will take full account of those amendments that find a broad consensus here.
I believe we are close to that consensus, particularly with regard to the scope of the proposal and the freedom to provide services as set out in Article&#160;16.
There can be no going back on Treaty provisions or court jurisdiction.
If you vote by a large majority to delete Articles&#160;24 and 25, then the Commission will come forward quickly with guidance on that key initiative.
It is important that the message that comes with this debate and the vote on Thursday is one of Europe moving forward in proposing a framework for a better services directive which will provide the incentives and confidence necessary for businesses, entrepreneurs and consumers to take full advantage of our internal market by investing in new opportunities and developing and buying new services which will create more jobs and growth. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m. &#160;&#160; – The services directive, which will be put to the vote on Thursday in Strasbourg, provides a chance to demonstrate to the 450 million European citizens that Europe and especially Parliament are listening to the people’s demands and concerns and are trying to reconcile them with a strategy of growth and development that only harmonisation and a real opening-up of economic activities can provide.
However, in a diversified context like Europe, with new countries seeking opportunities and old countries trying to protect themselves, with small and large enterprises and 25 different legal systems, compromise is the only way to proceed.
We must therefore welcome the commitment shown by all the political groups and players concerned to reach an agreement.
It is an important opportunity for Europe to recover its confidence and to relaunch its bid for a kind of economic growth that will not damage our social model; that bid has unfortunately lost credibility in recent months.
We need growth and we need to revitalise our economy, and the services directive is an important initial measure, provided that the welfare and rights of our workers are not called into question. &#160;&#160; – The directive on establishing an internal market in services was proposed by the Commission when its President was the social democrat Romano Prodi, and has now been taken on by the current Commission under Mr Barroso’s leadership.
It is a proposal that panders to the interests of the large multinationals by paving the way for them to exploit the workers and dominate further economic sectors.
What is being proposed is the total liberalisation of services, including public services, which will have detrimental consequences for the workers and for the sovereignty of individual Member States.
If it is adopted, this proposal would act as a lever, a kind of ‘Trojan Horse’ to undermine salaries, collective work contracts and workers’ rights.
It will also act against the Member States’ ability to provide effective protection for public services, and, in general, to control how those services are provided.
It is impossible to ‘reform’ this proposal, as the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are seeking to do, in an attempt to retain the core negative elements of the directive and, at the same time, to save face.
It could be argued that these individuals are in favour of liberalising the services market or even against doing so.
I wonder if the directive's opponents have given careful consideration to competitiveness and the future of service providers, and whether they really do want a single market.
There has also been talk of protecting social achievements, but this seems to mean protecting them in the rich countries only, not in the whole of Europe.
That is why we must vote against the amendments that would water down the directive, hamper its implementation and threaten the achievement of the desired results.
I voted against the directive and I wish this statement to be entered in the Minutes. &#160;&#160; Seventy per cent of Europe’s GDP is now based on services.
In the recently approved joint statement by the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission on the European consensus for development, the European Union commits itself to the more predictable and less volatile aid mechanisms.
The Commission believes that innovative mechanisms for financing development have a useful role to play.
Amongst other things, this communication discussed innovative sources of financing and new delivery aid mechanisms and invited the Council to ‘agree to accelerate work on the most promising options for innovative additional sources of finance’.
The Commission notes France’s readiness to start implementation of one of the proposals emerging from that debate, namely, the imposition of a solidarity contribution on all air tickets sold in France as of July 2006.
This initiative may have a positive effect on other countries’ readiness to carry forward initiatives in the area of financing for development.
The Commission would also like to inform the European Parliament that, to support the debate and preserve the momentum on these issues, a technical workshop between the Commission and Member State representatives was held on 9&#160;February 2006.
While the European Union is the main donor, it must do more today; it must work more effectively and it must move more swiftly.
The European consensus on development and the new strategy for Africa are steps in the right direction, as was the recent announcement of the creation of a European fund to finance African projects, and I am delighted at these breakthroughs.
The European Union must work on implementing these instruments so as to produce stable and predictable resources needed to meet the unfulfilled requirements of developing countries, particularly in the health care sector.
Several Member States already support these initiatives.
Commissioner, you pointed out that some of these countries, including France, committed themselves to implementing international solidarity contributions, for example on flight tickets.
The IFF leverages money from international capital markets by issuing bonds which can potentially raise USD&#160;50&#160;billion each year from 2005 to 2015.
The IFF has already put in place a pilot scheme for immunisation, which is searching for vaccines for malaria and for HIV/AIDS – the scourge in Africa and many other parts of the world – for which there is no cure.
The agreement is to provide a global advanced purchasing scheme to make sure that life-saving vaccines are commercially produced at affordable prices and that these are produced in ways of which we in this Parliament should all approve and which we should find essential at this time.
When he heard about the IFF, Nelson Mandela said that it was an absolutely necessary and timely initiative that deserves an active response from the international community.
The title of this resolution is somewhat restrictive and mentions a new financial instrument as if there were only one solution to the problem, but the text is fortunately much broader.
The resolution floats the idea of a solidarity contribution on air tickets, but that should not be the only avenue, and like Mrs Kinnock I should like to suggest other possibilities.
No country has ever been lifted out of poverty by aid alone and countries which have enjoyed the most spectacular rates of development, such as China, have enjoyed high levels of FDI.
I am very glad that the Commission will be represented at the meeting in Paris, but I would like to know whether it has plans to encourage the other Member States to go, whether there will be a mechanism for feeding back to Parliament the results of the meeting in Paris, and whether there are plans to share the contents of the workshop that took place on 9&#160;February between the Commission and the Council.
The data and figures on poverty send this House a deafening appeal for help.
In the current state of technological development and agricultural production, the fact that this situation persists is economically irrational, politically unacceptable and morally shameful.
The biggest scandal is not that there is still hunger in the world, but that it persists even though the international community has the means to eliminate it.
The time really has come to turn words into action. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the international debate on substantially increasing development aid from the leading industrialised nations had intensified – and that is a comforting situation – because it is highly likely that we will fail to reach the development goals set by the international community at the turn of the millennium.
There is international consensus that a significant increase in public development funding is needed if we are to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and thus halve poverty in the developing countries.
Time, and the growing poverty in many developing countries, is therefore pressing.
The European Parliament must use the decision to continue to exert pressure on the Member States to achieve the 0.7% threshold for funding provided for development cooperation and to press those Member States – including my own – that do not yet have a plan of how to achieve this by 2015 to draw up such a plan as soon as possible.
It is also important for us to emphasise that these innovative funding methods always involve additional resources.
I believe that it was in its document issued in April 2005 that the Commission proposed the idea of a global lottery.
Commissioner, I think that the option of a global lottery is easier to follow through than many other options.
I take no pleasure whatsoever in searching for a solution outside our budgets: our countries should be quite serious about doing what they say they are going to do, but given that they are incapable of keeping their promises, this new idea at least has the virtue of not bothering anyone and of being unrestricted, if, in each of the Member States, it is the legislative authority that allocates this share of the profit to the World Food Programme instead of to the local State authorities.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
