President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the 20th EU-Russia Summit will take place on Friday of this week in the Portuguese town of Mafra.
We will report on developments in the European Union, in particular on progress made in drafting the new Reform Treaty which has just been adopted in Lisbon and on the energy liberalisation package proposed by the Commission and adopted on 9 September.
In our opinion, the principles of the Energy Charter Treaty and the text on worldwide energy security adopted by the G8 in Saint Petersburg must be included in the new EU-Russia Agreement which will be legally binding and will replace the current Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA).
As a member of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe, Russia has a particular responsibility to protect our common values.
Unfortunately, the start of negotiations on a new agreement between the EU and Russia is still deadlocked.
The Commission has indicated its readiness to continue contacts in order to find a mutually acceptable solution.
Unfortunately, the situation has been further complicated by the decision taken by the Russian veterinary authorities at the end of last month to ban the import of meat produced by 36 EU undertakings.
The interruption to oil supplies destined for Lithuania through the Druzhba pipeline also represents a sticking point preventing negotiations on a new agreement between the EU and Russia from getting underway.
We actually agreed with Russia in 2006 that the PCA would remain in force, thus avoiding any legal vacuum in our relations with Russia.
We know it is a critical period for Russia, a few months ahead of the crucial parliamentary and presidential elections, and we also know that the European Union has repeatedly expressed its concerns on the implementation of democratic principles and human rights commitments in Russia.
I had the occasion to discuss the forthcoming summit with the President's key advisor, the special envoy Mr Yastrzhembsky, when I was in Kaliningrad on 11 and 12 October.
And Kaliningrad is, of course, a very special case, due to its unique geographic location.
Another sign of positive elements in EU-Russia cooperation is the fact that the memorandum of understanding between the European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction and the Russia Federal Drug Control Service is going to be signed on the margins of the summit.
On a less positive note, I would like to inform you that, although there was a clear Russian commitment in Samara in May to finally sign our agreement on the Siberian overflights, in time for the next summit in Mafra, prospects for this happening seem to be very slim.
The first is that any decision or any act against a Member State must be seen as a decision or act against the European Union as a whole.
I hope that the European Union is luckier in Portugal than the Russian writer was in Wiesbaden.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, in the run-up to the coming summit, the key assumption for my Group remains that Russia and the European Union have a number of important interests in common and, despite our many differences of opinion, the European Union should continue to operate on the basis of that assumption during the coming summit.
The energy relationship is extremely important and we also think that the starting point has to be reciprocity, but we do have to realise that we are dealing with a form of mutual independence here that we should try to manage better together.
We all know how important it is to be able to form a proper judgement of the elections; a country that has ambitions to hold the presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe really should also be able and willing to work with the OSCE when it comes to observing the elections.
Finally, and I reiterate what I said at the beginning, we should continue to be critical towards Russia; critical when it comes to human rights and democracy, but we should not polarise things unnecessarily.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, May's summit in Samara exposed the cracks in our strategic partnership with Russia - on energy, on Kosovo and on human rights.
From the Council and the Commission we have heard too much Realpolitik and not enough Moralpolitik.
It is for that reason that my Group sought a resolution to close this debate, and over 300 MEPs backed our calls.
Our resolution of 2 May in advance of the Samara Summit was very helpful.
If the approach adopted at Samara is undermined, Russia will become ever more convinced that integration and especially the 2004 enlargement are developments that may be disregarded or played down.
The reality is that human rights in Russia are constantly under pressure and the state of democracy there is lamentable.
The reality is that freedom of speech and press freedom are succumbing to a strict self-censorship.
The reality is, Minister, that free elections are utopia there.
That is the reality in Russia, Minister, and I hope that you will remember this when you speak to Mr Putin at the end of this week.
Let us forget about Galileo.
If our view is that the situation in Chechnya is completely at odds with human rights, we need to make that very clear to the Russians, but we also need to follow up on it afterwards.
In the area of the Northern Dimension something has been achieved in matters relating to the Baltic Sea, but we must move on to new areas.
We are completely dependent on one another in the matter of energy, but that dependence needs to work both ways.
The decision we took yesterday will be interpreted - and already has been in fact - by the Russian authorities as a great success: no resolution, no message.
As Marie Mendras told us yesterday, this climate of permanent violation of human rights is not spurring the people there into action.
In light of this situation, it would be naive to think that free and transparent elections will take place in Russia on 2 December.
If we cannot find a shared language and do not strive to gradually improve relationships, the EU will suffer from it more than Russia.
I am saying this not only from my own long experience of work in this country, but also on the basis of words borrowed from the head of American diplomacy. (NL) Madam President, I would like to thank the Presidency-in-Office and the President of the Commission.
Relations between the EU and Russia are incredibly complex.
That is not going to change at this election time.
However, we really must acknowledge that for Russia and the EU there is no economic and political alternative to partnership.
Madam President, we have an excellent agreement for that partnership.
What always strikes me is that in Russia stability and democracy are seen as opposites; that is not and never can be our view, of course.
There is something that we do not want to accept, however, and that of course is the negative developments, and both the Council Presidency and the Commissioner have made that clear.
That would be in our interests, and we should make it very clear that we want to work with Russia to foster this partnership, but with a Russia which recognises the independence and sovereignty of all its neighbours.
We should not distrust the elections on principle, but a country such as Russia which thinks that it has fully developed its democracy must also allow some measure of scrutiny.
If Russia wishes to play a major role in the Council of Europe and the OSCE, then we must call on Russia to demonstrate this by admitting election observers to ascertain whether its own elections are transparent and fair.
That is the clear message that the European Union should be sending to Russia. (PL) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I believe that as we debate relations between Russia and the European Union we should ask ourselves what Russia wants from the European Union and what the European Union expects from Russia.
The presidential elections in the Russian Federation will not result in change.
Andrei Lugovoi, the alleged murderer of Alexander Litvinenko, is set to become a Member of Parliament, thus acquiring immunity.
In so doing, they are sending out a clear message that the Kremlin's interests take precedence over all laws and over respect for European Union Member States.
The EU and Russia share an interest in a strategic partnership.
I am convinced that we should keep reminding our Russian colleagues of these values now in relation to the imminent elections in Russia.
At the upcoming summit in Mafra, the EU should also be reminding our Russian partners of the principles of transparency and reciprocity in economic relations.
Equally, however, Russian markets should be fully open to European firms, including the energy markets and associated firms. (EL) Madam President, the transition to a new Strategic Partnership between the EU and Russia is not an easy undertaking.
Broad, robust partnership structures are therefore needed for cooperation in the areas of: economic issues; freedom, security and justice; external security; and research, education and culture.
President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is in the mutual interests of the Union and Russia to set common political and economic targets for the sake of democratic principle, peace, stability and security. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by highlighting the importance of a strategic partnership between the European Union and Russia, and by stating my affection for the people of the Russian Federation, and indeed for all the nations of Russia.
In the documents it has prepared in advance of the EU-Russia Summit, Amnesty International draws attention to human rights violations in Russia.
The Portuguese Presidency should raise the issues referred to by Amnesty International at the summit due to take place in Mafra on 26 October 2007.
Russian civil society, journalists and human rights activists need to be able to perceive the European Union as a guardian of fundamental rights and as an ally of a Russia that is democratic, liberal and open to the world. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the EU-Russia Summit will prompt us to pause for a moment and define our common interests for once, for these common interests undoubtedly exist.
This also applies to developments in Russia itself, notably in respect of human rights and press freedom, and its increasingly frequent and unacceptable statements concerning the independence of its neighbours.
Every country has the right to take its decisions on a free and independent basis, and to determine where its path should lead.
Russia has to accept that.
There can be no reversion to outdated notions and the use of energy as a weapon, which is even less acceptable.
It is in our interests, too, to ensure that no new vacuums emerge in Russia if oil prices fall. (PT) The summit may prove useful in resolving the ambiguities that continue to affect relations between the European Union and Moscow.
Unfortunately, there is no cure in sight for the drift towards autocracy of Putin's Russia and, if the Council of the European Union continues to shut its eyes to the situation, it will take even longer to find a cure. (RO) The Mafra Summit of 26 October 2007 will take place on the brink of events of major importance for the future of the relations between the European Union and Russia.
I would mention only a few of them: the expiry of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Russia, the parliamentary elections of December 2007 and the presidential elections of March 2008 in Russia.
This context offers the possibility not only to urge Russia toward an open and honest dialogue with the European Union, but also to make a cold review of the last 10 years of cooperation.
The review of the last 10 years proves to us that frozen conflicts have persisted in this region and that Russia's economic and political relations both with the countries in the region and with its neighbours, current European Union Members, are not always based on reciprocity, confidence and the principle of good relations.
If we speak about frozen conflicts, a good recent and well-known example in this respect refers to the conditions under which the political prisoners Andrei Ivanţoc and Tudor Popa were released, they being living proof of the fact that there is instability in the area, that there is an area of insecurity that affects the entire region.
We have to balance our relations and we have to signal that we are prepared to stop our cooperation if Russia does not answer with reciprocity and openness.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have paid close attention to all the speeches made here today on the imminent summit between the European Union and Russia and in general on relations between the EU and Russia and also on Russia's internal situation as you see it.
The EU needs Russia in the same way that Russia needs the EU.
It is based on this absolutely undeniable finding that we must build a relationship which is course mutually beneficial but which is also solid and firm, based on common values and principles.
A problem for one Member State - and I have always said this - is a problem for all Member States.
On the issue of human rights, we all know that at the root of our Union lies respect for rule of law, democracy and human rights.
We hope - and this is what we will work towards - that, despite the difficulties, problems and differences of opinion, despite everything, we will be able, at the end of this summit on Friday, to say that some progress has been made in our relations and that, despite the difficulties, we have managed to achieve our objectives.
However, I also said that it is of course a neighbour country and that is why it is especially important to take issues such as those raised by Graham Watson, Christopher Beazley and others very seriously.
On the one hand, there are very substantial security issues at stake here, of course, while on the other, there are human rights and democratic interests.
You are absolutely right, Mr Beazley, but I can assure you that they will be on the table as well.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) In connection with the EU-Russia summit, I would like to draw attention to a few factors concerning energy policy.
In matters relating to energy in recent years, we have also seen Moscow use its energy exports to exert political pressure on numerous occasions.
A decline in supplies could mean Moscow using politics to an even greater extent as the basis for fulfilling its energy orders in future.
In order to safeguard energy supplies in future too, the EU Member States have relied on more intensive cooperation in this sector since the 1990s.
The Energy Charter is a key instrument in this context.
There is nothing unusual about that: demonstrations are a normal occurrence in Europe's capitals, and they sometimes spiral into violence.
You may be for him, or you may be against him.
What is not acceptable, ladies and gentlemen ... (Uproar in the Chamber) You may be for Prime Minister Gyurcsány or you may be against him.
