Mr Pierre Pflimlin and Mr Piet Dankert are no longer with us.
Experience, then, teaches us that we can win successes for Europe when we want them ourselves, when our will to achieve unity for our continent while maintaining its diversity remains strong and determined.
What we have to do is to serve the citizens of the European Union.
We stand in the same solidarity with our other Sakharov Prize winners, 'Las Damas de Blanco' (The Ladies in White) in Cuba and Aung San Suu Kyi in Burma/Myanmar.
We must endow ourselves with a constitution that ensures that we can represent our values and interests in Europe and as a respected partner in the world.
The idea of uniting Europe has for the most part been carried through successfully since the signing of the Treaty of Rome 50 years ago.
If we in Europe wish to live in security, we must commit ourselves as a partner to every aspect of the world's security, and we must be aware of the fact that, without European solutions, most of the challenges faced by this continent and the world can no longer be met.
The road is a hard one; that is true, but I am firmly convinced that our continent is better equipped today for its future in the world of the 21st century than it was 15 or 20 years ago.
We should also show our respect for the dedication of European citizens who by their work are raising Europe's profile - in Europe and in the world.
A 'House of European History' such as this should be established in the seat of the European institutions and should network with comparable foundations in the Member States.
The 'Declaration on the Future of Europe', to be adopted jointly by the European Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission on 25 March 2007 in Berlin - an event over which you, Mrs Merkel, will preside - could create the conditions for this.
The European Union is the largest grouping of nations in the world, consisting of 27 nations with almost 500 million citizens.
The 'Declaration on the Future of Europe' scheduled for 25 March 2007 in Berlin could be another important milestone on this road.
Anyone who serves only the interests of his own country will ultimately squander these as well, because he will destroy the solidarity that is needed if they are to be defended. (Applause) We intend to help to ensure that under the German Council Presidency a road map and a mandate are agreed at the summit in Brussels on 21 and 22 June, as the outcome of which full implementation of the substantive core of the European Constitution will be in place by the next European Parliament elections in 2009.
Quite apart from that, though, if a change of government in a country calls into question that which has been agreed by the European Union, not only is society split in that nation, but our continent, which is already quite complicated enough, is increasingly incapacitated.
I can tell this House that Europe's future is largely dependent on successful coexistence between the cultures and religions within the European Union and between the European Union and our neighbours, first and foremost in the Arab and Islamic world.
We, in this European Parliament, must encourage and support examples of European civil society that are dedicated to dialogue between cultures.
This is a crucial investment in our intellectual development.
Our work is often unglamorous, it can be stressful and not particularly spectacular, but our goals are great, and so much is expected of us.
In this task I would like to represent you all in such a way that the dignity of the European Parliament, the unity of our continent of Europe and the effectiveness of the European Union are strengthened.
In your speech today, you drew our attention to the next European Parliament elections in 2009.
We will face the citizens of Europe together - we as representatives of the nation states and you as representatives of the European Parliament - and will have to give an account to almost 500 million people of what concerns us, in what way this Europe of ours benefits them and why it matters.
We agree that the issue of the constitutional treaty will be the crucial issue for the 2009 elections - both in connection with our self-perception and our relationship to our citizens, and, secondly, also in terms of a 27-member European Union's capacity for action.
It is for that reason that the German EU Presidency, together with the Commission, Parliament and the Member States, will do everything in its power to set a timetable for completing this project so that people in 2009 know what kind of Europe they are voting for and how this Europe will be able to act in future. (Applause) My plea is that we should continue our discussion on how we can further clarify the structure of the respective relations between the Commission, Parliament and the Council, even though it still sparks controversy in some areas.
I believe that our international travels give us all encouragement to draw attention to the fact that Europe generates 15% of CO2 emissions, while 85% are generated outside the European Union.
We have seen that today, now with twenty-seven Member States, we can again work and contend for peace and freedom in a democratic process with almost all European countries, even though it is not always easy.
Honourable Members, you have elected a President whose experience and commitment to our common European project is second to none.
The enlargement and integration of Europe to include 27 countries, free of war and free of totalitarianism, underlines the strength of these values and the lessons we have drawn from history: only through a shared undertaking are we able to provide the answers to our citizens in the global world of the 21st century.
We, better than anyone, can shape this globalised world.
I strongly believe that cultural diversity is a source of Europe's strength and of its ability to promote its values and interests in the world.
I would like to take this forward in partnership with the European Parliament, as a visible demonstration of how European institutions, working together, take European integration forward.
To signal the importance of this dimension, last year I invited the President of the European Council to participate in a meeting with religious and church leaders.
On 25 March, we have the opportunity to celebrate both our achievements and our values.
We are all here to serve European citizens.
I believe that cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission is working well.
The energy and commitment of Chancellor Merkel gives us real hope that we can find a consensus and make a compelling case for reform and progress to European citizens.
But the Presidency of the Council can only achieve results if it is supported by all the Member States.
Second, the act of signing a Treaty also implies a responsibility towards the other Member States, towards European institutions and towards European citizens.
Regarding their positions about Europe, sometimes some politicians remind me of James Mill, the father of John Stuart Mill.
We are not credible when we say that we want to speak with one voice to the outside world on energy and we keep speaking among ourselves with 27 voices and 27 markets.
I believe we can build a Europe that will be able to shape the future of our world around the values of freedom and justice that are so important for us. (Applause) President Barroso, I should like to thank you for your statement and especially for your commitment to partnership with the European Parliament, which is most welcome.
This applies to the euro, which has been a success, and also, on a broader level, to our work as lawmakers.
They also want Europe to defend and promote the values of our civilisation and our culture.
They are in favour of a common energy policy guaranteeing safe, affordable supplies, and do not rule out any energy source that may guarantee our independence.
I should once again like to commend the German Presidency, and in particular Mrs Merkel, on pursuing all these issues with such determination.
These challenges are not only for the next six months, but for the next ten or 20 years.
The 25 March Declaration, on the occasion of the Union's 50th anniversary could be an opportunity to propose the rebirth of political ambition for Europe.
The Commission is both Guardian of the Treaties and guardian of the Community's general interests.
In every speech I have heard today, I have heard reference to the social Europe being the core and basis that holds our society together.
I do not, Mr President, share your view that it was the United States of America that defeated Communism or helped to overcome it in Eastern Europe; it was not the United States that did that, but the courageous men and women in Poland; it was they, the Hungarians, and the people in the Baltic States, who defeated Communism, not the Americans, and that, more than ever, needs to be said in this House, with gratitude to the Members from those countries, who represent the new democracies. (Applause) My last comment I shall address to you, Mr President, for, since you have turned your attention to the issues of our future, and delivered a speech that is, to my mind, one of the best in this House for many years, it is to you that I will say that I also have the confidence that you will put that into practice.
As President of this institution, you will have a weighty task, particularly as regards the Constitutional Treaty, and if you can help to find common ground between the highly divergent views of the Heads of State or Government, in the same way as you managed, as chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) to hold the conflicting interests of that group together, then I am confident that your Presidency will be a good one. (Applause) Mr Schulz, It is not for me to judge your speech, but I would like to say that, for one who did not actually want to speak, you managed to do so with a great deal of conviction.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, your experience in this House since direct elections in 1979 has qualified you well and has given you a rare sense of perspective for the post you occupy.
You have seen the European Union grow from 9 countries in the 1970s to 12 in the 1980s, 15 in the 1990s, 25 and then 27 in this decade, with a queue of countries waiting to join.
It is true that this House does not yet possess a right of initiative or the right to propose the President of the Commission, but neither is now unthinkable and increasingly people believe that both would enhance our Union's culture of democracy.
In 13 years of codecision, that one function has developed the organs of this body, and transparency has given oxygen to our bloodstreams.
The fact is that the Union makes decisions that are binding on Member States without proper democratic or judicial control, exposing us to censure by the Court of Human Rights or the constitutional courts.
Mr President, the years 1914 to 1989 on our continent were a 75-year rage of self-mutilation.
Tá tacaíocht iomlán tugtha ag mo ghrúpa polaitíochta don iarracht pholaitiúil riamh agus is mar sin a bheidh amach anseo.
The first, which is in one sense the most impressive of all, is the fact that the President of the Council, Chancellor Merkel, and the President of the Commission, President Barroso, have shown you and this House the respect to be here today to share in this occasion.
That not only defeats totalitarianism, it defeats all ills which face humankind today and that is why your idea of a cultural dialogue, of an understanding of different faiths and traditions is so important for the future development of Europe.
We forget about understanding some people who have strongly-held beliefs of a non-violent nature and tend to hound them out of office or out of positions, but at the same time, we can show accommodation to those that have a fairly radical viewpoint in life and give them a space for themselves.
The last two points I would like to make are in relation to the comments made by some colleagues and by the Presidents of both the Commission and the Council in relation to the development of European policy in the future.
What European citizens want to see is action; what European citizens want to see is a positive response to the problems that face us.
Too often in this Parliament we look back and say 'that was done wrong in 1979' or 'this was done wrong in 1992' or something else was done wrong in 1997 or 'we missed an opportunity'.
You rightly recalled this Parliament's history, and I am very grateful to you for having brought into the Chamber today past presidents of our Parliament.
This is our institution's responsibility: to be a platform for European debate and for proposals for a democratic Europe.
Mr Poettering, I want to see you fight for this right of Parliament's. (Applause) Mr President, you spoke of values and cited specific cases relating to the defence of human rights, which is a subject of the utmost importance for our institution.
The problem of bureaucracy is national rather than European: how many people are there in the delegation accompanying you today?
Mr President, I wish you success in your work and I believe that we will have fun over the next two years. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mrs Frassoni.
Thus, referring to the aspirations of Europe's citizens, Mr President, you stressed and I quote: 'we must preserve the European social model' and, more importantly, you went on to say 'our acts must be convincing'.
I suggest, Mr President, that you call on the Council, Commission and Parliament to abandon a proposal for a directive that affects the entire population of the European Union and that seems so dogmatic, so unjustified and so devastating for the future of public services that it is likely to provoke a new Bolkestein effect if nothing changes in the next few months; I am speaking of the proposal to liberalise postal services on 1 January 2009, six months before the next elections.
Let the process which is starting be an opportunity for a real public debate across the Union, a candid debate, as close to the citizens as possible, on the meaning of Europe 50 years after the Treaty of Rome, on the purpose of our common policies, on the commitments we are prepared to assume together in the future.
Finally, Mr President, you made some apt remarks about intercultural dialogue and more particularly the Middle East, where you hope to go as soon as possible, you said.
With this in mind, of all the initiatives I would like the President of Parliament to take, the most symbolic in my view, following the almost unhoped-for Mecca agreement, in which the whole of Hamas promises to comply with the international resolutions and the agreements signed between the PLO and Israel, would be to solemnly call on the European Union to lift the blockade on the Palestinian Government and to give a new chance to the hope for a just peace in a region that has been bruised by occupation and war for several generations.
The French and the Dutch had a chance to vote in favour of the Constitution, and they threw it away.
Laws are much better for having been drawn up by 3 000 secret working parties in the Commission and adopted by 300 secret working parties in the Council of Ministers, as well as by 15 000 professional lobbyists.
The President mentioned our electronic voting equipment.
It is a system I should like to have back again, for then my proposals could actually be adopted.
In your speech, you mentioned several important features of our European tradition, and four in particular: Greek philosophy, Roman law, Judaeo-Christian spirituality and the Enlightenment.
We do not need a Eurocratic superstate to guarantee the mutual security of our nations and borders, to launch detailed industrial, cultural and research cooperation projects and to protect us properly against migratory flows or against imports of products that have been manufactured for next to nothing and that are ruining our industries.
I have respected the 'gentleman's agreement' made in the past by the two big political groups with regard to the election of the president of the European Parliament.
Mr President, I sincerely hope that during your term in office you will advocate greater involvement by the twelve new Member States in the shaping of European policies.
Similar discrimination against the new Member States can be seen from the number of their nationals employed by the European Parliament.
This is especially true in the year of equal opportunities, when both at European and at national levels we must make efforts to help those who suffer disadvantages.
