I felt it was essential to hold an initial exchange of views with my ministerial colleagues at the informal Angers Council on 8 and 9 September before coming before you to set out not, of course, the French position, but the position of the Council of 27 health ministers.
That first exchange of views, like the initial work done in the Council's working group on health, will not enable me to answer all your questions on this highly complex and varied subject but I am certain our sitting today will give the Commissioner responsible for health a chance to explain the European Commission's major decisions and allow me to share the Council's first impressions with you.
It would be inconceivable to leave the decisions in this area solely in the hands of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
In my view, which I share with my colleagues, that should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or even of the content of its judgments, which often bring about major advances for patients.
It must be our common objective to build up a legislative framework that can contribute toward legal certainty.
Indeed, the Slovenian Presidency will no doubt have informed you that the Council was very hesitant about the initial version of the text, the broad lines of which had been presented to the EPSCO Council of 19 December 2007.
Third point: with regard to the timetable, this proposal that the college of Commissioners adopted on 2 July came too late for us to be able to envisage a first reading during our Presidency, but we will press on with negotiations in the Council as far as we can, while entering into a political dialogue with the European Parliament.
Yet, in that regard, it is all a question of timetables and the European Commission's decision can be explained by the need to respond as rapidly as possible to the challenges that exist in the area of patient mobility, which already covers a very wide field.
Nevertheless, the Presidency can say at this stage that in the Council's view prior authorisation for hospital care is a key question for EU Member States.
During the working lunch on the subject organised in Angers on 9 September, ministers who spoke were in favour of moving towards a better balance between the individual rights of patients to mobility and maintaining national regulatory and planning powers for the benefit of all.
Following the numerous discussions of the European Court of Justice on the question of the inherent right of European citizens under the Treaty to seek health care in the Member State of their choice and following the specific request by the European Council and the European Parliament alike to present a proposal to regulate the right after the health-care-related provisions had been taken out - and quite rightly so - of the Services Directive proposal, the Commission adopted the proposal on patients' rights in cross-border health care on 2 July.
To help the Member States translate this principle in more transparent terms, we have proposed to better clarify the objectives in terms of quality and safety standards for health care provided on their territory to patients from other Member States.
In practice, as long as the treatment is covered under their national health-care system, patients will be allowed to receive that treatment abroad and be reimbursed up to the cost of the same or similar treatment at home.
Member States are responsible for deciding how to organise their respective systems, what benefits they provide to their citizens and what treatments and medicines they will pay for.
More cooperation between health systems will also create more solidarity and more health-care availability.
The directive is already being discussed, as was said by Mrs Bachelot-Narquin, in the Council, and I hope that the discussions will proceed swiftly in Parliament as well and that ultimately they will bear fruit. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, we all know that question on the doorstep: what does Europe do for me?
And then there are issues we have to discuss among ourselves; some of them have been raised already.
The focus is on patients, and they are the weakest links in our society, because they are ill and infirm.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner Vassiliou, Minister Bachelot-Narquin, last week I attended a presentation of a new website on patient rights in all the EU languages, organised by my Danish colleague in the ALDE Group, Karen Riis-Jørgensen.
If she had had five tumours she would have been treated, but she had seven and did not qualify under the criteria.
If Europe is really to be a Europe without borders then this has, first of all, to be in the area of healthcare.
I think that when we are talking about issues such as health care for people who are on holiday elsewhere in the European Union, we should remember that comes under the European Health Card and under the coordination of social security.
I think we also need to be clear that what this directive is proposing, as I understand it, is that what will be paid for is care that will be available under the national system, not new or different treatments, so that again qualifies the right that we are talking about in terms of this particular directive.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the central feature of this package - travelling for non-hospital treatment outside the home country - is funding by the home country, but limited to the amount it would have cost there.
In Italy, for instance, people have to wait 300 days for a prostate operation and very often a month or more for a CAT scan.
That is why we must ensure that Member States can authorise treatment in another country prior to that treatment.
And, with regards to the sharing of best practice, I welcome Article 15 in the draft directive which calls for a system of European reference networks.
I am glad to see that so much attention has been paid to the issue of cross-border healthcare, which is so important in this age of ever growing migration. (The President cut off the speaker) (SV) Mr President, the directive means that more power will be given to the EU over healthcare, and I am opposed to opening up this field to EU legislation.
Therefore, we must lay down some basic principles.
A way forward in terms of free and equal access to healthcare services for all citizens would be to scrutinise public contributions to treatment in private hospitals and tax credits for private health insurance.
We should take a good look at Article 13 to decide how we can get regions working together a lot more.
That, after all, is what we are aiming for. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner Vassiliou, Minister Bachelot-Narquin, Europe has an important duty to help guarantee everyone high-quality and affordable healthcare, close to home if possible or abroad if necessary.
I also agree with you, Minister, when you say that it is not a good thing to leave rulings on patient mobility to the Court of Justice and that there is a need for legislation here.
It was very clear to me that citizens are very interested in the EU becoming more involved in social policy, and that certainly includes patient mobility.
Firstly, we all agree that it is necessary to ensure legal protection for patients who have the right to healthcare within the European Union, in keeping with the judicial decisions of the European Court of Justice.
I look forward to cooperation with the other committees on this matter. (FI) Mr President, the most important thing is for patients to receive good, safe and cheap care, and more often than not they want to receive their care as close to home as possible.
It is important that care and treatment can also be available in another country.
However, citizens encounter huge differences in the quality of healthcare, both between the Member States and within them.
Putting them at the forefront means that we must have a top priority, which is that the health system should provide people with the best possible care locally.
There are, however, many other considerations, for which we also need other solutions, be it because people are travelling or are working in other countries or be it because they have a rare disease or because they will receive better care in another country.
In other words, the organisation and funding of healthcare systems are the responsibility of the Member States, and our legislation can do nothing to change that.
We know, however, that we need more cooperation among the Member States in the field of health care and more cross-border European input in research, in the key area of hospital provision and on the supply side.
This question is the free movement of patients.
We have the problem of funding the system of health care in the Member States.
I think it most important that we discuss this proposal. (SK) Responsibility for the health systems in the Union rests first and foremost with Member States.
In my opinion, however, they are not insurmountable. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that health services are a major pillar of the European social model.
I am concerned about the effects that this directive will have on the new Member States.
Although healthcare provision in the new Member States in accordance with clearly defined standards of quality and security does not apply uniformly to all types of healthcare, the demand for dental services in Eastern Europe is constantly increasing.
Increased freedom of choice in the manner and location of healthcare provision is a positive thing, as long as all citizens have access to services, irrespective of their social standing. (PL) Mr President, the aim of the social package should be to guarantee universal and equal access to high quality healthcare services to all EU citizens.
For this reason, the Commission should encourage Member States to reform their national healthcare systems, primarily through spreading good practice and through effective financing methods.
So we need clarity to respect the right of patients to access health services, and at the same time we need to respect the Treaty provision stating that the organisation of health services, especially financing, is a competence of the Member States.
We must recognise that 27 states have different systems, different funding systems.
We must be careful to raise the health standards right across Europe, in large countries as well as in small countries. (PL) Mr President, the purpose of the new social agenda is, among other things, to reduce barriers to mobility in a society that accepts the principle of equality, where there should not be any barriers in anyone's way.
Patients must know that, in an emergency, they should be treated on the same basis as the citizens of the country where they are being treated.
Quality, productivity and, above all, the safety of patients are the issues that, for us, should be the most important. (DA) Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission for presenting this Directive.
The directive is correct and necessary, and must be implemented.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with a few personal comments and say how happy I was to meet up again with my colleagues from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mr Andersson, its chairman, Anne Van Lancker, Ria Oomen-Ruijten, Jiří Maštálka and others.
Yet we must not end up by opposing patients, states and health insurance systems because any destabilisation of health insurance systems would have dreadful repercussions on the organisation of healthcare and, specifically, on the patients we want to protect.
That is why I would reply to Dagmar Roth-Behrendt that the question is not of patients' right of movement within the European Union, which is a self-evident, fundamental right.
Article 152 of the Treaty makes it clear that Member States are free to organise and finance the healthcare they provide as they wish.
Basically, Jean Lambert was saying that cross-border care is not a goal in itself and Derek Roland Clark pointed out that perhaps we should make sure the provisions of the new directive did not ultimately benefit only a few of the wealthiest, most educated and best informed patients while the poorest patients would, of course, be treated unfairly.
The key question here, however, the question under debate, which the Commission and the Council should look at in depth, is prior authorisation for hospital care because that is indeed where there is the greatest risk of deregulation of national systems.
Jean Lambert asked whether the proposal for a directive was compatible with the regulation on social security coordination.
This directive may contribute to that in legislative terms.
This is one example of how we can make the citizen feel that the European Union is doing something for him or her.
We are not trying to harmonise health systems.
in writing. - (NL) We are still glad that the European Parliament excluded heath care services from the general directive on services.
in writing. - (RO) I believe that access to quality healthcare is one of the essential values of a Social Europe.
Patients' rights within the EU and crossborder cooperation in this field among the Member States constitute a significant part of the new social package.
I believe that an assessment of the European health system and of the medical technology in use is required as a matter of urgency.
