Freedom of information is the foundation of a free democratic society and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, it is laid down that every person has the right to freedom of expression, and this right includes the right to have one's own convictions and to obtain and distribute information and ideas without the interference of government institutions.
Indeed, I complained to Mr Barroso yesterday that in Hungary the socialist-liberal government had violated the freedom of opinion, not through the concentration of press or media, but by shooting people in the eye, putting them in prison, torturing them in prison and conducting a series of sham trials.
All honest Italians recognise that in Italy, there are newspapers, radio stations and TV channels that operate freely; that many of those newspapers have an editorial policy that is opposed to that of the Italian Prime Minister; that if there is a lack of pluralism it is within the only - and I stress the only, ladies and gentlemen - trade union recognised by Italian journalists, which is shamelessly biased towards the left; and that programme makers, commentators and comedians whose views conflict with those of the Italian Prime Minister can easily find jobs and work within state-run television channels or within television channels owned by the Italian Prime Minister, without their freedom being threatened.
In order for us to have a vibrant democratic debate in Europe, we need independent media in all Member States.
On this matter, I think that we in the European Parliament need to look at the whole of Europe, and not just at an individual Member State.
There are problems in other Member States, but in Italy it is at its worst.
I hold no particular brief for Silvio Berlusconi.
This is a principle that the Conservatives hold dear, and this is why I am proud that the European Conservative and Reformist Group played its part in voting down this despicable resolution. (IT) Mr President, I believe that this Parliament's democratic vote has unquestionably demonstrated something that everyone knows to be true, namely that there is freedom of information in Italy.
Minority parties have tried to gain the upper hand in the elections with a one-sided publicity campaign, compensating for the lack of ideology and content in their political programmes with a campaign designed to cause systematic damage to our country within Europe.
They belong to a party that has distinguished itself over the years by having a policy that consists of just one thing: the systematic and targeted abuse of the Italian Prime Minister, the leader of a coalition that was democratically elected by 17 million Italians.
In Italy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are clearly at serious risk.
It is imperative that the European Commission finally issues a proposal for a directive on pluralism and concentration of the media, clarifying the rules to be followed in all Member States on this issue, which is so vital for democracy.
As members of the leading party in the Irish Government, we have consistently opposed proposals put forward in the European Parliament which condemn the internal activities of individual governments and individual countries within the European Union.
We must now move away from these national games once and for all and invest our energy in structural solutions to a problem that, in the longer term, constitutes a real threat to our rule of law and to democracy in Europe.
The freedom of information and expression is one of the basic principles which underpin the European Union, and it is essential in any democracy.
They are not interested in freedom of information in Europe, but only in Italy...
Intriguingly, on this very day, we learn that Portugal has fallen 14 points in the rankings of press freedom published by Reporters without Borders.
The European Union guarantees freedom of expression and information in Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Indeed, Article 11 of the Charter explicitly states that 'the freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected' Media Freedom and pluralism are essential to a free, healthy and democratic society.
The Portuguese Socialist delegation in the European Parliament denounces and condemns the actions of certain Portuguese MEPs from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) who have tried to tarnish the image of Portugal and the Portuguese Prime Minister with the unfounded accusation of interference in the media.
I wonder whether the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament would be as eager to hold a similar debate about Portugal and its government's repeated interference in the media, which, within a few months, led to the replacement of the editor-in-chief of a noted newspaper (O Público) and the sudden termination of a television news programme (TV1), which has already been roundly condemned by the regulatory authority for the media.
We voted in favour of the resolution in defence of freedom of information because we believe in defending the freedom of expression and information, and pluralism rather than concentration in the media.
The situation in Italy is worrying, but it is the task of this European Parliament to debate the subject in general or for all countries which pose a problem in this area.
To only mention Italy while knowing that problems also exist in other countries, for example, Romania, Bulgaria, Portugal and Hungary, creates a partisan debate which does not contribute to freedom of expression and of the press.
I strongly supported the joint resolution co-signed by my group, because I fundamentally support freedom of expression and am in favour of European legislation on media mergers, despite the opposition of the right, which has already been demonstrated several times.
We should note the fears coming from Italy following the recent pressure exerted by Silvio Berlusconi on the Italian and European newspapers, as well as on the European Commission's freedom of expression regarding the Italian authorities' diversion of migrants at sea to Libya, in violation of the principle of non-refoulement.
The real objective of the resolution was the desire to attack the Italian Government, and only the Italian Government.
I do not see any reason, however, to go along with this attempt at treating the European Parliament as a tool, and with this attempt at involving our Chamber in an ongoing political fight within a Member State.
I share my group's concern that, with its demands for Europe-wide legislation on media pluralism and ownership, Parliament would be doing more to destroy freedom of the press than to establish it.
The Member States of the EU each have their own proper institutions to find a solution to fundamental problems, and this problem of Italy's must also be solved at national level.
Our group's Amendment 10 underestimates, or actually rejects, the problems of freedom of information in Italy, and so I could not support it.
in writing. - I voted against the resolution on the freedom of information in Italy and in other EU Member States mainly due to paragraph D mentioning the 'critical situation in Romania and Bulgaria', quoting a Freedom House report.
in writing. - (ES) I voted against Resolution RC7 0088/2009 tabled by the Right, and in favour of the joint resolution RC7 0090/2009 tabled by the remainder of the Groups in the House, because I defend freedom of expression and information, as well as media pluralism, and because I am concerned by the situation in Italy, where there is a conflict of interest between the political, economic and media powers, as well as worrying media concentration, involving both public and privately-owned media.
It is true that there is a high media concentration in Italy, but the threats to freedom of speech and democracy have been exaggerated.
I felt that I had to speak out against these party-political attempts to intervene and that I had to vote against the joint motion for a resolution put forward by the left, because for me and for the Freedom Party of Austria, freedom of the media and freedom of speech are among the most important aspects of democracy and they need to be defended.
in writing. - The Green/EFA Group, together with the S&amp;D Group, ALDE and GUE, have tabled a common text.
Until the very last moment, all these groups proved their willingness to take on board other political groups in this House, including proposals by the EPP to include concern about press freedom in other Member States.
The protection and defence of freedom of information must be guaranteed in all circumstances.
We refused to take part in the final vote on a motion for a resolution which, on the pretext of controlling Berlusconi in the Italian media, promotes the more general interests of the plutocracy in order to concentrate the media at national and European level.
The people are not deceived by the cockfights in the European Parliament and efforts to elevate it to the post of censor which, moreover, is the basic support framework for the interests of capital.
We support the joint motion for a resolution, but we do not wish to be associated with references to a proposal for a directive by the Commission on concentrations in the media and the protection of pluralism, because we consider that this competence, on such a serious and necessary matter, should be vested in the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely the events taking place at the lowest, provincial level in Italy that are the greatest demonstration of freedom of the press and of information: think of all the local newspapers, the newspapers of the cities, large and small, that people read every day and see who they talk about!
in writing. - I voted for this joint motion due to my deep concern at the concentration of media ownership in Italy and across Europe.
Rupert Murdoch owns almost 200 news outlets throughout the world.
It would not have been appropriate for this disguised personal attack to have been supported by Parliament.
