Soil protection (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council by Miroslav Ouzký, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on progress in Council on the Framework Directive on Soil Protection - B6-0455/2008).
author. - Mr President, let me just stress that in September 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal for a framework directive on soil protection with the aim of protecting soil across the European Union.
The rapporteur, Mrs Christina Gutiérrez-Cortines, worked hard to find a compromise.
A first-reading position was adopted by the European Parliament on 14 November 2007.
In February 2007 - and here I too am retracing history - the Council held an advisory debate on the Commission's communication on a thematic strategy and on the proposal for a directive.
In December 2007 it examined suggestions for a compromise on the directives that had been drawn up by the Portuguese Presidency, which had undertaken an enormous amount of work on this proposal, and these proposals took into account the opinion expressed by the European Parliament at first reading.
All that I can promise you is that the French Presidency will do its best - and here I repeat myself - while at the same time taking account of the opinion expressed by Parliament, which has managed to adopt a balanced position of its own, and one that is therefore extremely valuable in this difficult discussion.
As a result, for the first time in the history of this Parliament, we developed a directive that was open, flexible, based on systematic criteria of self-organisation and aimed at a new development of Article 249 of the Treaty, which establishes that the Member States must have the same objectives and must meet these objectives, but allows them freedom in their application.
This omission must therefore be urgently rectified as we all suffer as a result of it, particularly at times of food scares or debates on fundamental economic and energy alternatives which are essentially based on the soil.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, we know that this is a very sensitive area because protection of the soil, which is a scarce and non-renewable resource, is vital given that agriculture and the protection of biodiversity depend on this and because it forms a platform for human activities, not just for cities and infrastructures, but also for nature and the countryside.
I believe that Mrs Gutiérrez, whose work I would describe as remarkable, has presented us with very acceptable proposals in an effort to bring the different sides closer together - because indeed we see that there really is quite marked opposition within Parliament, just as there is within the Council - and that by listening to Parliament she has finally succeeded in putting forward proposals that appear to be as consensual as possible.
I now address the Council: when the Council Presidency tells us that we need not hurry, this means that they are going to put the dossier on hold.
I am optimistic that the French Presidency will take account of the Member States' positions and will find a mutually acceptable solution on this issue. (PL) Mr President, a year has gone by since we adopted our stance at first reading concerning the directive on soil protection.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly let me say that I want no more uncertainty on this point.
