This opportunity has allowed all three bodies, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, to set ambitious and binding targets for reducing emissions.
The Commission fully recognises the importance of air transport for international trade and economic development.
The contribution of air transport to global emissions of greenhouse gases is equivalent to the total emissions of the UK or Canada.
The Commission's approach is in two stages.
This position was supported by all 42 European states at the ICAO Conference.
Europe registered a formal reservation on this issue, thus allowing us room for manoeuvre.
In 2020 we will be saving a total of 183 million tonnes of CO2 a year, equivalent to twice Austria's current annual greenhouse gas emissions from all sources.
This means a 46% reduction in emissions compared with a situation whereby air transport would not have been included in the Community trading system.
It was, therefore, logical that the summit of EU Heads of State or Government in March decided that the European Union would reduce its emissions by at least 20% by 2020 and, if we reach an international agreement - which we do want to do - by 30%.
As the Commissioner said, aviation emissions have doubled since 1990.
It is a good thing, then, that the Commission has made a proposal to reduce CO2 emissions in the aviation sector.
However, this proposal also has flaws, and I am certain that the European Parliament will address these tomorrow with numerous amendments.
Naturally, we must also speak with third countries, so the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety also adopted a motion that the Commission should continue to negotiate with third countries.
Furthermore, it is also very important to bring in an efficiency clause, and the Committee on the Environment has also decided on this.
On behalf of my group - not as the rapporteur - I can say that the Committee on the Environment has gone too far at some points.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the report in any case, and I believe that Parliament as a whole will give a clear signal to the Council.
The European Parliament will not accept that. (Applause) draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would first like to offer my warmest thanks to the Commission for having dared to break the aviation taboo, without waiting for the IATA decisions, and I congratulate the rapporteur for having supported this.
You mentioned, Commissioner, that this directive removes an error in the regulations that favours other modes of transport over aviation.
I appreciate that the variant voted by the ITRE Committee, which proposes 2008-2010 as a reference period, with the possibility to change the total quantity of shares in order to take into consideration the future developments in the sector, either increasing or decreasing, better defines the necessary framework for a correct competition between the airplane operators in the European Union and for the competitiveness of the overall European economy.
We cannot disadvantage our airports, our airlines and employees in this area.
Therefore, the best acceptable time would be 2011, but the date must apply to all airlines.
We want to reduce the effects on the climate of aviation, but we must also keep in mind the competitiveness of our airlines, and consider the airports and passengers - especially those from remote areas - and keep prices affordable for them.
We therefore advocate achieving a reference period soon, and having a sensible percentage for the allocation of allowances - the Committee on Transport was in favour of 110, but just under 100 would also be feasible - and a sensible percentage for the auction.
Nevertheless, as PPE-DE Group shadow on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I support my group's amendments, which seek what we think is a better balance between wish and reality.
In my view, the emissions trading scheme is the most cost-efficient, demand-sensitive and objective market-based instrument available for reaching Europe's greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 20% by 2020.
The aviation sector's contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is growing fast, and I therefore fully support its inclusion in the emissions trading scheme.
Experts and climate researchers have reminded us in hearings in the Committee on Climate Change that we must reverse the trend in CO2 emissions in the next 8 to 10 years.
Therefore, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament suggests increasing the proportion of emissions allowances to be auctioned to 25%.
As far as revenues from auctioning off the allowances are concerned, the Member States should use these for measures to adjust to climate change and for the fight against climate change, both within and outside the European Union.
Another important matter: all aircraft upwards of a take-off weight of 5.7 tonnes must be included in the emissions trading scheme.
Together with investment in new technologies and the creation of further infrastructure, emissions trading can make an important contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions in aviation.
In our view, the emissions from 2004-2006 should serve as a basis.
I make the case for including aviation in a trading system that is as open and efficient as possible.
This question will come up again in Bali.
Greenhouse gas emission trading is the correct response for reducing gas emissions in aviation.
The majority of air carriers in the new EU Member States are lagging far behind the aviation companies in the older Member States, in terms of both the number of passengers carried and greenhouse gas emission volumes per capita.
It is difficult to evaluate the extent of the future growth of air carriers in the new EU Member States, but I am in no doubt that in order to balance the mobility indicators for residents of the Member States, transport volumes in the newer Member States must grow significantly.
Growth that exceeds the average EU annual rate of growth in passenger numbers by a factor of at least two could be taken as an indicator of rapid growth in capacity.
Both of these proposals are vital for fostering competition in the EU air carrier industry.
However, I have to say that I appreciated his work a lot more before he had to seek compromises within his political group, which, if adopted, would substantially weaken the position taken by an overwhelming majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety just last month.
Since aviation emissions have already doubled since 1990, to call for an initial allocation equivalent to average emissions over the period 2004-2006, or even 80-90% of that, is simply too generous.
I therefore urge you to support my Group's amendments for an initial allocation that is 50% of that amount.
Greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation have doubled since 1990 and account for between 5% and 12% of carbon dioxide emissions in the EU as a whole.
The EU's leaders committed themselves in March of this year to achieving a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions - compared with the 1990 level - by 2020.
The Commission proposal recommends that the aviation sector should not have to comply with the average for the years 2004 to 2006.
The Commission is also recommending that auctioning should account for no more than about 3% of the allowances.
The GUE/NGL Group believes that the proportion of allowances to be allocated should be 20% of the average for the years 2004 to 2006; this would limit the amount of allowances that the aviation sector could buy from other sectors or under the ETS scheme; and the auction rate could rise to 100%.
Mr President, climate change is a transboundary environmental problem and the EU is an important actor in the global climate work.
We cannot achieve the climate objective of a 20 or 30% reduction by 2020 unless everyone makes a contribution.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety rightly wants to see a gradual decrease in this ceiling, in line with the European climate objective of a 20 or 30% reduction.
Aircraft operators have promised a 50% increase in the efficiency of aircraft engines.
The Committee on the Environment intends to hold them to this, and that is a good thing: the more economical the better.
The proceeds of the auction must go towards combating climate change and, in particular, to adapting developing countries to climate change.
This legislation enables us to do something about this.
Mr President, I have here a letter from General Motors complaining about Parliament's position on reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars.
But above all we have to ensure that we have a cap which encourages measures to be taken, a cap which, I think, must be at least a little bit more ambitious than that currently proposed by the Commission. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, may I thank all the rapporteurs.
Inclusion of carbon dioxide emissions from civil aviation in the EU scheme must therefore be recognised as legitimate.
I would see it as sensible today to accept a baseline period of 2007-2009, to set an emissions ceiling at a level of between 5 to 10% over 100% in view of the rising interest in flying, and to include in addition non-EU carriers operating within the EU. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is one of the most serious problems we face.
In 2004, greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft in the EU rose by 87% compared with 1990.
Europe is responsible for around half of CO2 emissions from aviation.
I hope Parliament will not devalue the compromise put forward, which will allow Europe to become a leader in the fight against climate change. (NL) Mr President, I am speaking here on behalf of my colleague Mr Blokland.
Thus, I wholeheartedly support the course charted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. (DE) Mr President, I agree with the points that almost all the other Members made.
If not, our efforts will remain just a tiny drop in the proverbial ocean, and that is what I should like to avoid.
We can expect a reduction in the number of tourists and/or in the amount each of them spends, which could lead to a drop of at least 2% in GDP according to studies carried out by the Government of the Canary Islands.
I therefore call on the three institutions to try to find better solutions, in the next stages of the legislative process, to lessen the impact of this directive on the outermost regions. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapidly growing aviation sector must be integrated into the emissions trading scheme as quickly as possible.
That will mean that this form of transport also starts making a contribution to the reduction of the anthropogenic greenhouse effect.
The greatest potential for reduction is in the realisation of the Single European Sky, which means that it depends on the political will of the Member States.
International aviation is outside Kyoto obligations, and the complete lack of progress in ICAO over the 10 years that they have been mandated to address emissions makes it important that the EU takes the lead.
The proposed emissions trading scheme should apply to all flights, including from third countries, from a common start date for competitiveness reasons.
The Irish registry will carry a disproportionate share of flights on our books due to the size and geographic spread of some airlines, as the airlines, particularly Ryanair, are registered with the Irish Aviation Authority for all of their EU operations.
This is important to remember, as it is often said that air traffic only accounts for two or three per cent of greenhouse gas emissions.
As said before, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by as much as a half since 1990.
However, what did our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety do?
Mr President, I hope that we can step up the pressure on Member States in this regard, too, as only then can we make a real difference to the climate.
Mr President, tonight, for once, Parliament really can lead the way in protecting the environment.
Otherwise, those who polluted less in the past will be punished. - (SV) Aviation must pay for its environmental costs, and therefore this proposal is good.
Aviation accounts for five per cent of carbon dioxide emissions.
The important thing is that emissions are reduced, not flying. - (PT) Mr President, whilst agreeing with the Commission's and the rapporteur's proposal, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not in line with Parliament's objectives set out specifically in the report on reducing the climate change impact of aviation; I would draw attention especially to the situation of the most isolated territories which are particularly dependent on air transport, especially the outermost regions.
The draft also constitutes a threat to the competitiveness of airlines and may cause a radical deterioration in the already difficult financial situation of many European aviation companies.
Bearing in mind the diverse positions presented during the course of our discussion and the fact that this project relates both to the environment and to the economies of all EU states, as well as to our citizens, we should take decisions that are both measured and good.
But for me the big issue is number 6: the allocation basis; in other words, ATK versus RTK.
Neither system is perfect, but we cannot be in a situation where airlines coming from the more peripheral areas will be punished and unequally treated in comparison to those airlines which might be based in Frankfurt, Berlin, London, Brussels or Paris.
The way in which climate change is going, I am afraid the only place where we are going to have snow in the winter in the future is going to be Lapland.
However, we should never forget the impact of legislation in this area on the European economy.
The baseline period should therefore, in my opinion, cover as far-reaching a period as possible, in other words the years 2007-2009.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank all the speakers in tonight's debate for their positive contributions and I would like to turn to the details of some of the amendments.
However, while I fully agree that we need to get started as soon as possible, a 2010 start date would be very challenging.
There would be insufficient time to complete the preparatory work and, in particular, to complete the allocation process which requires more lead time than the process used in the current system.
Regarding the scope, I have already explained why the Commission still believes a two-step approach would be helpful to convince third countries that the European Union is ready to take the lead, consistent with our special obligations as a region of developed countries.
However, in the period before 2013, aviation should be treated as much as possible like other sectors.
The share of allowances auctioned should therefore be the average percentage of auctioning applicable to other sectors, as laid down in the national allocation plans for 2008-2012.
What happens after 2012 should depend on the general review of the ETS.
In summary, the Commission can support 27 of the 100 proposed amendments fully, in part or in principle.
I will give Parliament's secretariat a list detailing the Commission's position on the amendments, including Amendment 47 for which I would like to say that the Commission will maintain the provisions which foresee a change of the registry regulation, but is open to consider ways to ensure that conversion of aviation allowances does not burden Member States' compliance with a Kyoto target.
Commission's position on amendments by Parliament Liese report The Commission can support fully, in part, or in principle 27 amendments: Numbers 1, 3-5, 7, 8, 10, 14, 17, 26, 29, 30, 36-38, 40, 45, 47, 49, 51-53, 57, 65, 70, 76, 79.
The amendments which the Commission cannot support are Numbers 2, 6, 9, 11-13, 15, 16, 18-25, 27, 28, 31-35, 39, 41-44, 46, 48, 50, 54-56, 58-60, 61-64, 66-69, 71-75, 77, 78, 80-100.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The need to act quickly and effectively to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is an obvious fact that can no longer be denied.
I hope our vote tomorrow will take account of these different parameters.
in writing. - (FI) We are to introduce a unique system, with air traffic having its own climate policy instrument.
Emissions trading in the area of air traffic involves risk factors, and I appeal to you all to pay attention to one or two important issues.
On the other hand, the directive should also ensure that the Union's peripheral regions are able to compete fairly in the emissions trading system.
This is especially relevant in the matter of non-auctioned rights in the allocation system.
in writing. - (RO) The inclusion of aviation into the European emissions trading scheme is a positive action, emphasizing Europe's pioneering work in combating climate changes.
The aviation emissions trading should not cause a decrease in the number of flights and an increase in prices, negative consequences for passengers, for the aviation industry and for the sustainable development of transports.
It should be a useful means of ensuring that the aviation industry plays its part in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - (HU) An ever-increasing proportion of the population of the developed world understands the threat posed by climate change.
