Mr Gollnisch, I can assure you that procedures have been respected absolutely, in both the spirit and the letter of Article 12(2) of the Act of 20 September 1976.
As you know, the Committee on Legal Affairs advised me to wait for the decision from the Council of State, which I did.
Madam President, the Minutes state that I spoke on the situation in Spain.
Informal European Council in Biarritz (13/14 October 2000) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the Informal European Council in Biarritz, held on 13 and 14 October 2000.
Let me expand on the issue of qualified majority voting.
I feel that we should also be able to make headway in the field of social affairs, on the proviso that we do not tamper with the principles that underpin the various national social security systems, which gives us some room for manoeuvre.
Progress will also be possible in the field of external trade policy, but only when we find a way of dealing with the most sensitive issues on a specific basis and also avert a backdoor extension of Community competences.
In the field of justice and home affairs, I am optimistic that a solution will be found concerning judicial cooperation in civil cases.
Equally, they are all in agreement that these arrangements must remain open and accessible, that there is no question of moving towards a two-speed Europe, that the institutional framework of the Union must be respected and thus, in particular, the role of the Commission and that of the European Parliament, and, lastly, that there is a need to preserve the Community acquis, which is to say the internal market and cohesion policies involving closer cooperation.
Concerning the weighting of votes, the two well-known systems also remain on the table: a simple re-weighting, in favour of which a narrow, very narrow majority is emerging, or a double majority system, but with alternative options, a double simple or double re-weighted majority, in other words a type of 'demographic safety net' .
It is clear that we will only be able to take a decision on these issues after negotiations have come to a close; nevertheless, discussions based on detailed proposals must continue in order to prepare for the final decision at Nice.
It also went into greater detail in its work on amending Article 7 of the Treaty in accordance with the positive guidelines laid down at Biarritz.
The preparatory group is to play a full role up until 19 November, the date of the next ministerial level meeting.
I will now turn to international issues, which were also very much to the fore at Biarritz.
I will simply point out that, right from the outset, the European Union has called on both sides to strive to put an end to the violence, to reopen dialogue and safeguard what had been achieved at Camp David, and the Biarritz European Council called both sides to a summit meeting.
The second event that stood out at Biarritz, for the right reasons this time, was the return of democracy to Serbia and, more than this, the repercussions of the political changes in Belgrade on relations between that country and the European Union.
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will, of course, very soon benefit from the instruments that have been set in place by the Union to cover the entire Balkan region, beginning with the CARDS programme and also the activities of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
Furthermore, the General Affairs Council confirmed the Union' s intention to contribute to re-establishing navigation on the Danube and to actively participate in modernising infrastructures in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia within a regional context.
Moreover, without prejudice to a needs assessment and the coordination of economic and financial assistance to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which are to be the joint responsibility of the European Commission and the World Bank, the Biarritz European Council decided to grant the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia initial emergency humanitarian aid totalling EUR 200 million.
Lastly, and I will end here - this is without doubt the most important decision in the medium and long term - the Union has decided to provide this country with a political prospect by proposing that it conclude a stabilisation and association agreement along the lines of those currently being negotiated with the other countries in the same region.
It was precisely with this in mind that President Kostunica was invited, as you will be aware, to take part in the summit meeting between the European Union and the countries of the western Balkans, which is to be held in Zagreb, at the instigation of the President of the French Republic, on 24 November.
I feel that the important thing was for the Union to very swiftly communicate to this country not only a tangible message of encouragement but also, and I would stress this point, the political prospect of its full and comprehensive integration into the European family.
There seemed to be a genuine sense of purpose and, in any event, the will to achieve real reform at Nice.
Much has been said, in the press and elsewhere, of the rift between larger States and smaller States, or less populous countries.
It is not even, it would seem to me, the central issue in these discussions if one recalls, and this is something that must be remembered and recalled, that ever since the process of European integration began, there has never been a case, either in the Council or within the Commission, of large countries forming a coalition against small countries, or of small States forming a coalition against large countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must find a solution to these two issues, which will in fact only be resolved when negotiations are complete, and on which we must reach total agreement if that agreement is to mean anything at all.
With regard to the voting system, we must find a solution which respects - as both the Commission and the European Parliament have proposed - the twofold legitimacy of, on the one hand, the Member States and, on the other, the peoples of Europe.
The success or failure of the Nice Council will depend on the ability of the Heads of State and Government, and on the ability of Parliament and the Commission, as parties to the negotiations, to preserve or consolidate the Community model.
I am referring here to Article 250, for which some would like to introduce qualified majority voting.
That, ladies and gentlemen, from my viewpoint as someone who, let me repeat in all modesty, is one of the humble workmen in these discussions, is what I say and think is the way to gauge whether or not genuine reform has been achieved in Nice.
There is a need to reassure those who are worried that under no circumstances will the sovereignty of the Member States in taxation matters be challenged, and to also tell those who have worries that the idea is not to merge social protection systems, especially from the bottom up, but simply to see to it that the common market and the single market run smoothly within an enlarged Europe.
Naturally, as regards all these areas, where the transition to qualified majority voting is involved, I would like to reiterate our intention to extend codecision where legislative matters are concerned.
I feel that the fundamental demands made by Parliament and the Commission will be met or honoured, and that on this point we will manage to secure the abolition of recourse to the European Council, which is to say the right of veto, along with a lowering of the quorum to one third, or eight, of the Member States in Community matters.
I also feel that an agreement could be reached on another theme, on Article 7, taking as a basis or as pointers the proposals that the Commission itself made to provide for vigorous Community dialogue on legal matters, and Community and political control of crises situations in which we might find ourselves due to the stance that one government or another adopts with regard to our common values.
We cannot stop there and at Nice we will need to envisage ways of addressing the place that this Charter is to have within the Treaties.
These are issues that we do not have time to deal with thoroughly prior to Nice, but they must be raised and would perhaps merit in-depth attention after Nice.
Madam President, I will quickly mention some other issues, if I may, to confirm or expand upon what the Presidency has said.
This is what has caused the European Union to radically alter its policy in respect of Serbia.
In more practical terms, we announced that emergency aid totalling EUR 200 million had been allocated to Serbia, and the Commission is soon to present a package of emergency measures that will cater for the country' s priority needs as winter approaches.
The key thing, here as elsewhere, I feel, is to consolidate democracy.
The President-in-Office of the Council mentioned about the Middle East.
The Heads of State and Government welcomed the proposal from the Commission, presented by Loyola de Palacio, for a global strategy on oil reserves and oil prices.
The President of the Commission, Romano Prodi, took the opportunity to emphasise, above and beyond the content of this Communication, the vital importance of Russia to this debate, and suggested that we discuss this issue thoroughly at the forthcoming summit meeting between the European Union and Russia in Paris on 30 October.
I welcome the invitation extended to the freely elected President of Serbia, Mr Kostunica, and I would expressly like to thank the French President, Jacques Chirac, for this invitation, because it signalled that we Europeans are on the side of a democratic Serbia which is developing in the right direction, and that the newly elected President has the support of the European Union.
The Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats is all for the enlargement of the European Union, but it must also be capable of enlargement, which is why majority decision-making in the Council of Ministers must become the fundamental decision-making system.
Mr Moscovici, you said - or this is what it says in the German translation at any rate - that in matters of external trade policy - and this is a good example - there is a need for specially tailored measures.
It would be quite depressing enough if this were to be any Prime Minister, but it is unacceptable for it to be the Prime Minister of the very country that is holding the Council Presidency.
We have to make decisions in Nice to avoid endangering enlargement, which is our main priority.
The President-in-Office of the Council has spoken of the spirit of Nice.
We must not kill the spirit of Nice with boredom, and we therefore have an essential priority in the remaining 50 days: to bring negotiations to a political level.
The Commissioner has talked about qualified majorities and codecision.
Our understanding is that the relationship is automatic: anything voted upon by qualified majority in the Council must immediately also be subject to codecision with Parliament.
I would ask the Commission and the Council to make a statement on this matter.
In conclusion, Madam President, two final comments regarding fundamental matters of external policy.
To this end, I believe that we should apply the same standards to all.
We must find money - and here the Council has responsibilities - to assert our community of values and create a balanced, stabilising policy in the Balkans.
I believe that we must honour our commitment in one of the most tragic situations we are experiencing today.
I would urge the French Presidency quickly to reassess its position on that central point.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the enlargement of the Union is a means of increasing stability and safety in Europe and of promoting tolerance and democracy.
This would require majority decisions in the Council to become the rule, and likewise, codecision for Parliament, in agricultural matters, for example.
I welcome the declaration of fundamental rights, but it has to be improved in order to better accommodate the citizens' expectations, and it has to form part of a European constitutional process.
The development of a credible and democratic Europe requires more involvement from the citizens, the regions, the small and large Member States, more decisiveness on the part of the Commission and a reinforcement of the role of Parliament, but especially the will of the Commission to play its role on behalf of the Union, and this is what we failed to do in the Middle East, for example.
Israel is entitled to peace and safety but the Palestinians, who had to give up a large part of their land for this, are entitled to their own state, as enshrined in UN resolutions 242 and 338.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, while progress has been made on closer cooperation and the extension of qualified majority voting, deep-seated disagreement persists, as you yourself have underlined, concerning the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in Council.
There is a pressing need to work out a new design for an enlargement that unites rather than divides, that involves the candidate countries in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference and pays far greater attention to the social dimension of enlargement.
I would also express the wish of my Group and of a good many NGOs to see the Charter evolve and continue to improve, in order to guarantee, amongst other things, more effective protection and rights for the citizens of the European Union, for employees, for the citizens of third countries and for the socially marginalised.
Finally, concerning international issues, I, like others here, am keen to hail the return of democracy to Serbia.
It is very important, as part of the process that has started, for the Union to contribute to the reconstruction, stability and promotion of human rights in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
Madam President, at the Biarritz Council we saw emerging, from behind the real or supposed quarrels between larger and smaller countries, a different but equally real type of rift between those who want to speed up European integration and those who want to preserve a design for a European Union that respects Member States and national democracies.
The first group would seem willing to engage in ultrafederalism within a hard core of States, and the referendum in Denmark seems to have strengthened their convictions on this.
By persisting in this approach, they would probably cut Europe in half, and even more surely would cut themselves off from their own nation.
For the referendum held on 28 September was not simply an expression of the Danes' refusal to be run by a European superstate and their desire to preserve their national democracy.
One might well doubt it, in view of the fact that the most clear-cut decision taken during the Biarritz Council was to proclaim the Charter of Fundamental Rights at Nice.
The Commission subsequently informed us, in its Communication of 11 October, that the Charter could be rendered binding through the case law of the Court of Justice, still without any say from the national parliaments.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not share Commissioner Barnier' s optimism about maintaining the Community system at Nice.
We had a second pillar, then we had a third pillar, and now we are in the process of constructing a fourth pillar on defence, while a de facto fifth pillar also exists on economic and monetary union.
While this Parliament holds forth on constitutionalisation, the real issue is - and I would stress this - that of the balance of power within the Commission.
I cannot agree with you, Mr Poettering.
This is the only way to restore a true balance between the various institutions of the European Union.
We bring the question of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into our nation-oriented arguments, but fail to consider the fact that the future of Europe hinges on a Commission that is able to represent all its citizens and not the Member States as in the past, and one that has not been transformed - along the lines sketched out today - into a second Council, where all sorts of haggling become possible and no authentic expression of common European is able to emerge.
The heart of the matter is that the élites who are keenest on integration want to be able to make decisions without broad democratic support.
Elites in all the countries are also joining forces against their own voters.
I have very little to add to what Commissioner Barnier has said, except perhaps to mention a slight difference of opinion over meteorology.
Mr Barón Crespo asked several questions which primarily concern the link between qualified majority voting and codecision.
I would also like to return to the issue of the number of Members of the European Parliament.
Firstly, all the members of the European Council are happy with the Charter, both from the standpoint of the method used and from that of its content.
It is the first European Union document that the citizens can consult without feeling completely alienated from its content.
There remains, of course, the question of its legal power.
I will make no secret of the fact that we are engaged in a process, one in which we are well versed, of having the Charter proclaimed by each of the three institutions.
It seems to me that we must adopt a gradual approach to this matter: see to it that this Charter is proclaimed at Nice by the three institutions and then go into its legal future since I, like many people here, believe that it will indeed be the preamble to a future constitutional treaty, but let us then address this as a constituent issue.
Now that we have this Charter, let us accept it for what it is, as the stage we have reached today, a first step that is subsequently to be confirmed and developed by taking others, whether in respect of its content or its legal status.
This idea has appeared from somewhere but it is not the position of the European Parliament.
In any event, Madam President, I believe that Biarritz has contributed something very positive, and that is the unanimous approval of the Charter.
I believe that now, in this policy of forward movement, the inclusion in Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union is very important, as there is no sense - and I do not wish to be inconsistent - in the European Union deciding not to provide a legal basis in the Treaty for the Union to be able to adhere to the European Convention on Human Rights and, at the same time, talking in the same paragraph about the interpretation of fundamental rights based on this same European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights.
It therefore seems that mentioning the Charter in the Treaty of Nice is something that makes perfect sense.
I therefore believe that with the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow, we are giving a very clear mandate to our two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, to enable them to present a proposal to this end at the Nice Summit.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I have three comments to make.
The institutions on which the European Union is currently based were set up for three large countries and three small countries.
Indeed, the magic of the European Union is precisely its ability to foster alliances between small and large countries in the common interest.
The second issue that I would like to address is that of decision-making.
I ask you in all sincerity, at a time when the Union is providing itself with a Charter of Fundamental Rights, would the Heads of State and Government reject the idea of decisions in this area being taken on a qualified majority?
However, in parallel with the debate on qualified majority voting, there is the debate on closer cooperation.
On this count, I consider it insufficient to say that the Community method must be safeguarded.
We need to have further debate and focus our thoughts in this respect.
Mr Méndez de Vigo has already referred to the content of Article 6 and to the inappropriateness of there simply being a reference to the European Convention on Human Rights.
However, in its Communication of 11 October, the Commission has just spelt out, quite correctly, the extent to which a judge to whom this Charter is submitted would be in a position to uphold its content, and would not be able to act as if this document did not exist.
There is a pressing need to equip the Union with a point of reference based on the content of this Charter.
Even once the present candidate countries have joined, each Member State must be able to retain one junior or senior Commissioner.
It is highly suspicious that the large Member States, which are behind intergovernmental cooperation, would argue in favour of a small Commission in which they themselves would not always be represented.
It is difficult but certainly not impossible to reach agreement in Nice.
But the French Presidency should not act as strangely as it did in "Bizarritz" .
Concerning the Charter, you have just replied in a very well reasoned manner, but my Group is nonetheless anxious to say to you that the work must go on.
A second course of action would be to actually establish a timetable at Nice and a clear method for rewriting the Treaties and incorporating the Charter into these Treaties.
I have to say that Article 93, in the form in which it has been drawn up by the Presidency, does not enable us to address even a straightforward debate.
The wording of Article 93 becomes all the more critical considering that, once the first wave of new states has joined the Union, it will be all the more difficult for us to progress towards qualified majority voting.
Everyone knows that nothing will come out of the Nice Summit, because there is too much disagreement between the various governments of Europe.
It was also a wasted opportunity for the Europe of fundamental rights, which was supposed to be a beacon for the world.
Indeed, the Charter falls some way short of the texts already in force.
In reality, it once again proves that this Europe is being constructed against the interests of its peoples, and this is what tens of thousands of protesters will be saying in Nice on 6 and 7 December, and I hope that many of us will be there with them.
In the second that remains, and since we are talking about fundamental rights, I would like to express my indignation at the silence and complicity of most of the Member States and institutions with regard to the ongoing massacre of the Palestinian people, with whom we should be showing a little more solidarity.
We all know that enlargement of the Union cannot take place until decision-making procedures within the key institutions are reformed; however, such a reform process must be fair and balanced.
It must protect the position of smaller Member States within the Union.
It is clear from the debates that have been taking place across Europe, including those in Biarritz, that larger Member States are seeking, in part, to bully smaller Member States to reform the European Union in line with the direction taken by larger Member States and in accordance with their wishes.
Let us reflect for a moment on the ratification procedure for any newly revised European Union treaty.
If the European Treaty accepted at Nice completely dilutes the influence and representation of smaller Member States, it is going to be very difficult to sell it and secure approval for it in referendums in these three countries.
Decision-makers within the governments of the larger Member States should remember that seeking the approval of the citizens in a referendum is not a mere technicality or a rubber-stamp operation.
One has to convince the citizens in these countries of the clear merits of any new European treaty.
It must strike the balance between ensuring that the enlargement process can proceed and ensuring that smaller Member States retain a strong voice in the decision-making procedures of the European Union.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Informal Council Meeting at Biarritz raised hopes that in-depth consideration would be given to the preparation of the Nice summit, which is to lead on to the reform of the European institutions.
We would like to see similar zeal for action in the field when there are disasters in Europe, such as the storms of December 1999 or the sinking of the Erika.
Four revisions in fifteen years have not improved matters, and now we are expected to believe that a charter or a constitution might do something to change things.
In conclusion, let us begin to do together those things that we can do well or better in line with our peoples' wishes.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, on the subject of the situation in the Middle East, two months ago this House was unanimous in praising the commitment to peace shown by Avraham Burg, the speaker of the Knesset, and Ahmad Qurie, the President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
Bringing all its weight to bear also implies not contenting ourselves with advocating a renewal or intensification of economic aid under the pretext that only by raising the standard of living in the region will we be able to help establish a lasting peace.
We still have no agreement on the modus operandi for the European Commission, on how votes are to be weighted in the Council, on what should be done about the principle of qualified majority voting or on proportional representation in the European Parliament.
In other words, today - I repeat, today - there is a risk of the so-called Amsterdam left-overs becoming Nice left-overs unless we take some decisive action right away.
Of course it is, on occasions, clear from the debate that this institution is viewed in some quarters not as the answer to the flexibility which Europe needs but as a sort of future defence to safeguard their interests vis-à-vis future members of the European Union.
But we still have time, miracles do happen in politics and I personally am keen to see a few happen in Nice.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am extremely concerned that this affair of the Charter of Fundamental Rights will have a negative effect on public opinion.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights has been accepted in its entirety by the informal Biarritz Council.
It is a sign which could contribute to turning the public increasingly against the European project, as, sadly, is already happening even in the candidate countries.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided on a method and a timetable which mean that the inclusion of the Charter in the Treaties is a decisive step towards the constitutionalisation of the Union.
Re-weight the votes in the Council, but not in accordance with the principle of double majorities.
If they were to be complied with, the large countries' demands for increased power in the Council and Parliament would upset the whole balance within the EU and mean that the small countries would have to pay for the whole cost of enlargement.
Mr President, in our plenary sitting in September we experienced and shared moments of optimism and hope with Abraham Burg, speaker of the Knesset, and Ahmed Qurie, President of the Palestinian Legislative Council.
The unity of action at a given moment has made it possible for the work and prestige of one of the Member States in this area to be used to the benefit of all.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to say a few words on the subject of the Middle East and Yugoslavia, also in connection with contributions from previous speakers.
Following the summit meeting in Sharm-el-Sheikh where all parties involved were present in order to find a way to freeze the violence and to re-open the dialogue between Barak and Arafat, we established that it is very difficult - even if, for a fleeting moment, it seemed as if it were possible - to halt the violence.
Nevertheless, we all know that there are huge numbers of citizens, both in Israel and in Palestine, who are simply finding out - in the hope of peace - how tough life is as long as peace has not really been established.
At the same time, we would ask the Council to operate in the same spirit during the budget negotiations for 2001.
I would advise Mr Barón Crespo to ask his Italian colleagues to explain to him why they are in government in Italy with an openly Communist party and why they are preparing to go to the political elections with another openly Communist party, the Communist Refoundation Party.
The package of measures proposed by the Commission with a view to increasing energy efficiency and saving energy, is therefore constructive, and likewise the investigations into cartel problems with the oil companies.
We should also take a look at our own situation, however.
With that in mind, Parliament is expecting the Nice Summit to take a step in the direction of qualified majority voting in those areas where taxation policy is disrupting the proper functioning of the internal market.
The Council Presidency wants to abolish the cooperation procedure and replace it with the consultation procedure.
At the very least, it must be possible to agree on the detail of a common position on these matters in Nice.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a little while ago, you made the point that Parliament would not issue a statement on the number of seats in the European Parliament.
I would urge you just to read through the Leinen-Dimitrakopoulos report, in which Parliament has taken up clear positions, not only in respect of the distribution of the seats, but also on the weighting of votes in the Council and the composition of the Commission.
The increase in intergovernmental initiatives, the official demands raised, and the options discussed in connection with enhanced cooperation, are all initiatives that could ruin the truly successful nature of the European Union.
Mr President, in this debate on the informal summit in Biarritz, I would like to focus on the IGC and the Charter.
Like Mr Brok, I would like to stress here once again that one Commissioner per Member State is absolutely vital to give each country a place in the European executive.
The Union cannot develop as a Community of 27 members if we cling to the notion that it is mainly a system of intergovernmental cooperation in which the Union' s bodies are merely responsible for implementation or control matters in a very loose way.
Already there are numerous examples of how just one country can obstruct matters which almost all countries consider to be important.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights proudly conveys what European values are, but it is fruitless to create an artificial controversy with regard to its rapid and binding constitutionality.
Under every option, each country will have at least one Commissioner.
In the latter case, the question we must answer is when will this principle of a rotation which treats both larger and smaller states on a strictly equal basis come into effect.
Whatever the scenario, there will therefore be a major reform of the way that the Commission operates, and I feel that we must in the coming weeks make careful use of the time still available to us in order to assess the implications of each option before taking a decision at Nice, the aim being, I would repeat, to preserve within an enlarged Europe the effectiveness, credibility and if possible collegiate nature of the Commission.
The national governments participated fully and have all approved this text.
It is one of the points that have been broached in the discussions and I honestly feel that, beyond what we are able to achieve in the negotiations themselves, anything that the European Parliament itself can quite clearly say on the way it is to be structured after enlargement will be very useful to us because it will enlighten our work and the work of the Member States.
Finally, a word on the Biarritz spirit or climate: Mr Dupuis has surely misunderstood what I said.
In any case, I spoke of purpose and determination.
I do not yet know whether we will achieve real reform at Nice, and one sufficient for a Union that has 27 Member States and quite clearly may subsequently have many more, provided that the democratic process in the Balkans is consolidated and strengthened.
In any event, the Commission has its place and is striving to secure genuine reform.
I simply said, Mr Dupuis, that success or failure, genuine reform or inadequate reform, would be assessed on the basis of whether the Community model - which does indeed, Mr Moscovici comprise the three institutions you mentioned, but others too - would emerge from Nice weakened, intact or strengthened.
I have specifically mentioned some of the factors that will enable us to ascertain immediately whether the reform is sufficient or not.
The extension of qualified majority voting and codecision to real issues, the preservation of Article 250 in its current form, the place and role of the Commission in closer cooperation, in respect of more than just the first pillar: these are some of the factors that will allow us see straight away whether we are talking of success or failure.
The vote will be taken on Wednesday.
Let us not criticise commercial Europe too much, I speak as a Socialist: it provides greater wealth to all of us.
Peace, prosperity, democracy and justice are values which, each in their own way, virtually all the Members and the groups in Parliament, and the majority of elected representatives and political groups wish to see achieved by Europe and for Europe.
Today, we have just experienced one of the last democratic revolutions in Europe, that of October 2000 in Serbia.
Democracy in Europe is in good health, but European democracy is in a bad way.
One in two European citizens did not vote in the elections of June 1999.
One in two of my students does not know who Romano Prodi is, although they are almost all quite clear on Michael Schumacher or Monica Lewinsky.
Let us at least agree on this objective, and if we do agree, then let us state how to achieve it.
If we want to achieve it, then we can, all together, citizens, Members of Parliament, and governments of the European Union.
Mr President, the issue I wish to discuss is far more specific, even though it must be said that some of us consider reinforced cooperation to be the panacea to combat the hypothetical freezing of the European integration process, supposedly inevitable due to the increase in the number of Member States following the next round of enlargement.
There are also, Mr President, those who see reinforced cooperation as the ideal instrument with which to create an "à la carte Europe" or a "variable geometry Europe" , in which Community solidarity and cohesion would be diluted in a range of various intergovernmental cooperation schemes.
Europe cannot be brought closer to the citizens by making its structure more and more complicated.
Second, we must maintain the unity of Parliament and the Commission and increase their participation in both establishing and developing reinforced cooperation.
The experience of the Maastricht Social Protocol and of Economic and Monetary Union show that the participation of all the members of these Institutions is technically feasible and politically advisable, and preserves the coherence of the system and the participation of all European citizens in decisions that affect them all the time.
Dividing up legislative and executive powers or replacing them with a greater number of bodies, secretariats, parallel chambers and the like does not lead to democracy but to inefficiency.
Third, we must increase the scope of reinforced cooperation to include the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy, which in the last few years have been crying out for a Community channel to avoid the dispersion, slowness and inefficiency that end up transferring decisions and the task of solving specifically European problems to the United States of America.
Fourth, we must eliminate the veto and reduce the minimum number of Member States required to set in motion Community reinforced cooperation.
Mr President, I have had the satisfaction of noting that the proposals presented recently at the Intergovernmental Conference coincide in the main with all or some of the criteria I have set out.
Finally, I must thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman for the kindness with which they received my report, the contributions which enabled me to improve it and the tremendous support that was given in the final vote.
With this support, Mr President, and in the hope that our resolution will be useful in this final, decisive stage of the Intergovernmental Conference, I ask the House to vote for this report.
This resolution draws the attention of the Community organs and the forthcoming Nice Intergovernmental Conference to the issue of the islands, of island status, or rather the principle that island status as such should be recognised as one of the criteria for Community intervention because of the actual conditions which any form of island status involves for the regions concerned.
In effect, the text which was officially issued by the Intergovernmental Conference - which I will pass on to Commissioner Barnier and to the Minister, should your legal offices not have already done so - clearly shows that this was the opinion actually issued by the Intergovernmental Conference but that it was mistranslated into other languages.
There are sections of the Treaties which establish the principle of cohesion and there is Declaration 30 which, in affirming and applying the principle of cohesion in this context, reads, and I quote the exact wording: "The Conference recognises that island regions suffer from structural handicaps linked to their island status, the permanence of which impairs their social and economic development" .
It is not, therefore, on the basis of a number of languages or a number of translations, but on the basis of a fundamental principle of the Charters, of the Treaties, that is, the principle of cohesion, that we call for the islands to be recognised as such, as the possible beneficiaries of specific interventions and specific attention.
Initially, you planned three reports: constitutionalisation of the Treaties, reinforced cooperation, and the ceiling on the number of Members of the European Parliament.
I note, at any rate, that for today, the last matter has not been referred to us, and I am in complete agreement with Commissioner Barnier.
I shall now return to each of these points, but only briefly in order to leave time for the debate.
This is a point I already made in presenting the results of the informal Council meeting in Biarritz.
I think it is safe to say that the conclusions of your rapporteur - as indeed he noted - for the most part echo the concerns expressed by the Member States in Biarritz.
We are, once again, all agreed that the institutional framework of the European Union should be respected.
Qualified majority voting is indeed the prime objective at the Intergovernmental Conference.
I do realise the value that Parliament places on its own indivisibility, and indeed I understand it perfectly, but then, for that very reason, how is it possible to justify Parliament' s issuing a legitimate opinion as if it were a conventional codecision or consultation situation when in fact probably half, or perhaps two thirds of all the Member States might not be involved in this reinforced cooperation?
Objectively speaking, this is a real matter of principle which makes it impossible, in my view, to adopt exactly the same rules within each area of reinforced cooperation as within the European Union, and this is all the more true in the very specific and delicate area of foreign security and defence policy.
I now come to the constitutionalisation of the Treaties.
I could confine myself to thanking Mr Duhamel, and to simply pointing out that his text contains a quite unwarranted attack on President Prodi - his were, of course, humorous comments - or even observing that he has not said exactly how he wants this constitution to be arrived at.
Firstly, simplification and clarification of the Treaties.
Next, the creation of a proper reference text clearly establishing the principles and objectives of the European Union and, finally, the distribution of competences between the various decision-making levels within the European Union.
This is a question which Parliament, to give credit where it is due, asked very early in the day, as soon as it took office, in fact, in July 1999.
While a constitution can provide a response, at least in part, to the questions I listed, it is a project which in real terms goes a lot farther than that.
Firstly, simplification of the Treaties.
In particular the European Institute in Florence, at the Commission' s request - and I expect Michel Barnier will mention this - did so with a result which I would describe as extremely honourable, despite the particularly arid aspect of the exercise, but I do not have the impression that the authors of the report, to which Mr Duhamel refers, indeed - managed to avoid a certain contradiction between the objective of clarity and the objective of legal certainty.
An exercise of this type must not upset the balance or cause us to regress, in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, as some parties seem to wish.
Theses issues, or at least some of them, will no doubt come up for discussion very shortly.
This will not necessarily be in the form desired by your rapporteur because, as I said earlier, not all Member States will necessarily be ready, but an extremely useful contribution will have been made.
I think we will see matters more clearly in Nice, and I think it is the results of the IGC - for we must not underestimate the impact that the outcome of the IGC will have on our ability to go further - which will determine whether we shall be able to look into the opportuneness of opening up new working areas and, if appropriate, of defining working methods and a work schedule.
One last brief word on the way in which a text of this type would be drawn up, when the time comes.
And now, one very quick word about the island regions.
This question was raised as early as 1997, I believe, after the new Treaty was adopted but before it was signed.
As I said, given the lack of information available to us, I am not in a position to deliver a definitive opinion on this matter today, but the Presidency is, of course, willing to help clarify the matter by, for instance, referring the matter to the Council' s legal department within the Council and even within the Intergovernmental Conference.
I would therefore like to assure Mr Segni that, like him, the Commission itself has noted certain discrepancies between the various language versions of Article 158 of the Treaty.
And that, I understand, is what you are lamenting.
This is the case of many islands that I visit within the scope of Objective 1 or the cohesion appropriations, due to the very fact of their socio-economic situation and in accordance with the criteria laid down by the Structural Fund general regulation.
Mr Segni, I have decided to instigate a study on the socio-economic situation of the islands, in order to assess the situation and get as precise a diagnosis as possible of these island regions and I myself will present the results of this study, which I hope will be available during the second half of 2001.
I will say in passing that these results will complement the debate that I also intend to instigate in 2001 on the cohesion report, an important public debate in which the European Parliament will take part and which will enable me to prepare the guidelines for the future regional policy for the period 2006-2013.
As for the idea you suggested of introducing this debate into the IGC, frankly, Mr Segni, it seems to me that, taking account of the scope and difficulty of the other subjects on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference, it would be more appropriate to rectify the text according to the procedures laid down by the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, as in previous cases of clerical errors in the articles of treaties, in order to standardise the different language versions of this article quite precisely.
I would now like to discuss, in turn, the two reports presented by José María Gil-Robles and Olivier Duhamel.
After this IGC, Mr Gil-Robles, I think the instrument of reinforced cooperation will be more clearly defined and, if I may use this expression, more 'workable' in relation to the current content of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
For the Commission, there are five essential components of reinforced cooperation.
It must take place, as you said yourself, within the institutional framework, with a suitable role for each institution: that is the first point.
It is important to ensure that this reinforced cooperation remains within the framework of the European Union and respects the roles of the institutions, in particular the Commission and the European Parliament.
Furthermore, Mr Gil-Robles, most of the delegations to the negotiations in which I am participating agree that the future treaty should recognise an enhanced role for the Commission and the Parliament in implementing reinforced cooperation.
I am therefore prepared to support the request in José Maria Gil­Robles' report aiming to enhance Parliament' s role and I support the idea, at least, of replacing the consultation of the European Parliament in the first pillar with its assent.
That is why, yesterday, when we were discussing various points, I put forward a number of amendments which will usefully serve to specify or enhance the role of our institutions and the place allotted to them according to the pillars, in the context of implementation of reinforced cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reinforced cooperation cannot, and must never allow the acquis communautaire to be unravelled in any way.
I would remind you that the procedure can be simple, with a qualified majority and the withdrawal of the veto, because we want to maintain strict conditions.
I completely share Parliament' s wish for the fundamental principles to remain unchanged, but I have noticed, Mr Gil-Robles, a willingness on your part to make some of these conditions more flexible, as in point 11 of your resolution, and I would like to exercise a certain amount of caution in this respect.
Finally, we all agree that reinforced cooperation should not - I have said this before and I will say it again - become a characteristic feature of the European Union.
It must remain a mechanism that the Member States may use only when all the other possibilities for progress on the road to integration involving all Members have been ruled out or are not feasible.
Reinforced cooperation must not, therefore, become the universal cure-all in order to conceal our weaknesses.
To be more specific, I think that reinforced cooperation cannot be designed as an alternative to qualified majority voting, which remains and will always remain, in the view of the Commission, the main subject under negotiation.
We think your report provides an excellent starting point for the discussion of the constitutional work that we are to begin immediately after Nice.
Mr Duhamel, you will undoubtedly agree with me that if Nice is not successful, there will be no room, or at least no credibility, for consideration of the future of European integration, at least within the current framework.
I think that Nice could be the beginning of the next stages of discussions on several related topics.
I thank you for the positive reference you made to the study by the European Institute in Florence that we commissioned, and I also noted Mr Moscovici' s constructive approach in this respect.
This is a good piece of work that constitutes a basis available for the future exercise of reorganising the treaties.
The second point is the legal nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, a matter which, as the Presidency said, may well not be answered in Nice.
I know that Olivier Duhamel' s report essentially slots into a wider perspective: that of a constitutionalisation that would go way beyond the current institutional framework and which would only be completed in the long term.
It seems to me, however, that we need to clarify the current legal and institutional situation first of all, which is what your report also proposes as a first stage: "a reorganised Treaty" , as you say in point 9 of your resolution.
Like you, Mr Duhamel, I think the European Union should be equipped with a clear, simpler fundamental text.
It is essential for European democracy, our primary reason for uniting, as you reminded us, that the citizens have access to a constitutional treaty, a text which, according to the wish of Vaclav Havel, all the children of Europe can learn at school without difficulty.
The important work carried out at our request by the European Institute in Florence, to which I have referred, shows that it is legally possible to assemble all these essential elements in a single text comprising a small number of articles.
The word "Constitution" does not scare me, I even think I have used it in your presence, ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, when I was not yet an official member of the European Commission.
I raised the issue of the constitutionalisation of the Treaties during my hearing before the European Parliament, prior to the investiture of the Commission.
I would like to assure you of my personal availability and even my passion, Mr Duhamel, which will be at least equal to yours, in order to participate in this work.
I also agree that we should move as far away as possible from the references that you yourself rejected, in the context of our work on this subject: on the left, those of Karl Marx and, on the right, as you said, those of Joseph de Maistre, even if the latter, I would like to say, while stating my disagreement with a number of his writings, at least had the merit of being from Savoy.
In any case, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear and must remain so: none of the questions we are discussing can constitute a condition to be achieved prior to the enlargement of the European Union towards the Mediterranean, Baltic, Eastern and Central European countries that are currently candidates.
The Commission is not in favour of calling another Intergovernmental Conference before the first round of enlargement.
The reform of the institutions needed to enable this enlargement to take place must be carried out now and there must be no Nice leftovers, in any case definitely not the Amsterdam leftovers.
The conclusions of the European Council in Nice could announce, in the way you recommend, a mandate and timetable for the work on matters of a constitutional nature.
Again, I think that any discussions after Nice should be open to all, to the Member States and the candidate States, in a suitable form that we shall have to define.
Finally, I think that the Commission, which has participated actively in the work of the Charter and which is participating actively, as is proper, in the work of institutional negotiation, will, after Nice, also have to play its part in the collective brainstorming that is related, quite clearly, moreover, to another exercise which we have undertaken on governance.
It is ready to do so by means of a report to be drawn up following Nice on these matters of clarifying competences and simplifying the Treaties, which could be available before the end of the Treaty of Nice ratification period.
As for the continuation of the work, I will also say that the report you presented, Mr Duhamel, contains many very interesting ideas.
You mentioned the idea of a referendum to be held simultaneously in all the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Duhamel report has provided us, the European Parliament, with the opportunity, barely two months before the European Council in Nice, to reiterate our position on the further development of the European Union, and in so doing to take account of the need for the EU to become primed for action on the enlargement front over the next few years, as well as to demonstrate to our citizens the medium-term prospects of the European Union.
What this European constitution will also need to do is clearly establish the distribution of tasks between the Member States and the European Union, inject the dynamism of European integration into those areas where it is badly needed, and provide for joint action to be taken, for example in the sphere of foreign and security policy.
Reinforced cooperation must therefore respect the principles set out in the Treaties and be conducted within the single institutional framework of the Union.
On the other hand, it must not constitute a barrier to trade or precipitate splits in the common market, breaks in the links of solidarity and cohesion between the Member States or, as Commissioner Barnier has said, an unravelling of the Community acquis.
The implementation of reinforced cooperation must not result in new bodies being set up to swell the ranks of the European institutions.
The rapporteur is quite correct in firmly stressing the need for the Commission' s powers of initiative and the participation of Parliament, at least on a consultation procedure basis, to be the norm whenever there is reinforced cooperation.
Following the Nice Summit, which we all hope will be successful, it is important to take this next step in order to create a more democratic Union.
Naturally, people must be enabled to participate in this work, especially citizens of the candidate countries which will hopefully be members in a few years' time.
A constitution is a matter for the whole of Europe.
The European Council is violating this fundamental consensus within Europe, by refusing to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaties, make it legally binding and denying the citizens, whose rights are being infringed, access to the European Court of Justice.
The question we must ask ourselves today is whether we want a Europe ruled by princes or a European democracy.
Our Parliament, as the only institution of the Union to have democratic legitimacy, has a big responsibility to lead the way in this respect.
The Nice Summit must pave the way for this by granting the necessary mandate, initiating a procedure and setting a timetable.
Mr President, the Duhamel report, which I shall be discussing, once again raises the European Parliament' s old idea of giving Europe a constitution.
The main aim behind this, which is not clearly stated in the resolution, would be to lay down for Europe, even for the fundamental texts, majority-style collective decision-making procedures, completely different, therefore, to the unanimous Council votes or the votes on ratification by Member States used today to amend the Treaties.
These collective procedures would for once and all establish a supranational power in Europe.
But a backward step is always backwards!
According to paragraph 4, we need a constitution because the Treaties are "unreadable and invisible" .
Paragraph 8 of the constitutional resolution states that Europe' s constitution must be adopted, and I quote, "with no risk of the process being blocked" and, as paragraph 7 of the Duhamel report says, "without a referendum" there can be no democracy.
The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs argues that differentiation can only be deemed to serve any purpose if it is conceived as a process which allows for exceptions to the rule.
However, it seems to me that the report inclines in the opposite direction.
I have always rejected any form of differentiated integration for reasons pertaining to legal theory, but also for pragmatic reasons, believing that it would allow a majority of Member States to determine the direction of policy, and deny countries joining at a later stage any codecision rights in these matters.
When the intergovernmental conference in Amsterdam inserted a special reference to islands into Article 158 on economic and social cohesion, adding the word "islands" as a special category under the regions which deserve particular attention within the context of cohesion policies, we here in the European Parliament who had first fought for this development thought that it marked the start of a new era for island regions.
Unfortunately, our hopes were dashed because, in addition to all their other problems, islands are paying the price for the different translations of the point in question.
Firstly, with regard to the method, which is a tired, lifeless procedure according to public opinion, which in fact marginalises the other institutions of the European Union and in which governments are victims of their own labyrinth.
In spite of everything, however, at least the agenda has included one very important point, reinforced cooperation, which must be seen as an incentive for progress and not for dispersal or creating cabinets.
This will help to stimulate European construction beyond this IGC and possibly in spite of this IGC.
We need a constitution for the European Union, and this constitution must start right now by including the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the new Treaty in Nice.
Mr President, I shall focus my scant sixty seconds on the report by Mr Duhamel, which is a good report, because it has the courage to state things clearly and the eloquence of our rapporteur just now has finally convinced us.
Yes, it is in the greater interest of the democracy of our continent to have a new founding text and a clear and effective constitution.
I represent the constituency which contains the two largest islands in the Mediterranean - Sicily and Sardinia - and I can say in all honesty that both islands are severely disadvantaged in structural terms precisely because they are islands.
I hope the Treaty of Nice is achieved and seen to be a success and that closer cooperation is included as a welcome move in the direction of flexibility.
Mr Moscovici, will the Nice Treaty really be welcomed and acclaimed in Warsaw, Prague, Budapest, Tallinn and Ljubljana?
I hope that the French Presidency will find a more efficient and imaginative way of assuring the candidate countries and the public throughout Europe that we are not only addressing important technical issues but above all the political necessity to provide our continent with stability through the certain and guaranteed enlargement of our European Union.
Even if all the demands of the French Presidency for qualified majority voting are accepted, large areas of political cooperation will remain uncovered.
Reinforced cooperation is therefore a de facto requirement, not as an ideal solution, it is certainly not that, but as a practical solution in a time of need, of vital need.
Mr President, two brief observations regarding the reports on our agenda today.
Two years of work should be more than sufficient and we hope that the majority of Parliament will support Amendment No 37.
The second point concerns the difference between the first and second stages.
Nevertheless, I would like to concentrate on the Duhamel report, to emphasise how much progress the idea of a constitution has made, including in this House.
Everyone, or almost everyone, who has spoken has done so in support of this idea and we feel that this is already a huge victory.
We, of course, take the view that this is the purpose of the constitution, over and above the already positive purpose of clarifying the Treaties.
My last point is that, when it comes to drafting the Constitution for real, the key point will be to determine wherein the legitimacy of the European authority lies, and, in our opinion, it must come from the peoples, from our citizens and their representatives, the European Parliament and perhaps the national parliaments.
Mr President, I should like to say a few words to the effect that, in my opinion, the Duhamel report is a truly excellent document, which makes quite substantial progress.
In Portugal, for example, we did not hold a referendum to approve our membership of the European Community or to approve the Maastricht Treaty.
The excellent reports by Mr Duhamel and Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado expertly point the way on both issues: improved intelligibility of the Treaties, a constitutional framework, fundamental rights, delimitation of competences, constitutional state, democracy and separation of powers; no superstate in Europe, a new method of developing the Treaties.
The same goes for the report by Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado.
Mr President, the European Union' s achievement has been to interpose a European-wide transnational legal order between national and international law based on the Treaties which, as the European Court of Justice has pointed out, have some of the characteristics of a constitution.
The proposals in the Duhamel report which do that must be welcomed.
The second part of his report is more ambitious and hence contentious, questioning the mechanics of the way in which the Treaties - and hence the quasi-constitution - is changed.
Mr Gil-Robles' proposals on reinforced cooperation are, on balance, positive.
The European Parliament has tabled important proposals.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the resolution on the oral questions with regard to the status of the islands will take place on Wednesday.
If so, it seems to me that is a matter that may require of an amendment in the Rules of this House.
That is making matters too complicated, Mr Howitt.
I will not take this into consideration. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I am sorry to rise again on a point of order but I do so to challenge the ruling you made earlier, not in the context of the debate but in the context of the Rules of this House.
If there is an equality of votes and if the honourable Member did vote, even though her machine did not work, then the procedure in any parliamentary assembly is that amendment falls.
Therefore, in those circumstances I want you to tell me which part of our Rules suggests that your ruling is right, when clearly it is not.
There was therefore more than one surplus vote.
Otherwise it would make things quite impossible: when we have a very tight vote with only a difference of one or two votes, there would be people jumping up all over the place saying their machine did not work, they did not vote, or whatever.
The vote was clear.
The result was established by the President.
With regard to the passage on work experience in companies, apprenticeships, joint work/training contracts, it aims to make more widespread a practice already adopted by many States which consists, on the pretext on helping workers or unemployed young people, of making a partially or completely subsidised workforce available to employers.
Recommendation for second reading - Trakatellis (A5-0268/2000) I welcome the EP' s adoption of the Trakatellis report as it provides for the setting of high standards of quality and safety of blood and blood derivatives.
EU citizens are entitled to expect the highest level of safety with blood products.
Before passing judgement, the French Court of Appeal and the Council of State ought to have notified the Court of Justice in Luxembourg that the question had been referred for a preliminary ruling.
This is the legal course that our Parliament should follow in order to be consistent with its principles and its legal code, as well as with the letter and the spirit of the treaties.
Klaß report (A5-0195/2000) Mr President, I voted against the Klaß report.
We all know that the directive on material for the vegetative propagation of the vine needed amending, because huge changes have taken place in the 32 years since it was drawn up, both on the market and in the technical and scientific area.
It is proposed to allow material for the vegetative propagation of the vine which meets reduced specifications to be marketed when temporary difficulties arise without, however, specifying what these difficulties might be.
Yesterday, the proposal of the Greens and Social Democrats to postpone the decision on the Klaß report until a broader decision-making process on the genetic manipulation of plants is in place, was turned down by a narrow majority of this Parliament.
Riis-Jørgensen report (A5-0290/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Riis-Jørgensen report, although it does have some shortcomings.
In April 1999, the Commission proposed a wide-ranging reform of the Community system of competition with regard to the application of Article 81 (prohibiting agreements between undertakings) and Article 82 (prohibiting the abuse of dominant position).
The rapporteur generally welcomes the proposals in the Commission White Paper on this subject but is apprehensive of the possible implications of the reform, which aims principally to decentralise the implementation of competition rules.
While we would not all agree with every aspect of EU competition policy, it has certainly been a successful policy over a period of 43 years and it has helped to prohibit the abuse of dominant positions by companies within the European Union.
The uniform application of EU competition laws throughout the EU must be paramount.
Therefore, I welcome the call by the rapporteur to the European Commission to provide additional guarantees concerning the application of competition law within the Member States.
This will include, in particular, involving the European Parliament more closely in drawing up and implementing competition policy and monitoring the quality of legislation on competition within the various Member States of the EU and the applicant countries to the EU.
Whilst I could agree with the requests for increased transparency regarding state aid, and for the European Parliament to be informed about the follow-up to aid approved by the Commission, I called for state aid to be maintained in order to develop social cohesion, research and innovation or environmental protection, to offset gaps in the market, to promote European competitiveness in relation to other countries and to confront the fraudulent machinations of competitor countries, such as Korea in the field of shipbuilding.
State aids have been traditionally used by Member States as instruments of industrial and social policy.
Notwithstanding the move towards greater deregulation within the European Union, state aids can still play a constructive role in achieving social and economic progress.
I am a member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Connaught/Ulster.
This whole region has been classified as an Objective 1 area for the seven-year period 2000-2006.
For the purposes of this grant aid, a small and medium-sized enterprise is a company that employs less then 250 people.
Permission to grant such grant aid to companies setting up in the Objective 1 region serves a very positive economic and social purpose.
I welcome the recent statement that radical changes are now being implemented by IDA Ireland in terms of attracting more jobs to the Objective 1 region in Ireland.
IDA Ireland has been reorganising that focus so as to win half of all new jobs from Greenfield Projects in the Objective 1 region over the coming three years.
This re-focus is beginning to take effect and given time and the implementation of the Government' s Programmes on Infrastructure, as outlined in the National Development Plan for the period 2000-2006, the IDA is certainly confident that it can reach this target for new projects in the Objective 1 region.
I believe the Regional State Aid Guidelines which have been put in place to help job creation in the Objective 1 region can be implemented in their entirety and will redress regional imbalances which exist in Ireland and elsewhere.
I drew the attention of the European Commission to this issue in July 1999, and received a positive response.
I therefore agree with the thrust of paragraph 4 which supports this viewpoint.
I am less pleased with the idea expressed in paragraph 2 that state aid should not go up.
My final verdict is therefore positive.
The principle of market rules as the sole form of social regulation tends to do away with man and his creativity as individuals in the economy and the productive process and, more importantly, is indifferent to man' s prosperity and only interested in the welfare of enterprise.
They also know that the economy is being restructured and the public sector sold off not for their benefit but in order to support big business and increase its profitability.
The intolerable situation being forced on workers by the choices made by large companies and the EU is already causing widespread reaction.
So here we are in October 2000, with only a short while to go before the financial framework for Budget 2001 is agreed.
The figures that we, as Parliament' s Committee on Budgets, are to put before the House, will not meet - and of course we are a little disappointed about this - with the unanimous support of all our fellow delegates in the specialist committees.
Parliament, at any rate, understands that the payments to be included in Budget 2001 are a function of the commitments entered into in previous years and those we hope to enter into in 2001, and we must determine them accordingly.
If you look at the budgetary implementation schedules for headings 2, 3, 4 and 7, then you will note that only an average 8% of all commitments are covered by payments.
Therefore, in principle, we have raised the payments in headings 3, 4 and 7 to a level that will ensure 25% coverage of the commitments to be entered into in 2001 as regards individual budgetary lines.
Above all, we want there to be sufficient money available under heading 1B, for the development of rural areas.
There must also be adequate funding available for those areas whose aim it is to achieve a knowledge-based society and to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the European Union.
The level of unemployment in Europe is still intolerably high.
Three years ago, we launched our employment initiative, which involved helping small and medium-sized enterprises to acquire risk-bearing capital.
We want to carry on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they are able to benefit from our common market in exactly the same way that larger companies do.
We should therefore continue to deploy this instrument, albeit using simplified procedures, as proposed by the Commission.
We have therefore earmarked almost EUR 120 million for two budgetary lines combined.
We accept that 400 new posts need to be created, but would attach certain conditions to this.
In addition, naturally we take the view that it would not be acceptable simply to create 400 additional jobs, i.e.
For more than a year now, Parliament has been urging the Council to work with it on negotiating stable and secure reconstruction aid for the Balkans.
In drawing up its preliminary draft budget in June, not only did the Commission endeavour to secure the financing for the Balkans aid, it also tried not to cut back on the other areas of external policy too heavily.
We will make appropriate sums available for those of our budgetary lines concerned with democracy and human rights, cooperation with non-governmental organisations working in the interests of the poorest countries, our cooperation with Latin America, South Africa and Asia.
We will adopt the Council' s proposed level of funding for MEDA, and would urge the Council to join us in using the flexibility instrument, should it become apparent in the course of next year that MEDA requires more money.
But let us return to the Balkans.
On Thursday we will adopt a trim, but sensible budget.
Secondly, we must be prepared for the major challenge of enlargement in terms of staffing; in other words, we must now create the financial leeway we need to be able to rise to this challenge when the time comes.
Following in-depth discussions with the relevant institutions and the honourable Members, whom I would like to thank most sincerely for their excellent and friendly cooperation, I am able to put before you today a draft budget that fully accords with these three guidelines.
The Committee on Budgets supported the necessary increases in funding in the sphere of information technology, especially with regard to data security - where there is a great deal of room for improvement in this House - as well as the increases needed for enhancing the security of our buildings and of all those who work there, and for the legal service.
In fact we are directly linked to the interest rate set by the European Central Bank, which is why we have proposed that we should pursue the buildings policy already adopted, because this will help to release us from this burden of interest as soon as possible.
I would like to take this opportunity to expressly thank the Vice-President, Mr Gerhard Schmid, who is responsible for budgetary issues, for his constructive cooperation.
I believe that we succeeded, in the course of the conciliation negotiations between the Bureau of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgets, in submitting a well-balanced draft.
However, I would also like to take this opportunity to make the Council aware that the Council Budget is a purely administrative budget too.
The Council would do well to ensure that that is how things remain in future, particularly in the sphere of foreign and security policy.
The Economic and Social Committee must get its own house in order if it wants to avoid jeopardising its continued existence for good.
We believe this to be an important proposal, in terms of achieving environmentally sustainable, modernised steel and coal production in Europe, and also with respect to the financing of these areas and the conversion measures.
The social measures were cut from EUR 31 million to EUR 29 million in the Council' s proposal.
In 1999, for example, only half of the allocation was actually used.
This seems odd to us because there will still be an operational budget in the second part of 2002, and so we are calling for a review of the relationship between redeployment aid and social aid.
Another important point I would like to make is that once the Treaties have expired, we no longer want a separate regime for the ECSC, but feel that it should be integrated into the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
I hope, therefore, that you will forgive me if I avoid the latter and describe my short report as extremely important, and express my pleasure at its almost unexpected success with the Commission and the Council.
The report was unanimously approved by the Committee on Budgets a few weeks ago and, to date, no amendments have been tabled.
Since 1985 - and I did say 1985 - the Parliamentary Committee on Budgets has been trying to ensure that European Parliament procedures take account of the financial impact of the resolutions voted upon in plenary.
And then, a long time ago, 15 years ago, a working party was set up for that purpose.
I think I can say that, essentially, the problem is the tremendous increase in legislative work in the European Union as a whole, in particular the exponential growth of legislative codecision, the huge range of legislative decisions taken in parallel.
In accordance with current legislation, the Commission currently sends us, together with its drafts, a balance sheet that includes what is basically a multiannual proposal for budgetary programming corresponding to the draft.
That is why, when the Ministers for Foreign Affairs meet and take some commendable decision or other, such as helping Kosovo or Serbia, the least of their concerns is whether there is enough money to finance the decision and whether it has to be taken from elsewhere, such as aid to development in Africa, the MEDA programme or the promotion of human rights in the former Soviet Union.
When a legislative conciliation takes place on social, cultural or environmental issues - and the Commissioner will recognise that I am right - the Commissioner for Budgets, the Ministers for Finance and the members of the Committee on Budgets all pray that a financial blunder will not occur.
The agreement reached in July involves an increase in the information contained in the financial statement.
In future, all new proposals must be accompanied by an assessment of their compatibility with the financial perspective and its needs with regard to lists of budgetary posts.
The Commission is implicitly required to consider at the beginning of the legislative procedure whether it has the necessary human resources and whether the proposal might require a revision of the financial perspective or a redeployment of previously approved programmes.
The poor implementation of some programmes can also be explained or justified by a lack of staff.
Commissioner Patten thus proposes reducing the cost of the MEDA programme and simultaneously increasing its staff by 25 posts.
We believe that this declaration should be included in the Interinstitutional Agreement, but in any case, I would like to say to you that it only makes sense within the context of an Interinstitutional Agreement with a financial perspective.
I shall end, Mr President, by thanking the other institutions for their diligence in the handling of this joint declaration.
Parliament reiterated its suggestion during a three-way dialogue that took place halfway through the Portuguese Presidency and concluded with an agreement at the first conciliation presided over by France in July.
This is a real record, which I hope will now lead to greater consideration of the financial constraints in our legislative activities.
Thank you, Mr Colom i Naval.
It is now my great pleasure to welcome to this Chamber a brand new minister from my country, who will be speaking in his capacity as President-in-Office of the Council.
The examination of the budget is an important aspect of parliamentary life.
The budget is also of major importance to the governments and citizens of Europe since it sets out Europe' s broad guidelines for action in 2001.
This partnership between the Council and Parliament on budgetary matters should be developed further.
I hope that the budget discussions can continue in the same vein so that we can come up with a budget for the financial year 2001 that equips us with the resources to meet the priorities and challenges that await the European Union.
You are called on today to decide on a budget that has already been amended at first reading by the Council.
I would therefore like to quickly remind you the broad guidelines that the Council wanted to give to the 2001 budget.
I would also like to emphasise the Council and Parliament' s common objectives, which will in my opinion enable these two arms of the budgetary authority to arrive at an agreement.
On 20 July, the Council adopted a draft budget that marked a 2.8% increase in commitment appropriations and a 3.5% increase in payment appropriations compared with the budget for 2000.
This increase is also far above the inflation rate forecast by the Commission for 2001 of plus 1.8%, which shows how committed the Council is to financing European Union policies.
This draft budget constitutes a balanced and realistic compromise.
The Council did not opt for a tactical first reading, which would have consisted of adopting a hard-line stance on stabilising Community public expenditure and resulted in contentious budget negotiations with Parliament.
The Council voted through, at the first reading, the appropriations that it felt to be justified for 2001, without taking into consideration any tactical concerns would only work against the objective of the sound allocation of appropriations, which is the objective that the Community institutions must pursue.
The Council' s draft budget enables the financing of all the European Union' s policies and priorities to be reconciled without imposing an excessive burden on the Member States, who I would remind you are currently in the process of bringing their own public expenditure under control.
In identifying margins for manoeuvre, notably as regards the ceiling set for heading 3 and heading 4, it is also been the Council' s intention to let Parliament, which has the final say on non-compulsory expenditure, set out its priorities without calling into question the Council' s priorities.
First of all, the draft budget provides for priority aid to the Balkans, which will receive 30% more funding than in 2000.
The EUR 614 million that the Council have voted through will enable us to finance all the foreseeable requirements, and include an initial aid package to Serbia totalling EUR 40 million.
The Council has shown that the granting of significantly higher amounts to the Balkan region was in fact possible without a revision of the financial perspective.
Furthermore, the Council shares Parliament' s view that the revision proposed by the Commission cannot be envisaged concerning another issue, namely that of expenditure on agricultural markets.
All the programmes that have been adopted jointly by the Council and Parliament conform to the programming that they decided upon together.
I am keen to point out that the 'employment' initiative constitutes a priority not only for Parliament but also for the Council, following on from the conclusions of the Feira European Council.
We must, of course, first wait for the Commission' s assessment, but will do our utmost to reach an agreement with Parliament at second reading within the context of a more general compromise on the budget as a whole.
Concerning the CAP, or heading 1, the significant 6.3 % increase in appropriations is the result, as I have said, of the Berlin Agreements reforming the CAP.
Concerning the cutback of EUR 225 million in the field of rural development, the Council' s position is a response to the cumulative lags in national rural development plans.
The Commission acknowledges these lags and there can be no doubt that they will have major repercussions on the implementation of appropriations in 2001.
Expenditure under this heading has nevertheless been increased by 4.6 %, reflecting the fact that this second pillar of the CAP constitutes a priority.
I would remind you that the 2000 budget provided for a very high level of structural funding.
The Commission proposed a margin of EUR 137 million below the ceiling, but the Council has upped this to EUR 208 million.
The Council is not trying to vote through additional cutbacks, but rather to allow for a sufficient margin of appropriations with a view to the adoption, between now and the time the budget goes to second reading, of amounts that cover the Council and Parliament' s shared priorities, such as the employment initiative, to which you are firmly committed.
The Council has not deemed it desirable to take up the programming proposed by the Commission, either in the proposal for a framework regulation or in its preliminary draft budget for 2001.
The Council considers that an allocation of EUR 614 million, which translates as a very major increase of 30% over 2000 should cover the needs of this priority, particularly since aid arrangements are set to change from emergency aid, which is by definition for rapid use, to more structural forms of aid, the commitment of which is generally more complex.
The MEDA programme and the Euro-Mediterranean partnership as a whole quite clearly also remain a priority for the Union.
In fact, the level of commitment appropriations for the MEDA programme is not an issue, since the delay in payments under this programme now runs to over eight years, as Commissioner Patten has stated.
An increase in the actual payments made under the MEDA programme and the implementation of projects in the field will depend on just such an improvement.
However, I am anxious to stress that MEDA is only one facet of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, which also comprises other measures and which calls for reciprocal efforts to be made by the partners.
Regarding the Commission' s letter of amendment which proposes, as has just been mentioned, the creation of 500 new posts in 2001, the Council has voted through the creation of 400 new posts.
We must hold further discussions on this subject with Parliament after the first reading is complete.
Before you reach your decision on this draft budget, I would like to emphasise that the Council and Parliament share a number of objectives on which agreement could well be reached by our two arms of the budgetary authority.
I will give you two examples: amounts outstanding and financing of aid for the Balkans.
These two issues often feature in discussions between Parliament and the Council and if we are not careful could well generate tensions between the two arms of the budgetary authority.
This means that there is quite a time-lag between the authorisation to commit the expenditure and actual payment, which is quite natural in the case of infrastructure financing and multiannual programmes in particular.
The solution would thus be to significantly increase the level of payment appropriations in order to pay all the commitments outstanding.
This solution is doubtless well-intentioned, but would be ineffectual.
The Community Budget does not need any more payment appropriations.
Raising the level of payment appropriations by more than the 3.5% decided by the Council would in no way help to reduce the RAL.
I would like this House to take these comments into consideration.
I now come to aid for the Balkans.
It is also a priority of the Council and Parliament, which have just reached agreement on an emergency aid package worth EUR 200 million.
I think I can safely say that the Union was efficient in its financing of all the requirements connected with the Balkans in the year 2000, as the Community Budget enabled us to swiftly respond, among other things, to the acceleration in the timetable for reconstruction in Kosovo.
Concerning the forthcoming programming of heading 4 of the Budget, the Council wants to see a serious assessment of requirements being performed with a view to validating, or invalidating, the political valuation of the CARDS programme.
Inasmuch as this is possible, the Council is keen to base the level of multiannual global budgetary funding, including that granted under the 2001 Budget for reconstruction in the Balkans, on a technical needs analysis.
This question was also asked in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999.
I sometimes hear it said that the Council is so committed to the Berlin financial perspective that it will not even hear talk of a possible revision.
Others say that the Commission and Parliament see the revision as having a symbolic value in respect of the Balkans and as proving, moreover, that the Berlin financial perspective is inadequate.
The Council is taking a calm approach to the revision of the financial perspective.
At this stage the Council does not see the revision of the financial perspective as being a prerequisite for financing reconstruction in the Balkans.
The budgetary resources that the European Union allocate to the Western Balkans will have a symbolic value, but not as a result of the financial perspective having been revised or not.
The draft budget already incorporates the many results of the consultations between the Council and Parliament.
Discussions will now continue between your institution and the Council and the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, budgetary policy always requires foresight, and today we are discussing Budget 2001, the budget for next year, and so together we must decide what demands there will be on European policy and the European budget next year, which we will need to fulfil, and what challenges we will face there.
The programmes for the new assistance period 2000-2006 have now been approved for practically all the Member States, and so we can expect, and also hope, that the first projects of the operational programmes can be implemented next year, which will require an appropriate level of funding to be made available in the budget.
I would draw your attention to the challenge we face in the sphere of research policy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, in light of the fact that when they met in Lisbon, the Heads of State and Government set themselves the ambitious goal of making Europe the most competitive, knowledge-based economic area in the world, which also places demands on the European budget.
But I might also emphasise that the proposals, or rather, decisions of all three institutions in respect of Budget 2001, fall below the threshold set during the financial planning in Berlin.
I would like to thank the Council for their positive vote on this issue.
If we want to improve - and that is our aim where the performance reserve is concerned - then of course we will need those posts.
The greatest challenge facing those responsible for budgetary policy, in the year to come, or rather, at the present moment, is that financing must be secured for new foreign policy tasks, and this mainly concerns the financing for the necessary stabilisation aid in the Balkans.
I would remind you that the financial plan for the Balkans agreed last year only made provision for EUR 1.85 billion for the entire period up to 2006.
I might also point out that last year, for instance, we had a long debate here with the Council, in connection with the reconstruction measures for Kosovo, on whether we stood any chance at all of putting in a good performance out there.
Above all, by increasing aid for Kosovo in this way, before the end of this year, it will be immediately apparent - and this is a very important political message to my mind - that the European Union does not take the view that because there has now been a changeover of power in Serbia, we should cut back on aid to Kosovo.
The question of financial aid for Serbia next year and for subsequent years, is now on the table of course.
EUR 8.1 billion were earmarked for the MEDA programme in the Berlin financial planning.
The Commission does not believe that all the reconstruction aid required for the Balkans should be carved out of the funds for the MEDA programme.
We have various instruments at our disposal for budgetary policy, in the event that unforeseen tasks should arise, or even additional requirements.
I am aware that Parliament is of the opinion that the flexibility reserve should be employed forthwith, in order to offset the cuts in the MEDA programme.
Of course revising the financial perspective is not an end in itself, rather, the Commission proposed this method with a view to financing the necessary expenditure in foreign policy, so as to do justice to the challenges we face.
This aid package of EUR 200 million will enable us to take the necessary measures on the energy front, before the end of this year, in order to supply the people with the heating energy they need this winter, relieve the emergency situation that prevails in many areas of health care, and also ensure, for example, that the children do not sit freezing in their classrooms through the winter, by financing any necessary repair work here.
We have already this year exceeded the foreign policy budget by 400 million.
Circumstances have also revealed the need for the so-called 'rapid reaction facility' , as proposed by the Commission.
I should therefore ask both the Council and the Committee on Budgets here in Parliament to think in terms of foreign policy and not only in terms of budget strategy when they concern themselves with foreign policy.
Whilst these are drawn up pursuant to Article 248(4) of the Treaty for the purpose of discharge, we actually think there is some value in our committee and the Committee on Budgets looking into them and looking at how the money is being spent in the current year in areas where the Court of Auditors found problems in the past.
So the committee would like to recommend to all the specialised committees concerned to take into account the results of those evaluations.
Finally, I am delighted to note that, in the field for which my own committee is responsible, no less than four new budget lines have been proposed for our approval.
The first of these is for the implementation of a pilot project intended to fund an information campaign within the fifteen Member States against the criminal scourge of paedophilia.
The second is for aid to victims of human rights violations in need of treatment in specialised institutions.
The Committee on Budgets did not see fit to adopt my own committee' s proposal to increase the resources to be made available to the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia based in Vienna.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in the Committee on Budgets was rather unsatisfactory from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
In many Member States, where the Commission operates information bureaux, it is not possible to reach a broad cross-section of the public through holding conferences for experts.
In view of the fact that euro banknotes and coins are to be introduced in 2002, I cannot accept the decision to place the appropriations from PRINCE in the reserve in financial year 2001.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is a Community of law, because European law is observed and upheld.
The European Court of Justice takes care of that.
In particular, we will again recommend, at second reading, that 60 new posts be created at the European Court of Justice, and, in addition, that the necessary funding be made available in the budget.
Mr President, this is my first year in the European Parliament and I have been struck during the course of this budget debate by the contrast between rhetoric and delivery.
Last year when we were discussing the budget, we had politicians in the Member State governments who were posturing on the issue of renewable energy, whilst at the same time proposing major cuts to the Save programme in this Parliament.
But here we are yet again, twelve months later, in a situation in which ministers from Member State governments have come out of summits, preening themselves over their ambitious targets for research, while the draft budget prepared by the Council makes total cuts in payment appropriations in the research subsection of the Fifth Framework Programme of no less than EUR 100 million.
The proposals put forward by our committee and supported by the Committee on Budgets are much better.
We in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs favour a thrifty budget too, but not in this way.
I am therefore pleased, and would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Committee on Budgets, and above all, the general rapporteur, for the fact that we have at last worked out a joint plan on how to rectify the difficulties attending this draft budget, with a view to accommodating Parliament' s clear priorities, and boosting employment and social cohesion, although, naturally the situation still leaves something to be desired from the point of view of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The Commission' s attempt to abolish this initiative showed out-and-out disregard for the political will of Lisbon and the priorities of this House.
Naturally we would have liked to see the action programmes for combating social exclusion and discrimination better provided for, so as not to disappoint the expectations that Article 13 has given rise to amongst the public, and also the NGOs.
The first is the decision by the Committee on Budgets to place into reserve the monies agreed for the Life programme.
This was an astonishing decision and left many of us feeling that this whole very important programme had simply become a football in a game between the Budgets Committee and the Commission.
It demonstrated that those bodies did not recognise the importance of this programme to the environment.
It is the duty of the House to give those points their support in the vote this week, to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health.
The budget per farm in the United States is currently three times higher than in Europe.
The Committee on Fisheries, which shares with the Commission the principle of budgetary stringency, has accepted the limits set by the latter in its preliminary draft and has indicated its concerns in certain budget headings.
The Committee on Fisheries has approved another amendment increasing the appropriations intended for controlling and observing fishing activities in Community and third-country waters.
We have criticised the shortcomings and the marginal role of the Commission in the policy of control and observation and we therefore believe that this policy must be supported with an increased budget.
Whilst employment may be the European Union' s priority policy, fisheries, as another economic sector, cannot remain on the sidelines.
The CFP is tremendously important for maintaining employment in the peripheral regions, which are very dependent on fishing.
It is better to support activities that already generate jobs than to have to invest vast amounts later in creating new industries.
In conclusion, I would particularly like to mention a topic with regard to which Parliament is to issue its assent.
I am referring to the fisheries agreement with Morocco.
The Committee on Fisheries asks that line B7-8000 should include an entry of EUR 125 million to cover the financing of this agreement for the year 2001.
The Commission in its executive capacity must negotiate with weighty arguments to achieve a reasonable agreement with Morocco and the Council and the governments concerned should provide a political impetus for this negotiation.
The Community should also be investing in developing travel and tourism, particularly by supporting SMEs in this field.
The Committee on Budgets has also shown understanding with regard to financing the Media Plus programme, which is still open.
The success of audio-visual production is an important part of the European strategy.
Hopefully this problem will be put right in plenary.
We in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport tried to remain within the framework of the proposed appropriations, so that we ourselves might set out priorities as befits a special committee.
I wish, furthermore, to turn our attention to the financing of Euronews.
It is by means of the budget that the European Parliament can and must realise its ideals.
Year after year, Parliament has protected the interests of the poorest countries in the European budget, and with moderate success, even though this has not been enough.
There is no doubt that Europe has to make a crucial contribution to the reconstruction of Serbia, and hence to the stabilisation of the Balkans.
Europe, operating today as a global player, must also do its bit to reduce poverty.
Even in 1999, as much as EUR 3.2 million was refunded to the Member States because those resources were not spent.
This is where we hit a major problem.
The budget which we determine mutually, must reflect our priorities, must be understandable to the citizen and must also be goal-oriented.
These will indicate what sectors, in our eyes, must benefit directly from the aid which is budgeted for in certain regions.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would like to ask for Parliament' s support so that the amendments already approved by the Committee on Budgets may be definitively approved.
Secondly, the incorporation of women into the information society, which is extremely important for the future; financial assistance for women in Central and Eastern European countries, in the MEDA countries; the fight against sex tourism in third countries, where there is a huge problem which affects women in particular; and the promotion and defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of women.
All in all, we would like to see these amendments approved.
A group of MEPs then presented an amendment to the Committee on Budgets - which was approved - with a view to extending this budget heading to other women' s organisations in order to show our pluralist approach and respect for all options and all political affiliations in the European Union.
For this budget heading we in the committee had asked for a larger amount than was allocated in the end, but all in all, as I said before, we are satisfied and we are hoping for final approval.
A prime responsibility of any elected parliament is to protect the interests of the individual citizens against the executive.
In our case we have to ensure not only that the Commission respects European policy but that the Member States do so as well and fulfil their Treaty obligations.
They are not always ready to do so.
I should like to draw attention to the fact that the issue we are petitioned on is the question of fraud and mismanagement of money in the European Union.
Over the last few weeks in Britain alone I have monitored what the press has been saying about cases of fraud, waste and mismanagement in Britain: social security fraud - GBP 4.5 billion; serious fraud offices investigating 81 cases covering GBP 1.4 billion; housing benefit fraud - GBP 185 million; giro cheque fraud - GBP 240 million.
So certainly we must make sure that we have our affairs in order in Europe but anybody reporting these issues should never forget that it is not just the European Union that needs to address those issues seriously.
The context of our debate today is that we must use whatever opportunity we have in our budget to make sure that our European institutions are ready for the next stage of enlargement, both in terms of the institutions' structures as well as improved policy management.
Secondly, I have a specific comment on category 4 and on our external policies.
We know that our debates on the budget will address this on many occasions.
But I would like to pick up on the comments of the Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, who said that there are a number of instruments, a number of means by which we can come to terms with what is requested for this year, whether it be the flexibility instrument or indeed the negative reserve, where we could perhaps find the credits available for this year despite the problem of how to manage that in practice.
The framework agreement between our two institutions is now in operation even if it is disputed by a few of our Members.
No discharge is outstanding, the reform process started by the last Commission under the strong urgings of our Parliament has been taken up in earnest by this Commission.
It is this background which is crucial to my group' s approach to the 2001 budget.
Having always been in the vanguard for change in the European institutions, for example with our support for never giving discharge for the 1996 budget, we are now absolutely determined that the reform process will not be lost as larger and more political issues begin to dominate our agenda in the run-up to the Nice summit.
We focussed our efforts on three specific areas: better execution of the budget, more effective management of European policies and successful implementation of the reform package with particular reference to the new posts requested by the Commission.
To the surprise of many in my delegation, we established a core strategy unanimously at the beginning of September and the 400 amendments introduced by some of my colleagues came as somewhat of a surprise to many of us in the Budget Committee.
Mr President of the Council, my group could put more payments on the line if we were certain that policies were being better managed.
We are looking to rebuild people' s confidence in our institutions.
On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament which campaigns for openness, efficiency and effective democratic control of the European institutions.
Thank you very much, Mr Elles.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I would like to extend warm thanks to the four rapporteurs who have done the groundwork for today.
And so we must think about how to solve this problem.
I believe it is very important for the Council members to register the fact that payments are commitments entered into in the past that will actually have to be honoured.
We want to tackle unemployment for example.
We have other priorities on the foreign policy front.
We want to drive democratisation processes forward, and we want to strike a balance between the traditional political fields of foreign policy now before us.
When you, Mr President-in-Office, then say this must be financed from existing budgetary funds, I would ask you to consider just one thing: this year alone we have made 200 000 flexibility instruments available, and supplemented this with EUR 180 million from the emergency reserve.
Therefore, this year alone we will have included EUR 380 million in fresh funds in the budgetary lines and made it available.
This problem will occupy us for the next six or seven years, and probably even longer.
This would go hand in hand with the reform of the Commission, which, as it happens, has already set us thinking about how we can make our policies more effective overall.
The budget for 2001 is the second budget during this present programming period.
It continues the budget policy that was outlined in the Interinstitutional Agreement of over a year ago.
It is right that the committee should have made a special point of focus the reduction in expenditure commitments that are in arrears.
Structural Funds are one year in arrears and the Media programme, for example, is actually eight years in arrears.
The most difficult problems in the new budget concern external action.
The basic reason is Agenda 2000, in which there are too few funds for the construction of the Balkan region.
However, just EUR 1 850 million were set aside for the development of this region at Berlin, while EUR 4 500 million were spent during the previous period.
The Council reduced funds for the Balkans by EUR 200 million, although there is a massive amount of reconstruction work to be done in the wake of the NATO bombing.
The Committee on Budgets has taken a constructive stand on financing.
It wishes to commence talks with the Council in which all the opportunities of the Interinstitutional Agreement would be exploited to solve problems.
Mr President, it is with these remarks that I would like, on behalf of my group, to support the policy of the Committee on Budgets in next year' s budget.
Our group will support your proposals for the most part.
However, we oppose the GUE' s strategy, which submitted a proposal out of the blue in the Committee on Budgets yesterday, to reject the budget.
Like the budget before it, Budget 2001 had almost insoluble conflicts to contend with: on the one hand the pressure of consolidation and cost-cutting policy, as agreed under the Interinstitutional Agreement, in order to secure the financing of the enlargement process, and on the other hand, the acute financing needs of the Stability Pact for the Balkans.
Financing is a balancing act between needs - financial requirements in the new Member States and financing opportunities for the donor countries - and there are limited public funds.
We hope to be able to develop a common strategy over the next few weeks in order to counteract this.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, my Group has unanimously decided to table a motion rejecting the draft budget for the year 2001.
We are going to be in some way forced to choose between these three priorities, even though they are identically legitimate and equally urgent, and this is not, in our view, acceptable.
The budget is not the be all and end all, of course, but it does reflect the political will of the fifteen Member States.
Jacques Chirac spoke lyrically, in this very Chamber, of the Europe of all citizens, male and female, yet the draft budget of the Fifteen envisages an absolute reduction in appropriations in chapters as important as social action, employment, education, training, youth, culture, audiovisual media and the environment.
On some of these lines, even the amendments from the Committee on Budgets, although positive, fall short of the 2000 budget.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has done so, and the President of the European Parliament clearly expressed the same views in Biarritz.
Had this amendment been adopted in its initial version, it might have started to deal the cards afresh, but the idea was rejected by the majority of the Committee on Budgets.
This is a blind alley, which my Group is not ready to go down.
In this connection, I should like to refer to a crucial passage in the speech by the general rapporteur.
Our motion to reject the Council text is specifically aimed at contributing towards highlighting, in good time, this key political problem on which, sooner or later, we shall have to deliver an opinion in order, in the long term, to match European projects with the resources needed to implement them.
Mr President, Commissioner, the French Presidency of the European Union is coming to an end at the time when Parliament is voting on the budget for 2001.
We can only, in such circumstances, support Parliament' s attitude and the back the amendment in favour of MEDA, restoring the appropriations of the preliminary draft budget, in the same way that we must be pleased at the significant increase in agricultural expenditure and the special place given to the second pillar of the CAP, promotion of the countryside, while, however, deploring the position of the Committee on Budgets, which rejected almost all the amendments from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development seeking to compensate for the Council' s drastic cuts in the fruit and vegetable sector and also in the pig farming sector.
The amount of aid allocated to the Balkans might give him to think so, with both the EUR 200 million released from the 2000 budget as emergency aid and the appropriations for 2001 which, even so, represent an increase of 30% over and above the 2000 budget.
The policy of aid for the Balkans must now concentrate massively on Serbia, a region impoverished by our bombing raids last year and by our economic sanctions which hit it so hard.
The aid we propose to contribute must safeguard rather than threaten the Serbian national identity.
Let us therefore put an end to direct aid to these provinces - occasionally without a legal basis, as we saw in this Chamber not so long ago in the case of Montenegro - direct aid that serves primarily to fuel the separatist movements.
In conclusion, we must clearly remember that, as far as we are concerned, aid for the Balkans in no way justifies requests for revision of the financial perspective.
The bottom line of every budget year shows a surplus, indicating that the amounts of appropriations we have voted on do not correspond to the real needs of the situation.
Mr President, as usual, I am speaking on behalf of the Members of the Bonino List, and I would like to start by echoing the congratulations to the two rapporteurs on the work they have done in recent months and, in general, congratulating the Committee on Budgets on its work.
We do not agree with the method, which is why, in this first reading, we place our confidence in the rapporteur' s approach, in spite of what happened last night in the Committee on Budgets, in the hope that this will constitute a basis for effective discussion with the Council in-between the first and second readings.
Unfortunately, Mrs Haug has adopted a political line which only takes account of the supporters of a federal Europe.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur still has not grasped that this is why we must tread water for the time being. "Let' s do better with less" , as Commissioner Patten said, is lost on her.
The fact that this confidence is lacking is obvious from the drop in the currency value of the Euro, which, since its launch, has lost nearly 30% of its value compared to the Yen and the American Dollar.
That confidence will not grow by ploughing even more money into the budget, but it will if the budget is implemented efficiently.
Naturally we too are in favour of giving aid to the Balkans and Serbia.
The rapporteur' s proposal to use this principle for MEDA, however, does not meet the 'new' or 'unforeseen' requirement, and is all the more surprising in the light of the fact that spending levels have not been reached in the MEDA programme.
Mr Bourlanges made the cursory note that the 2000 budget for Latin America had probably been somewhat too generous.
The Council agrees with the creation of 400 posts which, according to Commissioner Patten, the Commission needs in order to eliminate the backlog of payments.
Finally, Mr Heaton-Harris was right to refer in his amendments to the onesidedness of many European programmes, in which the citizen is treated to a propaganda-like tale on European integration, and at the expense of the citizens themselves would you believe.
The Union must realise that certainly not all citizens dream of far-reaching integration.
It is just as well, given that of the 15 Member States only 7 are likely to be able to present a positive balance sheet for the year 2000.
There is therefore little prospect of us receiving additional revenue in the form of higher contribution payments from the Member States.
I am referring to the absolutely crucial payments required by the Balkan countries, which the Council has now cut back on.
I therefore hope that the newly created budgetary line - which a few people, myself included, have been critical of - for financing the European parties, is not used to award funds to those who have already squandered away funds made available at national level and are now in fact in debt.
I also hope that the conditions attached to the establishment of 400 additional service posts within the Commission will actually be fulfilled.
I hope that in the course of further negotiations with the Council these principles will actually be upheld, and that in this way, we will be able to jointly adopt a budget for 2001 that benefits the citizens.
In the context of these objectives, a raft of measures is proposed for next year, which in our opinion will help to improve the current situation.
The needs are self-evident, we have many commitments, the importance of external cooperation in asserting the European Union' s presence on the world stage is obvious, and there is a very low implementation rate for various programmes.
The MEDA programme, which focuses on the Mediterranean basin, a geographical area of the utmost strategic importance, is a good example of our inability to implement our programmes.
With a view to resolving current bottlenecks, a general reserve should be created under category 4 - a performance reserve - which will be used in proportion to the extent to which the various items are implemented.
The third aspect to be emphasised is that if we wish to see greater coordination between the European institutions, we should promote, in theory and in practice, the integration of the Commission' s legislative programme and the budgetary process, as well as informing Parliament in advance of decisions by other institutions that may have an impact on the budget.
By preserving this strategic approach in the way we address the budget this year and in years to come, the European Parliament will fully play its role in the budgetary process.
The fact that category 4' s ceiling has now been exceeded by EUR 380 million tells us that we really should have done something like that.
We are trying to safeguard Parliament' s priorities in category 4.
But there are three areas which are giving us cause for concern.
Kosovo, of course - which we had the problem with last year.
In fact, we have problem in that we have given too much.
With the transfer of EUR 175 million we have estimated EUR 25 million more than we expected.
We will try to get an agreement with the Council and the Commission on that.
I turn now to what Mr Wurtz said before.
But to reject the budget at this stage, at first reading, is totally wrong.
The content of the argument is worth considering for support, but to try to reject the budget at first reading is nonsense.
We have a long way to go before we get to the second reading but at least he has given us something to think about.
On the western Balkans, President-in-Office, you said that the Council considers EUR 614 million to be enough.
There is a distinct difference between Parliament and the Council.
My flight is booked for Friday, so I am ready for a long night on Thursday, but I hope that at the end of all this we can get a budget we are all satisfied with, so we can do justice to the tax-payers of the European Union, to the people we represent, but also to those in need, especially in the MEDA areas, especially in Serbia and especially in the western Balkans.
Thank you very much, Mr Wynn.
We would particularly like to thank you for making us smile and even laugh about a subject as serious as the budget.
Thank you for the answer.
Question No 3 by (H-0714/00): Subject: Cost of the activities of the 'Three Wise Men' in Austria Which funds are being used to cover the costs of the activities of the 'Three Wise Men' , who have been deployed by the Portuguese Presidency to assess the situation in Austria?
My answer is very simple.
The Council played no part in this matter and the Community budget was not used in any way.
The expenditure committed in order to fund the task of assessing the Austrian situation was actually funded in its entirety at national level by Austria' s 14 partners within the European Union.
The Presidency did, of course, make a contribution to this.
Mr President, Minister Moscovici, one question the public, and also quite a number of MEPs have been asking themselves, is: what was the role of the embassies in this connection?
We really cannot avoid this question.
I therefore think it was quite appropriate, in this context, to ask an external authority, that was not morally implicated, to undertake this task.
Question No 5 by (H-0776/00): Subject: Violation of human rights and dismantling of paramilitary groups in Colombia Paramilitary groups have stepped up the murders of farmers, journalists, trade unionists, political leaders and human rights activists over the past few months.
Ramiro Zapata was the latest of 25 human rights activists to be murdered and, recently, the Colombian press condemned the paramilitary groups' "Plan 100" to kill one hundred human rights activists.
The government has recognised the "accidental" killing of six children in Puerto Rico on 15 August.
Yes, generally the European Union regularly condemns in the strongest possible terms the serious human rights violations which, unfortunately, are still being committed practically every day in Colombia.
While supporting the efforts made by the Colombian Government to make progress in the peace process, the European Union has stressed, and continues to stress, that government' s necessary commitment to respect for human rights in Colombia.
The European Union has also appealed for the commitment of all parties to seeking a negotiated solution to the conflict, without which it would be impossible to establish any lasting peace.
On several occasions, the European Union has affirmed its willingness to support, to the extent that it can and with the most appropriate means, all efforts to secure a peace agreement.
In this respect, a Joint Declaration should be read by France' s representative, on behalf of the Presidency, on the meetings in support of the peace process scheduled to be held in Bogotá on 24 October 2000, which should, in particular, stress the need to support the rule of law and the fight against the causes of violence, to boost aid for the victims of violence, to defend human rights, protect biodiversity and the environment, and step up consultation and regional cooperation.
You may rest assured, finally, that respect for human rights, and the promotion of human rights, are, in any case, a key component of the European Union' s cooperation with third countries.
Mr President, I want to thank the President-in-Office for his reply which was very comprehensive.
I am a bit happier with the attitude of the Council today than I was in July because, as on many occasions in situations of crisis, the European Union seems always to be the last authority to arrive on the international scene and make its voice heard.
Nevertheless, is the Council aware of the amount of money that the European Union provides, something like ten times what the United States provides for development cooperation throughout the world?
I am not unaware of amount of money the Americans are promising in aid for Colombia, for example, the bulk of which is earmarked for activities to combat drugs trafficking.
At the same time, from my own experience, I think you are somewhat mistaken in making such a generalisation.
But in that case we are in a rather peculiar situation given the historical links between the United Sates and the continent of South America.
Many of us believe that the problems in Colombia, as in other Latin American countries, stem from the issue of whether or not peasant-farmers own land.
In 1984, 0.2% of landowners in Colombia owned 32% of the land.
In the port of Buenaventura, 20 peasant-farmers were murdered.
Far away, in another area called Ciénaga, there have been over 200 murders since the paramilitaries moved in a year ago.
The question, Mr President, and I shall end here, is whether there is a solution that would exert greater pressure than that proposed by the President in his statement and whether the aid we are going to give will be entirely different from that of the United States, in other words, not intended for crop-spraying, but for crop replacement and also for social, rather than military, purposes.
This is an inadequate response by the European Union.
I should just like to confirm my previous answer.
While taking the honourable Member' s comments very seriously, I still think that this aid is useful and should be intensified.
The Council is not here to make comments on every aspect of this extremely sensitive and painful issue.
Mr President, when you mention the text of the supplementaries and the President-in-Office' s response, could I remind the President-in-Office that the original question specifically related to the massacre in Colombia, whether or not the Council has had discussions on this event and if it plans to make any formal protest or not.
The questions that I and other Members asked are very specifically related to the situation in Colombia.
I specifically stated - and this will have been noted in the Minutes - that the incident you refer to in your question has not been specifically referred to the Council and that the Council has not mentioned the matter as such in this debate.
I should not like you to think that the Council does not answer the questions asked of it.
At the same time, it is just not possible to undertake an ad hoc debate on matters like this, which are, let me repeat, extremely complex ones.
As they deal with the same subject, Question Nos 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be taken together.
Question No 6 by (H-0718/00): Subject: International financial transactions At the next annual meeting of the IMF, does the Council plan to propose that the IMF Committee should study possible arrangements for introducing a Tobin-type tax on international financial transactions with a view to combating speculation and stabilising currency markets?
Question No 8 by (H-0720/00): Subject: Tobin tax How does the Council intend to help future governments deal with the emerging crisis in national taxation because of tax competition and off-shore financial centres, and would it consider new streams of taxable revenue such as currency transactions?
Question No 11 by (H-0725/00): Subject: Viability of Tobin-type taxes at European level In view of the recent report issued by the French Minister of Finance indicating that Tobin-type taxes would not be viable if introduced by a single Member State, what steps does the French Presidency propose with a view to securing the viability of such taxes at European Union and global level?
Question No 12 by (H-0735/00): Subject: Tax on financial transactions In recent months there have been growing calls for a tax on financial speculation, with ATTAC committees (association for a tax on financial transactions and aid for citizens) springing up in France and Europe, as well as the amendments tabled in the French National Assembly and Senate.
No, I shall try not to give you too academic an answer, but you put me in a difficult position in asking me these questions because we could easily spend more than one evening answering, and in any case we shall no doubt be overrunning the allotted hour with the questions that are coming up.
I should just like to say, once again, speaking on behalf of the Council, that the Council is perfectly aware of topical events and the importance of these issues.
I shall therefore beware of giving a definitive answer to this difficult question.
Firstly, I think everyone recognises that this tax, known as Tobin tax could operate properly only if applied at world level.
It must be noted, however, that while it may be possible to seek a consensus within the European Union, no such consensus exists within G7, especially within the OECD, regarding levying a tax on exchange transactions.
We are even aware, and this is an economic line of reasoning, that if there were a broad consensus, then a limited number of financial places would have a real interest in adopting an uncooperative attitude and refusing to apply the tax on transactions within their territory.
The question that I must ask those who advocate the Tobin tax, therefore, is exactly how we can offset that risk that would exist that speculative activities would shift location to tax havens, since this is a phenomenon which must be avoided if such a tax were to be adopted.
I should also like to have answers to the question of what influence it would have on the volatility of the exchange markets, particularly what would be the effect of a tax of 0.1 per thousand on speculators expecting devaluation in the order of 20 to 50%.
There would, besides, be a risk of this tax being bypassed due to the high level of innovative performance in the modern financial world.
This fight, which is one of the priorities of the French Presidency, was expressed at both the Justice and Home Affairs Council and the Ecofin Council, and recently in a combined meeting of these two Councils.
It is just that we get the impression, and your answer testifies to this somewhat, that the Council Presidency is not being very proactive in dealing with this issue.
I must act prudently, not in general but in using terms such as 'code of conduct' .
This is therefore a key policy guideline which, without constituting an alternative to the project for the Tobin tax, is perhaps more realistic in the short term and is one which the current Presidency values extremely highly.
In one of its resolutions, the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, held in Brussels from 9 to 12 October, referred explicitly in recital C and in paragraph 21 to the creation of a Tobin tax.
We do have to consider a number of questions calling for specific answers, particularly on the subject of funding development, and clearly efforts must focus on the improvement and the quality of state aid for development, the development of trade, strengthening international financial institutions, and the issue of debt must be considered in depth once again.
The minor amount you mention is precisely in the same order as the daily variations in the euro/dollar exchange rate, and this is something we are attempting to combat by other, infinitely more costly methods.
I think that, in spite of everything, fluctuations in the euro/dollar exchange rate are, unfortunately, higher than this sort of value, and it is true that we have to deal, in the long term, with speculators who expect far greater devaluation.
Indeed this is what has happened in the case of the euro over the year, whether we like it or not.
You have before you not Pierre Moscovici the militant or even Pierre Moscovici, speaking in his capacity as Minister, although I have attempted to introduce a few personal remarks in relation to the position prepared for me.
I am supposed to be speaking on behalf of the Council, the Council being the body uniting the ministers of the 15 European Union Member States.
Mr Moscovici, you can see that the eight questions come from the left of the Chamber.
I also excuse them, but we shall apply the Rules of Procedure.
Firstly, will he come and speak to us as a militant on a future occasion?
Secondly, is he aware that the recent Labour Party Conference passed a document which overwhelmingly said that they would work with its international partners and all stake-holders towards addressing the concerns raised by advocates of the Tobin Tax and introducing new mechanisms for international stability and better global financial regulation?
I shall, of course, continue in the same vein, especially as I feel we must consider that this debate bears witness to the fact that increasing numbers of people, particularly within the European Union, are wondering about applying stricter control to financial speculation and also about the ability of the political authorities to intervene in this economic sphere and the extravagant powers of the multinationals.
So, at a time when people feel that politics does not have the ability to intervene in the economic sphere, and also more generally in the role of European construction in order to alter its conduct of international relations, do you not think that a measure of this kind could contribute to restoring confidence in the political world' s power to act and, hence, could it not serve as a message sent out to the countries and the peoples of the South?
I should just like to repeat, once again, the fact that in discussing the Tobin tax, we must also question the conditions for the effectiveness of such a tax.
I think we should perhaps attempt to get outside the too narrow area of preferences in order to also ask economic questions.
Mr President-in Office, you said at the start of your speech that this matter could be discussed endlessly here in Parliament.
You are quite right and I would also like to remind you that we have already once discussed this subject in great detail, and these very same colleagues of mine asked the same questions before.
The reason why we have been quiet here on the right is therefore that we have already examined these matters once and, in our opinion, we do not need to talk about the same issues over and over again in this Chamber and use up our precious time doing so.
The adoption of the Tobin tax on a global scale will be impossible.
As for the rest, I should just like to add that France has indeed looked into a number of areas of reform with a view to answering the concerns behind the proposal to establish a Tobin-type tax, even if questions of how it is actually going to work remain unanswered.
As the author is not present, Question No 14 lapses.
The number of cases of BSE, or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, that have been identified in Europe over the last few years is, as we know, a major area of concern.
The Council is more than ever anxious to take every step possible in order to eradicate this disease.
I should like to specify briefly that the recent increase in the number of cases identified does not mean that the epidemic is spreading wildly.
On 7 January 1999, the Commission put forward a proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation seeking to consolidate the texts previously adopted by the Commission as precautionary measures in order to establish rules for the prevention and supervision of certain forms of BSE.
This was designed to offer consumers a guarantee of a very high level of protection.
The European Parliament delivered its opinion on the Commission proposal at first reading, during the sittings of 15 and 19 May 2000.
It adopted 48 amendments, 40 of which were accepted by the Commission.
The Council is actively involved in examining the Commission proposal and these amendments with a view to managing in the near future to issue a position on this.
Moreover, in anticipation of adopting this directive on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, a decision on the prohibition of the use of material presenting risks as regards these diseases was taken in June 2000, in order to stop any further spreading of the epidemic and in order to guarantee the highest possible health protection standards for the consumer.
The decision therefore applies to the production and commercialisation of products derived from animals that are made from or contain materials from animals of bovine, ovine or caprine species.
The specified risk materials for compulsory removal and destruction from now on are the following: "the skull including the brains and eyes, the tonsils, the spinal cord and the ileum of bovine animals aged over 12 months" ; "the skull including the brains and eyes, the tonsils and the spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals aged over 12 months ...
The Council, of course, is careful to monitor development in scientific findings and in the implementation of rapid diagnostic tests.
For the time being, as you know, applications are to be made to national budgets in procedures for the compensation of livestock farmers.
I have not read this morning' s papers yet, but I believe I can make a sincere case to promote French beef in general.
I should not like to get into this very acrimonious debate or to get involved in bilateral French-British considerations.
Mrs Isler Béguin will pardon me if I do not wish to go into great detail in response to a debate on BSE which has a justifiable place in this House after entering into a debate on the Tobin tax.
I must tell you, Mr Cushnahan, that the document is distributed to all Members in their pigeonholes and that the secretariat of each political Group receives them on Mondays.
Question No 16 by (H-0731/00): Subject: Ban on oil tankers in the Strait of Bonifacio The Strait of Bonifacio is an extremely dangerous passage for shipping.
The Corsican and Sardinian coastlines on either side are of exceptional ecological and historical value, as acknowledged by the 1993 Franco-Italian agreement, which prohibits French and Italian merchant ships carrying hazardous products from travelling through the strait.
Regarding international traffic in transit, international law stipulates, subject to certain reservations, that the vessels of all states have the 'right of innocent passage' in territorial waters.
Already, following proposals by France and Italy, the International Maritime Organisation, IMO, has adopted two resolutions, which have been in force since 1 December 1998, on establishing rules for shipping traffic in the Strait of Bonifacio and making it compulsory for vessels entering the strait to identify themselves.
The Council also recently issued favourable guidelines on the draft directives amending the 1995 directive on the inspection of vessels by the state port, and the draft on vessel inspection bodies.
I should, moreover, like to point out, as Commissioner Barnier did this morning, that these maritime safety issues, on the basis of a Commission communication, were dealt with in a totally positive fashion at the informal European Council in Biarritz, after the French Prime Minister simply asked the Commission to bring forward, if at all possible, the cut-off date for authorisation of single hulled vessels from 2015 to 2010, which seems quite a reasonable request, in any case, and a perfectly realistic ambition.
Thank you for your answer, Mr President, but the question went rather further.
These resolutions were adopted and came into force on 1 December 1998.
Regarding international traffic in transit, international law, particularly the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, stipulates, subject to certain reservations, that the vessels of all states have the 'right of innocent passage' in territorial waters.
Any action by the two governments concerned is therefore limited by this international law.
Excellent question.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Council has run out, Question Nos 17 to 46 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur.
I would also like to say a few things about agriculture.
The Commission does not label this as information policy, but social policy.
The second point I wanted to make concerns quality policy for agricultural products, for which Parliament earmarked 50 million of the budget last year.
Mr President, the European Union' s budget for next year has been prepared in difficult circumstances.
The problems are the same as last year.
The previous European Parliament made this Interinstitutional Agreement, which was binding on this Parliament, a couple of months prior to the commencement of this parliamentary term, and it specified too low a ceiling for category 4 expenditure.
New money is needed in the budget for Serbia and Kosovo.
I would like to focus attention on the fact that there seem to be sufficient amounts of European Union money for financing political parties at European level, but not, for example, for the prevention of unemployment.
I quote the exact words of Parliament' s resolution: 'The European Parliament requests the Commission to pay special attention to structural problems of an economic or social character caused by natural disasters and to look favourably on measures to help solve these problems; Stresses the need to re-establish line B4-3400 (urgent aid for natural disasters within the European Union) so that urgent needs can be addressed immediately, fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our budget for 2001, with its EUR 92.5 billion in payment appropriations adds two new items to the traditional features.
As regards the traditional features, apart from the problems of ensuring that the projections are honest ones, we have, first of all, the problem of budgetary cuts for European farmers, with EUR 300 million of agricultural aid and EUR 225 million of appropriations for rural development cut.
There is nothing for beekeepers, who were asking for a mere EUR 15 million, even though it is possible to increase expenditure for the Balkans by 30%.
We have the whole kit and caboodle of subsidies for associations working with drugs, xenophobia, immigrants, the Jean Monnet House, the exile council, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, even the PRINCE campaign.
Finally, the third traditional feature is the budgetary funds poured into foreign preferences.
I hope, Mr President, and this is my concluding remark, that we are at least going to cut the EUR 50 million budget lines financing the Israel-PLO peace agreement.
Mr President, in the Haug report the sentiment is expressed that the Commission, in close cooperation with Parliament, is responsible for providing information to the European citizen about the policies of the European Union.
But Parliament has another responsibility: it is to represent the concerns of the citizens of Member States to the European Union, something which appears to be discouraged here.
It will be not unknown to some Members here that my party, the UKIP, seeks the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union.
Mr President, the problem with the 2001 budgetary year is more one of quality than of quantity.
We all know that there was no category relating to external action in the financial perspective adopted in Berlin.
The military action against Serbia, aid for reconstruction, the foreseeable fall of Milosevic.
However, the financial perspective was a success because it was, at the time, the only possible agreement between 15 Member States.
The Interinstitutional Agreement that resulted from the Summit was good news for the powers of this Parliament.
External needs reveal the shortages in category 4.
In the European Union, we do not even know who is responsible.
It is true that, if the Council took an intransigent position, it would make things difficult in such important areas as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for MEDA, the management committees, increases in payments in order to absorb the remainder that needs to be paid or the extension of the N + 2 planning procedure to external actions.
If the Council took a flexible position, we could reach an agreement at second reading in order to close the budget.
But they cannot be extended ad infinitum.
Today we are also debating the Colom i Naval report on the Interinstitutional Agreement, in which the Commission undertakes to present Parliament with all the necessary information for initiatives that have financial implications.
Now, in 2000, after more than 15 years of parliamentary history, is when this initiative comes to Parliament.
The European Parliament is the other branch of the budgetary authority and, despite this, it is the press that often informs us of the Union' s new financial commitments made in the European Councils.
Then, when the commitment has already been announced and made, they just have to ask the Commission and its Commissioners to make a gap in the budget and Parliament to accept it.
We are now at first reading and you have enough time to seek full agreement with Parliament.
Consider the fact that, in European policy, as in any other field, sometimes the moderate options cease to be the majority options.
There are three major issues which we should be concerned about in relation to the budget for other institutions.
Firstly, how far does this budget improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the institutions?
On the first point, I believe that this budget continues to apply the principles of budgetary rigour, budgetary prudence, improving efficiency, more effective budget control, better use of resources and a general tightening up, which are all vital to increase the confidence of the EU citizen in the institutions.
Having said that, the principle of budgetary rigour can be developed further in every area.
In the case of Parliament, how can we talk about budgetary rigour and still base ourselves in three different cities, in three different Member States?
Without wishing to give offence to our host city here in Strasbourg, our monthly part-sessions in this city are a manifest waste of time, money and Parliament' s ability to be effective and efficient.
My group believes that Parliament' s Bureau needs to review its decision and also to draw up a full list, with clear criteria, for those exceptional cases where Members can draw a daily allowance for their presence in Brussels during constituency weeks.
Furthermore, we parliamentarians also need to address the issue of the statute for assistants.
The Commission is starting to get its own house in order and it is crucial that the other institutions are seen to follow suit.
In particular, the other institutions should follow the Commission as quickly as possible in implementing activity-based budgeting.
The system is anything but transparent.
But of course it is not enough to encourage reform in each institution separately.
There needs to be greater vigour and determination for the Parliament, Council and Commission to cooperate as closely as possible on issues such as translation, interpretation, libraries and buildings.
Nowhere is it more important than for us to demonstrate value for money in the buildings policy.
This strategy has already been introduced by Joan Colom i Naval, the Vice-President for buildings.
Instead of simply showing expenses distributed among accounts, the new-format Budget shows more clearly what we are getting for our money.
As elected representatives, we are of course delighted with any move to make the Budget more easily understandable.
This spring, Commissioner Chris Patten illustrated this by asking why the EU was appropriating more money to cleaning up after Hurricane Mitch in Latin America than it had appropriated to developing the Russian economy.
All of us - the Council, Parliament and the Commission - agree that we must be thrifty, and we have all kept dutifully below the established ceiling for expenditure.
I do not think our electorate will appreciate technical justifications in terms of the Budget for the fact that we cannot in harmony find the money for Serbia and the Balkans without reducing our efforts in other countries.
There is, however, a popular demand that we solve the problem of how best to provide aid to Serbia.
Mr President, may I first of all express my admiration for the rapporteur.
The total quoted so far of EUR 200 million for Serbia hardly even begins to meet the real needs.
I welcome the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this important debate and to dwell on the importance of the agricultural budget and its relevance not just to farmers but to society in general.
Those with an interest in developing a sustainable agricultural sector will be aware that the central thrust of recent reform as agreed in Berlin is a continuing move from commodity support to direct income support for farmers.
In some areas of agricultural activity, such as bee production, EU support represents the profit margin which in effect means consumers enjoy a quality food product at production costs and regretfully, as demonstrated in recent years, sometimes below the cost of production.
In Berlin last year it was agreed that the budgetary provision for agriculture for the period 2000-2006 will be over £506 billion, that the 15 Member States of the European Union will continue to contribute 1.3% of gross national product to the overall annual budget - which of course includes measures to finance the proposed enlargement of the European Union, a proposal which I and my other colleagues fully support.
Frustrated because, after lengthy debates within the Committee on Budgets and after the commendable efforts of the general rapporteur, to whom I must pay tribute, I cannot see exactly what Parliament' s intentions are regarding the key problem of the revision of the financial perspective.
By and large, we have two standpoints, that of the Council which persists in wishing to fund the new requirements of Kosovo and Serbia from the budget total established in Berlin without revision, and that of the Commission which is proposing to revise the financial perspective in order to finance these new requirements without seriously affecting the other policies, particularly the MEDA programme.
To date, Parliament has always been in favour of avoiding redistributing funds within category 4 in order to finance the new requirements.
In spite of the rapporteur' s bolder proposal, we have voted in a text which does not mention the word "revision" , as if it was too vulgar a term, the r word rather than the f word, nor does it mention amounts, as if it were possible to reach any negotiated solution without specifying the amounts involved.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would, of course, like to thank all rapporteurs.
I was able to experience this first-hand over the past two weeks when, during a trip in the Western Balkans, I visited Kosovo and Bosnia.
And I am telling you loud and clear: Kostunica must be given his chance here and I therefore hope that he will give amnesty in the next couple of weeks or months, but meanwhile, I do want the introduction of those two new budget lines, democratisation and reconstruction, to be accompanied by political conditions, both from a political and budgetary perspective.
For it is true that my visit to Bosnia taught me that the situation there is very problematic indeed.
All the people I talked to over there applauded the switch of power in Serbia, but they all feared a reduction in the financial resources at the same time.
I therefore back all efforts, together with Mr Lagendijk, to inject maximum funds in the Western Balkans.
Mr President, the Council really has surpassed itself in its proposed draft budget 2001.
In the final analysis, it is immoral to cut spending on agricultural policy, on the MEDA programme and on the socially excluded, in order to find the resources to finance the European Union' s commitments in Kosovo and Yugoslavia.
This budget is unacceptable.
The challenge faced by the new President is, at the same time, a challenge to us Europeans.
The process of democratisation has only just begun.
The retreat of the old Serbian government and the formation of a transitional cabinet of experts, as well as the election of the new Serbian parliament on 23 December of this year, are important prerequisites for replacing the old socialist-communist nomenclature in the Republic of Serbia, just as it has already been replaced in Montenegro, and for opening the door to democratic changes.
The latest elections contributed a further 80 municipalities to our democratic contacts at local level, so that we have a sufficient number of intermediaries at this level too.
Those responsible for politics and the economy in Serbia emphasise again and again that they do not wish to become dependent upon our help, but that they need our help now in order to alleviate need in the short term and that they will then need help to help themselves introduce a social market economy in the medium and long term and in order also to make necessary foreign investment possible.
Professor Kostunica deserves our support.
I am also sure that this Parliament will concur with this judgement of mine when he has spoken before us in this Chamber on 15 November.
I very much hope that in the debate on the CARDS programme, which of course covers our financial commitment to all these countries, we show the same level of commitment and give each country its due.
Firstly, I would like to say something about the backlog of payments which each year causes headaches as a result of the Council' s eagerness to cut payment appropriations, with the aim of obtaining this absurd and false saving, which looks very good on the national balance sheet, but which in reality only produces what we call a burden for the future, because it is clear that what has been committed to - commitments entered into - in previous financial years has to be fulfilled.
Having said this, and also taking into account that the Commission itself has admitted that for 2001 applications from Member States for payments for the Structural Funds exceed the predictions of the PDB by EUR 8 000 million, I think that it is now time for the Council to start considering very seriously that we should do something about payments and not increase the backlog of payments.
I am in no doubt about the reason for the existence of these parliaments, but there is no harm in pointing out that the Socrates programme derives from a legislative codecision procedure between Parliament and the Council, and that decisions such as this set a serious precedent which will, in the future, allow the inclusion of comments on programmes of any type of action that do not fit in elsewhere.
I think that this distorts the legislative procedure for adopting programmes and, above all, the content of those programmes.
Mr President, the current financial perspective clearly does not reflect our existing priorities and commitments.
The mainstay of Parliament' s strategy should be to force the Council to guarantee that new resources will be allocated to new objectives, in order to prevent these new objectives from being implemented using resources earmarked for existing priorities.
We clearly appreciate certain aspects, specifically the fact that the year 2000 amounts for development policies have been retained.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a Budget with some EUR 96.8 billion in commitments and EUR 94.7 billion in payments from Parliament' s point of view.
Far below the ceiling for own resources, therefore.
For us, however, it is crucial that, on 15 November, the Commission should submit - as we shall demand that it do - a clear, detailed and intelligible report on how we are dealing with the commitments entered into so far and with the total arrears in payments.
Until these figures are available, there will be problems in releasing the general implementation reserve of some EUR 650 million.
It must also, of course, be made clear to the Council that it also has its share of responsibility for the deficiencies in the way that many external programmes have been handled.
We say yes to 400 new jobs in 2001.
In this connection, efforts are required to solve the major social problems, for example unemployment.
That is particularly important, bearing in mind that there is money for efforts in all these areas.
We therefore also believe that, in future, we must further reform agricultural policy in the direction of lower costs and that we must definitely remove expenditure such as aid for tobacco cultivation, which makes no sense at all.
The Minister simply had his facts wrong.
The system assumes that the payment appropriations more or less simply follow the spending patterns, but the Council adds its own mechanism, and it is that mechanism which threatens to undermine Berlin, despite the fact that Berlin is under way in real terms.
For Sweden, this would involve approximately EUR 65 million.
By adopting the necessary priorities in the Budget, we shall tackle both of these historic commitments successfully.
On the other hand, it is important for the peace of mind of thousands of workers, and compatible with the overall amount planned, that the level of aid planned for this financial year for the social chapter for coal should be maintained.
Mr President, one of the great privileges of parliamentarians is to talk about the budget.
But my main point is about the ACP.
Yes, it is a parliamentary assembly but it has no budget to control, because the EDF budget which we use for the ACP is apparently controlled by the Member States.
We have a parliamentary assembly which does not have a budget.
To go on subsidising tobacco cultivation at the same time is a downright contradiction in terms.
I know that this proposal is not at present capable of winning a majority, but I should like to call upon as many fellow MEPs as possible to vote in favour of this package of measures in order simply to set an example so that we might finally make some headway on this issue.
Another important point relates to the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in London.
This definitely requires an increase in its budget, for we ourselves have of course given it a new additional task.
The Committee on Budgets has also recognised this.
Mr Fischler is negotiating hard, but unfortunately without success so far.
I am confident of a positive vote in this area, that is to say in the fisheries area as a whole, for I believe that only this will constitute an expression of our common political will.
Those who are in charge of the future of this Parliament would do well to recognise it is a one-day debate they require, not a two-day debate on the budget in future.
I say without apology that I am going to address the effects that the European Union has had in my region.
The peace and reconciliation programme which was brought about by three Members of this Parliament in conjunction with the former President of the Commission, Jacques Delors, has been very positive for Northern Ireland.
The partnership boards have been a success in that area.
I also have to make it very clear that we now have a fledgling new regional government in Northern Ireland of which my party leader, David Trimble, is the First Minister.
You have to understand that Northern Ireland, throughout the last 30 years, through the terrorism, has suffered tremendously.
I want firstly to thank Parliament, secondly to thank the Committee on Budgets for their continued support and understanding for my region.
Thank you very much, Mr Nicholson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
The countries of the European Union are at the vanguard in the protection of privacy compared to systems adopted in other parts of the world, especially those countries which have implemented the two directives, Directive 95/46 and Directive 97/66 - on the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of personal data.
The European model considers the protection of personal data to be a fundamental right guaranteed by legally binding rules, based on the principle of peoples' self-determination of data, that is the principle whereby everyone must be able to decide whether and how personal data concerning him can be collected and used.
In this model, respect for standards and procedures is guaranteed by an independent authority and final jurisdiction lies with the judges.
Therefore, a rule laying down the right of everyone to the protection of personal data concerning him, which must be processed fairly for specific purposes on the basis of the consent of the person concerned and subject to control by an independent authority, has been included in Article 8 of the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Moreover, Article 286 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, lays down that Community acts on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data - that is the two above-mentioned directives - apply to the institutions and Community bodies and that an independent supervisory body responsible for monitoring the application of such Community acts must be established.
The proposal for a regulation which is being examined by Parliament today implements these provisions, transposes the Community legislation and establishes the office of European Data Protection Supervisor, thereby providing appropriate, tangible guarantees of this fundamental right.
The willingness of all the institutions concerned to discuss the matter resulted in exemplary cooperation which, it is my fervent hope, will make it possible for us to reach a consensus at the first reading.
The many joint amendments reproduce the majority of the solutions identified by the Council, and these already take into account the proposals made during the Parliamentary debate.
In fact, Article 225, unlike Article 286, is also referred to in the Treaty on European Union.
Provision is also made for cooperation with the national supervisory authorities and with the authorities established in the third pillar, with a view to coordinating and gradually harmonising the entire regulation of this sensitive area.
Thus, for the first time, codecision will apply at the first reading to an extremely complex text which is full of technical difficulties on the particularly sensitive sector of the protection of civil liberties.
The very technical complexity of the text suggests that it would be a good idea to postpone the vote until the next part-session in order to allow an accurate check to be carried out on all the different language versions, for this has not yet been carried out.
Freedom of movement requires effective crime prevention, which is less successful without effective protection of privacy.
The protection of personal privacy is included in the new EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Those of us who stand for European values in a Eurosceptic country are now being given further arguments in favour of the EU, namely more effective protection of privacy, which is important for the citizens of a modern society.
We think that the institutional solutions are very good.
The exponential growth of the European Union' s tasks and jurisdiction, and the proliferation of Community bodies, mean that we must have a precise legal definition of the citizens' rights, and these should cover the transfer of information between European Union institutions and bodies.
Under the codecision procedure, the Council submitted a proposal for a regulation to the European Parliament on the basis of Article 286 of the EC Treaty.
This article specifies that data protection should be effective within the European Union by 1 January 1999.
We think it obvious that the risks related to the private lives of citizens and the misuse of citizens' personal data are far greater in the context of the third pillar, which at present is subject to little or no judicial and parliamentary control, than in the context of the first pillar, which falls within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice.
In my opinion, it is clear that we would be closing our eyes to the problem if we set up an authority of this type to cover just the Community area, while the main problems arise and will, in future, arise due to third pillar bodies too.
The report which we are to adopt does not reflect this ambition.
The second and third pillars will not be covered by this regulation and will therefore remain impenetrable, to the detriment of citizens' basic fundamental rights.
In addition to the restrictive reading of Article 286, however, it would have been possible to take Article 255 of the Treaty as a further legal basis in order to expand the scope of this regulation.
In the end, though, our rapporteur is well aware of these problems and is anxious not to add another two years to the existing backlog.
They must, furthermore, seek to implement means for the protection of personal data in the second and third pillars too at the earliest possible opportunity.
It is dangerous, in any case, to allow bodies such as Europol or the Schengen system to develop without parliamentary or judicial control.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report.
Effectively, the problem arises from the exclusions and exceptions in the protection of personal data with regard to the second and, in particular, third, pillars, but also from the exceptions already laid down by the directives as regards police activities and activities related to national security.
The Commission would first and foremost like to highlight the commitment we made to the citizens of Europe to ensure protection of the personal data processed by the institutions of Europe.
We are approximately two years behind schedule in relation to the date set in Article 286 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities, hence the urgent need to reach agreement on this matter.
The Council, with the crucial encouragement of the Presidency, succeeded in overcoming the problems raised by a number of delegations, to ensure that the proposal for a regulation will most probably enjoy the unanimous approval of the Council.
The Commission has, in turn, also played a part in initiating and mediating between the Council and Parliament.
The Commission also decided not to hold up the adoption of an instrument that is significant for the protection of citizens' personal data.
Even though it considers that the outcome is not completely satisfactory as far as it is concerned, the Commission in turn decided to adopt the text produced as a result of the discussions in the Council and Parliament as reflected in the Paciotti report, and will therefore reject any other amendments to its original proposal.
More specifically, the Commission' s position on the amendments contained in the Paciotti report is as follows.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4 to 10, 12 to 40, 42 to 54, 57, 58 and 60 to 64 reflect the Council text on the points to which the Commission can give its assent.
Amendment Nos 55, 56 and 59 differ from the Council text, but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the Council Presidency.
Since the Commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text, it will accept these amendments.
Amendments Nos 3 and 11 differ from the Council text, but they were the result of a political agreement between the rapporteur and the Council Presidency.
The Commission has decided not to obstruct the adoption of the regulation at first reading on the basis of this compromise text, on condition that a statement be included in the Minutes recording its legal position at such time as the Council approves the regulation.
If this statement is made, the Commission will accept the scope of the regulation being limited exclusively to first pillar activities.
In the view of the Commission, it will be possible to adopt such regulations on the basis of Article 286.
The Commission further reserves the right to subject the processing of personal data carried out under the second and third pillars to the principles contained in the regulation until such time as the regulations applicable to said data processing be implemented.
The Commission supports this amendment, and I should like to thank Mrs Paciotti for tabling it.
The European Data Protection Supervisor will in fact play a leading role in Community institutions' respecting the provisions protecting citizens' personal data.
It goes without saying, then, that his opinion on the legislative proposals to do with the protection of personal data will be very valuable insofar as it will be a major contribution to the legislative debate between institutions.
Amendment No 69 would seem to be acceptable to the Commission inasmuch as the wording does not entail a challenge to its right of initiative.
The Commission, therefore, understands this amendment as obliging it to consult the European Data Protection Supervisor after adopting its proposal.
The text would be improved if it were amended to make that clear, perhaps this can be done when it is proof-read.
In any case, the Commission will make a statement to this effect when the regulation is adopted in the Council.
In order to honour the political agreement made with the Council and the rapporteur to enable the regulation to be adopted at first reading, the Commission rejects all other amendments which were not part of the Paciotti report adopted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, except for Amendment No 69 which is a correction to Amendment No 41.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The present and future fate of the seven European regions most remote from the continent has given our committee the opportunity to unanimously adopt a constructive and balanced document, the product of lengthy consultation.
The report published by the European Commission on 14 March 2000 is not, strictly speaking, a response to the demands of national and regional authorities in the outermost regions.
The Commission specifies that it is unable to provide answers to all the questions; it often confines itself to proposing guidelines intended to continue and consolidate certain established instruments and further reserves the option of looking into the problems on a case by case basis.
Article 299(2) primarily expresses a political will, supported on repeated occasions by the European Council and, today, by the European Parliament.
The chief objective of my report was to remind the European Commission of this political will in order to put an end to the unfortunate impression of reluctance or inertia that we are currently getting from the Commission.
My report urges the Commission to prepare a genuine multiannual work programme, accompanied by a detailed timetable, giving the most comprehensive details possible of the measures planned, and providing all the essential guarantees concerning the provision of the resources required to ensure the viability of the measures and to ensure that the measures concerned are taken on a long-term basis where they are intended to deal with intrinsic handicaps.
The Commission has acknowledged that the agricultural and fisheries measures need to be revised or upgraded.
In addition, we need optimum coordination and use of all the instruments available at Community level, in particular the Structural Funds, state aid schemes and tax and customs policies.
In this way it will contribute to promoting economic and social progress thanks to an increased level of employment.
Moreover, there is an urgent need to initiate an analysis of the impact of the new ACP-EU Partnership Agreement, signed in June 2000 in Cotonou, and other international trade agreements with a view to assessing their repercussions for the outermost regions and drawing up measures to compensate producers in those regions liable to face additional competition which they are unable to withstand.
To conclude, finally, with a subject that has a bearing on our immediate future, the process of enlargement is unquestionably an essential element in the construction of Europe, but an evaluation of its implications must be undertaken as a matter of urgency as of right now in order to prevent the aid duly allotted to the outermost regions and the projects resulting from the implementation of Article 299(2) being brought into question.
On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I would like to thank her for the way that she took on board our amendments and points of view, both in the spirit and in the actual text of the report.
It is an attempt to establish an entirely uniform legal order for these outermost regions, which are separated from the rest of Community territory, from mainland Europe, by thousands of kilometres, and which are divided into small island regions with very difficult conditions for raising capital and for transport, which prevent the general rules for competition in the regions from being applied.
Only through a general derogation in favour of the outermost regions will companies located in those regions be on an equal footing with companies located on mainland Europe.
When regions are so distanced from the continental nucleus, trying to automatically apply the tax and customs rules that are applied in the continental nucleus would mean putting those outermost regions at a disadvantage.
For example, on the subject of transport, in paragraph 26, the application of the rules on state aid to the ports and airports in a system of free competition would mean depriving those regions of the essential public service of ports and airports, which in outermost regions would never be a normal private activity, but an essential public service activity.
We hope that the Commission will carry out this timetable or programme and, above all, we hope that the great institution that the Commission currently has, the interdepartmental group, will remain in contact with the outermost regions, informing the central authorities of our needs and our specific problems.
Nonetheless, it illustrates what I believe is a much more widespread problem about the relationship between reports and opinions, particularly those of a non-legislative kind.
For example, in this report only 25 words survive of the conclusions unanimously adopted by the Committee on Fisheries.
The bulk of the section dealing with fisheries actually consists of an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Indeed, it covers certain issues more explicitly than the opinion does.
In the meantime, and on this particular report, I would respectfully request both the Council and the Commission to look at the conclusions that are not contained in the motion for a resolution, as well as the ones that are.
Mr President, for the European Union this is simply one more debate of the many that we hold.
For the outermost regions this is the most important debate that the European Parliament can hold concerning them.
For many Europeans, some outermost regions are nothing more than a holiday destination on the map.
This may even be the view of some of our fellow MEPs of the outermost regions.
For those of us who are speaking here tonight on behalf of our native regions, this is a very negative view, and, of course, a deeply mistaken one.
Behind this idea, beyond our landscape and an exceptional climate, is the social and economic reality of regions that are among the least developed in the European Union, with the highest levels of unemployment and with huge structural problems that impede our development.
One of these amendments proposes the implementation and application of the policies of the financial instrument for fisheries.
It is therefore necessary to implement a series of measures which Margie Sudre' s report covers in detail.
In our view these measures need to go beyond regional development policies, because our shortfalls and handicaps are structural, not temporary.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Sudre, we must bear in mind that the opportunity for us to debate here in this House today on the subject of the outermost regions is the result of a process of slow maturation.
The fact is, even though, as early as the Treaty of Rome, reference was made to the French overseas departments, we had to wait until 1989 and the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of these regions, the notorious POSEI programmes, for the European Union to at long last acknowledge that the permanence and combination of structural handicaps affecting the outermost regions justified special treatment in comparison with the other regions of the Community.
So, it has been a long wait, and the hopes expressed by our peoples have built up throughout this long wait.
We need real financial commitments, not, as we have in the 2001 budget, POSEI appropriations that, at the moment, have been cut by 25%.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the outermost regions are already the very emblem of the diversity, and hence the wealth of the European Union.
In talks between the European Union and external countries and international organisations attention must also be given to the special sensitivity associated with certain products in remote regions.
Our group is also in favour of broadening the scope of Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty, which will strengthen the positive achievements of the POSEI programmes in remote areas.
The economic development of the regions must be supported through, for example, various direct and indirect taxation solutions.
Just as you, Mrs Sudre, as the representative of the outermost regions, rightly call for solidarity, I would also request solidarity on your part where the interests of the Objective 1 regions are concerned, in the sense that no reductions in funds should be implemented for as long as the regions concerned are still handicapped in comparison with the developed regions of Europe.
This question will become that much more relevant the closer EU enlargement towards the East becomes.
I am convinced that it is now already clear that, without a change to the Financial Perspective, it will not be possible to solve this problem.
Allow us simply to act according to the proverb, 'Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today.' Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament is helping by means of this report to relaunch a policy for the outermost regions, as laid down in Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
The hesitations and the occasional contradiction we have seen in the Commission' s action in this field recently would therefore be at odds with this.
There are therefore grounds for commending the position adopted by the European Parliament and to praise the balance, competence and experience demonstrated by the rapporteur, Mrs Sudre, and the contribution made by all those who worked together with her, particularly the other seven Members from the outermost regions.
Since the economy of the outermost regions is classed in Article 299(2) of the Treaty itself as being dependent on a single product or on a limited range of products, we must provide incentives for potential diversification and, at the same time, create better conditions for producing what people actually have the means and the ability to produce.
Mr President, Parliament, and in particular its Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, has been the driving force for approving specific policies and programmes for the outermost regions.
The unanimous approval by the members of the Committee on Regional Policy of the report presented by Mrs Sudre demonstrates the European Parliament' s adherence to one of its most important commitments.
I should therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Committee on Regional Policy on their excellent work.
The experience of almost a decade and the new challenges created by developments in the common agricultural policy suggest that these programmes should be revised in order to sustain the ability of these regions to survive in the new climate of competition.
The dependence of agriculture and the whole economy of the Azores on milk production is unparalleled anywhere else in the Union.
All of us in the Azores therefore hope that the Commission, in view of the Treaty and in view of Parliament' s position, will rapidly propose the necessary changes to the way the CAP is implemented in the Azores.
Under this article, the outermost regions obtained recognition by the European Union of a genuine right to be different, a right to be dealt with on a specific and special basis reflecting their unique situation, a situation that is completely different to that of the rest of the European Union.
It should be noted that this right to be different is nothing more than a demonstration of the principle of equality, which also requires different treatment for anything that is different.
This is the only reason we want Article 299(2), not in order to secure any privileged status for ourselves.
This qualitative leap must be reflected in the definition and implementation of a global and coherent strategy by the European Union, which is what Mrs Sudre' s report has rightly proposed.
The outermost regions and the citizens who live there have high hopes for the European institutions' action in implementing Article 299(2).
I think that she has done a magnificent job and also that she has shown imagination, calm and a capacity to reach agreements and compromises in order to present a document to this Parliament and to the Commission which I think can be useful and effective.
There are three regions in Europe whose citizens face specific problems: mountain, island and the outermost regions.
These citizens enjoy a positive and enriching diversity, and they demand to be given the right to enjoy the same opportunities as other citizens from continental regions.
I think it extremely important for the European Union as a whole, quite apart from the obvious interest it has for every man and every woman resident in our seven outermost regions.
I should like to thank you, Minister Sudre, for the quality of your report and its candour.
In some way, here in Strasbourg you have managed to express the concerns of these remote regions - which does not happen all that often - which of course suffer from the handicaps related to their remote position and distance, compounded, for most of them, by their island nature, and other often difficult geographical or economic conditions, but these are factors which may also prove to be assets.
I should next like to make one comment on your report, to say that its underlying political line is, broadly speaking, that currently adopted by the Commission.
In this undertaking, the Commission has always been, and continues to be, supported by Parliament, both in the legislative process - ladies and gentlemen, there are at least 700 legislative acts on these regions - and in the lengthy task of grass-roots implementation.
The report we issued in March sums the situation up.
Let us not, however, forget that Article 299(2) also states that the coherence of the Community legal order and the unity of the internal market must not be undermined.
This, ladies and gentlemen, means that we, that is, you and I, must find a balance between complying with general regulation and adapting policy to the specific needs of the outermost regions.
However, in many areas, such as taxation or customs, for instance, the coherence of Community legislation and the unity of the internal market dictate that there are time limits, even if they are reasonably long, preferably with a mid-term assessment.
Ladies and gentlemen, the report we issued on 14 March 2000 outlines a strategy which will, I believe, enable the European Union to make a more effective contribution to sustainable development in these outermost regions and thereby to implement Article 299(2) in practical terms.
That is the first point.
I should like to tell her, and we know each other quite well now that I have been a Commissioner for just a little more than a year, that I have fully understood that in order to make progress and to proceed successfully - and you can count on me to support this movement - we must take things one step at a time.
We needed to have this report.
Our objective is, as you advocate, to improve Community support for production as well as for supply.
We are working to ensure that these proposals can be presented this autumn.
I have understood the special issue of milk quotas in the Azores.
It was not therefore included in the programme presented by the Commission in March.
The Commission is nonetheless aware of this problem for the Azores, and I can confirm, having seen it myself, that milk is virtually the only form of production there.
Your country, Portugal, has asked the Commission to look into this matter in the light of Article 299(2).
That is all I had to say on this topical problem which you both, quite legitimately, pointed out.
I feel that this is a proper response to a demand often expressed by all these regions.
Please allow me now to say a word or two as the Commissioner in charge of a significant part of the Structural Funds through regional policy.
The amount allocated under Objective 1 for the outermost regions is, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, being increased for this new period, 2000-2006, to EUR 8.077 billion.
These considerable amounts, ladies and gentlemen, are not just the expression of our solidarity with these regions, out of fairness - I would reiterate this as it is something I believe - but are also the recognition of the key role they can and must play as outposts on - to use your own expression, Minister - the active frontiers of the European Union in the regions where they are located.
As you know, the SPDs for Madeira and the Azores, were signed on 28 July.
That is what I have to report concerning the practical implementation of regional policy programming and the considerable funds associated to these.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is moreover preparing initiatives to amend some of the terms regulating the Structural Funds with a view to making them yet more effective with regard to the outermost regions by making it easier to harness Community aid for the economic operators.
It is not always an easy matter to make the practical progress in these initiatives that you expect to see.
I needed the document issued on 14 March as a basis to work on and also, ladies and gentlemen, in order to progress, and indeed make rapid progress, I now need to ensure that there is proper legal certainty.
This is not a completely obvious point which can be disregarded, even in the interpretation of Article 299(2).
This discussion will moreover continue beyond the initiatives we are going to take in the weeks to come, in the second cohesion report which, as you ask, will assess the impact of enlargement on regional disparities.
This report, which I shall be coming to present to you personally next spring will be the starting point for a major debate on future regional policy and future cohesion policy for the period 2006-2013.
I have a lasting commitment to aid and support for these regions, and therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, the concern expressed, here and there, in your regions and also in the Objective 1 regions, which I visit regularly, regarding the challenge of enlargement.
Mr Markov also raised this issue.
Overall, it is a challenge we must accept in the interests of the European Union, and its stability for the continent of Europe, peace and democracy, and even to ensure the smooth running of the internal market, giving it new opportunities.
In these regions, as we know, there are long-term problems and I therefore believe that, objectively, in accordance with their actual level of development, they need long-term support from regional policy and special measures.
I am thinking, Mr Medina Ortega, of a point you raised, the issue of transport, a point which has long been of interest to me, the matter of energy, renewable energies, energy sufficiency, and access to the various Community programmes.
These new technologies and this information society are, ladies and gentlemen, not just a luxury for the richest regions of Europe.
Quite the opposite, I think that these new technologies, Internet access, and all the employment opportunities related to these are a great opportunity for the remote or outermost regions.
That is why I personally strove to ensure that a significant part of the Structural Funds was dedicated to the information society, and access to this information society for farmers, small- and medium-sized businesses, and young people.
These results will be used towards a consultation debate, in partnership with national and regional authorities.
Ladies and gentlemen, the third aspect concerns the role of the regions in their own geographical areas.
We are therefore going to initiate a study of the potential impact on the outermost regions of implementing the new ACP agreement.
The first of these questioned what our future plans were, and asked for a multiannual programme.
We have undertaken, on this basis, to present annual action programmes, with timetables enabling us to gradually modulate our approach.
This group has also been assigned the task, and this is a response to another point in your report, of undertaking an ongoing examination of the various initiatives - according to one of your own recommendations - prepared by the Commission, in order to ensure that the legitimate interests of the outermost regions are taken into account across the board in all community policies.
What is more, I check that this group is doing this properly on a monthly basis.
It applies to practical examples, but should also enable a periodic exchange of overviews on all subjects of concern to these regions.
It would again be possible to organise a meeting of this kind in 2001, by which time we shall have made more progress in carrying out the programme presented in March.
In conclusion - with apologies if I have spoken too long, which I probably have, but these are important issues which I feel very strongly about - I should like to reiterate the last paragraph of the conclusions of our March report in order to stress the fact that, in our opinion, the future of these regions will be determined to a great extent by the success of the strategy which we have proposed in this report, but this success will also be extremely significant for the European Union as a whole, as it will have proven its capacity to successfully take on one of the most complex challenges that exist in Europe.
I am actively working, together with my fellow Commissioners, for the initiatives which I mentioned on the basis of the March report.
I shall then, with your participation, if you are willing, devote my attention to conducting the dialogue on European issues - and the future and the place of the outermost regions form part of these issues.
At grass-roots level, as I started to do in the Azores, it is my intention in the coming months, as soon as the Intergovernmental Conference is over, to visit each of these regions in order to meet you, work with you, meet the civic, social, professional and political groupings and, also, as I regularly do, to discuss matters with the people of your regions.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Barnier.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 12 midnight)
