Prime Minister, Mr Balkenende, the Kingdom of the Netherlands was not only among the founding members of the European Union, but also, in the course of the past 50 years, played a leading role on repeated occasions, on which it showed a great deal of determination, among those who themselves sought - and supported others who tried - to drive forward the history of our continent and make it an incomparable success story.
This European Parliament very much values your willingness, Prime Minister, to participate in today's debate, above all in view of the fact that now, the cooperation of all 27 Member States is needed to put in place a renewed basis for the European Union, one that will stand the tests that the future will bring.
The German Presidency of the Council, and the Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel, in particular, is currently engaged in devoting all its energies to finding a solution on which all can agree and which will satisfy everyone, not only those countries that have not ratified the Treaty, but also those 18 Member States, and hence the majority by population of the European Union, which have already done so.
Mr President, honourable Members of the European Parliament, Commissioner Wallström, Commissioner Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, thank you kindly for your invitation to join in your debate on the future of Europe.
I would also like to express my gratitude for the very useful visit by your President, Mr Poettering, to the Netherlands on 12 April last. (DE) Mr President, thank you very much for coming to The Hague.
It was an important visit, and thank you very much again for coming. (NL) Mr President, it feels good to be back in your Parliament and I have good memories of our meeting during the Dutch Presidency in 2004.
A country that wants to play an active role in the world, as is evident from our involvement in development missions in Afghanistan and elsewhere in the world, in which respect, the Netherlands relies on cooperation.
The Netherlands, however, is also one of the two Member States where a clear majority of the people said 'no' to the Constitutional Treaty in 2005, something to which you, Mr President, have made reference.
A solution that does justice to public concerns which came to the surface in the Netherlands and in France in a very visible way; to concerns that are also felt elsewhere: both in countries that have already ratified the Constitution and countries where no decisions have been taken to date.
One of the main objectives of the new Dutch Cabinet is to further reinforce the support base for European cooperation.
The question 'Do you agree with the Constitution for Europe' was understood by many as 'Would you like Europe to assume the character of a state?' or even 'Would you like Europe to eventually take the place of the Dutch national government?', which was, of course, a bridge too far.
The term 'constitution' has different meanings in different Member States.
A constitution says something about national identity - hence the Dutch suggestion of a new Treaty not being a constitution.
Before I turn to the things that the Netherlands hopes to find in a new Treaty, I should like to make a point.
In total, 18 Member States approved the Constitutional Treaty via their own democratic process.
The Constitutional Treaty was widely supported in your Parliament.
The Dutch Cabinet seeks to find a joint solution in a constructive manner.
In this light there are, I think, irrespective of the specific requirements of institutions and Member States, two major joint ambitions regarding the new Treaty.
In the first instance, we want to improve Europe's democratic functioning.
The Netherlands is keen to retain these improvements, provided that agreement on this can go hand in hand with a credible way of dealing with the citizens' areas of concern.
In the case of the subsidiarity test for European legislative proposals, national parliaments should be accorded a more important role.
As you, Mr President, told me recently, the European Parliament and the national parliaments complement each other.
The Constitutional Treaty contains valuable improvements, with more majority decision-making.
I am in favour of a strong internal market, as the citizens of all Member States stand to benefit from it.
Europe should allow for this, for example, by laying down a number of criteria for services of general interest.
This brings me to my fourth and final point.
I think it is a good thing that the enlargement criteria are included in the new Treaty.
Together, we can set the tone when tackling climate change, the fight against poverty and insecurity in the world.
Mr Balkenende, you are the Prime Minister of the country that is perhaps most open to the European spirit, I am not afraid to say, a country in which tolerance and solidarity are the driving force of social cohesion.
However, we must convince Europeans that our common project is not only beneficial, but also absolutely crucial.
We therefore need to take up the best parts of this treaty, namely parts 1 and 2.
Let us cure Europe of its paralysis, let us provide ourselves with the resources for our political ambitions: the sooner the better, and the 2009 European elections is the most opportune time.
Prime Minister, you have had the courage to carry out ambitious, long-term reforms in your country.
You mentioned the role of the national parliaments and the need for a clearer division of responsibilities between the Member States and the European Union.
On this point, too, we must be clear.
Let us seize this opportunity and let us reach an agreement among the 27 on the key issues, namely Europeans' rights and the decision-making process. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I shall begin by commenting on something we have just heard.
If that is meant to be an announcement to the effect that you and your government are willing to make compromises rather than insisting that the Dutch 'no' must result in fundamental change in Europe, if it is meant to mean that the Dutch 'no' means that the Constitution will not enter into force in its present form, but instead in some other, with some other comprehensive reform that will make the European Union more efficient, and that you, to that end, are prepared to make compromises and then defend them at home, then that, Mr Balkenende, was a good speech. (Applause) By it, then, we will judge you, for I was in Rome, where we met, and where I saw you sign the Constitution with a golden pen.
Good: Beethoven's symphonies have survived revolutions and wars; they will outlive the European Constitution too. (Applause) (NL) As the President of our Parliament introduced this debate in Dutch, I, too, Prime Minister, should like speak a few words in it.
I am less sceptical; I get the impression that you, today, have hoisted the flag halfway up again, so I urge you to hoist it all the way up, and I can promise you that this House will put wind in your sails, so that then, Mr Balkenende, you will be sailing towards a compromise.
It would be a good result. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, yesterday, in this Chamber, one of Europe's great champions sketched his vision of a Union fit for the 21st century - a Union that is democratic, transparent and, above all, effective.
Yet that is not an argument for less Europe, indeed, it may well be an argument for more Europe. (Applause) Europe cannot secure its energy supply, combat climate change or tackle terrorism with a retreat into unilateralism.
Too often our heads of government have taken the advice of the English Conservative Prime Minister Arthur Bonar Law when he exclaimed: 'I must follow them; I am their leader'.
For your people's peace, prosperity and security depend upon it. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation today.
We have already done that, but there are still things that are best left to Member States, things that require unanimous agreement in the Council, not qualified majority all of the time.
George Bernard Shaw once said that some men see things as they are, and wonder, 'Why?'.
Consensus, compromise, cooperation - yes, that is the way forward, but most importantly of all, we must convince the people that it is the right way forward. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, my group would also like to extend a warm welcome to Prime Minister Balkenende and thank him for accepting the invitation.
In the Netherlands, the new Cabinet has just spent 100 days talking with the public, but it was 500 days ago that we last heard anything said about Europe.
After all, not all decisions should be taken in Brussels, and it is a good thing to demarcate national and European powers better.
In 2005, the parliaments of the Member States were in favour of this constitution by large majorities.
This Parliament, which backed my proposal on 10 May to give the Member States, their regions and their municipalities more freedom in the way in which they organise their public transport should recognise the value of this.
In this House, since the 'no' to the European Constitution in our country, we have talked too much about the Netherlands instead of with the Netherlands.
Let it be clear that I largely share the Dutch Government's view, yet, even so, I should like to make a few recommendations leading up to the European Council of 21 and 22 June.
First of all, I appreciate your efforts in respect of the Constitution's aspirations to do such things as introduce the position of a permanent president; such a person would soon develop into a European President, and so I would propose a rota system for three presidencies, each lasting one and a half years, made up of one large, one medium-sized and one small Member State.
Prime Minister, I support your wish to include the Copenhagen criteria in the new Treaty.
It is, however, just as necessary, in this new Treaty, to define once and for all the borders of the European Union, for this is something to which the European Union's citizens, and its neighbours, are entitled.
I am specifically thinking of offering countries like Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus a prospect of EU membership in the long-term, this in combination with a powerful neighbourhood policy in order to help these countries overcome structural problems.
I think it is better to give the European Parliament the power to refuse a proposal from the Commission, in which respect national parliaments can make their concerns known to the European Parliament.
I also hope that the voters will be given the opportunity to speak out on this, not only in the Netherlands, but in all Member States.
Can you, Prime Minister, three years down the line, declare, hand on heart, that you have kept that promise?
Orhan Pamuk, a winner of the Nobel Prize for literature, fled the country after he, too, received threats.
This is perhaps where I should like pick up on what Mr Schulz said earlier. (DE) It really is very good that we should meet again; I well remember our previous meetings.
It was really great to discuss things with you, it is so still today, and for that I am very grateful. (NL) He spoke about the international aspects, the foreign aspects of the European Union, and I can do no other than endorse what he said.
Europe can do better, work more effectively and speak more with one voice in all these areas.
Then you face the problem that we in Europe have Member States that have approved the constitution, those that have said 'no' and countries that have not yet taken a decision.
The question is whether all of this should be included in such a Constitution, or if it would be possible to refer to it using different means.
I will take your words to the Netherlands, and then we shall all have the task of finding solutions quickly, taking into consideration each other's positions, but always considering what we need to keep at the forefront of our minds, namely working on a European dream in the 21st century. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, Prime Minister, I should first of all like to thank you for coming to Strasbourg.
The drafting of a new Treaty is in the interests of all of us.
Now that France and the Netherlands have voted against the draft Constitution, we need, as has already been said, to look for another document, one with which all 27 countries can identify.
It goes without saying that the Netherlands has a particular responsibility for making a huge effort in this respect.
It is also important to be reminded of the sensitivities and requirements of the other Member States.
After all, 18 countries have already spoken out in favour of the draft document and value the progress that could have been made by means of the text that was available at the time.
You described Europe as a rare and successful project.
What we could do better together, we should.
Anything that can be better regulated at national level should continue to be done at national level.
The discussion is therefore not whether we are for or against Europe, it is about how we, in the short term, and involving all 27 Member States, can put the firmest possible foundation in place for a decisive, transparent Europe.
Congratulations on your level of commitment in this matter, both at home and in Europe. (Applause) (NL) Mr President, I bid Prime Minister Balkenende welcome to the European Parliament.
Just as, of course, the 'no' in the Netherlands was relatively firm, no less so, too, was the 'yes' from the European Parliament.
Secondly, you said something about the Charter.
If I understand correctly, you say you and your colleagues in the Dutch Government agree with the content of the Charter, and would like to see it become binding, but it need not be included in its entirety, as long as there is a document in the new Treaty that safeguards this binding character.
What I would like to know is whether you have a formula that can make this happen, for, if you do, I share your way of thinking.
Finally, if the Netherlands opts for a Treaty, and a sound one at that, then I hope that the Prime Minister will blaze a trail in his own country, along with leaders of the other coalition parties, to inform the Dutch people and also get them onboard in good time, so that a real debate can underpin positive support for Europe. (Applause) Mr President, Prime Minister, three elements puzzled and concerned me in your speech.
The European Union works.
But even the supporters of this inflexible position are jointly responsible for slowing down negotiations today.
I am confident that as the prime minister of a country that rejected the old constitutional treaty, you will be more pragmatic on matters of substantive amendments to the new draft treaty.
I listened to your speech with Jan Zahradil, the Czech negotiator.
I would therefore like to say that pragmatism is expected from you not just in Poland, but also in the Czech Republic. (Applause) (DE) Mr President, Prime Minister, on the television a few days ago, a young Dutchman said, on being asked about the European Constitution, 'What do we need a Constitution for?
You want to go back to regulations rather than laws, but I ask you, Prime Minister, what does that title signify?
Let me tell you that those who deny the validity, 50 years on from the signing of the Treaties of Rome, of the universally recognised and familiar symbols of the EU are - symbolically, adding grist to the mills of those who, questioning European integration as such, wish to turn their backs on it and return to their own identities as nation states.
Even the former German President, Roman Herzog, now warns against over-centralisation and the dismantling of democracy.
You said recently at your bilateral meeting with the Prime Minister that any new amending treaty should not have the characteristics of a constitution.
You also said that you were keen to see the role of national parliaments strengthened.
I believe that our citizens need to have assurances that their national parliaments will also play a greater role in scrutinising draft European legislation.
As you have said, and my party leader David Cameron has also said, there is an urgent need for a greater emphasis on making Europe more competitive, tackling global poverty and dealing with the serious issues of climate change.
These issues are what people want us to tackle and Member States can do much more to cooperate in these fields.
You are coming here and saying, 'We said "no”, but we recognise that 18 countries have said "yes”, that an overwhelming majority of the European Union wants to go ahead and reform our Union in the way outlined in the Constitutional Treaty'.
We need more transparency, more democracy, hence more powers for the European Parliament and, as you quite rightly stated, for the national parliaments.
If all 27 Member States make exceptions to the internal market, and it is looking this way in the Netherlands, as is evident from the discussions there, then we will be left with no internal market, which would be detrimental to the European consumer and the European economy alike. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
I admit that this is a difficult task, but without it it will be impossible for the Member States to regain steady support from the public.
The draft Constitution does not address these challenges. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many noble ideas about the future of Europe, as well as some that have been less than noble.
They are more interested in why it is that people from other, so-called new Member States still cannot travel freely in the Schengen area even after three years.
Angela Merkel asks, for example, whether it might be a good idea to alter the terminology of the draft Constitution without changing the legal substance.
I therefore value your efforts to come up with solutions and to look for a compromise, in which respect you clearly recognise that due account must be given to those who approved the text as it was.
With regard to the new issues that are being added, paragraph 12 of our motion for a resolution contains them.
We should stop this, because I did not hear your party discuss this either when you campaigned in favour of the constitution prior to the referendum.
Measures in the area of security against terrorism, for example, should, of course, be taken at European level, not as it is being done at the moment, though, in back rooms, but rather out in the open, democratically and with majority decision-making.
Prime Minister Balkenende, the Netherlands can contribute so much more to Europe.
We must, however, make sure that our common history is punctuated by more events like the recent Samara summit.
We must speak in a single voice, because that is the only way we can rise to the challenges facing us.
Those who oppose it on grounds of identity are not in fact afraid of citizens losing control over the State but of the State losing control over citizens.
By considering this aspect in a positive way you will certainly bridge the wishes of your citizens and the aspirations of other Europeans.
I have indicated to you that the question is whether these symbols - that are wonderful in their own right and I have nothing against them - should be enshrined in a constitution.
During the debates which we held in the Dutch Lower Chamber and after the 'no', I made it quite clear that our future is in Europe.
We should avoid a situation in which national parliaments and the European Parliament are pitted against one another.
It is for precisely this reason that I repeat today that it is necessary that we look beyond the existing positions, that we should not take sides in Europe and that this, as I see it, can be done by means of an amending Treaty.
You referred to the Dutch Wilhelmus, our anthem which, it is true, contains the sentence: 'de koning van Hispanje heb ik altijd geëerd'.
This is now such a great time, a time in which we, for the first time in Europe's history, are experiencing peace and security so that we can discuss things here in friendship.
I remember very well when I was in Madrid and visited the monastery where Philip II stayed.
If we are guided by the European dream, then we will undoubtedly be able to find solutions for the problems that have arisen.
The debate is closed.
