Coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Bowles, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud.
It needs more effort, more attention and in particular it needs more collective cooperative attention by Member States.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the European Parliament and, in particular, the rapporteur, Mrs Bowles, for its very constructive report on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud.
The report is a very useful and comprehensive contribution to the ongoing discussion about the fight against fiscal fraud.
The Commission fully agrees that fraud is not a problem that can be combated successfully at national level alone.
As far as actions foreseen in 2008 are concerned, I can confirm that the Commission is planning to present three sets of legislative proposals - one in October, the second in November and the third in December 2008.
Regarding direct taxes, the Commission is working on the review of the Savings Taxation Directive, and intends to present the report on the operation of the Directive before the end of September, as requested by the ECOFIN Council of 14 May 2008.
It has led to the dismantling of almost all harmful tax measures in the Member States and their dependent or associated territories.
Mrs Bowles showed a great deal of willingness to cooperate.
This, then, is our position: we fully support Mrs Bowles' report in all other respects, but if Amendment 4 on the abolition of the Savings Taxation Directive gains a majority, we will reject the report in its entirety.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I too should like to thank Mrs Bowles for the quality of her work and for the result that we were able to achieve in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on such an important text as this.
I am delighted to see that, on the issue of VAT, there is broad consensus within this House on putting an end to fraud and practices which take advantage of the fragility of the transitional system set up in 1993.
Next, in the area of VAT, I am pleased with the policy of taking slow steps and with the experimental idea of the reverse charge, but resolute steps forward are also needed here.
In this context, we demand that the package of measures against VAT fraud that the Commission will present next month is ambitious and that the report announced for the end of this month on the application of taxation to savings is useful for making definite progress in the fight against fraud in this area in Europe.
That is why I recommend to the Commission that it promotes the solution devised by the RTvat organisation which should allow a tax loss of EUR 275 million per day to be avoided, while reducing administrative costs for SMEs.
The legitimate and necessary fight against fiscal fraud must not cause us to call into question the principle of tax competition.
Article 10 and Article 280 of the Treaty establishing the European Community state that the Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of the Treaty and to coordinate their action aimed at protecting the financial interests of the Community.
As our colleague, Mr Sánchez Presedo, points out, that is possibly 5% of tax.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (ET) Fiscal fraud is a problem for both the EU and the Member States, distorting competition and reducing the revenue base of the EU and the Member States alike.
