Every year, the European Movement in France organises a very important event, "Europe Day" , on 9 May.
I believe this would be extremely harmful to the common cause to which we dedicate all our strength.
Madam President, the committee which I have the honour to chair is very much aware of the importance of this matter and the urgency of its adoption before 25 March 2001, to allow the Nordic Union to be fully involved.
Nonetheless, in the circumstances it is our view that we would not wish to delay the vote on this, and we consider it best to treat this as a matter without report; we would therefore suggest that it be put straight to the vote in this part-session.
This is why I hope that this annual debate will become a valuable forum for free, open, common debate in which we can discuss our successes and problems in a constructive atmosphere, with a view to accomplishing the projects which are of real concern to the citizens of Europe.
When I stood before this House, a year ago, I announced the four strategic objectives that my Commission had set itself: one, to promote new forms of governance on a European scale; two, to stabilise Europe and consolidate our influence in the world; three, to set new economic and social priorities; and four, to improve the quality of life for all.
With a view to improving the quality of life of the European citizens, we published our White Paper on Food Safety and a proposal for a regulation laying down requirements and basic principles in the area of food safety.
The key to stabilising our continent is our strategy for enlarging the European Union.
Throughout 2000, the Commission resolutely pursued accession negotiations with the candidate countries, and we also launched the public debate on a genuine migration policy.
Today, before this House, I want to say how proud I am of my staff, for whom 2000 was a year of far-reaching internal reforms.
My fellow Commissioners and I are aware that we have made considerable demands of our colleagues, not only in terms of workload, but especially because they have had to adapt to changes in working methods and to taking greater individual responsibility for their action.
However, no administration can be expected to cope with so much stress for very long, however genuinely necessary the changes are.
The Commission's political decisions are set out in the work programme for 2001 which was adopted at the end of January and immediately forwarded to Parliament.
On the basis of the Commission's input, the Lisbon Summit last year produced a strategy for achieving this goal.
One of the key goals of our strategy is to restore the right conditions for full employment.
We are already seeing some encouraging progress: last year, 2.5 million jobs were created, more than two thirds of which taken up by women.
However, in some sectors, as our Stockholm report makes clear, progress has been far too slow.
What we need now, therefore, is fresh energy to accelerate action in some key areas.
Services represent three quarters of our gross domestic product but there is still no genuine internal market in this sector.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there has to be a stable balance between our policies to ensure that all Europe's vital assets, our economic assets but also our social capital and our environment, are preserved for future generations.
A long-term political project of this kind clearly requires effective prior consultation.
In order to promote this discussion, Madam President, I have already written to you, proposing a major debate in the European Parliament on these issues.
Our aim is to achieve an all-encompassing, coherent, long-term orientation for the management of European affairs.
Indeed, a new round would be the best way of strengthening the multilateral system with further trade liberalisation and new rules that meet the demands of civil society.
Indeed, the developing countries are the key element in the whole process.
The open reflection stage, which we have already entered, is, in my opinion, crucial for three reasons: firstly because of the paradox that the words and actions of the European citizens are making more obvious every day, that Europe is increasingly necessary but also seen as increasingly remote.
We therefore need a debate which will involve everybody and all levels of society if we are to relaunch and complete the great project of establishing a European Union.
The questions the European citizens ask are not about cucumbers, but we have to admit that they are not chiefly about the institutional debate in which we have been engaged since Maastricht and which is now - we cannot deny it, especially after Nice - going round in circles.
I think the real problem is that, somewhere along the way, we lost the thread of the agreement between our Member States on which direction we should be taking.
Not just to prevent monetary shocks or to prevent the internal market breaking up but because we believe that our peoples should help one another, taking part in a joint enterprise.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the questions that you, together with the members of our national parliaments, and our governments, must start to ask and answer.
We shall then be entering the second stage, following Laeken.
After Laeken, once suitable preparations have been made, the structured debate will have to be based on a formula which unites all the key players - the European Parliament, the national parliaments, the governments and the Commission - a formula which will be increasingly refined by Laeken itself and the subsequent European Councils in 2002.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sometimes said - and I tend to agree - that European integration was the most important event in the second half of the twentieth century.
And with dependable regularity, at every stage of European integration, certain critics have decried the project as an impossible, or even laughable, utopian dream.
We have got to where we are, and we should be proud of it. (Loud, sustained applause) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this debate on the Commission work programme for 2001, even though we feel that it is overdue; because of Nice, there was perhaps no alternative but to hold this debate now, in February 2001.
You referred to the European Parliament's involvement in this process.
My second comment concerns asylum and immigration policy.
Only a common policy can resolve these difficult issues.
The Head of State of an important country - I refer to the chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany - said that, if we agree on an asylum and immigration policy in principle, we will be able to switch over quickly to qualified majority voting.
I call on the Commission to push ahead, so that, once we have reached agreement in principle, we can switch to qualified majority voting on asylum and immigration policy as quickly as possible.
Asylum and immigration policy as a whole must be a priority.
But we must also improve Europe's competitiveness by enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to invest, because that is where the jobs are created.
As far as the enlargement of the European Union is concerned, we are committed to welcoming the first wave of members to the European Union by 2004.
Mr President of the Commission, I call on you to conduct a public information campaign, so that we can convince our voters back home that the European Union needs to enlarge and that it is in the historic interest of Europe to do so.
We call on the Council not to be stand-offish and to make its contribution to Europe as our project for the future.
But we have already invested a considerable amount of money and resources in cooperation with the southern Mediterranean region, and we are still waiting for the results to materialise there.
In recent years, the Union' s investment in Russia in terms of finance has been one tenth of what is being spent in the Mediterranean region.
This is out of all proportion with the relative importance of these two neighbouring regions.
The programme has not been short on proposals: there are 485, 155 of which date from last year and which have been carried over.
With regard to governance, Mr President, what is required more than a reflection, which is currently very fashionable and rather ethereal when it comes to new forms, is to take up the tried and tested democratic practices which enable us to understand the messages of Pericles, 2500 years ago, for example.
Mr President, I would like you to make fewer generalised appeals to civil society and to speak more with us, its elected representatives, both in the European Parliament and in the parliaments of the Member States.
Although we have set the very high aspiration that within a decade we should become the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, we are moving towards it at a lesser pace than ought to be the case.
It is an important European initiative and I hope the College will go for it, notwithstanding some of the sequencing difficulties to do with other negotiations which may arise.
The ELDR believes that we need to focus more urgent attention on asylum and immigration.
It is 49 pages covering 593 different initiatives.
It is very difficult to find in this methodology which are the real priorities, where there is political passion and focus, and which are merely the issues that we have to deal with because they are part of due process.
It is not a question of interfering with the Commission's right of initiative in relation to the treaties, but a question of quality control.
My group would insist in the post-Laeken period on some convention-style method with deep involvement for the European Parliament and the national parliaments to include the active engagement of Council. (Applause) Madam President, my group too warmly supports the approach whereby the main priorities are actually set forth in this discussion, and just for a moment we can ignore the 'business as usual' attitude that we do tend to encounter in our everyday work here.
In this we all have a great public responsibility.
The institutions are at this very moment trying to put together a regulation on transparency, which would safeguard the right of the public to acquire information on decision making in the Union.
We cannot accept this sort of thing, and we also need more public debate on this issue.
If we do not succeed at Gothenburg in achieving a real programme of sustainable development we will have wasted an opportunity that perhaps will not return again.
This is something we cannot possibly accept as we are speaking about sustainable development.
My group fully supports your initiative regarding our obligation to include civil society in this debate over the next six months prior to the Laeken Summit, as well, obviously, as the national parliaments and indeed those of candidate countries.
Madam President, Commission President, in my view, the Commission' s work programme for 2001 is open to question in several respects, beginning with the role of the European Union in Europe and throughout the world.
The provisions of the Treaty of Nice cannot come into effect until the ratification process has been concluded within the 15 Member States of the Union.
What the European Union should not do is to carry out any further debate on new political developments within the Union before the Treaty of Nice has been ratified within any of our respective Member States.
I believe that this is symptomatic, with regard to what President Prodi has just shown, of the programme: a programme which, in a way, closely resembles a catalogue of dreams but which - and herein lies the difference - is characterised by the search for a debate, as President Prodi has illustrated in his report.
There has been talk of market liberalisation, of privatisation and, more recently, of sustainable development and environmental damage, and one can see the clear contradiction when we talk of liberalisation on the one hand, and sustainable development on the other: contradictions which are revealed by a Commission and a Europe which, for too long, have been associated with the lobby whose only concern may well not be to create the Europe we were talking about but increasingly a Europe for businessmen, which I do not want and, nor, I believe, do many of us.
Of these two and a half million jobs, for example, I do not know how many went to Italy and, in particular, to southern Italy, where unemployment is extremely serious and where, if we wished it, we could maybe - this is my suggestion, but it is worth careful consideration - combine the problems of sustainable development and those associated with resolving the question of employment: I refer to the possibility of providing incentives to promote the access of young people to the world of work in the form of a minimum starting salary, with the aim, for example, of achieving hydro-geological redevelopment of the region.
There are a great number of people who are idle and Europe could find a solution of this kind to solve two problems simultaneously.
Mr President, some Eurosceptics are in favour of the Treaty of Nice because federalists protest against it.
In short, Nice means less democracy.
We all have a common interest in securing a democratic debate prior to the next treaty.
We want to see the majority of all decisions taken in the Member States and in local areas.
Mr President, today' s debate on the oral question on the follow-up to the Nice European Council, even though the draft Treaty has not yet been signed and the next IGC is not due to be convened until 2004, is clear indication of just how impatient some parties are to launch another round of negotiation.
Moreover, the Nice Council, please note, refrained from including this idea in the objectives for the future IGC.
In the short term, we must consider the method of the future debate.
President Prodi, we understand how difficult it is to summarise in a short document the complexity of the issues dealt with by the European Commission.
We can see what is going on in the agricultural sector: we, as the European People' s Party, feel that there is an absolute necessity to review the terms of the common agricultural policy and, above all, to understand the scope of future strategies.
If we then add the issues of enlargement and the relaunch of agriculture in some areas such as the Mediterranean basin, we shall want to know what Model of European Agriculture the Commission intends to create and, above all, we shall certainly want assurance that this agricultural model will not be placed on the foreign policy table and regarded as a bargaining counter in situations arising out of international requirements.
The second issue concerns the Mediterranean, whose importance was shown by a forum in which we took part last week.
Mr President, we want a convention, a convention of Members of the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
But the weaknesses of this Parliament and of parliamentarianism at European level need to be overcome by strengthening this Parliament, not weakening it still further.
That brings me to my next point: you proposed again today - and I admit you are right, something must be done - to publish a White Paper on the question of good governance.
The concept of good governance is somewhat of a problem in itself.
If we need to improve the quality of governance of the Union, we might make a start with the Commission's work programme itself.
Our committee should cross-examine individual Commissioners on the proposals in their area of responsibility.
Finally, the annual work programme should come to a vote here in Parliament.
What came unstuck there, President Prodi - and I think it is important that we recognise this - was Council's presumption that it is Europe's legislator.
President Prodi, the Commission's attitude is unclear and extremely vague, especially on the question of the post-Nice process.
You find reason to criticise, but your Commissioner Barnier is outlining a mere forum for debate, rather than a constitutional process and a convention.
Mr President of the Commission, I call on you to give a straight answer to a straight question: are you on Parliament's side when it comes to demanding a constitutional process and a convention and for decisive democratic principles, such as the division of power, checks and balances, public legislating and so forth, to be added to the list of Nice leftovers?
Mr President, for years, priorities have been increasing in number, either because objectives are not completely achieved or because the frantic acceleration of the political, technological and economic processes are bringing to our attention urgent needs which are always new and increasingly difficult to tackle.
In fact, without rules, there is no freedom, only infringement of national and international laws.
The reinvigoration of the Mediterranean policy, as decided by the European Parliament in the last part-session, must be implemented - and quickly - as must the initiatives for peace in the Middle East.
We ask you, President Prodi, to urge the Council to set up a control and verification committee immediately, but, in the meantime, we would like to see an increase in monitoring by your presidency.
This question relates closely to the definition of the purpose of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are now starting a discussion process in which the situation is as follows: the Amsterdam leftovers, which we now refer to as the Nice shortcomings, must be resolved in the post-Nice process, and for that we need a clear-cut process.
For the rest, we need to consider, now that nearly all the Heads of Government have said that the decision-making structures decided at Nice are poor structures, what we can do to put things right, perhaps even before the post-Nice process starts - for example in connection with enlargement agreements, which always clarified this in the past.
I think that, thirdly, this will enable us to create the right conditions for a transatlantic market place.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I have three brief comments to make.
I have a very straightforward question to put to you: are you - the Commission - ready and will we manage this year, in 2001, to present a common Commission and Parliament proposal for Laeken on the subsequent structure of the post-Nice process?
If we want to convince public opinion, public debate, the people and the citizens of the merits of our objective of European unification, then starting a post-Nice process is not enough; on the contrary, we must ensure that the people understand that we are talking about a new European Union in a new Europe, a Europe which has changed since 1990.
Mr President, allow me to begin by expressing my great disappointment at the fact that no minister from the presidency is present at this important debate.
It is exactly the opposite that an enlarged European Union requires if it is not simply to move from the leftovers from Amsterdam to the leftovers from Nice and then, in 2004, to new frustrations.
Furthermore, what we need more than a European debate is 15 national debates on enlargement and 27 national debates on Europe, free from euphemisms and ambiguity, with the issues laid clearly on the table.
Passivity on the part of the Commission, if confirmed, would be very serious in this preparatory stage, because we all know that it has a great responsibility: to act as a guardian of the Community spirit.
And this responsibility has to take the form of concrete proposals and not of vague references to a White Paper or other such matters.
Let us not back down in the face of those people who do not want a democratic and transparent Europe, but an opaque Europe made up of diplomats.
Mr President, to make the debate on the future of the European Union - which is beginning at long last - truly effective, we need a sound institutional triangle.
If you do, furthermore, take on board the proposal from our fellow Member, Klaus Hänsch, the proposals you presented this morning should enable us to re-establish the natural complicity which there should be between both our institutions in order to have successful dialogue within the institutional triangle.
The second point I would like to discuss, Mr President, is the White Paper on governance.
We hear all too often in our constituencies and in our own countries of the problems that people have in getting their projects validated by the Commission.
The unwieldiness of the procedures and the concentration of projects do not make a useful contribution in this respect.
My third point relates to the debate on the future of the European Union.
I feel that, this morning, you have introduced the elements which make it possible for us to approach dialogue under acceptable conditions.
In terms of method, we welcome the fact that you have taken on board the idea that, in the structured dialogue phase, the four partners participating in the convention will have to again find their capacity to work together.
The convention should remain a forum for deliberation because experiences in Amsterdam and Nice have proved that the representatives of the European Parliament are not allocated enough of a place at the IGC and because we prefer the convention model and we are convinced that all proposals may be drawn up in this context.
Nice showed that the convention model makes it possible to advance more quickly, in a more structured manner, and enhancing much more our collective mode of operation.
Mr President, enlargement is the most important European project of our time.
An EU of 27 Member States must learn to concentrate its forces upon the major and cross-border tasks.
Let us have a slimmer, but at the same time stronger, EU.
If, President Prodi, Parliament occasionally criticises the Commission's administrative behaviour, it is not meant in a spirit of enmity towards the Commission, but as an expression of our democratic duty of scrutiny.
For the rest, we must consider the role of the national parliaments in the European process.
Mr President, there are, not unnaturally, different assessments in this Parliament regarding the Treaty of Nice, but even those who are highly critical of the Treaty - and there are many - will agree in this debate on the future of Europe that the best way forward is to use the post-Nice procedures and to make the most of them to improve our Union, to rectify the shortcomings of Nice and to have a proper debate on the future of the Union.
The cooperation process is dynamic not static.
There are fundamental differences of opinion on this matter amongst the countries, across the political divide, and even within the political parties themselves.
Mr President, I start with the Commission's work programme for 2001.
Turning now to the question of the post-Nice process, I would rather see it as our European future.
All of these issues need and deserve the widest possible public debate.
Mr Corbett quoted Chairman Mao.
Our debate on the EU's institutional future must draw on all of society, harnessing not just the resources of a closed Brussels policy world but the democratic potential of the Internet and - yes - of opinion polls.
The EU must sustain a truly open society.
In 2004 we will see a lame-duck Commission on its last legs and the European election cutting across the IGC.
In Britain, as in other countries facing general elections in the next couple of years, one of the central issues will be: in whose hands is the future of Europe safe?
In Britain the choice could not be clearer in our coming election: to guarantee a decentralised Europe that works, only the Conservatives offer an agenda which can get the post-Nice process right.
To secure our European future, like the British, most people in Europe want to be in Europe but not run by Europe. (Laughter and applause) Mr President, unlike the previous speaker, who quoted George Bush senior, I would rather quote Berthold Brecht.
George Bush talked about "points of light" , but Berthold Brecht said: "die im Dunkeln sieht man nicht" (you cannot see those in the dark), which brings me straight to the heart of my short speech.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I have no intention of saying anything about Nice, now that no one is listening anyway.
We expect this to be understood not just as the job of the Council and the High Representative of the CFSP; we also expect an important, creative initiative on the part of the Commission.
Our Parliament welcomed the development in this area in Mrs Lalumière's report but - and here I should like to pick up on Mr Nassauer's Marxist digression - a spirit is abroad in Europe, especially in this area: the spirit of intergovernmentalism.
I would also like to highlight the important role which this report attributes to the European Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights, on which I would like to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino for his great contribution.
And I therefore believe that all initiatives relating to the third pillar are of paramount importance to this Parliament.
This has been said today by Mr Poettering and many other speakers.
And I believe there is an initiative, Mr President, which the Commission has highlighted in its six-monthly scoreboards, to which we attach great importance: I am referring to the European arrest order.
I do not say this as a rebuke to President Prodi or the Commission, because the Commission is most certainly working or, should I say, making itself busy.
Hence, my first conclusion is that we should do less and we should do it better.
As President Prodi quite rightly said this morning, we should not be expending our energy on measuring the size of cucumbers and gherkins.
The Commission President appreciated as much this morning, he asked good questions, but his role is not to ask questions.
The Commission has the right of initiative and must present proposals.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to thank you because your speech today has triggered a fundamental debate which answers the question, or which aspires to answer the question of where we, as Europe, want to go.
I think that it would be right, if we are reading the signals correctly, to want to move towards a more collective, more democratic Europe; to want to move towards a more peaceful Europe, which seeks to resolve differences peacefully; to want to move towards a more ecological Europe, which respects and cherishes the environment; to want to move towards a more secure Europe; to want to move towards a Europe with a more highly-developed social conscience; to want to move towards a more efficient Europe, especially in the face of the challenges of the twenty-first century.
Mr President, following Lisbon and Nice, I had hoped to see a better balance in the Commission's work programme between employment, economic and social policies, but I do not see much evidence of that.
I would like to see, for example, a recognition of the interdependence between these areas of policy.
In competition policy and internal market rules we need an amendment to the merger regulation to include considerations related to employment and social rights and the inclusion, for example, of social clauses in the public procurement framework.
Furthermore I do not see much evidence in the Commission's work programme of the social agenda agreed at Nice last December.
We need to have respect for parliamentary procedures in relation to these new forms of open coordination.
A Green Paper on such a code is a sick joke to the many thousands of workers who have been affected by restructuring in recent weeks.
We need a complete overhaul of the legislation framework in this area and I hope the Commission will move quickly in that respect.
This care - and I have an example to illustrate this - is sometimes missing, as for example in the draft which the President referred to on so-called family reunion currently being discussed in the context of immigration policy.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we agree that after Lisbon we need a knowledge-based economy.
The European research area is of course important.
It is here at European level that endless representatives of associations keep popping up and beating a path to our offices and one sometimes wonders exactly who has accredited them back home, whom exactly they are representing here in Europe.
But we here in the European Parliament were elected - directly elected - by the citizens of the European Union.
This European Parliament has, by definition, a central role in civil society, as you so nicely put it, and I trust that you too can see that from your understanding of democracy.
I warn all of you in the Commission not to tinker with the crucial role of the European Parliament, Mr Prodi.
I believe that the issues which relate to the creation of a European area of justice, freedom and security are, without doubt, very sensitive issues for the citizens of the Union.
This also applies to asylum and judicial cooperation, for example, as the honourable Member said, in relation to combating terrorism.
It is clear that, if taken out of context, the huge number of 495 points in our detailed programme might seem an absurd proposition, but sometimes we have to break things down in order to show that we are being practical and then, as this morning, we need to outline practical priorities in order to present the right idea of what we are actually doing.
I am sure that Parliament will appreciate that I have pointed out the strict priorities, but these strict priorities will then have to be followed by detailed documents which will be extraordinarily tedious.
Mr Hänsch even talked of producing a single document.
Moreover, it does not matter whether the standpoints from which these decisions are taken are different or whether they can coexist in a single document; the truth of the matter is that we - in our committees and in our daily work - constantly perform a task of convergence, study and analysis, of laborious recording of the issues, something we are doing now.
We do indeed have a complicated calendar: we all speak of 2004, but 2004 will be a year of radical change for Parliament and the Commission.
If we really want this process to go ahead in an integrated, organised manner, it is clear that it will need to be completed by the end of 2003.
I am only bringing this up as a problem we must think about but, clearly, in the spring of 2004 the electoral campaign will begin, in June the elections will be held, and then there will be the installation of the new Commission, which will not assume power until January 2005.
It is therefore a year of change, and I believe that Parliament will want to play a full part in this major political change in Europe.
Mr Swoboda, Mr Hänsch, Mr Voggenhuber and Mr Corbett have pointed out another major problem area, upon which I would like to avoid any misunderstanding, regarding the structuring of the vigorous debate on Europe.
We are all basically in agreement regarding Laeken; it remains to be seen whether we shall manage to make a success of it and to genuinely involve civil society in the debate as we have promised.
I go along with the suggestion made by Michel Barnier and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
There are - and we must work on this - some points that are essential.
Of course, I agree with the objections I have heard - that it cannot be a very large body - and, given that there are four administrative structures to be represented, it will therefore be difficult to keep the numbers involved in this institutional structure, this decision-making body down.
However, I believe that this is the great task we must take on: broad representation of all four administrative structures but a sufficiently manageable size to be able to take decisions; moreover, working on a majority basis and not unanimity, or we shall be paralysed.
In this direction, I believe that we shall be able to work together and produce more definitive proposals.
This we must do, and we must accordingly think about the procedures necessary for achieving it.
For goodness' sake, we do not have to standardise curriculum vitae forms, which differ from country to country, but it is a help which we very often need to give our young workers for their careers.
So there we are: it is having the good sense to see that some of the things we regulate may even appear absurd, but they are done in support of the decisions we take.
However, there is a very specific programme for the Mediterranean: last year I went to Israel and Palestine; this last month to Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia; last week to Jordan, Syria and the Lebanon.
I can assure you that there is a desire, a need, a call for Europe, not only to solve economic problems but also with a certain gratitude for the support we have been giving these peoples.
However, there are two new important points which are being requested by everyone: the first is the change from a bilateral approach to something more, a multilateral approach; this will help regional cooperation, although it cannot be extended to the whole area but will have to operate in groupings, the Maghreb on one side, the Mashraq on the other.
Clearly, international issues will dictate whether there can be an answer to this question.
I would like to remind everyone of this, both because it is already a well-defined path and the Spanish Presidency is planning - we have had extensive discussions about it with the Prime Minister - a Summit on the Mediterranean during the Spanish Presidency next year.
The preparation of this year, therefore, is a perfect opportunity to integrate this policy.
Very often, in fact, we use this expression simply to save face, but sustainable development means taking decisions which are extremely complex and difficult, decisions which concern industry, our daily way of life, housing, or the use of energy.
The great political decisions - agriculture, environment, structural funds - are now reaching the critical point, which will involve a very difficult period, a period in which political wisdom will have to come strongly to the fore, for it is this that will give the final impetus to the great process in progress.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioners, this is an oral question addressed to the Commission.
Since Lisbon, Mr President, restructuring has intensified further.
In this respect, the Nice Summit sent out some very positive signals.
The request we would make of the Commission through this unanimous oral agreement - and let me stress that there was unanimity within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - is that they use this new political will as a firm basis to truly guide their proposals.
We would like you to undertake a reassessment of the existing directives on social matters with regard both to their record of implementation and to the new challenges presented by their restructuring.
As we are of one mind with our liberal friends, who voted in favour of the first resolution and, above all, in favour of the committee' s question, we think there has been some technical hitch and that our liberal friends did not receive proper information.
The establishment of an observatory on industrial change is one of the actions proposed in the social policy agenda adopted by the Nice Summit as a means to develop a pro-active approach to anticipating and managing change.
I personally attach much importance to this matter in view of the current situation regarding mergers and acquisitions.
The directives on collective redundancies and transfers of undertakings, dating back from the seventies, were conceived and adopted in a context of full employment and slow change.
Since then the situation in the economic world has radically changed.
It is true that their provisions are no longer adapted to the needs of companies and workers.
Secondly, even when they cannot be avoided, the normal losers would have been alerted well before and would be in a position to adapt better to inevitable changes in their employment situation.
It is worth mentioning in the context of this debate because this new form of incorporation will certainly be widely used by companies in Europe operating on a trans-national basis, above all, when they restructure themselves and adapt to new economic and market conditions.
One of the outstanding positive elements of the statute is that it contains well developed provisions on worker involvement, which reflect the modern approach also translated in the national information and consultation proposal.
This will surely contribute to a better treatment of the social dimension of corporate restructuring in Europe.
Under the merger regulation, workers and representatives are already entitled in some cases to be auditioned by the Commission's services, which conduct an inquiry on the conformity of a merger with the Treaty.
Our idea consists in making these auditions more systematic.
The guiding principle of corporate social responsibility for companies is to be competitive and profitable by living up to their social responsibilities.
In response to the Lisbon Council's appeal to companies' corporate sense of social responsibility the Commission has included this theme in its own social policy agenda published in June 2000 by stressing its importance in addressing the employment and social consequences of economic and market integration and adapting worker conditions in the new economy.
The Commission will issue a Green Paper this year to facilitate further development towards a framework for corporate social responsibility practice at European level.
In conclusion, it is the combination of the different lines of action which I mentioned to you, as well as adequate action from public authorities, private organisations, companies, workers and the social partners at all levels, that will allow us to deal properly with the social implications of industrial change and corporate restructuring.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform you that I have received a motion for a resolution under Rule 37 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Mr President, this is never the most gratifying moment to make speeches of this kind.
Volkswagen in Germany is a good case in point.
We want to see a corporate code of social responsibility but we can see that this will be achieved only when we have an updated and completed legal framework in this area.
But the latest spate of restructuring in the United Kingdom and throughout the European Union shows that we are far from achieving those things.
To the Corus workers in the north-east of England or Wales, to the Vauxhall workers in Luton - or, for that matter, the Danone workers in France and Holland - the idea of a corporate code of responsibility - as I said in an earlier debate - is a sick joke, quite frankly.
The promise of a Green Paper in the middle of this year is not an adequate response to the anguish that those workers, their families and entire communities have felt.
We believe that if this framework of legislation can be updated in this way, coupled with the new observatory on industrial change, it can give us the tools for a more pro-active approach to industrial change within the European Union.
We were given a mandate by this House in January to look at this issue of restructuring in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
We have come up with an oral question and a resolution in a spirit of cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you sometimes get the feeling that this Parliament suffers from collective dementia, by any chance?
We had the self-same debate exactly a year ago, on 17 February.
That is why, on Thursday next, we will hold a debate on a European research area, and the need to invest in research, technological development, innovation and education.
Needless to say, the rights of workers as laid down in the various European directives must be upheld in the process.
After all, only the Nice social agenda is discussed in the joint resolution, whilst Lisbon is forgotten for the sake of convenience.
We will therefore table a number of amendments in the spirit of the Lisbon objectives.
Mr President, unfortunately it is very timely that we should be discussing these issues today in the light of current examples of restructuring.
As has been mentioned earlier, the Anglo-Dutch company Corus - the steel company - is a classic example of a company making decisions based on profit with no regard to the disastrous social costs of its actions.
There is speculation that Danone, a profitable company, is to shed 3 000 jobs in Europe.
That is why it is so important to adopt the directive on the information and consultation of workers without delay, together with a review of the European Works Council Directive and the Collective Redundancies Directive, which incidentally proved to offer so little protection to the Corus workers in my constituency.
There is an intolerable contradiction between the Council and the Commission' s declared priority of promoting employment and the massive redundancies that big businesses are making, and who are, at the same time, making fantastic profits.
In the year 2000, this firm' s European installations made a net profit of EUR 795 million, or 17% more than in 1999.
I therefore endorsed the proposals made in the resolution as well as the amendments that clarify and strengthen certain aspects.
Any merger contract must include social clauses.
I shall therefore vote in favour of the resolution which I hope will be enhanced by a number of amendments.
the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation concerning the Committee on Safe Seas and amending the regulations on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships [COM(2000) 489 - C5-0475/2000 - 2000/0236(COD)] II.
If this were simply European aid, pure and simple, paid as reparation for years of looting and destroying these two countries, without any form of recompense, then it would have our support.
Dover report (A5-002/2001) The United Kingdom had obtained a derogation of the regulations on maximum hours of work and on night work of adolescents.
The Commission, and this report, now propose waiving this derogation.
The directive will not meet the needs of young workers any better just because we have put an end to the scandal of this derogation for the English (as the United Kingdom did not fully comply with the directive limiting the work of children and adolescents).
There is no justification for authorising young people of 14 and even 13 years of age to work in any way whatsoever [Article 4(2c)], outside compulsory school attendance [Article 8(1b)] and during school holidays [Article 8(1c)].
Nor is there any justification for the derogations allowing young people of less than 18 years of age to work more than 40 hours per week, over 8 hours per day [Article 8(5)], and do night work [Article 9(2)].
There is no justification for applying any restriction to application of the directive in the case of domestic service in a private household or to work in a family undertaking [Article 2(2)].
There is no point in denouncing child labour in Africa or Asia if we do not protect our own young people against economic exploitation and work that is harmful to health, safety and development and if we do not ensure that they receive training leading to qualifications in a system quite separate from that of the employers.
It supports the view that the UK falls into line with a 1994 directive which limits the working hours of young people to eight hours a day or 40 hours a week and bans night work, although it provides for exceptions in special circumstances and for certain kinds of work.
We must not do anything to harm the job prospects of young people in Britain.
We must act to curb it and ensure that our young people are protected from exploitation and its destructive effects by hard-pressed or greedy employers.
I find it ironic that the Tories who constantly argue against Brussels bureaucrats interfering and who opposed this legislation, do in fact support this report on social policy.
The Labour Government is at the forefront of providing jobs for our young people and also measures to protect them at work.
I strongly urge the House to show its support for the protection of young people in Britain and to vote in favour of this report.
Savary report (A5-0016/2001) Mr President, I voted for this report, which seeks to promote railway infrastructure in Europe.
Europe can and must provide us with this as well.
Creating transport connections and removing traffic bottlenecks in less favoured or remote regions is another important step.
It goes without saying that these national disparities represent a considerable obstacle to the development of rail transport in Europe, despite the many advantages offered by this less polluting form of transport.
There are many reasons for the decline in the railways.
Moreover, the networks are not always terribly well suited to new patterns in the organisation of economic activities and urbanisation, or indeed to the changes that these have entailed in traffic flows.
Having said that, it is clear that the future of the European transport system necessarily involves revitalising the rail sector and in short order.
I am speaking in favour of this because I believe that rail has a key role to play in solving the mobility problems facing the European Union.
I am pleased, moreover, that the European Parliament has succeeded in getting through some amendments, which seek to have important social standards taken into greater consideration, such as vocational qualifications and conditions of health and safety at work.
Similarly, the Council has put forward a realistic common position that draws up a gradual schedule for work and takes account of the problems which enlargement will present for the rail sector.
Yet, behind the laudable objectives of the rapporteur in terms of revitalising the railway sector, we see the spectre of liberalisation, since another objective of this report is to contribute towards opening up of markets in transport services and equipment assets and towards promoting the competitiveness of the rail sector as a whole.
The three directives in the railway package recently adopted by Parliament and the Council would suggest that Europe sees the future of trans-European rail transport in the second of these.
I have read the report seeking to prevent ships sinking but, in my opinion, Mr Fatuzzo the MEP, ships sink because they are too old.
In voting for this report, we voted in favour of practical measures contributing to stepping up the safety of bulk carriers and their crews.
This is the tragic record of a sector which has been abandoned to the laws of competition and the market.
For that, however, we have to set aside human and financial resources to actually implement the legislation in the Member States, particularly by increasing the number of inspectors.
I shall vote in favour of all the proposals to that end.
It is up to us, therefore, to take pro-active steps, which will be in contrast to the laissez-faire policy which prevailed until the last few years, both in Europe and in the rest of the world.
To go back to the report which we are discussing today, I should point out that we discussed two proposals - a proposal for a regulation to set up a regulatory committee, the Committee on Safe Seas, which entails amending the regulations currently in force, and a proposal for a directive amending existing directives to incorporate the Committee on Safe Seas.
In real terms, this means that this committee will replace the current committees responsible for maritime safety, a single committee designed to facilitate the implementation of amendments made to the relevant international conventions in force by the Member States.
Although the European Commission' s proposals were acceptable on the whole, the provisions relating to the participation of the European Parliament were unacceptable.
That is why the legislation currently under discussion must be imposed on Member States, particularly legislation that governs prevention of pollution, monitoring the criteria regarding the training and formal qualifications of seafarers and working conditions at sea.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Charter of Fundamental Rights has enabled us to take a great step towards the reconstruction of a Europe of the citizens; this is what Mr Méndez de Vigo likes to tell us; this is what we have heard on many occasions from Professor Rodríguez Bereijo, the representative named by the Head of the Spanish Government, Mr José María Aznar, for the convention drafting the Charter.
But this construction is taking place at a specific moment, in particular economic, social and political circumstances.
And that is why, within the globalising dimension, we cannot ignore the importance of certain companies in certain regions and areas, for example the outlying regions, such as Galicia, where I come from myself, where they are the only or the main source of employment and where the threat of globalisation without guarantees would make families worried and nervous.
Secondly, economic competitiveness and a healthy society must not be contradictory terms but rather harmonious ones.
Thirdly, industrial restructuring, to use the expression in a broad sense, which is perhaps acceptable and inevitable from an economic point of view, cannot ignore the social consequences of that restructuring, which must be prepared for, since the objective of Community economic policies and measures must be to achieve a high level of employment.
Fourthly and lastly, national Community aid, tax incentives etc.
Mr President, Commissioner, the cases of industrial restructuring which are most traumatic, because they are unforeseeable, are those dictated by aggressive, acquisitions-seeking behaviour in the market.
Commissioner, we have also heard it said that the market is not governed by the laws of nature and that the political authorities should act by means of legislation, institutional action and social dialogue.
Mr President, there is no justification for large companies making part of their workforce redundant on the pretext of mergers or restructuring, when just a small fraction of their profits would be enough to safeguard the jobs that have been lost.
Danone, Michelin, Aventis, Bull, Alstom, Moulinex and similar companies have shown a total disregard for the workers that they have made redundant and for the regions that may be condemned to a slow decline by the closure of a factory, and this shows the harm that these companies inflict on society.
We oppose the political opinions, in this House or elsewhere, that justify these criminal activities.
Such opinions show that they do not in any way seek to act in the interests of society; only in the interests of the industrial and financial groups that dominate the economy and in the interests of the owners and shareholders of these groups.
I could produce a long list, as many Members have done, of relevant cases which we have discussed in recent years.
Mr President, the Financieel Dagblad (Financial Times) published last Friday, 2 February, carried the front-page headline: "Corus gives a fifth of its workers their marching orders" .
In its opinions, the Council expressly opts for a broad characterisation of a business as a joint venture between various stakeholders, and so it expressly avoids focusing attention on the creation of shareholder value for the shareholders, who seem to be the main reason behind many of the restructuring operations that have recently taken place.
Commissioner Monti made it abundantly clear in our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that he only wants to approach mergers from the point of view of the markets and consumers, and has little interest in the bigger picture.
Mr President, as the honourable Members have said, some of the directives were obviously adopted in times of full employment and very slow change.
But I think that we should acknowledge the attempt being made in Europe to strike a balance between competitiveness and social cohesion.
We recently saw over 5 000 jobs lost in a single month as the result of takeovers.
In this extremely difficult environment, there are four strands to our efforts to combine social cohesion and competitiveness.
The first is forecasting.
As you know, huge changes were made this year to legislation on the European company statute and to the five directives which follow and complete the legislative framework on the European statute, and the directive on information and consultation finally went to the Council after years of discussion between Parliament and the Commission and we achieved a majority within four months.
We are also endeavouring, in cooperation with Commissioner Monti, to check that the directives on information for workers are being properly applied during all mergers and takeovers.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive regulates the protection of copyright and related rights in the information society.
We have reached the second reading and Parliament is now called upon to express its opinion on the position adopted by the Council which, as you will remember, was forwarded to us 18 months after it had been adopted at first reading.
The reason for this is that a controversial, delicate compromise had to be found between all the interests covered by the directive.
Although some compromise amendments were adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, opinion is still divided, particularly with regard to the article on copying for technical purposes, or caching, and the article on private copying.
There are many amendments regarding this point which I do not endorse.
The reason why, as far as private copying is concerned, the compromise amendments adopted in committee represented a major new development benefiting the authors lies in the fact that they stipulate that private copying - and I quote - must be "made by a natural person for private use and for ends that are neither directly or indirectly commercial, on condition that the rightholders receive fair compensation".
With regard to the other element, technical copying, I feel that the balance achieved in the common position is more than sufficient to protect both rightholders and consumers.
Although the intention behind the amendments tabled on this issue - Article 5, point 1 - to provide greater copyright protection is commendable, none of the amendments are acceptable, apart from anything else because they relate to application, not regulation which is the subject of this directive.
Furthermore, these amendments are intended to introduce a system of dual authorisation of works on the Internet, one for hosting and one for caching, which would be a heavy burden for the network management.
Therefore, to sum up, the vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market showed that it is possible to reach a broad consensus, to adopt the directive and to improve the common position without running the risk of a long, tedious conciliation procedure; all this after three years of debate, argument and dispute.
This will benefit not only the European Union, which has been waiting for legislation on the subject for a long time, but also and most importantly, the rightholders.
Indeed, if the directive is adopted, not only will the exceptions which are still disputed enter into force, but also, most importantly, the rule established by Article 2 which lays down the principle of authorisation of rightholders for the use of works in new digital environments.
For all these reasons, it should I hope, be possible, at last, to adopt the text of this directive tomorrow.
Today coincides with an important event from the point of view of intellectual property in the information society, that is the judgment of the San Francisco Appeal Court in the Napster case, which brings us closer to finally resolving the vexed question of the use of the Internet to breach intellectual property rights.
The judgment of the San Francisco Court of Appeal confirms intellectual property rights and establishes certain measures for the protection of intellectual property in the United States.
The challenge facing us is to ensure that Europe also establishes a system which would safeguard intellectual property, otherwise we could find that, by means of installations in Europe, the effective protection measures which are currently being adopted in the United States under the Millennium Law, which has been in force for more than two years, could be violated.
Private copying, which was a traditional right of any person obtaining an intellectual work or intellectual property, must now, in the information society, be subject to very strict requirements, because of the enormous ease of reproduction.
I hope that in tomorrow's vote the various political groups can come to an agreement in order to offer alternatives which will truly guarantee the protection of intellectual property in the information society, since in a few years time, all intellectual property will probably be of the type that travels around the great communications networks.
If you consider that over 300 lobbyists have an interest in this report, then that means half a lobbyist to every MEP, and perhaps a few question marks are in order here too.
I also have my doubts about the technical measures that Member States are at liberty to introduce.
I fear that this will have a distorting effect on the internal market and will lead, in the final analysis, to the Court of Justice having to settle the matter again on the basis of the internal market principles.
I believe this only has to do with the e-commerce directive, so I hope the Commissioner will take another look at the issue.
I would like to close with a comment, and I hope - on behalf of the Liberal Group at any rate - that an even-handed and fair balance will be found in this directive for all market participants and all parties concerned, and I feel that the digital copy should be regarded as an opportunity and not a threat.
A compromise does not really satisfy anyone and the European Parliament does not hold a magic wand.
We are opposed to extending the list of exceptions; some of the contentious points can perhaps be resolved between the parties, because we too are keen to find a satisfactory solution which we can all live with.
And as the Napster case has already been raised, Europe should discuss whether or not it wants a miniature version, a European Napster, and then it should hold a round table discussion between providers, producers, rightholders and consumers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after considering this issue of the directive on copyright and harmonisation which primarily involves a list of exceptions, I feel that we have quite simply agreed to maintain a confused situation in order to give ourselves time to give some thought to this matter.
If I look at this from the consumer' s point of view, I am surprised that Parliament, the defender of Market Europe, defends production in this market in such an ultimately very poor fashion, because, given this list of exceptions, people will refuse to pay for goods which they will want for nothing.
Mr President, the report that has been presented on copyright and the information society, or rather the alleged information society, is a perfect example of the increasing depravity of a Community system whose only motivation is, in fact, to create a market where all products, goods and services are included.
It is utterly ironic that the European Union institutions are basically in the process of becoming a subservient lapdog to globalisation without restriction or conscience.
It might be said that consumers' interests are society' s interest in seeing the dissemination of both knowledge and cultural expression rather than the suppression of these and their subordination to the interests of capital.
We have our own special system in Denmark, and I do not think it should be substantially interfered with.
Against this background, it is an interesting fact, and one worth noting, that the proposal has been so balanced that I shall recommend my group to vote in favour of it.
Mr President, as the first speaker from my group, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur on behalf of all my colleagues who work closely with him.
As the rapporteur said earlier, with the compromise amendments - the set of amendments passed by our committee - I am sure that we have the right directive at the right time.
We must, in a very fast-moving world, take responsibility for our work but be prepared to modify it in accordance with what is going on in an entirely new world.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor, despite the fact that I have not yet written a book and have not read a great many.
The protection of intellectual property has always been a cause for concern to the European Union and to the European Parliament, because we know that only this protection guarantees that we have culture, that culture flourishes and that economic production takes place.
And then the Council says "unanimously", although it could have voted by a qualified majority, given the balance we keep hearing about.
But with the Council and the governments on either side, in the Council and in Parliament, what need is there for Parliament?
I am on the authors' side and I call on Parliament to restore these rights - at least to some degree.
I nonetheless want to express my warm thanks to our wonderful rapporteur.
Of course, that does give rise to some reasonable concerns about the protection of legitimate copyright interests in this age.
Mr President, serious infringements of and a lack of protection for intellectual property have long been a way of life in Greece, well before the advent of the information society.
It is important that we limit the exceptions and I think that the amendment by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal market is a careful amendment, although it might have gone further.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having the wisdom of Solomon, the patience of Job and the tenacity of myself.
In particular, this issue, which is difficult and has been a very arduous task for all of us in the Legal Affairs Committee, has thrown up a number of conflicts, one of which most often mentioned within this House is the conflict between copyright-holders and consumers.
I believe that within the present text we have the opportunity to reconcile these two parties, and to lay down a number of fundamental principles which could be copied in other parts of the world.
Each of us has a right, and indeed a responsibility, to ensure that we can maintain the best possible balance for all within the fundamental principles of consumer rights and protection as well as remuneration for the artists.
Mr President, I would, of course, also like to commend Mr Boselli' s determination to achieve a balance in a text that has been under discussion for nearly three years.
His task was made all the more difficult by the Council' s failure to adopt all Parliament' s amendments at the first reading stage.
As has been mentioned, the aim of the new directive is to adapt current legislation to the new technologies while respecting the international treaties adopted in 1996.
The Internet is a powerful tool but it must not be an unregulated area.
The cultural and economic stakes are high and, with the Internet expanding at an incredible pace, a legal framework in Europe must be found, as in the United States, where this kind of framework was adopted two years ago.
So I am in favour of a restrictive definition of private copying.
The directive must balance the interests of consumers and eligible parties.
It is trying to resolve these issues as quickly as possible but in a necessarily imperfect way.
If we amend this directive, we shall, in two years' time, be able to determine its shortcomings and weaknesses in the light of the incredible developments in the information society.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Members from the various groups for supplying the 32 signatures which allowed me to submit a number of amendments in Parliament.
The European Parliament has always been the guardian of Europe' s cultural heritage and that is how it must stay, also in the digital age.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is of great importance to growth and competitiveness in Europe, but the directive does not need to be worded in such a way as to make using the Internet more difficult and more expensive.
Our good will towards copyright holders must not involve our creating regulations which restrict freedom of expression or obstruct the free flow of information.
Very little because the level of harmonisation of copyright in the European Union will not be very high, much lower in fact than in many other less important areas.
National traditions are simply too varied here and the interests of all those involved are too diverse and too contradictory.
The full development of the information society will no longer be impeded by a grossly insecure legal framework and rightholders and their agents will have ways of protecting their interests.
At the same time, however, we must guarantee wide public access in the interest of cultural diversity.
This obviously includes not criminalising consumers or charging them several times over.
Mr President, as an author and member of the Portuguese Society of Authors, I have a personal interest in a matter in which the cultural standing of European integration itself is also at stake.
I do not know of a single author in Europe who agrees with the compromise amendments on private copying.
I also wish to say that it would be much better if the directive were to give this satisfaction to authors now and were then to be reviewed within eighteen months.
The more exceptions are provided for, the further the right to regulate is weakened and the more harm is done to the harmonisation and coordination of national organisations in this field.
At the same time we must not strangle or restrict freedom of access for legitimate users.
This fits in with the EU action plan and the forthcoming summit in Stockholm.
The composition of the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur has maintained this balance between rightholders and users effectively.
The exceptions which currently exist in Article 5 mean that the generous provisions on exceptions that we have in the UK will continue to help vulnerable users and ensure that schools, libraries and research and education institutions can benefit from private copying.
I refer to: Amendment No 11, which seeks to give an exemption to broadcasting companies which no one else enjoys and which would reduce performers' and artists' rights in contravention of the WIPO Treaty; and Amendment No 4 which, in the second part, introduces an unnecessary and unwarranted EU restriction of the freedom of national courts to decide how to deal with injunctions, in particular concerning piracy, and amendments on levies.
Finally, as with every other piece of legislation on the Internet that comes before us in this House, we should use the provisions of the directive, the review clause in Article 12 and the role of the contact committee to prevent both the abuse of private copying and any abuse or limitation on fair use.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to join the House in thanking the rapporteur.
The directive penalises the internal market because, at the end of the day, the harmonisation is only cosmetic and the Member States are defending their conventional payment systems tooth and claw, even though they are basically unsuited to the digital world.
I hope that the House will also limit the number of amendments that are adopted and not interfere too greatly with the common position.
It is a directive which I and the British Conservatives welcome because it is vital that European citizens are given proper protection of their creative rights and creative works in the digital era and this directive will deliver that to them.
This is essential because, not only is there an enormous music industry and film industry, we must not forget the highly successful computer games industry which is generating a huge amount of revenue in the United Kingdom and in a number of other countries across the EU.
A less high profile exception that is important economically is the right of reverse engineering of computer software.
I would lastly express some reservations about Amendment No 11.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common position, as amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, is an attempt to strike a fair balance between the interests of artists, authors and rightholders and the interests of consumers.
In my view, the definition should include the family environment.
That means that the proposed wording accepted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has my full support.
Unilateral national action, such as the so-called PC levy, which keeps cropping up in discussions in the Member States, would only make equipment even more expensive.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has also tabled proposals here and I call on Parliament to support them tomorrow.
Mr President, my first words are words of thanks, and I can also add my thanks as Chair of the committee, for the work carried out by the rapporteur.
The rapporteur has been masterly in his navigation of these turbulent waters; he has always remembered that a rapporteur is rapporteur for a committee, not for any group or any position: he is rapporteur for a committee and he is duty-bound to reflect the majority position of that committee.
As has already been said, we are starting from a situation in which there is complete divergence between the laws of the various Member States, where in reality the concept of copyright, the whole gamut of obligations and rights which this concept is represented by in our different laws, is not even similar.
This directive is a first step, but Parliament accepted this gamble on first reading and therefore it has to be consistent and continue in this vein on second reading.
At the moment, the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs, added to certain other notable amendments which deserve to be supported, improve this directive on certain substantial points, such as private copying.
And in summary they improve the directive by making it a first step in a system of harmonisation which will have to be carried out over time, a first step which furthermore will enable us to fulfil our international commitments, since until this directive sees the light of day, the two WIPO Treaties will not be able to enter into force.
That is also an important responsibility at a time when we talk so much about globalisation.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor on this important subject.
After long discussions, in which this Parliament played a very constructive role, we are meeting today to consider what I hope will be a balanced compromise.
This directive will be a cornerstone in the establishment of a harmonised legal framework on copyright, in a digital environment in particular.
As such, it belongs to those measures for which the Lisbon Summit at the end of last year set us a clear deadline.
Furthermore, without such a framework in place, rightholders and users cannot respond to the challenges posed by technology in the market place.
The formal decision to ratify the treaties was adopted by the Council on 16 March 2000.
Parliament has already endorsed that decision, but without this directive neither we nor the Member States could move towards ratification of those treaties.
The important changes to this directive introduced after the first reading clearly reflect the influence of this Parliament.
The Commission appreciates the efforts made by the rapporteur on private copying and by the Committee on Legal Affairs when it voted not to amend the technical copies exception.
This directive requires fair compensation for certain of the exceptions, one of which is private copying.
The system of fair compensation envisages flexibility for Member States, rightholders and users to establish the basis on which those exceptions apply.
Amendment No 4 does not respect the principle of proportionality because it seeks to lay down conditions for the granting of injunctions.
Amendment No 11, about which I shall be speaking in reply to some remarks made a little while ago, adds a further exception for broadcasters, framed in terms which were rejected by Parliament itself at first reading.
The exception proposed goes too far and risks putting the Community in breach of its international obligations under the WIPO treaties, for which this directive is meant to be the instrument of ratification.
Moreover, a series of further amendments, namely Amendments Nos 16 to 45, have also been tabled in Parliament.
The majority of those amendments have been rejected by the Legal Affairs Committee.
Three amendments, however, namely Amendments Nos 26, 27 and 28, are new.
I should now like to address some of the questions and comments made this afternoon more specifically.
The question is should or should not the Commission support Amendment No 5 and if so, why?
In reply to that question, I should like to say that the Commission is of the view that Amendment No 5 provides greater security for rightholders while at the same time allowing legitimate private copying in a manner which is enforceable both by Member States and by rightholders and it clarifies what is commercial by including ends that are both direct and indirect.
That is particularly the case in relation to the protection of technological measures.
The Commission is of the opinion that the reference to "private use" is too narrow a formulation and would give rise to difficulties in enforcement especially in the private domain.
There have been many amendments tabled both in the Legal Affairs Committee and again here in Parliament which propose changing the text of the common position.
The Legal Affairs Committee very wisely rejected all those amendments when it voted on 6 February 2001 and the Commission accepted the text of the common position which states that the acts of copying, in order to be exempted, must be transient or incidental and that they should form an essential part of a technological process.
In addition, including "essential" seems to make sense, as it would be difficult to justify why the exception should privilege acts of reproduction which are not an "essential" part of a technological process.
The current text of Article 5(1) together with the interpretative guidance provided in recital 33 ensures - in the Commission's opinion - a satisfactory balance between the rights of rightholders and the legitimate interests of other parties involved such as telecom operators, users, consumers and other parties.
Together with Article 8 on remedies and sanctions, Article 5(1) will help to provide for effective copyright protection against piracy whilst at the same time promoting the smooth operation of networks.
There is already an exception for broadcasters based on an amendment adopted by this Parliament at first reading.
To introduce a further exception would not only disturb the balance of rights achieved, but could also lead to a violation of Member States' international obligations.
The Commission would also like to thank the rapporteur and Parliament in general for the excellent work performed.
Nonetheless, in spite of the complexity of the groups whose interests have to be taken into account, the directive ensures a sufficiently high degree of copyright harmonisation and it should be possible to reach a final agreement today.
Mr President, we are now close to the end of what has been a three-year process of reforming the legislation for the control and genetically modified use of organisms as products within the European Union.
Steps have also been taken on the issues of liability, traceability and labelling.
Parliament can only be satisfied on those issues, however, when we see the additional legislation and flanking measures which I understand are now in preparation within the Commission.
In short, we have in front of us today for our approval the toughest GMO legislation in the world, so tough, in fact, that some natural foods in common use today would not pass through this procedure.
Certain Members of the Council have, however, already made it clear that they will scrutinise individual applications for approval and may not allow commercialisation until legislation on traceability and labelling is in place.
This legislation is an essential building block and foundation for the success of those measures still to come.
It is essential to ensure the safe and proper use of GMO products within the European Union.
Mr Bowe has done a magnificent job and brought a very complicated procedure to a close.
The euphoria which this announcement triggered throughout the world contrasts strangely with the emphatic rejection triggered by the release of genetically-modified plants, especially in Europe.
Developments in the release of genetically-modified plants from research into the human genome - for which we have practically no rules in Europe - will result, once the preliminary report is accepted, in a suitable set of rules for all the Member States in the European Union, which is why we should adopt this motion.
The PPE-DE Group will be voting in favour of the Bowe report.
Mr President, after three long years, we are, at last, nearing the end of the process of revising Directive 90/220/EEC.
For these reasons, I am convinced that we should endorse the conclusions of the conciliation procedure, but with one explicit reservation: the moratorium on commercial approvals must remain in place until the gap has been filled.
I think that we have a moral responsibility to apply the same standards to third countries here as we do to ourselves and, more importantly, we have not clarified liability as a central factor.
There is therefore no reason for Member States such as Germany and France to lift their de facto moratoria.
We have still not seen the new rules promised to us by the Commission and required for labelling, traceability and accountability.
Recent scandals and problems involving food policy ought to have taught us to proceed carefully.
The interests of consumers and the precautionary principle must be allowed to take precedence over the commercial interests of a few large companies.
In spite of the fact that, in the conciliation, our group has had an important role to play in making these rules as tough as possible, we cannot vote in favour of the final result.
Commissioner Byrne's White Paper on food safety sets the ground rules and parameters within which the practical application of genetic research impacts on public health and the environment, and I have no doubt the vigilance of Parliament is a further safeguard.
While I have always favoured the application of safe and tested genetic research to agriculture, equally its practical application in future must be tempered by inevitable changes to agricultural practices resulting from the unrelated but nonetheless devastating consequences for farmers and consumers resulting from BSE.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, on behalf of the radical Members of the Bonino List, I would like to express my full support for the directive on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs.
We are going to vote in favour of the motion, for we feel that this proposal for a directive guarantees a rigorous legal framework for GMO authorisation, protecting consumers, economic operators and research scientists.
The new legislation also contains the precautionary principle, the rigid, ideological application of which, all too often proposed to us, would have the opposite effect to that desired, of paralysing not only research and innovation in the agri-foods sector but even commonly accepted aspects of our way of life, as the Italian Minister for Health, Umberto Veronesi, who is first and foremost a scientist, has pointed out in the last few days.
I am delighted that the lion' s share of the amendments were included in the Council and Parliament joint text in the end.
The Council should approve the Cartagena Protocol without delay.
It is important for exports to third countries to be carried out in a proper manner.
Mr President, all in all, the joint text has my backing.
Mr President, after years of work on this report, we have now arrived at what I hope is a final position in Parliament.
The rapporteur has done a fantastic job.
Mr President, we refuse to endorse the draft directive which lays down the procedure for authorising genetically modified organisms, for fundamental reasons that I will set out in my explanation of vote, as well as for a very straightforward strategic reason.
In these circumstances, we believe that it would be much wiser for Parliament to wait for the actual implementation of all the additional guarantees that the Commission is promising for tomorrow, such as a future text on the liability and requirement for insurance by those who release GMOs - I stress this point - or even a future improvement of the provisions on labelling and traceability.
The debate is suspended.
The debate will be resumed this evening at 9 p.m.
Reform of the beef and veal market The next item is the statement from the Commission on the proposals for the reform of the beef and veal market.
I give the floor to Commissioner Fischler.
The Commission's seven point plan is a sort of emergency package to prevent excess production over the next few years by taking another step towards extensive production, towards sustainability and towards organic farming.
However, this plan does not revolutionise the system completely for the simple reason that we first need to give our incipient reforms a chance.
The seven point plan will not take food out of the mouths of European farmers.
Our seven point plan should allow us to remove the detonator from this ticking time-bomb.
But our plan should also ensure that beef and veal are safer than ever for consumers and that consumer confidence is restored in beef and veal.
Fourthly, the Commission wants to set the number of rights for the special steer premium individually for each holding.
This measure will also act as an incentive to reduce intensive production.
The safety net has already been deployed in two Member States.
Mr President, I would at least like to compliment the Commissioner on providing such a clear commentary.
My first question is as follows: what will the additional cost of these measures be in animal premiums, over a period of four to five years?
According to provisional calculations, it will cost EUR 157 million this year and as much as EUR 1.75 billion over the years to come, and we are talking in terms of animal premiums.
These measures are a step in the right direction.
I also note that the figure of 90 animals applies to every holding; holdings with more animals do not fall outside the rule, as the newspapers wrongly reported.
When we talk of agricultural reform - and we shall do so in good time, I can assure you, you will be hearing from us - then we must include, for example, the question of silage corn, the question of milk quotas, the question of what to do about dairy cattle versus beef cattle.
But this is precisely the sort of question which can only be resolved in the context of a general debate on agricultural reform.
But the 90-head limit is not a measure to fight BSE, it is a measure to create incentives for more extensive beef production in the future.
The thing is, we had this sort of premium in 1996 and in later years.
Which is why we have shunned this measure, especially in view of our limited resources.
Secondly, Commissioner, I should like to point out that one point needs greater clarification because otherwise, I think, the internal market will fall apart.
Otherwise we shall not be able to keep the internal market together.
Commissioner Fischler, I agree with you when you talk about extensification, but I do not endorse the measures that you are proposing because, ultimately, they will not facilitate extensification.
My first question is that you admittedly spoke about measures on organic farming, but what do you intend to do about all the certified and approved products, which are also subjected to very strict criteria?
Lastly, my third question is what are you going to do to avoid measures likely to penalise only small farmers without affecting large farmers?
Which is why I think we need to tread carefully.
As far as introducing a general grassland premium in lieu of a beef premium is concerned, we discussed this in connection with Agenda 2000.
I have no objection in principle here, but there is a feasibility problem, because you must admit one thing: a meadow in Schleswig-Holstein cannot be treated in the same way as a hectare of meadow in northern Finland or a meadow in southern Portugal.
As far as the question of disposal costs is concerned, the fact is that very different systems are currently being applied here.
However, not all Member States have sent in their replies as requested, not by a long chalk.
But I agree with you, that it should not be allowed to go too far as, otherwise, we really shall create two types of farmholding or two types of farmer in Europe.
The first stage is in force and the second will follow on 1 January next year.
However, this second stage must already be complied with for any meat which enters storage.
But we have difficulties here - I freely admit - with combinations of quality and origin, when it is suggested that the quality automatically goes up if a specific product comes from a specific region.
However, they come within the remit of my colleague Commissioner Byrne.
As far as the implementation of the White Paper on food security is concerned, suitable proposals will also be forthcoming here.
Mr President, Commissioner, in one of your proposals you referred to the possibility of cultivating clover on fallow land, but you will understand that in the countries of the South this is not always possible and is sometimes very difficult.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, whether you could adapt this good proposal to the countries of the South, so that it would be attractive to them and would allow the viability, for example, of cultivating pulses in these conditions.
My second question, Commissioner, is how do you explain the difference between slaughter premiums which currently exist?
I would like you to explain, Commissioner, how this issue is calculated, in order to prevent these enormous disparities: sometimes double in one place in relation to another.
As far as the costs of the test are concerned, may I remind you once again of what I said earlier in reply to Mr Böge's question.
The question of removing risk material and, more importantly, the question of whether the meat is from animals which were tested and whether the country in question guarantees that the animals were not fed with feedingstuffs containing meat and bonemeal are clear and this must be implemented accordingly.
The Commission is currently working on the relevant proposals and my colleague Commissioner Byrne is working on this.
We had suggested disposing of the meat from old cows, but we want to take account of this criticism and we therefore now offer two options: either a Member State does as Great Britain has done over the past five years - and this has also worked perfectly in a number of other Member States - or a Member State has the option of buying this old livestock.
For the rest, we also made this suggestion in connection with Agenda 2000.
Commissioner, you said that the European Union was unable to compensate farmers for their losses.
Mr President, I should like to ask the Commissioner whether there is anything that the Commission can do to encourage the removal of the older animals from the national herd?
It is obvious from the testing that has been taking place, at least in my own country, that all of the younger animals and animals over 30 months that have been tested are not in any way reacting positively to the test.
It is vital to bear in mind that we should not let this measure undermine our WTO commitments, or else the whole thing will collapse and we will have achieved the exact opposite of what we want to achieve, because in that case we would not be able to help our farmers, and we would actually be harming them.
It is too late for the present production year anyway, because changes to the existing market regime would be needed in any case, and from a purely technical point of view it is too late to do that before these high-protein plants are planted.
As far as imports are concerned, it is true to say that we annually import - chiefly from South America at present - around 30 million tonnes of soya and other high-protein feeds.
The shortfall which has now arisen in the form of 2.5 million tonnes of meat and bonemeal amounts to less than 10% of that.
In this connection, my colleague Commissioner Byrne is currently having inspections carried out in all 15 Member States to establish whether there are models that already work or whether there are problems with checks everywhere.
That is why we believe that it is of paramount importance for all animals over 30 months old to be tested, even if individual animals then have to be disposed of.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for the answers you have given to all these questions.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0007/2001).
Mr President, as you know, in today's Question Time there is a question of mine relating to widespread fraud in the flax industry, with thousands of millions of euros being gained fraudulently.
As well as finding it incredible that this question has not been considered a priority for an oral reply, I would like to tell you that, although it is reserved for a written answer, I already have in my hands a written reply, because a newspaper in my country has already stated: "In his written reply to a question put by the Socialist MEP, Juan de Dios Izquierdo, Mr Prodi has indicated that, on the basis of documents available to the Commission, he can only reaffirm his full confidence in Mrs de Palacio.
I do not think that it requires much imagination to know which group has been behind the scenes, applying pressure so that my question should not be given an oral reply in Parliament and so that this newspaper should already know Mr Prodi's precise reply.
Mr Izquierdo, I am President for this sitting, as you know, I am not the President of Parliament.
Thank you very much, Mr Berenguer.
The Commission refers the honourable Member to the statement given by Commissioner Wallström to the plenary session of this House on 17 January.
Since that date the Commission has convened a meeting of the group of experts established under Article 31 of the Euratom Treaty to give an opinion on the possible health consequences of the use of depleted uranium.
The report of that group will be ready in a few weeks' time.
The World Health Organisation will also issue a report on the subject in the near future.
Mr President, in response to Mr Alavanos's first question, I am informed that the report from the expert committee that is being convened under the Euratom Treaty will be published within weeks rather than months, so it is in the relatively near future.
This would be rather more useful than my trying to make a recitation in the limited time available in this House.
It therefore means that on some occasions it is quite probable that the activities to secure decontamination and protection for public health are not as extensive as, ideally, we would like them to be.
The fact remains, however, that the Commission, acting on behalf of the Union, is probably the lead actor in all the activities to improve conditions of public health and to provide for decontamination and environmental protection.
So far as the NATO statement of last month on plutonium is concerned, I am not in a position to give a comprehensive answer at this stage.
I am certain that if the honourable Member wanted to write explicitly on the NATO statement and the possibility of the use of plutonium and its side effects in that region, either in the course of acts of war or otherwise, my colleagues in the Commission would be more than ready to provide a comprehensive reply.
I invite the honourable Member either to write directly to me on the subject - and I will certainly see it gets to the right quarters - or to take it up directly either in the committee of which he is a member or specifically with one of my fellow Commissioners.
Question No 46 by (H-0055/01): Subject: Radioactive pollution of the Aegean and the Ionian Seas According to reports in the Greek press, as well as in the Turkish press, according to Le Journal du Dimanche, depleted uranium shells have been used by the Greek and the Turkish navies in exercises in the Aegean and the Ionian Seas for the last ten years.
Mr President, I am amazed by the Commission's reply and greatly fear that it may soon be contradicted, just as similar assurances on previous occasions have been contradicted.
In all honesty, I can find no explanation for these statements, Mr President.
Question No 47 by (H-0037/01): Subject: Serbia and the Common Foreign and Security Policy The Parliament of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia recently passed an amnesty law covering those refusing to serve in the people's army and prisoners convicted of criminal acts against the army or of 'anti-state activities'.
The Commission has been fully involved in these initiatives, and the European Parliament's ad hoc delegation, which visited from 8 to 10 February, also raised this issue in the relevant quarters.
However, whilst I understand the argumentation over the legal base, we would be further complicating an already delicate situation if we were to seek to act in a peremptory fashion or advise others - including the United Nations - that they should do that.
Question No 48 by (H-0069/01): Subject: Arrest of children in Turkey According to the Union of Human Rights, 29 children aged between 9 and 16 years of age have recently been arrested in Diyarbakir in Turkey on charges of belonging to a terrorist organisation and imprisoned.
According to our information, 28 children and young people were arrested by the police in a small town in south-east Turkey on 9 January.
The local security forces alleged that these children had taken part in an illegal demonstration, that they had shouted out pro-PKK slogans, and that they had protested against the Turkish military presence in northern Iraq.
Children and young people aged between 9 and 16 were arrested and taken to a prison in Diyarbakir.
The Commission recalls that comprehensive protection of human rights is one of the political criteria that the candidate countries must meet in order to open accession negotiations with the European Union.
I know that the Turkish Government has made direct contact with the criminal prosecution authorities, but we do not know the outcome of that contact between the Turkish Government and the local authorities.
And I believe that will be useful, because strong international pressure and intense international interest are the only things that really help in such cases.
So when I hear the Commission talk about EU values and standards, in view of its support for sanctions on Iraq I wonder how sincere it is about the children in Turkey.
Mr President, I am sorry, but I fail to see the connection between the question of United Nations sanctions on Iraq and the arrest of 28 children in Turkey.
As you are aware, the general product safety directive is the overall framework legislation that deals with this issue.
My services and I keep a very close eye on how the legislation is implemented, throughout the European Union, to ensure that consumers - and children, in particular - are protected from dangerous products.
I am aware, Mr Whitehead, that this is an issue in which you have a particular interest and it has been an issue which you and my services have consulted on for some time.
Non-food items, particularly small toys, or toys containing small parts are not risk-free.
The existence of a possible risk has convinced the Emergency Committee to explore the need to reinforce the existing instruments, particularly the protection offered by Directive 88/378 on safety of toys and the related standard EN 71/1.
The competent services of the Commission are currently working on possible improvements.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 50, 51 and 52 will be taken together.
Question No 51 by (H-0081/01): Subject: Commission's conduct in regard to freedom of expression Former Commissioner Anita Gradin and the former head of her private office, Christer Asp, have been criticised in a letter from the Commission for having given public interviews to clarify how several million in aid intended for Bosnia under the ECHO programme could have disappeared.
In the interview, Anita Gradin stated that she stood by the decisions taken in the Commission.
Mrs Gradin has obviously always taken her duty of discretion provided for in the Treaty seriously as a responsible and reputable person.
I have no way of knowing previously whether you are going to ask a question, but I would ask you to obey the Rules of Procedure.
I will not say or do anything at any point which could result in unfair and unjustified charges on the Commission, the European Union and on the taxpayers' money, when there are other means of ensuring that the law is upheld so far as individuals are concerned.
I have a supplementary question concerning the Commission' s Information Office in Stockholm and its former head, Linda Steneberg.
Question No 53 by (H-0083/01): Subject: Candidates for Director-General posts The Commission's memorandum on 'Targets for the Recruitment and Appointment of Women 2000' states that the proportion of women in A1 and A2 posts is to increase by 20% by 2005.
According to the latest information in my possession, there are still only 3 women among the Commission's 49 Directors-General.
It is for that reason that, since 1995, annual targets are set for the appointment of women to these and to other management posts.
The Commission's overall target, as announced at the beginning of our term of office in 1999, is to double the number of women in these two grades during its term in office, thereby raising the number of women in A1 and A2 posts to 44 or about 20% by 2005.
In 2000 the target for the appointment of women to A1 was two appointments and the target for A2 was five appointments.
These targets were exceeded with three new appointments being made to the A1 grade and seven new appointments to the A2 grade.
As a result, the current number of women at A1 level is four out of 54 and the number of women at A2 level is 21 out of 178.
The outcome must arise from objective assessment by the appropriate authority of each individual situation and is not therefore automatic for persons of either gender.
In the case referred to by the honourable Member, the advisory committee on appointments shortlisted a female candidate with good qualifications.
We can do nothing more in the circumstances than continue to strive to meet the best standards which we heartily recommend to others throughout the European Union.
But in the European Parliament, for instance, I think I am right in saying that out of the ten directors only one is a woman.
The position in the Council, if anything, is not even as good as that.
We are therefore at the point - on the linear career system, on systematic appraisal and on a host of complementary activities - of making formal proposals, and of beginning detailed consultations on them.
The support and interest of this House is invaluable in all of these reform activities, both those relating to improvement in the gender balance and, much more widely, those seeking to ensure improvements in the efficiency of Commission staff and in professional support for them.
The information was provided in response to a questionnaire sent to Member States on 5 January 2001.
A working document which summarises the responses of the Member States to this questionnaire was also circulated for discussion at the Agriculture Council on 29 January.
Member States are responsible for the implementation of these measures.
Legislation on the identification and registration of bovine animals specifies that each Member State must set up a national database for bovine animals and that the computerised databases should become fully operational no later than 31 December 1999.
It is aware that the disposal of this material poses a problem for some Member States and that those States are actively seeking a solution.
This was not necessarily the case earlier last year and towards the end of last year, but I see some signs that it might be achieved following the Community measures that have now been brought forward.
In two more biannual follow-up reports to Parliament it gave a broad overview of the emergency measures taken to combat BSE, to increase the safety of animal feed and to implement the new approach in the fields of scientific advice, risk analysis and inspection.
The Commission has also made use of the new legal provision of the Treaty of Amsterdam to propose regulations under the codecision procedure on the prevention and control of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and on the processing of animal by-products.
These regulations will bring together in a single substantive legal text a wide range of measures which are currently based on safeguard provisions of Community veterinary legislation.
The evidence resulting from the very regular visits of the Food and Veterinary Office and the scientific opinions of the Scientific Steering Committee has become the basis for the consumer protection policy of the Commission.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his reply and I take note of the fact that, from a legislative point of view, the Commission has made considerable progress since 1997.
These are, for instance, the initiation of infringement proceedings against that Member State or, alternatively, by taking Community measures which can be understood to mean the putting in place of safety provisions which would prevent the Member State in question from exporting its product.
One or two incidents would not trigger the infringement proceedings nor require the taking of Community measures.
Mr President, I am not going to spend or waste part of my time responding to or criticising any of the Member States who are or are not complying with the legislation, but I would like to ask the Commissioner a series of specific question on the issue of harmonisation.
If you are referring to the vertebral column, I will deal with that aspect of your question by saying that the proposal that I put before SVC for their decision last week was firmly based on the advice of the Scientific Steering Committee.
The removal of the vertebral column is regarded by the scientists to account for an additional couple of percentage points so that, in the context of the whole question of the removal of specific risk material, this is an ultra-precautionary measure.
In advising whether this should be done, the Scientific Steering Committee examined the available evidence from Member States and came to the conclusion that it was appropriate to remove the vertebral column in circumstances where Member States did not have a substantially BSE-free regime or did not have control measures in place which would be equivalent to very low BSE-incidence.
Not only did the Scientific Steering Committee give advice on which that decision was based, but the Standing Veterinary Committee came to the same conclusion, as did the Commission.
There are many Member States which take the view that I went too far.
The Commission is very carefully following all issues relating to material which could present risks as regards transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
In this context, it gave a prominent mandate to the Scientific Steering Committee to review the current list of so-called specified risk material if new scientific evidence becomes available in this field.
In particular it provides that bones of the skull from cattle over 12 months of age have to be banned in all Member States.
This proposal was accepted by the Standing Veterinary Committee and, when it is formally adopted, Member States will be required to ensure removal of the vertebral column.
This may take place at the point of sale, that is in the butchers' shops, from 31 March 2001.
The proposal included provisions for derogations from the obligation to remove the vertebral column, on the basis of scientific committee opinions, for five Member States - Austria, Finland, Portugal, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The derogations will be reviewed if necessary in the light of the results of these tests and further scientific advice.
The Spanish Government became aware of the first case of BSE in October, although it kept it a secret until December.
I agree with you in the event that there is a failure in the implementation of the laws which we have put into place, that this can result in a falling-off in consumer confidence.
I believe that all Member States now fully understand the importance of this.
In response to your question about the culling of animals in circumstances where there is a positive finding relating to a herd, at present it is a decision for the Member State involved to determine whether it is appropriate to cull the entire herd or not.
Any other material from an animal which does not fall within the definition of specified risk material is fit for human consumption.
Mr President, I will try to be precise and quick in expressing my surprise that 8 questions, from various Members, on the same subject, the Western Sahara, have been included on the agenda in the third block of this sitting, and it is therefore impossible for the Commission to answer.
Mr Carnero, when Question Time began, I pointed out the criteria, which are in the Rules of Procedure and the directives annexed to the Rules of Procedure and in the letters that the President of Parliament - not of the sitting - sends to Members.
The problem is then of exactly defining the criteria.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 59 to 118 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, the result of the conciliation that we have before us is a substantial improvement upon the rules for the release of GMOs into the environment.
My second question concerns labelling and traceability, for I really find it worrying that the Commission has not by now been in a position to submit a proposal on labelling.
I do not think that the word "better" is enough.
I could also do with an assurance from the Commission that, as has been mentioned, the way to new authorisations will not be opened until the new rules have come into force in 2002.
The primary objective of the new directive is the safety of the environment and public health.
Comprehensive information promotes the consumer' s freedom of choice.
The consumer must be able to have absolute certainty as to whether a particular product does or does not contain GMOs.
Lastly, I am delighted that the Commission has pledged to bring forward proposals for supplementary liability provisions for the various types of environmental damage in all areas of the European Union, before the end of this year.
It is still extremely important to keep a close eye on all the risks of damage to the environment and public health, and to restrict them using all possible means.
Mr President, Commissioner, the matter before us today is to determine whether or not tomorrow' s vote will result in the lifting of the moratorium on authorisations for the cultivation and placing on the market of GMOs.
We must pursue the moratorium since the revised 90/220 Directive does not meet all the requirements that we stipulated at the beginning.
However, I would like to point out the concerns that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and Parliament had at first and second reading.
However, the time-scales are long and the problem is already there.
Mr President, over the last few years we have seen a completely new development: the conversion of pharmaceutical companies into biotechnology companies, an explosion in the number of companies specialising in the development of genetically modified organisms, a steady increase in the allocation of public and private funds to support research in the field of genetics, the legal race to patent GMO seeds and even to patent the manipulation of the human genome, the truly astonishing speed of mergers and break-ups between biotech companies and even the emergence of new political frontiers and a new debate on ethics, agriculture, public health, the environment, hunger and poverty.
A revolution that brings hope but which also involves risks.
The answer lies in a fair balance between the freedom to conduct research and the need to protect public health and the environment.
I feel that this revision of the directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms respects this balance because, on the one hand, it does not impose restrictions on research or experiments and on the other, it lays down clearer and more restrictive rules on the release of GMOs into the environment, thereby protecting consumers and biodiversity.
Nevertheless, the revision of this directive will only be complete when the Commission goes ahead with legislative initiatives that implement, in a way that leaves no room for doubt, the principles that are now being declared on imposing responsibility for the environment and for the labelling and traceability of products containing GMOs.
Parliament has three tasks when it comes to the issues surrounding GMOs, the first being to create a vision.
We must make a breakthrough here, but this will only be possible if there are sufficient safeguards for consumers and if we can offer them legal certainty.
Parliament' s third task is to take responsibility.
If we had known then what we know now, I am sure we would have done things differently.
So we have every reason to restrict our activities to scientific research for the time being, and to isolate all new products that emerge from this.
It seems that the choice with regard to genetic modification is now between maintaining the old regulation, which is poor, but which does at least include a moratorium, and a new regulation, which is somewhat better but will abolish the moratorium.
Mr President, questions such as the presence of GMOs in our food and uncertainty about their effects on humans and on the environment are now in the public domain, and that is for the best.
In France, the press gave a great deal of coverage to the European Parliament vote on this directive at second reading.
Yet, the right to information is not always acknowledged.
To sum up, I would like to take the opportunity afforded by the final reading of the directive in order to highlight the responsibility of the Council, which failed to adopt all Parliament' s amendments after first reading which went in this direction and which would have produced a quite different text.
We are now nearing the end of a long debate which started as long ago as December 1996 when the Commission presented the report on the review of Directive 90/220 concerning GMOs.
The Commission has no doubt that this piece of legislation responds to these concerns in a transparent and responsible manner and constitutes an important first milestone towards restoring public and market confidence.
During the debate, several Members of Parliament reminded the Commission of its intention to present appropriate proposals concerning traceability and labelling of GMOs and products derived from them.
The process has already started and I can confirm that the interservice consultation within the Commission on a draft proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation concerning traceability and labelling of GMOs was launched yesterday and will be decided in the Commission at the beginning of March.
By June 2001 the Commission will present labelling proposals which are designed to give consumers more information about food derived from GMOs.
Finally, I will again reaffirm the Commission's intention to present before the end of the year, a proposal for a directive on environmental liability which will include GMOs.
As I said before, we are now approaching the end of a long debate concerning the revision of Directive 90/220.
It will set the basic rules for an overall legislative framework in biotechnology.
Having heard what has been said by my colleagues tonight, I want first of all to say how much I appreciate the kind words about the work I have done in the last three years and how delighted I am with the final outcome: a set of legislation which will provide the toughest laws on GMOs in the world.
There is no question that this House and the other European institutions will be taking their responsibilities to the people of Europe seriously when they approve this legislation tomorrow.
Approving our legislation tomorrow will do nothing to lift this moratorium or change the situation with regard to the moratorium.
That is a decision that has to be taken between the Member States and the Commission.
We had the privilege - and I thank the Commission for this - of seeing its draft legislation, the regulation which has already today been passed for consultation within the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Its success depended largely on the concept thriving that the environment can and should be part of business strategies as another factor which, as well as environmental safety, provides added value for the business itself.
This revised and updated regulation makes an important contribution to a modern environmental policy, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, important for real improvement in the environmental behaviour of companies and also for the recognition of this improvement by others, particularly by consumers.
The first is its use as a market tool.
Despite this significant development, there is still potential for progress.
This text has stepped up measures to ensure its quality and credibility, as well as public access to information.
The role of the environmental statement is increasing, as is the work of the environmental verifiers, who have to check that organisations are complying with the requirements of this regulation.
These requirements have also been strengthened by Parliament' s amendments, of which the following stand out: the obligation to comply with environmental legislation by participating companies, establishing more demanding standards for the qualification and training of the environmental verifiers who accredit the companies, public reports on the environmental performance of companies, with absolute credibility for third parties, greater involvement of the interested parties in the process of monitoring the environmental performance of companies and, in particular, of employees and users, extension of environmental responsibility, which goes beyond the company' s facilities, to include indicators of the performance of products and services, in line with the approach of the new environmental directives, and also an increase in the role of the coordinating bodies with the aim of facilitating the homogenous application of the system in the various Member States.
In order to arrive at the results that I have just mentioned, I have to say that the conciliation procedure was extremely positive and interesting.
It is precisely because this is a voluntary eco-audit system that we need to give it credibility and we have succeeded in achieving this in our dealings with the Council.
My group also thought it was very important for employees and their representatives to be actively involved in the organisation.
There has been a great deal of discussion about this request, and it is evident that the somewhat more complicated wording now found in the text is more to the liking of those representing the Council than the very clear requirement which the European Parliament had originally formulated.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on producing a result that is good for Parliament.
Last, but not least, the EMAS regulation will lead to the disclosure of reliable environmental information and provide for interaction between different interest groups.
This will be an important step in helping to build a bridge between economic operators and public authorities on the one hand, and citizens on the other.
It is therefore with great pleasure that I welcome the agreement on a joint text reached on 22 November 2000 by the Conciliation Committee.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The proposal for a directive which is being debated ought to be rejected pursuant to Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure which specifies that, at the beginning of the debate on a specific item on the agenda, its inadmissibility may formally be moved.
It is contrary to Article 152 of the Treaty, relating to public health, and there is no doubt that this proposal for a directive is entirely motivated by a concern to protect public health.
Article 152 specifies that incentive measures may be taken, but excluding any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States.
The proposal in question provides for a particularly intensive harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States and is therefore contrary to Article 152.
Many others outside are completely unaware - as are those of us who are here who happen to wish to speak in this debate - that this issue is being considered.
If there is a way in which you can alert those on the premises of Parliament to that fact that there is a vote and adjourn until they are present, maybe we will get a more representative result.
I believe that is the only way, and the best way, to deal with a topic that we have already spoken about on so many occasions before. (Parliament rejected the motion) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about food supplements, we chiefly mean vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and certain other substances.
This directive on food supplements provides for the approximation of the laws of the Member States.
The Commission's proposal for a directive adopts a rather narrow approach as regards the substances it covers.
This applies firstly to permitted minerals and their compounds.
This needs to be done before the directive enters into force, in order to avoid important food supplements having to be withdrawn from the market.
Nevertheless, defining these additional substances using the heading "physiological" brings with it new problems as regards classification as medicinal products or drugs, and would totally confuse the market situation, which is quite contrary to the aim of the directive.
Surely none of this can be the objective of this directive on food supplements.
The Commission proposal clearly covers this.
With regard to food supplement labelling, the proposal for a directive provides for clear consumer information.
Both individual substances and the final product have to be produced in accordance with good manufacturing practice.
Above all, notification is only meaningful if a uniform procedure applies to all Member States.
The market for food supplements is developing apace.
The consumer is entitled to safe products and sound information.
The advantage of this broad definition is that it creates legal certainty for producers and gives consumers a wide choice of safe products.
The maximum permitted quantities are determined according to the basic principles laid down in Article 5.
Mr President, in 1999, the turnover in the European Union for vitamins and minerals alone was over EUR 1 600 million, even without taking other food supplements into account.
It also shows how urgent is the need for regulation of this market in Europe, a market which is expanding rapidly, lacks transparency, and, above all, varies greatly from one Member State to another, as has been noted.
Our aim was to ensure that, in the long term, the directive would cover all the food supplements already on the European market, so that European consumers can enjoy the same safety guarantees.
In the same spirit, our group tabled three additional amendments, Amendments Nos 33, 34 and 35.
I would like to point out that this proposal was already included in the text of the French Presidency and is currently in that of the Swedish Presidency.
The very reason that we are here today is to create a legal framework in order to harmonise the sale of these food supplements.
We should not create a legal void in Europe with regard to ingredients which have physiological functions.
The basic underlying food-safety legislation is that safety should be established on the basis of scientific risk assessment and that consumers should be able to purchase products of their choice provided that they are safe.
The definition of a food supplement in the directive should reflect all supplements.
If products are now excluded from the general definition, there is a danger that such products will in the future fall outside the scope of the legislation and remain unregulated.
Mr President, in connection with Parliament' s debate on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws relating to food supplements, I have received hundreds of approaches in the form of approximately 500 signatures by way of protest and a long list of detailed e-mails and letters from ordinary, concerned Danes and from professionals who are nervous that their access to food supplements might be limited.
I assume that it is not only Danish consumers who are expressing this great interest in the directive.
Ole Krarup also sowed the seeds of doubt about the legal basis.
I compliment the rapporteur on her report and all the work she has put in.
In Britain, Ireland and elsewhere we have not gone down the route of some of our fellow Member States, which is to take the recommended minimum daily allowance that was set by the American Government in 1943 to ensure that GIs serving in Europe did not suffer from scurvy and beri beri, and to treat that as the basis for maximum intake before classification as a pharmaceutical.
Our belief is that the two systems can coexist.
Labelling must allow for accurate health messages, such as for folic acid.
I support the rapporteur's view that all substances which have been validly in use in the Member States, according to the laws of those countries, should continue until such time as they can be tested and perhaps found wanting.
We ought to hear from the Commissioner tonight that there will be measured progress towards effective analysis by the requisite deadline, be that 2004 or later.
That will help many consumers and worry none.
I believe that consumers also have the right to know whether or not they have been produced using genetic engineering.
As a consequence, the UK consumers enjoy access to a relatively wide-range of products with minimal restrictions and competitive prices.
As a pharmacologist, I must point out that, both in terms of pharmacokinetics and in terms of pharmacodynamics and toxicology, for example, excessive doses can have the opposite effects to those desired or can even, if taken over long periods, harm major organs and systems of the body, which means that there is absolutely no need to increase the doses of mineral vitamins to the maximum level tolerated.
In conclusion, Mr President, in my opinion, Parliament can adopt once and for all the document adopted by the Commission.
There are two principles that govern Community food legislation on which, fortunately, this directive is also based: food safety and the guarantee that the label provides adequate and correct information.
With regard to Annex I, I think that, finally, the proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which has been successively extended with compromise amendments, is correct and should be adopted by this House.
With regard to Article 5, which sets out the maximum quantities of vitamins and minerals in food supplements, according to letters a), b) and c) of paragraph 1, I think it is necessary to keep these sections, as the approach that we should take in Europe should be strict, maintaining control of the maximum level of vitamins and minerals based on the maximum safe intake levels.
But having scoured medical literature and asked colleagues to point out to me the scientific and medical evidence, I cannot find examples of people who have overdosed or killed themselves with vitamin C and various others.
One of the objectives of this directive is to harmonise, and the directive has been drawn up - the Commission says so - to eliminate barriers to internal trade.
But it does not fully harmonise, as there may be differences between the Member States in the way that they deal with the declarations on the products.
Recital 6 of the Commission's proposal recognises that various nutrients, including vitamins and minerals and other substances such as fibre, plant and herbal extracts, may be ingredients of food supplements.
It is understood that, until the adoption of specific harmonised Community provisions and without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaty, national provisions on these other nutrients and ingredients may be applicable.
The specific rules on vitamins and minerals laid down in the future directive should be applicable to food supplements containing vitamins, minerals and other ingredients.
I can, therefore, accept Amendment No 1 in principle with necessary drafting changes that will depend on the final wording of Article 2.
I accept this principle.
Amendment No 5 purports to introduce in the definition in Article 2 what is explained in Recital 6.
Amendments Nos 33 and 44 have the same purpose as Amendment No 5 and the clarification goes further in stating that these substances have a nutritional function, as have vitamins, minerals and amino acids or a physiological function, as has fibre or some antioxidants extracted from plants.
So I can accept Amendments Nos 33 and 44, provided that the status of the substances that would thus come under the scope of the directive is very clear, both in terms of the criteria that would be applicable for drawing up positive lists and their status until these positive lists are adopted.
Amendments Nos 34 and 46 refer also to Article 2 and are acceptable because they follow the same logic as Amendment No 33.
However, from the drafting point of view the proposed addition should be separate from the provision of Article 2(b) so I can accept them with that drafting change.
Amendment No 6 on the same point is an alternate that creates confusion.
The justification given in the committee's report would seem to be in line with Recital 6 and with the proposed text of Amendment No 5 by acknowledging that ingredients such as amino acids, fatty acids and herbal extracts are included in food supplements.
Amendment No 7 concerns the definition of dose form.
I can accept Amendment No 7 in principle but with drafting changes necessary to achieve the stated aim of flexibility.
Amendment No 8 would add a new paragraph to Article 3 with the same text as that proposed for addition to Recital 6.
As for Amendment No 1, we have no problem with the principle but the inclusion of the same text in that article is not necessary.
Therefore I would not accept Amendment No 8.
Amendment No 51 has partially similar aims to Amendment No 8 and goes further to set rules concerning the principle of free circulation of products.
I hope you agree that this cannot be done in a few lines in this specific directive and I cannot accept Amendment No 51.
Amendment No 9 refers to Article 4 and the purity criteria of substances listed in Annex II.
In fact, since the tabling of this proposal, appropriate wording regarding purity criteria has been agreed and included in Community legislation, namely the directive on nutritional substances that may be used in the manufacture of foods for particular nutritional uses.
This text refers to Community purity criteria that are already adopted for some of the substances in Annex II and to purity criteria recommended by international organisations.
For the sake of coherence, the same text should be included in this proposed directive.
I can accept the spirit of Amendment No 9 but with drafting that is in line with already agreed Community texts.
Amendment No 3 on Recital 9 is one of a series of amendments concerning procedures and the working rules for managing the directive.
Amendment No 3 is not acceptable because it constitutes a restriction on the Commission's right of initiative.
Amendment No 10 reduces the procedure of modifying the annexes, which includes both scientific assessment and the subsequent adoption of a Commission directive, into a procedure of evaluation of the safety of substances.
Amendment No 11 poses the same problems that I mentioned regarding Amendment No 6.
For the same institutional reasons I cannot accept Amendments Nos 35 and 47 despite the fact that they include references to ingredients with nutritional or physiological functions.
Amendment No 13, the last on procedures, proposes that the comitology procedure referred to in Article 5(3) shall be subject to the principle of transparency.
Of course, I would not deny this but I have a problem dealing with this issue in a specific vertical directive on food supplements.
The principle of transparency is a general one to be applied to procedures dealing with products across the board.
You are currently considering our proposal for a Food Act which includes provisions on transparency applicable to all foodstuffs.
Amendment No 12 to Article 5(1) makes a valid point that requirements of children and adults be taken into account when setting maximum levels for vitamins and minerals.
Amendment No 14 refers to the name of the product.
In terms of labelling there is very little significant difference between the name of the product and the labelling.
The name of the product must be set in EU legislation otherwise Member States can do that at the national level.
The text proposed by Amendments Nos 15 and 28 does not express a different principle than that in the text of the proposal.
Any food supplement intended for infants under the age of one year would, be to my mind, a product for particular nutritional uses and would be excluded from the scope of this directive as mentioned in Article 1.
The case of supplements for pregnant women could give rise to a similar debate.
Amendment No 18 would be potentially contradictory to Article 1 and I cannot accept it.
I can accept Amendment No 19.
I can also accept Amendment No 20 in principle but with drafting changes that would be in line with the justification for this amendment provided in your report.
Amendment No 21 proposes the addition of two sentences to Article 9.
The principle expressed in the first sentence that excess doses should be avoided is already covered in Article 6.
Amendment No 22 proposes to adopt the principles of good manufacturing practices by legally binding measures.
Therefore, I cannot accept Amendment No 22.
Amendment No 23 would make it obligatory for Member States to require manufacturers to notify authorities of food supplements when marketed.
Member States are opposed to such imposition because they feel this is an issue of subsidiarity and wish to have a free hand in how they monitor these products.
Amendment No 24 also relates to procedures and aims to impose strict time limits for Commission decisions.
Such decisions may depend on advice delivered by the Scientific Committee for Food, positions of Member States and other factors beyond the control of the Commission.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 26 and 27.
On the other hand, Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32, 36, 38, 39, 42, 48 and 49 aim to establish a list of vitamin preparations which should be given priority for safety evaluation and eventual incorporation in the list of substances that may be used in the manufacture of food supplements.
I can agree that the principle be expressed in a new recital as proposed in Amendments Nos 30, 38 and 42.
However, the corresponding article proposed by Amendments Nos 31, 36 and 48 is not acceptable either from the drafting point of view or from the institutional point of view.
Amendments Nos 32, 39 and 49 cannot be accepted because they are directly linked to Amendments Nos 31, 36 and 48.
I should like to thank Parliament for the support it has given to the Commission in having scientific risk assessment for the basic criterion for setting maximum levels of vitamins and minerals in food supplements.
Article 5 is finely balanced to ensure the required high level of protection for the consumer.
Amendments Nos 40 and 50 would upset this balance and therefore cannot be accepted.
I do not see what are the testing procedures set out in this directive that other ingredients should comply with.
Therefore I cannot accept Amendment No 43.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 35, 36, 39, 40, 41, 43, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 51.
The debate is closed.
In both areas, and I say this as a motorcycle enthusiast, the drivers of these vehicles have a special responsibility, because two-wheel vehicles should not have a greater impact on urban areas or sensitive areas of the countryside than motor cars have.
It is therefore both legitimate and essential for us to ensure that motorised two and three-wheel vehicles should have the same level of emissions as motor cars.
The European Parliament has set a very successful example through its input into legislation reducing emissions from motor cars, with the introduction of EURO III and IV, and also emissions from both light and heavy commercial vehicles, with a view to improving air quality in Europe's cities and sensitive environmental areas.
Hence this proposal that there should also be a two-stage approach for motorcycles and scooters, with the first reduction stage being introduced in 2003 and a second reduction stage, and this is the important thing, coming into force in 2006.
We must give industry this time, and that is why the second stage in 2006 is important.
We do not want to tinker about with that - what we want is a second binding stage for 2006, applying the EURO III 2000 motor car levels to motorised two-wheel vehicles.
However, we want to see one thing start in 2003 that already applies to cars and to light and heavy commercial vehicles.
That objective is that by 2006 we should achieve a level corresponding to the motor car level for 2000, allowing a little more time for motorcycles, but they must reach that level by then.
I believe that that if we accept the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and enter into the conciliation procedure with the Council, motorcycle riders will in future be able to exercise both their responsibility and their freedom, and that should be our common objective.
This forces us to confront the seriousness of the situation that the motorised transport sector is currently facing.
The current generation of two and three-wheel vehicles still satisfies the requirements placed on other older vehicles.
Therefore, I personally am content with the line proposed by the rapporteur.
Mr President, all in all I am delighted with Mr Lange' s report.
This will put tremendous pressure on the smaller European manufacturers, like Triumph and CCM in the United Kingdom.
I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur by leading by example by converting his own classic Harley Davidson motorcycle with a retro-fitted catalytic converter.
Regarding on-board diagnostics, a motorcycle is often the first vehicle that a young person buys with limited resources and therefore this will make the vehicle more expensive.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive upon which we are about to vote is a substantial step forward in the Union's intention to pursue ambitious goals in the field of the restriction of air pollution.
Therefore, the decision to fix, as of now, not only the date for revising the initial limits set - 2006 - but also the limits for the second stage, is an indication of Parliament's decision to apply continual pressure to industry to make progress.
Nor is it acceptable that new lorries produced after 2007 will become exceptionally clean, whilst motor cycles remain unaffected.
Finally, I have a question for the Commission.
I hope the Commission is prepared to respond on this point.
Mr President, Commissioner, the high number of motorcycles on the roads and in the cities of the European Union is a clear reality, particularly in the Mediterranean Member States, which enjoy good weather throughout the year.
I believe that two and three-wheel motor vehicles are particularly fashionable and in vogue at present and we should therefore make a point of ensuring that they comply with the latest exhaust emission standards.
These values really look quite respectable.
The rapporteur recommends the adoption of the Commission' s proposal on limit values to be implemented as from 2003.
The rapporteur, however, is suggesting a second stage for mandatory limit values to apply from 2006.
The work was started in 1999, and in May of 2000 the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe extended an official mandate for this, having the support of the Member States of the EU, Japan and the United States.
For that reason, we believe that the new cycle will be introduced in sufficient time for it to start being applied in 2006.
The relevant amendments are Amendments Nos 3, 5, 10, 11, 23, 24 and 25.
The rapporteur mentions several measures to ensure more reliably that emission control equipment functions efficiently throughout a vehicle' s lifetime.
A motorcycle, however, is a very different product from a car in technical terms.
This is a reference to Amendments Nos 6, 13, 14, 15, 20 and 22.
The report contains several amendments the Commission would be able to support, such as Amendments Nos 4 and 12, if Member States were given the opportunity to encourage the retrofitting of emission control equipment and parts in older motor vehicles.
The same holds true for Amendment No 1 and the latter part of Amendment No 9, in which it is proposed that a year-long exemption be granted for the special class of trial motorcycles, and the first part of Amendment No 9, which recommends application to present models to start, not from January, but from July, 2004.
In principle, the Commission also supports Amendments Nos 7 and 16 on requirements for defeat devices and by-pass arrangements, and believes it is able to include such requirements in its current proposal.
The Commission can thus accept Amendments Nos 4, 9, 12 and 18, and, in principle, Amendments Nos 2, 7, 8, 16 and 21, and, in part, Amendments Nos 1, 4, 19, 20 and 22.
The Commission cannot, however, accept Amendments Nos 3, 5, 6, 10, 11, 13, 15, 17, 23, 24, 25 or 26.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, earlier today we heard in the context of the copyright and GMO legislation how it has taken three years for Parliament to reach the point of being in a position to approve it.
All of these organisations are happy with the common position and the amendments.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 are specific detailed technical amendments designed to assist the manufacturers and relate to gangway slopes of 12.5% on existing class I and II buses.
These amendments have to be taken in conjunction with Amendment No 7.
In Amendment No 6 I am seeking to replace that with Amendment No 10 which refers to the ISO standard and not to separate Member State standards which I had initially put in Amendment No 6.
Amendment No 4 sets out in more detail the user groups that this report is trying to assist.
Amendment No 8 opens up access to public transport to all those groups referred to in the aforementioned Amendment No 4.
For the first time, we are making public transport accessible to all those people with reduced mobility.
It is what I was elected to do and I am sure it is what the vast majority of people in this Parliament were elected to do.
I must, however, also mention Amendment No 9 which was submitted later by the PPE-DE Group.
I therefore urge you to vote against Amendment No 9 but support the other amendments.
I just want to address the question of why we on this side have chosen to propose a motion of rejection.
He is right to challenge us on the question about disabled access, but he said and I quote him, "It will make public transport accessible to all users".
This piece of paper includes provision to make buses more accessible for disabled users, but it does not address the whole question of operating regulations for public transport systems across the European Union.
If we really had achieved that, then we should be proud of it.
When are we going have realistic and sensible measures and the sort of technical committee structure that this Parliament asked you to introduce at first reading in 1997 and which is simply dismissed here?
Mr President, there is much in the text to promote access to buses by disabled people - passenger handrails, non-slip surfaces, standards for wheelchairs and a wide definition of reduced mobility to include all disabled people.
However, the key to tonight's debate is Amendment No 8: a guarantee of level access to all new buses in urban areas for persons with reduced mobility.
Our failure to agree this crucial part of the text would leave disabled people quite literally falling through the crack, a crack for which we would ourselves be responsible.
Because at first reading the Commission brought forward a proposal comprising over 100 pages of detailed regulations, and during the first reading debate all the groups agreed to reject the directive for reasons of principle.
The directive also contains a formula that must even be hard for engineers to understand.
Secondly, we want safety standards for drivers and passengers.
The report is about more than just buses.
As you no doubt recall, this proposal for a directive on the construction of buses and coaches gave rise to lengthy and involved debates at first reading.
A consensus has been reached between the Council, Parliament and Commission.
That is why we welcome the work of the rapporteur, who succeeded in bringing together some often divergent interests.
The Commission can accept the eight amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, either in full or in principle.
Amendments Nos 1, 7 and 8 are acceptable as they stand.
Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 5, which relate to the permissible slope of the bus' s floor area, are acceptable in principle, but may, of course, be reviewed at the drafting stage.
Finally, Amendment No 6, which seeks to change the figure of the wheelchair, is acceptable in principle, but not in the form proposed in the report.
The reference to an ISO standard or to an authorised diagram, as the rapporteur proposes in Amendment No 10, would be preferable, bearing in mind, however, that we must ensure that size, shape and weight of the wheelchair, together with its occupant, are compatible with the physical characteristics of access areas.
On the other hand, the Commission does not wish to repeat the debate held at first reading on the regulatory approach to vehicles.
We do not, therefore, endorse the idea of challenging the timeliness of a directive, by which I am referring to Amendment No 9.
To sum up, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10 in principle and can accept Amendments Nos 1, 7 and 8.
I have had a lot of discussion about design standards for the disabled in the information society to try to find ways to make all the tools for the information society available for people with different kinds of disabilities.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
By means of this proposal, we are establishing the framework for the EU' s employment policy over the next five years.
Employment policy is based, of course, upon what we call open coordination which, most recently at the Lisbon Summit, has been highlighted as a method that may be used within many other areas of policy.
Encouragement must be given to the spirit of enterprise and to flexibility in the labour market, and countries must work to promote a better relationship between work and family life.
Transparency, understood as openness to the public, is in actual fact a very important agent in this process.
We therefore want to see more focus upon providing information to the public at large and upon involving the parties in the labour market, together with local and regional authorities, to a much greater extent than is contemplated in the Commission' s proposal.
Article 129 provides, of course, for the possibility of introducing pilot projects.
By means of its communication concerning the role of local and regional authorities, the Commission has already made a start upon work of this kind.
In this year' s Budget, Parliament too has introduced a new budget line for preparative initiatives to promote local participation in employment policy.
By including in this proposal the role of local and regional authorities in employment policy, we ensure that there is a legal basis for this initiative.
When, in this way, we ask the Commission to do more work than is contemplated in the Commission' s own proposal, then appropriations must of course follow, and my report therefore proposes an increase in appropriations to EUR 65 million in contrast to the Commission' s proposal of EUR 55 million.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning President Prodi reported that over a million new jobs were created in Europe last year, and that two-thirds of these were for women.
On the other hand, we should do everything in our power to improve and extend this programme in future.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission proposal has the basic objective of encouraging cooperation between the Member States in terms of analysis, research and monitoring of employment policy, determining best practices and promoting the exchange and transfer of information and experiences.
We therefore fully support the Commission proposal, although I feel that it could be improved on some points which, broadly speaking, are as follows: firstly, and with regard to the planned Community measures, one of them supports a more strategic approach to employment in the Union, through analysis and evaluation of the factors that explain employment tendencies, the general political framework, etc.
On this point the Commission proposal does not envisage that the analysis and evaluation will be conducted in a specific way, for men and for women, something that I consider to be essential if we take into account that unemployment in Europe is largely among women.
It is not excessive to say that, if employment among women were not taken into account, in some regions of the Union there would even be full employment.
We therefore need to encourage the incorporation of women into the labour market and encourage them to remain in it, with an equal distribution of family responsibilities between men and women.
Mr President, this evening, we have returned to the European Parliament, at 11.40 p.m., to discuss the document on the Community incentive measures in employment, an extremely important document which calls not only for our presence here but also for that of Commissioner Diamantopoulou, who is thus demonstrating a certain concern for employment issues.
Moreover, since 14 February, Valentine's Day is only a quarter of an hour away, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all lovers: I hope that there are some in this rough, tough, severe Parliament as well.
With regard to the document under consideration, I have tabled an amendment on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party calling for the scope of the directive to include an analysis of policy developments from the viewpoints of certain categories of people such as the elderly, the disabled and other vulnerable groups.
In my opinion, these should certainly include - as Commissioner Diamantopoulou said in her first speech - the new activity of caring for the ever-increasing number of elderly and disabled people carried out by young workers who are able to find work in this field and, at the same time, make life easier for the elderly.
I have already tabled this amendment in committee, Mr President, but I am afraid that the left-wing section of Parliament, the socialists that is, rejected it.
Tomorrow morning, I shall request a vote by name on this amendment, although I am sure that this will not be necessary and that it will be accepted unanimously.
Employment policy is so important because it is the test run for the open coordination method, and it is of the very greatest importance to show that this method is being taken seriously and is producing the desired results.
Employment policy will simply be a model for many of the other areas - which are already part of the ambitious plan adopted in Lisbon last spring - in which we should also like to use the open coordination method.
And in the next few weeks, when Heads of State and Government take the Commission' s telling-off seriously and give some impetus to the many outstanding initiatives in the wake of the Lisbon Summit, we shall hopefully also have it confirmed that the open coordination method can be used.
The incentive measures must support employment policy, and that is why the incentive measures are important.
First of all, information must be provided about employment policy.
Secondly, the parties in the labour market, together with the relevant local and regional authorities, must be involved.
Thirdly, the focus must be placed upon equal opportunities for men and women, in which connection I should like to thank the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian radicals.
In my country, Italy, thanks to a few reforms - extremely minor reforms opposed by the trade unions - liberalising the labour market, we created hundreds of thousands of new jobs last year, mainly in the disadvantaged areas of the South, for women and young people, but we did this through structural measures, which is what is needed, and not, I regret to say, thanks to new, enormously expensive studies.
In the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities we emphasise that the analysis and evaluation of this action in the field of employment should be carried out on a gender-specific basis, given that women are bearing the brunt of unemployment in Europe.
Commissioner, the Lisbon objectives of bringing up the employment rates for women, a target for 2010 of 60% can already be considered too ambitious.
In the Kingdom of Spain where the employment rate of women is probably the lowest in the European Union, it hardly reaches 30% of the active population.
That summit succeeded in convincing the Member States actively to do more to improve employability and adaptability, to establish a new entrepreneurial spirit and to enhance equal opportunities.
Mr President, that would be our contribution towards a good campaign on Europe's employment strategy.
The European Union is little able to tackle the question of employment directly.
Action to bolster employment must focus too on where best to obtain added value, in other words, education and training, research, the adoption of new technology as a tool of growth and, in particular, as one of sustainable growth.
More recently, the Lisbon European Council set the Union the strategic objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth generating more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
This report seeks to make a contribution towards meeting this new challenge set in Lisbon, covering equal opportunities for men and women in the field of employment, an important pillar in the European Employment Strategy.
We must ensure that the social partners and relevant local and regional authorities are involved in this effort, which must be a communal effort.
I wish to say a final word about the allocation of resources for employment incentive measures.
The use of public funds must be dealt with in a balanced and extremely rigorous way.
In the limited time that is available it is important that, as a number of speakers have already touched upon a number of disadvantaged groups or groups who are not doing so well in employment areas, we consider a number of aspects, the three most important ones being: equality of opportunity, equality of access and equality of training.
Mr President, as it is now after midnight, I say to you, Mr President and to you, Commissioner, happy Valentine's day!
However, it was a slightly better report before the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 'improved it' .
The first aspect - taking my life in my hands - refers to some of the amendments of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
But only the women have their own committee to speak up for them.
I take as an example Article 3.1(1) where the original text said: "To the maximum possible extent analysis will be gender-specific".
The second point concerns the budget.
I believe the Committee on Budgets made a reference to the budget increasing from EUR 50 million to EUR 55 million, but on the basis that this should be proportionate to the implementation.
Last year's budget was EUR 50 million.
We want to use this proposal which is based on Article 129 of the Treaty to support, deepen and develop the employment strategy and through that to achieve the goal of full employment of Lisbon.
In some cases I would like to accept the spirit of your proposal but with some rewording in order to keep the consistency of the text.
In relation to Amendment No 3 on Article 2, I can accept it in spirit.
Allow me to refer specifically to Amendment No 4 regarding Article 3(1).
I can similarly accept the call in Amendment No 6 for a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the facts of the European employment strategy and for an analysis of the relationship between that and general economic and other policy areas.
However, it is not within the scope of this programme to arrive at conclusions on the transferability of the approach and method of the employment strategy to other policy areas.
We have already extended it in other policies, for example exclusion policy, but we cannot use it here.
So I cannot accept the last part of Amendment No 6.
A number of amendments to various paragraphs in Article 3 have been put forward in relation to equal opportunities.
I welcome this but to avoid the duplication and excessive detail on specific projects to be supported I am proposing a new addition to Article 3(2) so as to more explicitly take account of our mutual objectives in this context.
This will cover all the issues raised in Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 such as analysis and monitoring, development of indicators, parental leave and part-time working and the publication of reports.
Amendment No 4 also concerns equal opportunities.
Article 3 of the decision indicates that the analysis to be undertaken under this programme will to the maximum extent possible be gender-specific.
While I fully agree with the need for, and importance of, gender-specific analysis I am obliged to recognise that there are problems with the data and with the statistical services in many Member States.
Amendment No 10 for a new Article 3 is quite complex.
I can agree to add to the existing text to emphasise the focus on the local employment dimension of the European employment strategy.
So I can only accept Amendment No 10 in part.
I accept in spirit the proposed Amendments Nos 11 and 12 to Article 4 concerning the importance of dissemination of the results of European employment strategy.
I share your concern to ensure consistency and complementarity between the activities under this decision and those in other Community programmes set out in Amendment No 13.
Provision for cooperation with the Employment Committee is made in Article 8.
This specific target concerning committees and expert groups is laid down very clearly in the Commission's decision of 19 June 2000.
The inclusion of a specific provision regarding the representation in a number of employment-related committees is however beyond the scope of the decision in question.
Parliament could play an important role in the nomination of men and women in these committees.
So, I cannot accept Amendment No 14.
I therefore cannot accept Amendments Nos 16 and 17.
To sum up, I can accept in spirit Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 13.
I can also accept parts of Amendments Nos 6 and 10.
For the reasons I have already put forward I must reject Amendments Nos 4, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18.
I had to refer in detail to the amendments which is why I had to speak for such a long time.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
