The Commission's annual strategic priorities (Budget 2008) (debate) The next item is the report by Kyösti Virrankoski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the Commission's annual policy strategy for the 2008 budget procedure, Section III - Commission.
The Commission communication on the annual policy strategy is the first step in drafting the new budget.
Secondly, the staff employed in such agencies will not necessarily show up in the EU budget.
For all these reasons, Parliament and the Council in the trilogue agreed on a resolution to give attention to these matters and urge the Commission to introduce certain further measures.
This kind of frontloading and backloading are uncalled-for, as the multiannual financial framework has only been in effect for a few months.
Of course it does not prejudge the final outcome, which will take into account the priorities of the European Parliament and Council.
We will also take into account the concerns of both Parliament and the Council regarding the financing of the 25 decentralised agencies and, accordingly, we will adapt our approach in that PDB, which I will present to you next week.
In Kosovo, in that region, we are likely to have to make a significant financial effort in 2008 to support the civilian ESDP mission and the office of the International Civilian Representative.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to congratulate our rapporteur on his work and on the content of his report on the annual strategic priorities.
Among the objectives that Parliament plans to assign to the budgetary procedure this year is the idea of a budget focused on results, which in our view means clear objectives to enable these priorities to be executed meticulously.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, I too should like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Virrankoski, for a report that outlines very clearly some of the problems that we, in this House, see in the run-up to the Commission's presentation of the draft budget for 2008.
The framework is tight, and a mid-term review of the financial perspective is needed.
My third and final point is that it seems the rapporteur's expectations of the planned review of budgetary expenditure between 2008 and 2009 are rather too high.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, the annual strategy proposed by the European Commission for the 2008 budgetary procedure must strictly execute the decisions of the legislature.
Let us not forget that the Natura 2000 network should receive EUR 6 billion each year in order to function properly.
Year after year, financial perspective after financial perspective, the Council puts the European Commission in a position that is very difficult to overcome.
In view of, for example, the elections to the European Parliament and the debate on a new treaty, 2008 must become a breakthrough year in terms of resources for the EU's new communication strategy.
However, until the European Union has access to more substantial resources, the European Commission will have to focus its efforts on the political and budgetary priorities decided on by Parliament. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by extending the warmest of thanks to the rapporteur.
The EU's budget must be presented in a way that is perfectly clear and coordinated, and in which all headings can be read in different ways without the reader losing track of the overall picture.
