European Council meeting of 15-16 June 2001 in Göteborg - Swedish presidency The next item is the joint debate on: the European Council report and Commission statement on the European Council meeting of 15 and 16 June 2001 in Göteborg and the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, summing up the Swedish presidency.
Madam President, honourable Members of this important Assembly, allow me to begin first of all by thanking you for your constructive cooperation during the Swedish presidency.
We were given this because the negotiating work had been successful.
These three factors indicate a development parallel to that of the European Union.
If we are then able to act in concert on the basis of our values, we can also exercise influence.
Never have we concealed our views on the situation in Russia where the freedom of the media is concerned, but we have, at the same time, developed relations in order to create economic cooperation and a dialogue characterised by trust.
According to the Göteborg conclusions, Ukraine is a country which, together with Moldova, will, in future, be invited to participate in the European conference.
The fifteen Member States took part in a dialogue directly with the American president, just as we had met the Russian president.
The European Union, too, might be able to play a role there in the right circumstances.
Enlargement, foreign policy and environmental issues - these issues were incredibly important to the Swedish presidency.
The guidelines from Nice have been assigned, that is to say what will mainly be found within the framework of the debate.
As I said at the beginning, we in the Swedish presidency have taken great pains to cooperate with Parliament.
Finally, I want to thank all the officials in the Commission, in Parliament and in the Council who have supported us during the presidency.
In the course of our six months, we took a few steps in the direction we wanted to go.
I now hope that the Belgian presidency will do some further work on these major issues.
The Union will grow.
First of all, the European Council has given us a fixed timetable for the first round of enlargement.
The new Member States will therefore be able to participate as fully fledged Members in the elections to the European Parliament in 2004.
Secondly, the European Council gave its support to a strategy for sustainable development.
Nor do they reflect people' s interests, either in the Member States or in the candidate countries.
In that way, it has become a realistic possibility that the negotiations with those States that have progressed furthest will be completed at the end of next year, and the objective has been set of their being able to participate in the elections to the European Parliament in 2004.
The negotiations will continue in accordance with those principles that have been established: the candidate countries will be judged solely on the basis of their own merits; the negotiations must take place separately for each country; and those countries which entered into the negotiations at the beginning of 2000 must be given an opportunity to catch up.
On 15 May, President Prodi presented the Commission' s proposals for a strategy of sustainable development to you here in Parliament.
Today, we are pleased to be able to note that the European Council supports a strategy of sustainable development for the European Union.
Nonetheless, the Göteborg conclusions provide clear indications of the direction in which the European Council wants our policy - and our society - to develop.
That applies to all the institutions of the European Union.
The Lisbon process has become still more important by having now become the framework for work on promoting all the dimensions of sustainable development.
Secondly, the European Council has, in line with the Commission' s proposal, drawn attention to four priority areas for sustainable development.
The Kyoto Protocol is a first step towards getting to grips with this problem.
Finally: Europe also has an international responsibility for sustainable development.
That communication, together with the sustainable development strategy put forward in Göteborg, will be the EU' s main contribution to the world summit on sustainable development in Johannesburg next year.
The practical timetable established in Göteborg is therefore of the very greatest importance.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to express my surprise that the President of the European Commission is not here today.
This has been accepted by this House, by the Commission and by the European Council in Nice, and you are now saying this in an even more specific way.
However, you have been successful, and we are also grateful that a broad majority of the Swedish people is in favour of enlargement.
Mr President-in-Office, if you are right, if you do something positive, then you deserve recognition for that and I would like to express my thanks and recognition to you for having got the 2004 deadline included in the decisions taken at Göteborg. (Applause from the centre and right) While we are talking about the Swedish people, an extremely likeable people, I would like to express the hope - in your own interest as well, Mr President-in-Office, as the Swedish Prime Minister - that agreement to enlargement will, in future, be matched by agreement on the single European currency, so that Sweden will remain fully integrated in our European political family.
However, I would like to comment on what you, Mr President-in-Office, said on Swedish television on 17 June.
My colleague Gunilla Carlsson, the chair of the Swedish delegation in our group, has already said something about this.
You could see portraits of Che Guevara and of Fidel Castro, so you cannot just say that Fascists were involved.
For example, our colleague and your fellow citizen, Charlotte Cederschiöld, has helped a lot in ensuring that we have achieved greater transparency in this regard.
We also want greater cooperation with the Council of Ministers and a greater presence here in the European Parliament.
I wish to point out that we greatly appreciate his government' s desire to update our relations on issues as important as codecision and Council' s presence in Parliament.
I think that we can consider the agreement on public access to documents - which could be improved, but which is an historical first - and the agreement on the information and consultation of workers, which had been on hold for many years, to be significant milestones.
I also hope, of course, that this experience will have helped imbue the Swedish people with a greater sense of affection for the European cause.
Another fundamental issue, that of enlargement, was also an area the Swedish presidency focussed on.
I feel that where the Middle East is concerned, not only was there a European majority behind the proposal in the Mitchell report, but also, for the first time, we are not only handing over money, we are also playing a leading role, as the Prime Minister pointed out.
Many people demonstrated peacefully in Nice and in Göteborg.
The dividing line is between democrats and antidemocrats and we must remember that extremes clash, in politics too.
There is no need, then, to discuss whether the demonstrations are fascistic or not.
My final observation, Madam President, concerns the debate on the future of Europe.
It has shone through the presidency, not just since Göteborg, but as an appetite to achieve right from the beginning.
It is a very important message to the applicant states to say that we want to resolve this issue as soon as we can.
We have until the end of 2002 for Nice to be ratified.
But clearly there were, in Göteborg, anarchic groups whose essential, primary purpose was to undermine democracy itself.
I have one or two other brief comments.
Madam President, I want to begin by thanking the Swedish presidency for showing great respect for the European Parliament and a desire to engage in dialogue with us.
The stones they threw were, of course, directed not only against the police but against the whole of democratic society and against all those of us who really tried to get a message across.
Swedish diplomats have worked assiduously at cobbling together various compromises.
Everything has been done to show that Sweden is a loyal EU member - loyal both to the EU system and towards the large countries that dominate the European Union.
Sometimes, compromises have been made at any price.
In addition to the enlargement negotiations, the decision to remove duties for the poorest countries of all is a clear step forwards.
Finally, a few words about Göteborg, where small militant groups took the opportunity to attack the police and cause extensive damage.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we spoke a great deal at Göteborg about sustainable development, a fashionable, but woolly concept if there ever was one.
There is no doubt that we must praise the Member States' determination to introduce concerns about public health and the environment into all the policies imposed by Brussels.
Only here could we want to systematically force people back to the ballot box when the result of a vote is not the desired outcome.
The Irish people must resist - their 'no' vote, de jure and de facto, has sounded the death knell of the Treaty of Nice.
All the people who have not been consulted and who will not be consulted due to a fear of them voting against are lending them their solidarity.
Sweden has also violated the Treaty by introducing qualified majority voting as a method of taking decisions on future changes to the rules governing confidentiality.
The objectives were ambitious.
Following the Irish referendum, the process of ratifying the Treaty of Nice has become uncertain.
The question of whether Nice is a sine qua non for enlargement has been the subject of some debate.
One objective of the Göteborg Summit was to work out a strategy for sustainable development.
The Community will soon have a chance to match its words with deeds.
Hand in hand with this goes a growing debate in which the major issues for the future of European cooperation are presented.
Sometimes, the talk is more of how the decision-making processes are to be organised than of what we are to cooperate on and what the EU must not meddle in.
The debate concerning the EU' s future must be conducted in more fundamental and more principled terms.
I think it is important for Europhiles to stand up for a Europe which is more open to the surrounding world and in which free markets prevail.
I fully and firmly support what Mr Barón Crespo said.
I feel that, for the first time, many Europeans are aware that there will be representatives from 25 European countries in this House in just three years time.
However, we are also aware of the problems arising not just from the pause brought about by the Irish referendum but also from the increasing difficulty of involving the European citizens in planning the future Europe.
Parliament must take greater pride in being the representative of a democratic institution which will soon include half a billion people, at precisely a time when such a large proportion of the public is critical of globalisation.
I would also like to express my appreciation of the determination with which the Swedish presidency has upheld Europe's position on the environment and emphasised the key points of the Kyoto agreements, not just in terms of rules but also in terms of triggering off a new debate within the scientific community on research, technological innovation and industrial competition, placing Europe's position in the context - as Commissioner Wallström said - of the European strategy for sustainable development.
Finally - albeit a day early - I would like to express my best wishes to the Belgian presidency and say that I have every confidence in the presidency of a founding country of Europe.
The Belgian presidency will enable us to contribute to that process which will give us a Europe of 25 countries in just three years, but will also bring us a more democratic Europe which is tangibly closer to the principle of subsidiarity, Madam President.
Madam President, as many other colleagues have said, one of the most worrying aspects of the violence at Göteborg is that it detracted from the action of many people who were there to demonstrate peacefully so as to make their legitimate concerns known to government leaders.
The violence overshadowed the real message that came from the genuine demonstrators outside the summit, which was that people want to be more involved in this process of building the Europe of the future.
The post-Nice process and the Convention are crucial in ensuring that genuine democratic reform can be achieved and that European citizens can play a part in that.
Sustainable development is about people: their economic and social needs as well as environmental conservation.
The Cardiff European Summit in 1998 adopted what is referred to as the "Cardiff process", integrating environmental considerations into all areas of EU policy as the first step towards sustainable development.
This is essential if the EU is to make a major contribution to the Rio+10 world summit in 2002.
This will send a very clear message, not only to the United States, but also to the rest of the world, about our commitment to this goal and our determination to combat climate change.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the images from Göteborg were alarming.
But people who want to make their views known, who want to exercise their right to demonstrate or who want to protest against political decisions should still be able to do so peacefully without any restrictions in future, just as some 20 000 peaceful demonstrators also did in Göteborg.
The Swedish presidency in particular has made great efforts in this direction.
Unfortunately, the results have been somewhat disappointing.
When Parliament requests more powers, it does so also in the name of that representativeness which it undoubtedly has and which the governments, in that form - not in general but in that form - do not have.
Therefore, from that point of view, Göteborg could be a useful lesson for those governments that are still hesitant about a slightly different vision of Europe, a vision which many Members in this House share.
The Swedish presidency led the Fifteen to adopt a very important common position, a strong position in favour of ratifying not only the International Criminal Court but also the campaign and, three days ago, it also ratified the Court's Statute.
In any case, "Well done" to the Swedish presidency for its achievements with regard to both climate change and the Court.
Mr President, the Göteborg Council took a step in the right direction when it confirmed that the process of enlargement was irreversible and that it had set the goal for the first wave of candidate countries to join in time for them to take part in the 2004 European elections.
At the same time, however, this same Council made a serious error when, in paragraph 4 of the presidency conclusions, it appeared to link the decision on enlargement to the fate of the Treaty of Nice.
Lastly, it is an error of moral judgment, because, by upholding the statement made by the General Affairs Council of 11 June 2001, the Göteborg Council showed utter contempt for the democratically expressed opinion of a nation, which shows the Europe that it hopes to achieve in a strange light.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to underline that the Swedish presidency has most certainly been a great success, unfortunately not in every respect, but that would be impossible to achieve.
The final balance is very positive.
We must also ensure that the European Union takes steps in Macedonia to promote the peaceful co-existence of the two nations and the prevention of any future explosions in the Balkans in this respect.
Finally, the energy policy was a minor failure on the part of the Swedish presidency.
Mr President, stones are neither left nor right wing, they are simply anti-democratic.
I would like to say a few words on Europe' s underlying rationale and on a matter that our citizens understand very well, namely foreign policy.
Citizens realise that Europe was, in itself, probably the most successful conflict prevention project of the last century, and they also realise that Europe can contribute towards peace and stability.
Mr President, allow me to turn my attention to the European Council conclusions in Göteborg and particularly the situation in the Middle East.
The headline of today' s Neue Zürcher Zeitung, which reads: "Gewalt statt Waffenruhe im Nahen Osten" [violence instead of a cease-fire in the Middle East], illustrates this.
The conclusions of the European Council in Göteborg do not really address this cardinal issue.
With regard to the latter, although it is true that points of disagreement still remain, on capital punishment, for example, on the Kyoto protocol and on the anti-missile shield, considerable progress has clearly been made, Mr President, on the joint declaration on the Middle East and on the joint approach to the Balkans.
I think that the repeated wish to maintain the timetable for negotiations on enlargement is a factor, but I also feel, Mr President, that the problem of not knowing how this accession process is to be financed or which of the candidate countries will be in the first wave of accessions is significant.
No such agreement exists today and yet it is essential if we are to ensure that this project is more what it has been until now: it must be much more the fruit of the dreams and the enthusiasm of our citizens than of the will of our leaders.
Prime Minister Persson, Commissioner Wallström, Mr President, I would like to thank the Swedish presidency particularly for its perseverance in seeking to highlight issues which are important for the environment and for bringing the environment to the heart of policy together with economic and social issues during its six-month presidency.
The European Council in Göteborg was generous in response to our predicament and I welcome its willingness to help the Irish Government find a way forward.
That means that this Parliament will have at least 732 Members, possibly more.
That is going to cause huge administrative and financial problems for this Parliament.
On the contrary, the acceleration of the enlargement negotiations should help in that respect.
It is extremely important that the European Union is perceived by our citizens as more than an economic exercise and a free market because that, without any doubt, will alienate them further from the notion of European integration.
It is equally important to bear in mind that there cannot be economic development in a modern economy without a strong social dimension.
I would argue that sustainable development and employment are part and parcel of the social dimension of the European Union.
It is very close to the heart of the people of Ireland who, unfortunately, recently rejected the Nice Treaty, precisely because they misunderstood to some extent the nature of the European Union and what we are attempting to do in relation to the Rapid Reaction Force.
On this point, for example with regard to some of the areas related to agriculture, we might have wished for more ambition, partly because the current fear is that some of the situations which have been consolidated within the European Union, specifically those relating to the agricultural sector, will be sacrificed to enlargement matters.
If we do not have an adequate debate in Strasbourg, we will be in danger of creating a series of points of no return which could cause deep rifts, particularly in a politically sensitive period such as this one, where some countries - such as Italy, Spain and Great Britain - have stable governments but in others - such as France and Germany - things will change every time there is an election.
Therefore, some positions might be subject to pressure which is due more to electoral positions than overall European positions.
Mr President, the European Council at Göteborg took two conflicting decisions.
On the one hand, it confirmed the timetable for enlargement, as the European Parliament hoped it would, by moving the goal to complete negotiations forward to the end of 2002.
On the other hand, at the same time, the Heads of State and Government decided to disregard the implications of the Irish 'no' vote at the latest referendum.
Yet, this 'no' vote casts major doubts over the timetable for ratification, and perhaps even as to whether ratification will be achieved.
In order for the Treaty of Nice to be ratified, we must now wait for the national elections in Ireland and for these elections to produce a victory in Dublin of a more united majority than the current majority on this issue, and for this majority to be willing to gamble its credibility on this now highly sensitive area.
The European Parliament believes that the reform can only form part of a constitutional approach.
Mr President, the topic of sustainable development has been afforded a very prominent position in the second chapter of the European Council' s conclusions.
The moral of the story - I am addressing the Swedish presidency, but this applies equally to all other presidencies - is that the European Parliament, but also the European citizen, cannot be fooled any longer.
I think, however, that the results have been poorest when it comes to the debate on the future.
I do not think that Sweden took the opportunity it in actual fact had as the country holding the presidency to discuss in depth not only the content and direction of the European Union' s future, but also the organisation.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too have to pour some cold water on the matter, since as I see it the Swedish presidency failed in two ways, because it did not manage to settle the dispute between two Member States over Gibraltar and thus free up the logjam in European air transport policy.
It is just as incomprehensible that important legislative initiatives like the creation of a single European sky are already blocked within the Commission.
Mr President-in-Office, this would have been a good example of an area where the Council could have done something, because everyone knows that disputes like the one over Gibraltar cannot be settled at ministerial level, between transport ministers.
I do hope at least that the minutes of the Göteborg Summit are factually correct.
Road users are already being forced to pay through the nose to subsidise other forms of transport, in particular the United Kingdom, and the Commission's proposals will only aggravate this.
Member States should be free to set their own tax regimes and decide their own priorities for infrastructure charging and improvements.
Mr President, the Göteborg Summit was the first summit in the history of the European Union at which top priority was given to safeguarding the sustainability and viability of the social economic development model.
Similarly, the requirement to devise national strategies and coordinate the policies of the Member States will be particularly important for countries lagging behind in this sector.
We might also describe the initial objectives and measures defined in four sectors - climatic change, safeguarding sustainability in transport, dealing with public health risks and responsible management of natural resources - as being of major importance.
Just yesterday, the first confirmed case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy was reported in Greece.
To me it symbolised the growing distance between the leaders and the led.
The referendum in Ireland gave us an opportunity to sit back and think about the way in which Europe develops.
The purpose, apparently, of the Nice Treaty was to provide for the enlargement of the European Union to include the new democracies.
However, I disagree with the President of the Commission, who wrote in The Wall Street Journal last week that Nice was essential for enlargement.
We should take this chance now of providing for the peoples of Europe, represented by their national MPs and by their Members of the European Parliament, by establishing not a Convention, but a parliamentary conference.
I must say that I have never seen anything more fascistic than their methods of operation.
In our experience during our short presidency, that is what we had to spend most time on.
It is incredibly important that those who lead the Council see their task as a continuing responsibility which means that one presidency interlocks with another.
I myself do not share this view, but believe that the debate on the future must now address what we want to achieve.
The debate is closed.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation during the discussions, and in particular Jimmy Provan for the very fair opinion that he has just presented here in plenary.
Jimmy Provan has explained that a compromise was not reached because the Council rejected any kind of compromise, dug its heels in over the key issue in its common position, and was absolutely unwilling to budge a single millimetre.
I would like to know what the logic is of convening a group of experts once the directive has already been adopted.
Normally, you set up the group of experts first and then adopt a directive on the subject in question.
Mr President, as chairman of Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, may I thank all concerned who were involved in achieving a result on this directive.
I would like to thank the presidency for its work, and the European Commission and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular who acted as a facilitator.
Thanks also to all my colleagues on Parliament's delegation who went through numerous tortuous meetings and lost a night's sleep in Luxembourg trying to achieve this result.
The result of the delegation's considerations is before us today and we have to adopt or reject the joint text agreed in Luxembourg on 6 June.
This power of rejection or acceptance is a power granted to the European Parliament under the Amsterdam Treaty.
The Commission and Council have been working for 12 years to achieve rules and safeguards that are acceptable across all Member States.
Fifteen amendments in Parliament's second reading were not acceptable to the Council.
On 29 May, we reached agreement on 8 amendments, leaving three major areas of contention: defensive measures, squeeze-out and minority shareholders and the level playing field.
Squeeze-out and minority shareholders have been the subject of a Commission declaration, and a group of company law experts is being set up to look at the overall situation - including the equitable price.
Also, we had difficulties with the Council on employee rights to information.
On all these issues, Parliament's delegation made strong representations to the Council in the negotiations and won many concessions.
However, Article 9 and Amendments Nos 20 and 17, in particular, remained a point of fundamental difference.
Fifteen Member States reached common accord and a common position, along with the Commission.
That meant that there were two European institutions in agreement whilst the European Parliament took a different position.
While fighting for the powers of the European Parliament, it would have been wrong for half of the delegation to have rejected this directive one late night in Luxembourg, without the full Parliament having the opportunity of the third reading we are having today.
I recommend that the European Parliament accept the outcome of this negotiation, otherwise we will do serious damage to Europe's future economic development.
We might also do serious damage to the European Parliament, as the European press seems to be totally opposed, along with the Council and the Commission, to what we want to achieve.
An amendment adopted at this time radically changed Article 9 of the common position, enabling an administrative board to take defensive measures without consulting the shareholders once the bid has been made public.
In view of the Council's downright refusal to take this amendment into account, amongst other things, we presented a substantial series of compromise solutions which ranged from the possibility of shareholders holding 20% of the voting rights requesting that a meeting be convened to discuss defensive measures to the introduction of a clause linking the entry into force of the directive on takeover bids to the entry into force of a directive creating a sort of level playing field, that is common rules of play under European company law.
The five years necessary to transpose .... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as Mr Provan pointed out, the two institutions with responsibility for adopting this directive, Council and Parliament, are divided.
In the Council, a minority opposes it and Parliament is divided more or less down the middle, given that in the delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the final evening of debate, the voting was concluded with 8 votes for and 6 against, with one Member abstaining.
As Mr Lehne pointed out, the Americans themselves have adopted the rather expeditious solution of having at least one State - Delaware - in which highly capitalised companies can be based and where the monitoring of these companies by financial sharks can be prevented.
In my opinion, a vote against, at this time, by the European Parliament on an issue as important and significant as this would enhance the prestige of this institution.
Because the information that I have from governmental institutions indicates that many governments would probably change their position within the Council if they were aware of the impact of this issue on the business world and, above all, on the unions.
I and most of the Members of the Socialist Group will, therefore, probably vote against adopting this directive.
He did a marvellous job in very difficult circumstances.
I should like to say, on behalf of the ELDR Group, that we are fully and undividedly behind the agreement reached in conciliation and will vote accordingly.
This directive is crucial, indeed critical, to the financial services action plan.
Therefore if we are genuinely interested in the competitiveness and good functioning of Europe's economy, we have to proceed with this directive.
My Group believes that it is in the long-term interests of Europe's citizens.
For example it seems quite possible that a group of motivated shareholders may be beginning to achieve an about-turn on the projected building of the Ilisu dam in Turkey.
Shareholders can act against the Wall Street sharks.
The conciliation result represents a substantial compromise.
This directive has the potential to be the means to allow our citizens to be investors in the future of Europe's enterprise and to secure the health and vitality of our economy.
Mr President, it is a privilege to have the opportunity of taking part in this debate.
As one of the majority at the conciliation group in Luxembourg on 5 June, my primary motive in voting was to ensure that Parliament would have the chance to vote on this third reading.
My group will have a free vote on it and I believe others will as well.
We will, as individual Members of Parliament, stand by our consciences on this issue at tomorrow's vital vote.
The trade unions or other employees' representatives will have the right to comment on that before the offeree company comes to a decision.
In this sense, precisely the most disputed article of the directive - Article 9 - is a step in the right direction towards providing, within the single European market, a reliable, homogeneous legislative framework for public takeover bids.
In recent weeks, the conservatives and protectionists, who have opposed this measure, have had a wonderful excuse in the shape of the asymmetries between the different countries.
The case of the bid by what was actually a subsidiary of Electricité de France to take control of the second Italian private electricity group, Montedison, is symbolic.
Clearly, its aggressive policy of shopping around in Europe is an intolerable distortion of the European capital market.
In promising to reinforce competitiveness and competition in the markets of some public services, we are letting statism and monopolistic management in by the back door.
When publicly listed companies are subject to possible takeovers they should be able to take defensive measures, but when management acts it must behave even-handedly towards all shareholders in any one class.
This conciliation has seen 15 new provisions introduced into the common position, so it cannot be maintained seriously that Parliament's rights have been trampled on.
The principle of having a takeover directive has been supported at first and second readings and now, after 12 years, we have a final agreed text.
Mr President, when it comes to adopting a position on this final interlegislative phase of the directive, we must not base our positions on its content, but instead consider the role of the European Parliament in the codecision procedure.
If we look closely at what has happened, we will reach the conclusion that, so far, the system has not worked.
With regard to these two items, a majority of the European Parliament had the audacity to oppose what had previously been decided on in Council.
We do not look favourably on the Council position of rejecting any possible agreement with the positions of this Parliament.
First of all, the proposal conflicts with legislation and practices in my own country, the Netherlands.
In fact, until two years ago, the Dutch government was also opposed to this directive.
The Dutch system makes provision for protecting companies against hostile takeovers.
Article 9 only prohibits the legal protection structures.
One of the arguments used in favour of adopting the directive is that it has undergone a great deal of doctoring for twelve years and that, if the compromise is rejected, all the work will have been in vain.
The Commission could prepare a fresh proposal for a directive very quickly which, if handled intelligently, could indeed provide a level playing field in Europe and could enter into force before the current proposal, which, after all, has a five-year transitional period.
Mr President, Mr Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, conciliation is a question of reaching a balance, a question of compromise.
As part of the European legislative process we often find Parliament and the Council negotiating hard in the conciliation procedure.
However the outcome is generally a balanced result that the European Parliament can accept.
But this does not apply in the case of the "takeover directive", which, after many years' work, should now be before us in its final form.
The European Parliament should reject the result which emerged from a night session in Luxembourg.
However, I would warn against this House sweeping the decisions it took by a convincing majority under the carpet and accepting an obscure conciliation result.
In fact the result of the conciliation process that we have before us is so poor that after that night in Luxembourg Commissioner Bolkestein stood before the press and said that legal fine tuning would still be needed.
We should reject the text that emerged from the Conciliation Committee and Commissioner Bolkestein can present a workable new draft before long, one which matches not only his ideas but also the ideas of the elected representatives of 370 million Europeans.
We can only, in conciliation, go as far as amendments allow us in second reading.
In conciliation the Council and the Commission stuck to their key objective in this directive, of protecting the minority shareholders, protecting the interests of investors and defending shareholders against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards.
Article 9 and restrictions on frustrating action was the Holy Grail of this text.
But we did achieve a deal on Article 9: we forced the Commission and the Council to freeze the article and to have a group of company law experts to examine key issues, and to come back to Parliament in March 2002.
This also includes - as the Commissioner can confirm - the possibility of reviewing Article 9 in the light of the findings of that group.
The entry into force of this directive is therefore postponed and Member States can postpone compliance with Article 9 until 2006.
My delegation will vote for this directive.
Mr President, the Commission is delighted that Parliament and the Council have at last come to an agreement in the Conciliation Committee on the proposal for a directive concerning takeover bids.
Once again we have shown that the institutions are capable of finding an acceptable compromise.
This proposal for a directive is important for the European Union, it is important for the Financial Services Action Plan, which has been identified as a priority by the Lisbon European Council.
However, I would remind you that the directive allows any company to take any defensive measure deemed necessary provided that the shareholders agree with it.
Secondly, it is claimed that some European companies would be put at a disadvantage compared to American companies, because the managers of American companies can defend themselves without consulting their shareholders.
Thirdly, there are concerns that there is no level playing field in Europe for the protection of minority shareholders.
But this directive provides for a first step towards creating such a level playing field by protecting all shareholders, and in particular minority shareholders, in the case of a change of control in their companies.
Fourthly, some claim there is no protection for the employees of the companies involved, but this directive provides for complete and immediate information for employees and also gives them the opportunity to state their opinion on the offer.
Today, only 2% of all notified mergers or acquisitions are hostile.
Fourteen Member States and the Commission are in favour of this improvement in company law.
The Commission will undertake further work on the definition of equitable price, the squeeze-out procedure and the level playing field for protecting shareholders in the Member States, particularly in response to the European Parliament.
The efforts made jointly by your parliamentary delegation, the Council and the Commission in order to reach the agreement of 6 June make it worth sending a message that, after 12 years of work on this proposal for a directive, there can be a compromise between the co-legislators in this field.
I trust in the judgment of Parliament and am confident that it will vote in favour of adopting this proposal for a directive.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Commissioner Bolkestein has just joined a long list of his colleagues who have been subjected to a procedure in this Parliament which is no longer acceptable.
He was making an important speech to a full House but the only people listening were members of the public and our electorate in the Gallery.
We can, of course, all listen to the Commissioner through our headphones.
I must also say - and I apologise if I offend the people sitting in the public gallery - that the public is not supposed openly to express its opinion or its opposition regarding what is said in the Chamber when it is present during sittings.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Of course, Mr Corbett, but the agenda of the plenary sessions is set by the Conference of Presidents.
If the agenda does not leave us enough time to apply Article 22, the final result is that, at every part-session here in Strasbourg, we will end up listening to a Commissioner who is talking amidst great confusion because not all the Members are listening properly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the resale right directive was to harmonise the common market.
Quite apart from that, it is questionable whether there is really any need for harmonisation in this area.
It impedes trade; in fact it could even be said that it will bring it to a halt, because it is only a question of time before the art market shifts away from Europe in favour of the USA or Switzerland.
The introduction of the resale right will lead to a migration of the art market from Europe to countries such as the USA or Switzerland, because there is nothing of the kind there and resale prices for works of art will not therefore be forced up.
It is impossible to see why the resale right should be imposed on artists against their will as a form of copyright.
During today's vote on the Zimmerling Report (A5-0235/2001) I voted against the report and I also urged all my "Nea Dimokratia" colleagues to do so.
For all these reasons, and since I am a European artist, I decided to vote against.
Rothley report (A5-0174/2001) Mr President, before I came to Strasbourg, I met Mr Fortunato Rossi, a pensioner of 80, who said to me: "I have had a terrible car accident.
All this talk of unity within Europe is worth very little when faced with a small additional premium.
We therefore abstained from voting on this report. .
I support my socialist colleague, Willi Rothley, on his report which calls for a new car insurance directive to improve the legal protection of accident victims.
Our citizens have a right to receive equal legal protection wherever they are in the European Union.
The overall aim of the directive is extremely important in ensuring that there is a consistent and high level of legal protection.
People buying cars in other countries will also gain confidence from this measure.
Public confidence in the legal aspects of road safety across the European Union must increase so that our citizens can travel freely from country to country without fear of huge legal fees and 15 intimidating legal systems.
It is my great pleasure today to present the third Annual Report of the ECB, two and a half years after the launch of the euro and less than half a year before the single currency will become fully visible for our citizens in the form of banknotes and coins.
The year 2000 was a remarkable year for the euro area, as economic growth reached its highest level for over a decade and was accompanied by continued strong job creation.
By doing so, the ECB contributed to ensuring the sustainability of non-inflationary economic growth in the euro area.
In this respect, the evolution of long-term interest rates in the euro area in 2000 indicated that financial markets generally expected medium-term price developments to remain in line with the definition of price stability.
The forecasts which became available in 2000 painted a similar picture.
Before sharing with you my analysis of the current situation, let me turn to some issues raised in the draft resolution prepared by your Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs concerning the monetary policy strategy of the ECB.
These concern the doubts expressed with regard to the definition of price stability, the importance that the first pillar should be given in our strategy and the role of projections under the second pillar.
This upper boundary is in line with the practice of the national central banks of participating Member States before the start of Stage Three of EMU.
The need to follow monetary developments is therefore crucial to analysing risks to price stability in the euro area in the medium term.
In particular, it was decided not to follow a strategy under which monetary policy decisions would be made solely on the basis of inflation forecasts.
Turning to an analysis of current economic and monetary developments, after the decision on 10 May to lower the key ECB interest rates by 25 basis points, at its meetings in June the Governing Council considered that, on the basis of the information available, the current level of key ECB interest rates was appropriate to ensure price stability in the euro area over the medium term.
As regards the information contained in the first pillar, monetary developments point towards a favourable outlook for the medium-term maintenance of price stability.
After having followed a gradual downward trend since spring 2000, the three-month average of annual M3 growth rates has tended to broadly stabilise over recent months.
With regard to the second pillar, we continue to expect the currently high rates of inflation to remain a transitory phenomenon and, in the absence of further unfavourable price shocks, inflation rates should fall below 2% in 2002.
We call on governments at other levels but also on firms to follow this example set by central governments.
On 1 January 2001 the Eurosystem launched the "Euro 2002 Information Campaign", which is designed to complement other information campaigns being conducted at the national level.
The information campaign is progressing on schedule.
It will become fully visible for citizens once the mass media part of the campaign starts on 30 August 2001, after the unveiling of the final visual appearance of the euro banknotes and their security features.
We should all bear in mind the fact that the cash changeover is an unprecedented challenge and a huge logistical exercise and that all the parties involved will have to assume their part of the overall responsibility for making the introduction of the euro banknotes and coins a success.
Let me remind you that the ECB's decisions have been taken in full respect of the general interest, and after a thorough assessment of all the aspects involved.
To conclude my statement, I should like to underscore that the introduction of the single currency has indeed reinforced the need for the strong involvement of central banks in prudential supervision and financial stability.
ECB and the euro (continuation) Mr President, you have made it clear that all the partners in the European single currency and also in the European Union need to pool their efforts if the historical event of completing the currency union of the 12 is to be achieved, and I can assure you that you have the support of the European Parliament.
The European Central Bank is a very young institution.
Nevertheless, there is still a lack of coherence in justifying individual policy measures.
Max Weber once spoke about the three sources of authority: tradition, charisma and reason.
Quality is more important than quantity, and in this respect I would like to specifically acknowledge the quality of the monetary dialogue with the European Parliament.
The ECB has improved the transparency of its monetary policy decision making.
Nevertheless, more openness and transparency cannot do any harm, indeed in the coming months they should increase confidence in and acceptance of the single currency.
They should also be issued four times a year.
Sixth, as an important partner in macroeconomic decision making, the ECB should make its contribution to improving the coordination of economic policies and the generation of an appropriate and balanced policy mix, just as other independent central banks do, without diminishing its independence in the process.
That is why monetary policy should not be formulated in isolation but rather supplemented by still closer macroeconomic policy coordination in the euro area.
This could prevent economic integration being driven solely by the markets without any account being taken of employment policy and social issues.
Another reason for enhanced macroeconomic coordination involving the European Central Bank is the accelerating globalisation of financial markets, which less and less reflects the turnover of goods and services.
The European Central Bank's position is not the same as that of the US Federal Reserve Bank.
As the representative of the European public, the European Parliament would like to be a genuine partner in this dialogue regarding the creation of a new political culture in the European Union, which, on the one hand, guarantees the independence of the institutions but which, on the other hand, also takes account of the responsibility of each institution to be transparent and accountable in the interest of a properly functioning democracy.
Mr President, this report on switching to the euro cannot be viewed in isolation.
I am delighted to note that the European Central Bank and the European Commission are talking the same language as the European Parliament.
Only eight amendments have been tabled to this report, by a group none of whose members, I notice, are present in this debate.
After all, the European Union is no longer a theory but a tangible reality for all citizens in the euro-zone or, rather, all citizens in Europe and all world citizens.
The launch date is 1 January.
The public at large must gain access to those notes.
It benefits the safety of shopkeepers who will need to stock far fewer euros in their shops in order to have sufficient change on 1 and 2 January.
I can understand that well because many critics would, of course, exploit this and say that the European Central Bank has changed its mind again.
I would certainly not object to testing them in different Member States during the last days of the year.
Finally, I should like to comment on cross-border payments.
I should like to inform the Directorate-General Competition of the fact that Parliament will resist a fixed fee of EUR 3 for receiving banks.
And I even believe that the changeover to the euro, if we can make a success of this final phase, assumes that we are discussing economic policy as a whole, including monetary policy and, from this perspective, I can only congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Randzio-Plath, the chairperson of Parliament' s Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the proposals that she has made, and I can only regret some of the votes that were cast in committee.
If we want the euro to be the tool of the future that we hoped for, to enable Europe to be in harmony with prospects of growth for all, we must also discuss the monetary policy that you are implementing, Mr Duisenberg, and this is a subject that the people of Europe have a duty and the power to tackle.
With regard to the issue of frontloading, Mr Duisenberg, I understand that this is very much like a rearguard action; as proof of this, I refer to the agenda of the recent Ecofin Councils and, once again, as I said to you in committee, this is something that I regret.
To this end, I hope that Parliament will be able to adopt an amendment that we re-tabled on behalf of our group, which would ban dual pricing after a period of one year.
The two remaining measures that Parliament is again calling for are a publication of a "Beige Book" setting out conditions in each Member State and publication of summary minutes giving the views for and against interest rate changes.
There may be some problems with public awareness within the euro zone, but we have a much bigger problem within Scotland and the rest of the UK.
The level of awareness in Scotland may be lamentable but it is not surprising given the attitudes of the political leaders in the Scots and UK governments in recent years.
I call on the UK and the Scots governments to encourage the process of public information and to seek the support of the European Central Bank and the European Commission in encouraging Scots businesses to gear up for the acceptance of the new coins and notes.
According to yesterday's Financial Times Deutschland, 49% of Germany's population are against the euro.
I am very grateful to you, Mr Duisenberg, that the decline in the euro exchange rate is cited in the ECB report as one reason for the increase in inflation, and that the report at least refers to the increasing inflation rate differential between the euro countries rather than putting all the blame for the euro's weakness on the dollar.
The differences in inflation and growth between the individual euro countries, which are in fact increasing, are dangerous and I believe that they should be analysed in great detail in future ECB reports.
Uniform interest rates are too restrictive for some euro countries and too expansionary for others.
A European monetary policy geared to monetary stability is totally at odds with conflicting national economic, tax and social policies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are six months away from the fateful day, and it is time to concern ourselves with how citizens are going to handle the disappearance of their national currency.
The basis for that confidence, however, is rather shaky in the case of the euro.
This leads to uncertainty when paying in old currency and receiving change in euros.
If something of that kind is not possible, we must ask ourselves whether online transactions are mere pie in the sky for the time being.
Mr President, like the 2000 Annual Report of the European Central Bank, Mrs Randzio-Plath's report makes the usual assertion that the euro will make a decisive contribution to ensuring price stability within the euro zone, by making it less vulnerable to external shocks.
The ECB cannot make a drastic reduction in its interest rates in order to please Germany, because other countries are calling for opposite measures.
It seems, therefore, Mr President, that the citizens of Europe might have to pay a very high price for wanting a single currency when we have different economies, especially since, according to the latest available statistics, it is this, even more than the euro itself, that seems to be contributing to causing greater divergences in terms of both inflation and growth.
I would also like to make a few points clear for the benefit of the public.
I call on the governments of all the Member States to inform their parliaments and the public about the advantages of the euro in the euro area and not just to give the impression that something new and unknown is about to arrive.
The next point that I consider important is that the euro is not a political project and, please excuse me, Mr Duisenberg, you cannot say that it is just a matter for the ECB - that is a point in your favour, you are doing your job well in this respect - and for the banks, nor is it just something for finance ministers.
It is a political project and not just a financial product and I therefore believe that we should involve education policy, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers more in information policy.
We do this every year and it is the only opportunity which Parliament has to debate the policy of what is now an important and independent European institution.
But if there is to be greater confidence in the euro, the people of Europe and money markets throughout the world must have greater confidence in how you exercise your policy and how you intend to achieve monetary stability.
At this juncture, I think that we need to rethink the system of the two pillars of monetary policy.
Mr President, with just six months to go before the introduction of the euro notes and coins, we must focus clearly on this event.
The one clear fact about 'euro day', 1 January 2002, is that it is truly irreversible.
The most recent survey carried out in May by the Irish Euro Changeover Board show that in my country, 95% of people know the name of the single currency, 91% have same prices in both Irish Pounds and the euro and 79% know that euro notes and coins will be introduced in 2002.
Seventy-eight percent have seen pictures of the euro notes and coins and 64% know that an Irish Pound will get you EUR 1.27.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you about the difficulties that the people I meet in my country complain of every day.
First of all, the people were never consulted to find out if they were in favour of replacing their national currency.
For this reason we too will not be voting for three of the proposals made by the rapporteur in her report.
The second proposal that we will be rejecting is that of setting inflation targets.
I am convinced that the European Central Bank was right to establish its own definition of stability shortly after it was set up, according to which monetary stability is an inflation rate of less than 2%.
The third proposal relates to the accession countries.
The change from 12 different national currencies to a single currency is the culmination of months of careful preparation and yet I fear some citizens, even at this late stage, have not grasped the significance of the change and its implications, which I believe are extremely positive.
Mr President, by the end of the year, euro notes and coins will be in circulation, and that is almost ten years to the day since the political and legal foundations were laid in Maastricht.
Firstly, information must be more extensive, more dynamic, more effective and oriented more towards the target group.
And if the European Central Bank remains opposed to this, I wonder, Commissioner, if you would not be able to take action in order to make this possible, by amending the Regulation of 3 May 1998.
Commissioner, I would urge you to ask Mr Monti to finally deal with this complaint.
Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, the first thirty months of operations of the European Central Bank can be considered a success.
The faith of citizens in the European Central Bank is primarily based on price stability.
It is important to citizens that the currency is stable and that the real level of earnings and purchasing power remain unchanged.
The euro will not fail due to practical problems encountered during a transitional period of two or three weeks.
Our single currency is as strong as the economy behind it.
In this context I would also like to mention my concern regarding the fate of the Directive on Takeovers to be addressed tomorrow.
If the directive fails tomorrow we will be able to say that while many fine words were heard in Lisbon, here we need action.
Since this is, in any case, a historic event - indeed, hitherto, all the Member States have had to handle currency exchange internally whereas, now, the entire Community will be changing to a single currency - it may be that all the aspects and consequences of the introduction of the euro will not have been foreseen and that some situations - as yet not clearly defined - might arise after the fateful date of 1 January 2002.
I will then give Commissioner Solbes Mira the floor.
I have already addressed in my introductory statement the most important ones contained in the two resolutions.
I fully agree that monetary policy should work not in isolation but in ever closer coordination.
However, the ECB will never engage in coordination of our policies with other policies in the economic and financial field, because this would prejudice our primary objective under the Treaty, namely to preserve price stability.
Specific questions have been asked: is it possible or advisable to change the automatic teller machines a few days earlier than 1 January 2002.
The answer is "no".
It is important that the machines are converted as soon as possible.
In five countries the old automatic teller machines will have been converted by 1 January.
Apart from Finland, in all other countries it is envisaged to dispense, at least in some of the automatic teller machines, the EUR 5 and EUR 10 notes exclusively via ATMs in the first few days of next year.
I will not comment on all of them but the European Parliament also suggests what I just said, namely encouraging banks to open their counters on 1 January, a point which is fully welcomed and supported by the ECB.
Returning to the questions that have been asked, I would say that instead of frontloading, our information campaign, as it develops from 30 August onwards and intensifies over the months to come until the end of this year and in the first couple of weeks of next year, will be such that the public at large will, I am sure, be fully familiar by 1 January, with how the bank notes will look with their security features.
Only the ECB, the Eurosystem, can decide when the bank notes will be distributed and that will be on 1 January 2002.
It is possible to obtain more than one kit in all of these countries.
Mr Duisenberg referred to 'frontloading' , which is the advance circulation of low denomination notes in automatic cash machines.
I should simply like to make one comment, which is that the Commission report to which some of you have referred is a simple report for calculating how much time would be needed to fully replace a national currency with the European currency according to the quantities currently being made available through automatic cash machines.
I must make one comment on the risk of price increases resulting from the changeover to the euro: the Commission has considered the matter and takes the view that the crucial factor for preventing the changeover to the euro being used as an opportunity to raise prices is the dual display of prices in both the national currency and in the Community currency.
Some of the positions held by the Commission have been accepted by the Eurogroup, which issued a statement on 4 June adopting these points.
I should also like to recall, in response to some of the speeches I have heard today, that the period for the dual display of prices should in principle be limited to the first six months of next year and then dual pricing should disappear.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal before us and the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is, I am proud to say, a very good example of successful, dialogue-based work on a Commission proposal between all the groups and experts in this House, while remaining open to compromise.
This example highlights the differences between the European Parliament and the Council in dealing with Commission proposals and decisions.
I would therefore like to start by very sincerely thanking all the coordinators, and in particular Mr Kuckelkorn, Mr Hume, Mr Ettl, Mr Pronk, Mrs Lulling and many others for their cooperation.
This is the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the activities and supervision of institutions offering occupational retirement provision services.
It is not a directive that regulates occupational retirement provision as a product taking into account the mobility of employees and all its consequences.
In reality, it represents an agreement between the two sides of industry in the context of legal provisions in force between employers and employees.
We believe that we have succeeded in striking a balance between a financial services directive and social security and that we will obtain a large majority tomorrow.
That must give the Commission food for thought, to the effect that something must be done on this score fast.
As draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would primarily like to stress the importance of respect for the principle of equality between men and women - which is laid down in the Treaty - by institutions for occupational retirement provision, upheld, moreover, by the directives on equal treatment in public and professional social security systems.
This amendment was not retained in the text but, in my opinion, the institutions for occupational retirement provision clearly cannot escape from providing adequate solutions for these situations.
I am in favour of a pragmatic approach - which was also advocated by Mr Karas - namely that institutions must offer cover for these risks as an option, in the form of, for example, disability pensions and provision for survivors.
One of the issues which must be resolved in order to establish a genuine single market in supplementary pensions and pension funds is that of providing a tax treatment to avoid the dual taxation of contributions and benefits, as well as the tax exile of pensioners who are trying to avoid paying taxes, but also the mass of bureaucracy involved in the exchange of information and the recovery of taxation between countries.
I therefore believe that it is premature for Parliament to issue an opinion now in favour of a specific model - in this case, the TEE regime - as has been done in the report, albeit only in a recital, given the fact that direct taxes fall within the sovereign affairs of the Member States.
Let us wait before issuing an opinion in favour of one particular model in this extremely sensitive area.
If we do not create an attractive framework, this directive will be a dead letter because no one will use it.
I am not giving away any secrets if I tell you that we have obtained all the position papers and proposals drafted by the finance industry, and in particular the investment sector.
I would also like to take this opportunity to give a brief indication of the main themes underpinning our actions in relation to the Karas report in recent months.
Mr Karas has made a new proposal on this, one that we shall be supporting.
We have executed something of an about-turn here, but I think that it is in everyone's interest for us to be able support this directive or this proposal.
We are involved in the codecision process and have to act in line with our own views.
To some extent, there have been major differences between us over this report.
The second key objective of my group was to stiffen the resolve of the Commission, to be more liberal and more 'market opening' in its approach to the abolition of quantitative rules.
The Commission's draft directive envisages that Member States will be able to continue to set quantitative limits on the operation of pension funds.
I very much hope that the Commissioner abandons any attempt at realpolitik, involving dirty compromises in the Council, and sticks to what is Parliament's clear desire.
Mr President, Commissioner, the vote taken within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on which the committee was divided and following which, in fact, 133 amendments were reintroduced in plenary, is more than enough evidence of the differences in the approach to this draft directive.
In our group, we are interpreting it in the following manner: the main aim of this directive on occupational pension funds is to eliminate all the conditions restricting financial institutions, particularly in the choice of financial shares, with the exception of general prudential rules of a so-called qualitative nature, and the principle of mutual recognition will be fully applied in addition to these rules.
We are faced with a situation which is well-known in the establishment of the internal market.
Although the report by Mr Karas corrects this bias in places, it also makes it worse in others.
We are faced with a reference model which is primarily that of the industry of supplementary pensions in place in Great Britain and other countries.
Yet, in some countries, these organisations do not or only occasionally enter the financial market; in other countries workers are given cast iron guarantees, but the directive obviously does not aim to do this.
In particular, it is not concerned with the coherence of national pension systems based on the principles of solidarity, security and universality.
The directive includes risks of discrimination and lapses in solidarity.
The definition of rights does not mandatorily include biometric risks.
The Karas report strengthens this provision by casting aside government authorisation.
Mr Karas incorporated our amendment seeking to establish the principle of interactive management, but that will only have any real bearing if the institutions involved are not treated like standard financial investors throughout the directive.
The prudential framework laid down by the Commission is vague and the report imposes the country of origin principle, which we find unacceptable, since the destination Member State must, of course, also retain the possibility of establishing coherence with internal social law.
Lastly, prior tax harmonisation is still not included in these texts, which means we are once again opening the way to fiscal dumping.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are today faced with a key test on the way that the European Parliament perceives its responsibilities in the area of social protection.
I could advise Members of this House, and perhaps Member State governments whose observers are here today, to look at the Irish model, where we have committed ourselves between now and 2025 to putting 1% of our GDP towards a future pensions fund.
That would mean IEP 700 m per year being put into the protection of pension payments for people from the year 2025 onwards.
If more countries were willing to do this, then we would not have the same sense of urgency or danger that now faces many pensioners in Europe today.
However, as others have already said, there is a crisis looming in pension provision not only in Austria but all over Europe.
A pan-European market for occupational retirement provision is bound to help in this regard.
This communication is a proposal on specific objectives and working methods for cooperation in the field of pension reforms in accordance with the method of open coordination as decided upon in Lisbon.
Over the past two years there has been a significant change in attitudes towards European cooperation, particularly in the social field.
I refer, in particular, to the coordination of economic policies.
Adequacy describes the fundamental social goals of pension systems in order to prevent social exclusion of older people and to give them the opportunity to maintain their living standard in old age.
The third axis concerns the modernisation of pension systems.
According to this axis the pension systems have to be more compatible with the need for more flexible workforces.
Under the heading of these three axes there are ten concrete objectives.
It is because of the Social Protection Committee that we have an analysis of all pension systems and the reforms that have taken place in all Member States.
The communication suggests that the Member States should submit these first national strategies by the end of summer 2002.
This report on the national strategies will be based on an integrated approach, and, politically, this is the most important element of the communication.
It will be necessary to take into account, not only pension reforms in a narrow sense, but also employment policy and the management of public finances.
They are going to present a joint report and their contribution is crucial, but the European Parliament can play an important role in this process.
We wish to have your opinion on this communication and, in particular, the objectives proposed.
As the Commission and the Belgian presidency are keen on making good progress in time for the next European Council, we would be grateful if you could give this opinion before October.
The more informal regular contacts between the European Parliament and the Social Protection Committee will also continue on a regular basis.
We believe that with this cooperation, between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States, we can establish a comprehensive approach.
The most important thing will now be to monitor the pension funds and appoint as their guardians in the 15 States, not the Beagle Boys but people who care about the future of pensioners.
First, the transparency of the pension systems.
One of the objectives of the third axis in the modernisation of pension systems is to make them transparent.
This means that information must be clear and readily available not only to EU citizens but also to third-country nationals.
There are major problems in this area at present.
We cannot impose the reform structure or the structure of pension systems on Member States, but we can measure it with a series of indicators.
There are many different early retirement systems in place in all Member States which have caused many problems regarding the financial sustainability of the pension systems.
In my opinion, the Belgian presidency should be very grateful for your contribution to the debate.
The first one concerns the objectives included in the document.
Mr President, I too agree that pension policy involves an enormous challenge.
It is good that the Commission is now looking for indicators and also seeking to increase public debate on this very important issue.
The point is: with Article 140 talking of a high level of protection, what can reform mean if it does not maintain a high level of protection?
They will, of course, be the subject of discussion in both the Commission and the Council and, as you know, the Social Protection Committee and Parliament are in constant communication.
We shall see how we can take the issue of quality or issues relating to older workers into account at the changeover.
As you said in your proposal, Commissioner, it is very important that the Member States should be committed to the plans you have now put forward.
Obviously this problem is a problem faced by young people and in most countries right now there is a risk that future generations will not be able to have the same rights as the present generation.
Secondly, the statistics which the European Commission uses are Eurostat statistics and statistics from the national statistics offices, which receive huge financial support, with the Commission and governments working together to ensure that they all operate to the same standards.
So what we are trying to do is to support the national structures so that they operate to the same standards.
The third question concerns the question of harmonised pensions.
These are problems common to all countries.
Common grounds and common objectives bring about a form of collaboration in which everyone keeps their particular structures and quirks but collaborates within an overall framework.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is 'Question Time' (B5- 0329/2001).
As foreseen, the pre-qualification tendering procedure for the programme management unit was launched in June this year and the tenders will be opened on 20 July at the ACP Secretariat General.
The committee evaluating the tenders will consist of three members designated by the ACP Secretariat and three members designated by the Commission.
This committee will decide which companies will participate in the tender for the programme management unit.
However, in view of the importance of some of the activities in the project in particular, the Commission has taken steps to begin on an ad hoc basis to implement some of the actions foreseen in the project, and this is already going on.
Two sessions of this kind have taken place, one in Johannesburg on 10 and 11 April 2001 and a second one in Brussels on 13 and 14 May.
Let me also say that, important and useful as these activities are, they are not, and never were, preconditions for the opening up of trade negotiations in September 2002 in accordance with the Cotonou Agreement.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner very much.
Not adhering to them would create more problems and, in any case, one can always discuss whether one more seminar would change the world, rather than face the need to make difficult decisions that will become part of this entire process for our partners in the ACP group.
As the author is not present, Question No 28 lapses.
This does not, however, diminish the need for a speedy resolution of the remaining 203 cases currently before the Serbian courts and which these courts are reviewing.
The Commission has raised with the ICRC the cases of the three individuals mentioned in the honourable Member's question.
The Commission welcomes all efforts towards a speedy resolution of the remaining cases of detention, as well as the resolution of the fate of the 3 600 individuals still listed as missing from all communities in Kosovo.
I want to thank the Commissioner for his full answer and also to congratulate him on the efforts I know the Commission and, indeed, the Council are making to bring about more humanitarian and satisfactory conditions for democracy in that region.
I draw the Commissioner's attention to the fact that many of the prisoners who are still suffering in prison without trial have been wounded and are ill, and no information has been made available to their relations.
It raises considerable humanitarian concerns in Ireland and other Member States.
Second part The ESDP annex of the Göteborg European Council conclusions sets out where the European Union has got to as regards the development of a police capability for crisis management operations outside European Union territory.
A ministerial conference will be held by the end of 2001 at which the Faro commitments should be turned into specific pledges.
The Belgian presidency will also continue work with the police experts' group to look in more detail at the modalities for implementation of the Faro commitments, particularly qualitative aspects, such as training, selection criteria and equipment.
In that context, the Commission will take over the WEU police mission in Albania.
The Commission is also providing technical assistance and training to the police in Central America, in Guatemala and El Salvador, as part of the implementation of peace agreements in those countries.
Furthermore, the Commission has recently started a programme of support to police training in Algeria.
So a police unit has been established in the new politico-military structures in the Council secretariat to carry out the detailed police action plan, which I referred to earlier, in coordination with the Member States and the Committee for Civilian Aspects of Crisis Management.
I would not dare to trespass on what is legitimately the territory of Member States, but there is a role and a responsibility for the Commission.
In the country I know best there are very few police forces who have that sort of capacity, which includes the regular use of arms.
Mr President, the European Union recognises that the lack of affordably priced medicines is a serious problem in many developing countries, particularly for the poorest people in these countries.
We also believe that intellectual property rights are essential for encouraging creativity and innovation.
In our opinion, they also encourage investment in research and the development of new medicines.
Criticism of this agreement is generally based on the fact that it would limit the political options in developing countries in the area of public health.
Our position focuses, in the main, on one key point.
We believe that the agreement allows WTO members sufficient scope to put in place an intellectual property regime that is able to meet their concerns in terms of public health.
Our belief is that it is up to the WTO members, within the Council for Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs Council), to interpret this degree of flexibility, rather than leaving this up to a panel.
That is why the European Union has already been working for some time in order to reach a consensus between the WTO members instead of leaving the way open to legal disputes.
This debate took place at the last Council meeting held on 20 June 2001.
We presented a document, which summed up our views on some of the provisions of the agreement, such as Article 31, for example, which does not specify the grounds for issuing a compulsory licence.
On this point, we think the procedure provides enough flexibility in cases of national emergencies and that the current rate of HIV/AIDS infection in some developing countries constitutes this type of emergency and that intellectual property can also be lifted if a patent is required in cases of public non-commercial use.
Our position on this point is, therefore, constructive.
We are committed to protecting intellectual property, which is an important stimulus, but we also believe that this must and can be achieved within the existing legal framework, as long as it is clarified in order to take account of urgent public health situations.
To refer to the recent debate at the WTO, many developing countries, such as India, Brazil and some countries in Africa, Latin America and Asia, presented a document which welcomed this debate.
Like us, they stressed the need to ensure that this agreement does not compromise the rights of WTO members to draw up and implement health policies designed to safeguard public health.
This group of countries also stressed that the use of compulsory licensing was a crucial instrument for putting in place these public health policies and giving wider access to medicines.
The patent term is currently set at 20 years and further negotiation of the agreement would be needed in order to change this requirement.
The same is true with regard to the idea of a moratorium on possible trade disputes, which is not permitted under the current agreement.
It is, of course, rather premature to issue an opinion on the content of the decisions that come out of these meetings but, whatever those decisions are, rest assured, Mrs Sandbæk, that the Commission is committed to finding the right balance between these two objectives - namely, to acknowledge inventors' rights and to provide access to essential medicines - and we will continue to be committed to this over the coming months.
There have been no disputes on this issue either, since, as I am sure you are aware, Brazil and the United States settled the matter out of court last week and I would like to point out that the European Union was not involved.
The third and final point concerns the length of patents protection.
In this case, we believe that the current length of patents protection again provides an adequate balance between the need to preserve intellectual property and public health requirements.
I believe our position on this point to be effective.
I believe that, in this matter, we are being true to the position that we hold generally, namely, to bridge the gap, using an acceptable and proactive approach, between the concerns of developing countries and those of some countries in the North, that are concerned about the protection of intellectual property.
The product then still has to be launched and another 20 years must elapse before third parties can manufacture it.
So my question is whether the Commission could take an initiative in this area.
There is a tiered pricing option mid-way between the strict protection of intellectual property, the patent system in other words, and exceptions to this system such as compulsory licensing, and this is the option that we have considered in conjunction with the pharmaceutical industry and some of the countries concerned.
In general, however, to answer your question, yes, the international community is moving in this direction and the European Union will follow suit since some funding has already been earmarked for this purpose.
Question No 32 by (H-0571/01): Subject: Testing cosmetics on animals and the WTO Under WTO rules, imported products must be treated the same as 'like products' of domestic origin.
On the other hand, the European Union is also required to provide a high level of health protection and to ensure that its policies are in line with its international commitments.
Now, a marketing ban that is based not on the product characteristics but on manufacturing procedures would certainly force many of our trading partners to change their policy and legislation in order to be able to enter our market.
In our opinion it is the acceptance of alternative testing methods by the international community that will provide the most effective contribution to animal welfare.
We are committed to encouraging the use of in vitro cosmetic testing, particularly within the OECD in order to move forward in this direction.
This is also the reason why, on a number of occasions, we have drawn Parliament' s attention to the danger of moving in this direction from the point of view of respecting our international commitments, which we believe should also be one of Parliament' s concerns.
We believe that this situation - meaning rules which allow measures on production methods to be established only within strict limits - is far from satisfactory.
This is the reason why we hope to be able to include these issues in the agenda of the next round of WTO negotiations.
If current legislation can be changed - and we hope that we are able to clarify it in this area - then so much the better.
Mr Purvis, it is my job to handle the trade disputes that we are currently involved in.
I believe that my task, therefore, particularly in my dealings with the Council and Parliament, is to be totally honest when a Council or Parliament decision might mean we are in danger of losing a dispute.
The proof of this, in fact, is that we are now discussing the implications that all this will have on sanctions.
With regard to the first point of your question, Mrs Kauppi, I am, of course, responsible for applying the policies that the European Union has decided upon, including those taken on external issues.
It is my duty, and I think that I do this openly, to explain that, when a political decision taken by the European Union brings us into conflict with our international commitments, as would be the case here, then the people who are taking this decision must be made aware of the risks they are taking.
If you want to run this risk, do so.
From the point of view of international trade legislation, these requirements present less of a risk than a ban on marketing.
My second point relates to our desire to have some of the WTO rules clarified, in order to allow the European Union to move in the direction that it wishes, and this concerns production methods, for example.
We are, therefore, in need of some very strong arguments in order to show that this matter is not about protection, it is a matter of collective preference and that we each have our own ethics.
Mr President, I was very pleased to hear just now that Commissioner Lamy believes that it is very likely that during the next round of WTO negotiations production and labelling methods will also have to be considered.
Of course, Mrs Schierhuber, I am willing to do all of this because, and I reiterate, one aspect of the European Union' s trade policy is to apply the collective preferential scheme to its external trade in the same way as it is applied to internal trade.
These are the principles that we wish to see taken into account in the agenda on the environment at the negotiations, especially everything which relates to the precautionary principle.
We are aware of your concerns in this area.
According to the spring economic forecasts presented by the Commission, Greece' s GDP will grow by 4.4% in 2001 and inflation as measured by the decrease in private consumption will slow down slightly to 2.8% of the annual average, compared to 3% in 2000.
Given this context, public administrations' accounts will balance out in 2001, the labour market situation will improve and the unemployment rate will fall for the second consecutive year, reaching 10.3% in 2001.
With regard to real production growth, the Commission' s estimate is slightly lower than that given by the Greek authorities at the end of 2000 and is reflected in the stability programme drawn up in spring 2001.
We, as the Commission, will soon be initiating work on the autumn forecasts and for the moment do not envisage making significant changes in the case of Greece.
According to recent announcements by the Greek authorities, given the new, less favourable, international climate, the national forecasts will be adjusted more towards the Commission' s spring forecasts.
In any event, in the 2001 update of the stability programme, which is due to be presented by the end of the year, the Greek authorities will undertake the necessary adjustment of their medium-term macroeconomic outlook and an assessment of the impact of this on public finances.
You say that the programme will be updated at the end of the year.
I think this updating exercise should already have begun.
Nevertheless, even with this growth rate of close to 2.5% - a little above or a little below - we feel that employment will continue to be created in the Union and, for the time being, we have not yet seen any significant fall in employment growth or an increase in unemployment.
With regard to the issue of public finances, it is true that the less favourable economic climate might have some impact.
With this eventuality in mind, the Commission has already stated its position on public finances to the Council, indicating that, in our opinion, we should allow the automatic stabilisers to play their full role in those countries that have achieved a more or less balanced position in terms of public finance and in other countries that have a national debt of around 60%.
In this situation, the countries in which the automatic stabilisers should not be allowed to play their full role should be the four countries with deficits of more than 1% and the three that have a debt of close to 100%.
Question No 34 by (H-0578/01): Subject: The euro in the former Yugoslavia To what extent is the Commission involved in the introduction of the euro in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo and Montenegro, where the currency is at present the German mark, and what is its view of this development?
As he knows, notes are the responsibility of the Central Bank and the system of central banks and, in the case of coins, it is the national authorities who are responsible.
That means that the national banks are not, therefore, involved in the logistics and channels for distributing the new coins or recovering the old coins, and they must maintain the systems they have traditionally used for this type of operation.
Nevertheless, it is true that there is concern within the European Central Bank and in some national banks, in particular the German Central Bank, as a result of the enormous number of German Marks in existence outside the eurozone, that action should be taken to support the changeover situation in the countries outside the zone.
In this respect, on 14 December 2000, the European Central Bank took the decision to allow frontloading or the pre-supply of euros to those financial institutions which are branches or subsidiaries of European banks in the countries outside the eurozone.
Clearly, if the Central Bank is working on the possibility of pre-supply, the first step has been taken for this type of financial body to be able to move ahead with the process following the change of currency.
In the former Yugoslavia there are three different cases: Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo and Montenegro.
There is a specific problem of how to change these Marks which are circulating into euro notes and coins.
The problem of Montenegro is similar.
Commissioner, thank you very much for your very helpful and detailed reply.
On the strength of what you have said, this seems somewhat unlikely to me, but I would nevertheless like to ask you if this is a concern and whether the Commission is dealing with this issue in the accession countries.
That basically means maintaining a period of exchange rate stability for two years, approximately, not from any old moment but logically from the moment they are members of the European Union and, in accordance with the interpretation of the Council of Ministers, they must be part of the exchange rate mechanism for a period of two years.
Some countries have raised the difficulties caused by reversing stable exchange rate systems such as they have at the moment (this is the case with Estonia, with its currency board linked to the Mark) and that it would mean returning to a system of greater flexibility and of currency flotation in order to retrieve a situation of stable exchange rates.
For that reason, the official interpretation and application is that the situation of the countries which have a currency board, if they are linked to European currencies, is compatible with the exchange rate mechanism, although these decisions are clearly adopted unilaterally by the countries involved.
Mr Commissioner, you have primarily concentrated on the logistical and technical aspects, and you have only just begun to touch on the monetary risks that could ensue from what you call the gigantic holdings by foreigners of German marks but also presumably of other euro zone currencies.
When there are people who possess significant quantities of notes, above all within the eurozone, and of national currencies outside the eurozone, two types of situation arise: normal saving by these people and the quest for protection in the face of their exchange rate situation.
In both cases it is perfectly justified to possess these holdings.
And there is no problem in changing these holdings into the new euro, via their commercial banks, via the European banks which have branches or subsidiaries in the area.
The same rules must be applied as for exchange in the European Union, that is, in those cases where somebody is identified as the holder of a quantity of a currency, the exchange takes place without any type of risk, even for quantities greater than the minimum amounts laid down in the money laundering directive.
The situation you mention could only arise in certain countries which have more lax legislation, which today allow a European currency to be exchanged for another currency, the dollar or any other, without being subjected to those requirements.
This case raises many complex factual and legal issues and the markets involved have potentially changed significantly in the light of the opening of the Øresund bridge in July 2000.
The Commission is fully aware of the situation of the parties.
The market itself, which is at the core of any competition analysis, is very difficult to determine.
The Commission is in the process of analysing, in particular, the consequences of the opening of the bridge on the definition of the markets.
This decision was the subject of a press release issued on the same day, 20 June.
I wanted these facts to be seen outside the context of the more political comments that Mr Berenguer Fuster made earlier.
In answer to Mr Berenguer Fuster, I mentioned why the Commission opened proceedings so as to provide Parliament with a more detailed framework.
Moreover, the Commission has already adopted several decisions with regard to State funding for theme parks as well as other tourist investment projects such as hotels or marinas.
Lastly, in the present case, even the advertisement for the theme park explains how to find the location from abroad.
Question No 37 by (H-0551/01): Subject: Limit on government subsidies for film production in small countries The Swedish press reports that the EU competition authority has proposed a 50 per cent limit on national state aid to the film industry.
Film production in Europe differs from that in the USA in regard to the large number of languages in the EU.
The 50% aid intensity limit was fixed by the Commission, in its decision of 1998 on the French scheme of automatic aid to film production, with reference to the French situation.
In practice, the 50% aid intensity criterion constitutes a benchmark that can be exceeded on genuine cultural grounds.
I would like to thank Commissioner Monti for his clarifying reply.
The Commission does not want to harmonise the provisions of the different schemes but just to ensure their compliance with the four specific compatibility criteria that were set out in the French decision.
On the issue of whether the 50% aid intensity threshold applies to smaller Member States with limited cultural markets and could an exception be envisaged for them: Well, the answer is that the 50% aid intensity threshold applies in principle across the board to all Member States without distinction.
The Commission might consider applying exceptions to the 50% aid criterion if such a limit would make cultural production impossible.
The Commission has already established an exception for difficult low-budget films.
For certain smaller Member States, in the case of territorialisation, the Commission might consider authorising higher aid intensities on a case-by-case basis, if it is established that the 50% aid intensity level would not ensure cultural production because the cultural area and market diffusion were limited.
It is true that currently, given the prevailing market conditions and, in particular, the decline in the market valuation of most technologies companies, network sharing has been seriously envisaged by certain third generation operators as a means to alleviate their debt burden and lower their network deployment costs.
The Commission has already indicated that, in principle, it considers network infrastructure sharing positively, due to the potential economic gains, always provided that competition rules and other relevant Community laws are respected, in particular those of the licensing directive.
This view has been expressed in the Commission communication on the introduction of third generation mobile communications in the European Union that was adopted on 20 March 2001.
Some operators may choose to engage in network infrastructure sharing within a limited geographical area, while others may opt for full geographical coverage.
In the same vein, some operators may choose to share only sites and masts, whereas others may choose also to share antennas and what I would call 'active elements' of their networks, such as radio network controllers.
From contacts with operators and manufacturers, it appears that the degree of cooperation among 3G license holders will be influenced by the availability of new technology which will enable operators to share even active elements of their networks, without having to exchange or share sensitive information among themselves or otherwise compromise their independence as competitors.
Any restriction of competition could be tolerated only if it brought benefits to consumers and fulfilled all the other conditions set out in Article 81(3) of the Treaty.
Finally, as regards the EIB, the Commission is aware of the Bank's intention of taking account of competition considerations in assessing projects for loans.
The Commission clearly welcomes this intention as ensuring coherence between the Bank's objectives in rolling out projects in accordance with its mandate, particularly following the Lisbon European Council and Community policy in a liberalised environment.
Mr President, it is always good to put the final question at question time.
What needs to be made clear is that network sharing is subject to the same rules of competition law as other forms of cooperation or collaboration among competitors.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 39 to 77 will be replied to in writing.
Mr Karas has done a remarkable job with this proposal for a directive.
Firstly, beneficiaries in many Member States already have cover for these risks via separate insurance products.
If the rules are too restrictive and costly to the company they will probably have no voluntary supplementary scheme at all.
It is a similar story with the product assessment of occupational retirement provision systems, the second pillar of the pension system.
They are trying to make the public believe that they are talking about a supplementary pension system, without having to meet the necessary quality criteria including the pension requirements that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs regards as necessary, for example, guaranteed payment of retirement provision until the end of the insured person's life, the payment of benefits to surviving dependants or the covering of risks in the case of disability.
Unfortunately, the key features of a comprehensive second pillar in the pension system have scarcely been taken into account here.
That is why the proposal for a directive before us should not be labelled "supplementary pension system - second pillar", but should rather be seen for what it really is, namely a financial services product which only covers one small part of the full range of the second pillar.
The Council seems to have forgotten about this in this particular context, even if we have to admit that the capital growth resulting from this product is generally to be welcomed.
The fact that despite this there have been qualitative improvements in some areas of the proposal is no doubt something we owe to the rapporteur, who has tackled all the key issues very prudently.
Out of anxiety about this Directive, France has even, in great haste, included a few small pension funds in the first pillar.
Government leaders have put pensions on their agendas.
It is precisely those people that we need in order to moderate wages in the euro zone and maintain our export position accordingly.
Mr President, this morning Mr Karas said that there will be a large majority in favour.
My criticisms relate above all to two issues.
The first is this: are occupational pension schemes in the EU to be subject to Community-wide competition?
The second major problem is this one-sided orientation towards financial markets.
To this end, and with a view to removing any obstacles which could be raised by the Council, I have presented two amendments to resolve a problem, a Spanish problem, but one which also affects other nationalities.
Mr Karas and I have prepared amendments which he will lay out tomorrow orally, which I hope will solve this problem.
The second issue I would like to refer to has been mentioned by some speakers; it relates to the fiscal problems raised by these funds.
The proposal for a directive does not say a word about it, because that is not its purpose.
There is a Commission communication of 19 April which deals with the problems caused by fiscal obstacles for crossborder pensions.
The most important of these problems, which is in third place chronologically, relates to situations of double taxation or non-taxation when there are differences in the tax systems, as is the case within the European Union.
If this increase in production capacity were not entirely channeled into profits for the privileged few, society might be able to ensure that all pensioners were paid a full salary, without having to force them to work longer.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive dealt with in this report seeks, as we know, to harmonise conditions for the provision of services by professional pension management institutions and their investment rules but, in a broader sense, seeks to create a single market for supplementary pensions, placing it in the context of actions of financial services towards the greater liberalisation of the movement of capital.
Consequently, we disagree not only with the proposal for a directive but also with the report itself, which seeks to reduce to a minimum the prudential rules liberalising the procedures and the investments of funds in more volatile financial instruments, thereby supporting risk capital, which, in the current climate of financial speculation, is a serious risk for workers' rights.
Their work has been welcomed by many speakers tonight, a sign that his work is welcomed by almost everyone.
It is quite unusual to have over 100 amendments to a proposal for a directive which contains only 20 articles.
The average is five amendments per article.
The hearing organised by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 6 February was certainly most helpful in that it collected the views of the beneficiaries, industry and supervisory authorities.
That proposal seeks to achieve - as is well known - the twin objectives of, on the one hand, a high level of protection for beneficiaries and, on the other, the affordability of pensions.
That has been discussed by many Members in this debate.
These common prudential standards would permit cross-border membership of pension funds and allow an institution in one Member State to manage company pension schemes in other Member States.
However, for the time being, some Member States do not regulate, allow or enable the transfer of pension rights between the various providers of second pillar provision, even within their own territories.
The Commission has therefore planned an initiative on the portability of pensions which we hope will be proposed before the end of the year.
I should now like to give the opinion of the Commission on the specific amendments.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 4, 7 (in part), 8, 10, 16, 17, 25 (in part), 28, 55, 63, 65, 66, 82, 84, 91 and 92.
The Commission can also accept the spirit of Amendments Nos 15 (in part), 29, 33, 35 (in part), 36, 37 (in part), 38, 39, 40, 43, 46, 47, 52, 53, 54, 62, 67, 68, 69, 71, 72 (in part), 77, 78, 80, 85, 86, 87, 89, 93, 94, 95, 112 (in part), 118, 131 and 132.
But the Commission is regrettably not in a position to accept the other amendments which, for the most part, aim at widening the objective of the directive.
The directive which the Commission has proposed has a limited ambition, namely the creation of a prudential framework with stringent prudential standards to ensure security and affordability and allow for mutual recognition.
Cover of biometric risks, in particular of longevity, is an important aspect of the fight against poverty and insecurity among elderly people.
But this directive should not stipulate how and to what extent benefits ought to be paid out or which biometric risks need to be covered by the institution.
In the same spirit, the directive should not interfere with the way in which the Member States organise the governance of pension funds.
Involvement of social partners in the management of a pension fund is an issue which is sometimes enshrined in national and social law.
Therefore the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 6, 21, 49, 50, 61 and 101.
Indeed Mr García-Margallo y Marfil put a question to me on that aspect of the directive.
As you know, the Commission has recently adopted a communication on the tax aspects which calls for the elimination of unduly restrictive or discriminatory tax rules.
That is why the Commission is not in a position to accept Amendments Nos 30, 31, 32 and 117.
The same comments could apply to the problems linked to the transferability and portability of pension rights to which I referred a little moment ago.
But it does entail very complex tax, social and legal considerations and that makes it impossible to cover this element under this directive.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 7 (in part), 26, 56, 57, 58 and 74.
The qualitative approach to investment and technical provisions is based on the assumption that Member States must keep the option to have more detailed rules.
The same argument applies to the way in which supervisory authorities organise their work, especially for the registration and authorisation procedures.
That is why the Commission cannot accept the following amendments: Nos 22, 23, 24, 25 (in part), 27, 42, 44, 45, 51, 59, 60, 64, 72 (in part), 73, 75, 76, 79, 81, 83, 88, 99, 100, 102, 103, 104, 105, 109, 110, 111, 113, 116, 123, 124, 127, 128, 129 and 130.
Institutions that already benefit from a single market framework should not be covered by this directive, with the exception of life assurance companies for which Member States must retain the option of applying this directive for their activities that are linked to pension provision.
In the same way, and in order to facilitate supervision in those Member States with tens of thousands of institutions, it is important for them to keep the option of excluding them from the scope of the directive, and that is why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 9, 13, 14, 15 (in part), 34, 35 (in part), 37 (in part), 107, 119, 120 and 122.
Finally, the directive creates the right framework for the cross-border management of pension schemes.
Moreover, to make this mutual recognition effective, an effective system of exchange of information and correct enforcement of the directive must be put in place as recommended by Parliament.
Those are the reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 70, 90, 96, 97 and 133.
This proposal is an essential element of the whole strategy for the sustainability of our pension systems.
It allows pension funds to take full advantage of both the euro and the single market and it makes sure that these funds operate as efficiently and as safely as possible.
The ball is now in the Council's court.
That is essential to demonstrate our political will to respect the commitments made by the European Councils in Lisbon and Stockholm.
The debate is closed.
The debate will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has presented two proposals for directives with a view to changing the legislation governing life and non-life insurance companies.
By means of these two proposals, which are part of the Action Plan for Financial Services adopted in Lisbon and to be implemented by 2005, the existing legislation on non-life insurance dating from 1973 and on life assurance dating from 1979 are to be strengthened and improved.
The general aim of the proposals is to provide improved protection for policyholders by increasing the capital resources of insurance companies and by ensuring more efficient state supervision of insurance companies.
Higher solvency margins or risk buffers not only increase confidence in the performance of insurance companies, they also generally reduce system-related risks on the financial markets.
This approach is understandable, bearing in mind subsidiarity and the considerable cultural differences reflected in the laws governing supervision in the Member States, and from a consumer policy standpoint is to be welcomed.
The sooner we can implement these interim measures the better.
The reports before us therefore already reflect the common position so that it would be possible to adopt both directives at first reading.
Permit me to make one final observation on the procedure itself.
This criticism applies not only to the Council, but also to you, Commissioner, although somewhat less so in this case, and somewhat more in the previous one.
The Legal Affairs Committee approved the proposal and had no comment to make on it.
Nonetheless we need to ensure that we get the minor amendments properly sorted out before embarking on the more wide-ranging reform which we will see in the Solvency II regulation.
It is something we should consider in relation to Solvency II, but it needs more thought and discussion before we can introduce external ratings in this context.
Mr Ettl did a very good job in coordinating with the other two institutions.
I should like to congratulate both the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs on their rapid and thorough analysis of the Commission's proposals to amend the solvency margin rules for life and non-life insurance undertakings.
The Commission's proposals are to strengthen and update existing rules which, as has been mentioned tonight, have been in force for almost 25 years.
The same goes for the requirement for the Commission's report to examine how national supervisory authorities have made use of their enhanced powers of supervision.
Whilst it is always hazardous to count one's chickens before they are hatched, I understand that there is a shared political consensus to seek adoption of these proposals within a single reading.
It is fair to say that this report has been a good example of successful cooperation between our two institutions.
The Commission has an ambitious financial services programme which can bring many real and tangible benefits to our citizens and to industry.
It is my hope that the excellent cooperation which we have enjoyed on this report may be carried forward, not just for the wider Commission review of the overall financial position of an insurance undertaking, called Solvency II, but also for the whole financial services action plan.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the President just explained, this is the second reading of the proposal for a Directive on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources.
At this point I would like to very sincerely thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, in particular Mrs Ayuso González and Claude Turmes.
They have devoted a lot of time and energy to this process and have demonstrated a willingness both to fight and to compromise.
Last but by no means least I would like to thank the responsible Commission officials who played a very important moderating role in the negotiating process.
In order to make it easier to achieve the targets, some Member States have insisted on including the biodegradable component of household waste in non-separated refuse incineration.
First of all, the Member States will have to gear their incentive measures to indicative national targets.
Second, before proposing any harmonised support scheme, the Commission will have to report on the success of the various national systems in achieving an increase in the market share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources.
We have enormous potential for renewable energy sources here in Europe.
That is why it is important to offer a legal framework to those who have already taken that gamble and are investing in this respect.
Specifically, it is very important to negotiate sufficient transitional periods for current aid to maintain investor confidence.
In order to justify the need for this directive, we must bear in mind, on the one hand, the differing degree of competitiveness still existing between renewable energy sources and conventional sources and, on the other, the external costs obviated by this type of technology.
But I am pleased that we have the fall-back position should Member States fail in their duty.
My own country, the United Kingdom - the windiest country in Europe - has some lessons to learn from work in other countries.
I very much look forward to a positive result tomorrow.
Also taking into consideration the many unknown factors in the development of renewable energy, it appears to me particularly sensible to determine indicative target figures on the one hand, but at the same time to give the Commission some scope to submit proposals containing binding target figures to the Council and Parliament if it were to transpire that results were inadequate.
It is therefore proof of sound judgment that, in its definition of what are, and are not, to be regarded as renewable energy sources, the common position leaves room for different types of renewable energy sources and, more specifically, for the incineration of separate waste.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate three ladies this evening.
Tomorrow, we will take an historic step towards renewable energy sources in Europe, which will provide 22% of electricity in 2010.
There is another aspect that we are very familiar with, as politicians - relations involving power.
The unions in Germany, which were against renewable energy sources and in favour of nuclear energy some five years ago, have changed sides because there are now more supporters for renewable energy sources than for nuclear energy.
I believe that this directive has also ensured that our industries are world leaders in areas that still have greater potential than we ourselves do in terms of renewable energy sources.
Think of countries such as Brazil or India where we will gain market share.
I would also like to announce that I am going to nominate certain members of certain governments for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry and in Physics.
Without it the part played by renewable energy sources in the energy production of EU Member States would be very low, although the important role played by wind power in Denmark cannot be underestimated.
Other renewable sources of energy are difficult to find.
The view of the Council, according to which the incineration of unsorted waste is considered to be renewable energy, is unsustainable.
Achieving this target is thus entirely down to the Member States.
Mr President, this directive is a significant step towards meeting the Kyoto objectives and a milestone on the path towards a sustainable energy sector and sustainable energy policy in the European Union.
Above all, we have to make it clear to the Member States of the European Union that there are economic and social advantages in achieving the targets laid down.
Labelling of all energy sources is another long-term objective, because energy consumers have the right to know what primary energy sources their electricity is generated from.
This directive is, of course, an interim stage, but I believe that it is a step in the right direction.
The compromise that is now before us is the best that can be achieved.
First of all, a common European research agenda is needed if we are to develop the technology which will speed up the transition to a low CO2 economy and if we are to learn from each other.
The Sixth Framework Programme for research offers the ideal platform for this.
Sustainable energy is often associated with small-scale solutions: a solar panel on every roof and a few windmills in every village.
I think that she has carried out excellent work and, step by step, has led this process towards an increasingly positive outcome.
We have established a target in the directive whereby at least 22 percent of electricity is to come from renewable energy sources.
I would also reiterate that the aim of the draft directive is to create a framework to enable a considerable improvement in electricity production from renewable energy sources.
This directive provides a response to several major concerns such as sustainable development, environmental protection and respect for the Kyoto commitments, but also with regard to diversifying our supply sources, reducing the European Union' s reliance on energy and, lastly, the creation of new jobs.
Having said this, I would like to go back to two difficult points, which were raised at the beginning of our discussions: on the one hand, the issue of non compulsory national targets.
The issue is whether the national targets should be compulsory.
It is to be feared that this use of waste would essentially justify their production, which does not seem to be a good solution.
To sum up, I would also say that we must support the provisions laying down facilities governing grid access.
In conclusion, Mr President, as a militant and strong supporter of renewable energy sources, I welcome the progress made, but I hope I have pinpointed the difficulties which still need to be overcome in a world where the market and the search for short-term reductions in costs and prices take precedence.
It is essential that we guarantee support for this type of source for a considerable period, thereby allowing our industry to make decisive and long-term investments in this energy alternative.
With regard to the goals which we have set for ourselves, despite the fact that we should have been more ambitious, I believe that the objective of 12% of energy coming from renewable sources by 2010 is something which must be broadened but, in principle, it is a good start.
In summary, I consider it essential and urgent that we reach a pact at European level in order to support this type of energy source.
I too would have preferred the text prepared by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, but I feel that the compromise reached with the Council is adequate and should be supported.
I would once again like to express my respect and admiration for the excellent technical quality and knowledge you have demonstrated in your cooperation, your work and your amendments.
I hope that the debate today and the vote tomorrow will conclude the discussions on this directive and that we will therefore be able to adopt a text at second reading without the need for a conciliation procedure.
This proposal forms part of the Commission' s response to two great challenges.
The first great challenge is the problem of how the European Union should take its Kyoto commitments seriously, how to genuinely implement measures - undoubtedly at a certain cost - which demonstrate our will to fulfil the commitments made on an international level.
Nevertheless, the Commission had not proposed it within the definition of renewable energy, since this goes against a key point, the objective of reusing and recycling waste, a crucial question in the integral treatment of waste proposed by the Commission within its sustainable development strategies.
In a year and two months - since the Commission approved its proposal - we are going to have an approved directive.
I must stress that the reduction in costs is going to allow for an increase in renewable energy for producing electricity, I stress that this is a truly revolutionary proposal in many respects because, although some have said that the objectives are only indicative, these may become obligatory in relation to certain mechanisms, and this is the first time, in a field such as this, that we have set indicative objectives State by State.
I hope that, tomorrow, the vote in this House will allow for the approval of certain consensus amendments which will allow it to be adopted on second reading and prevent any further delay, even to the point of conciliation, in the resolution of this issue.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I would like to give my heartiest thanks to my fellow Member, Mrs McCarthy, who was the draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and with whom I was able to work in a particularly pleasant and, I hope, effective manner.
I would also like to thank the services of Parliament and the Commission, which gave me a great deal of assistance in this matter.
The proposal for a regulation provides for the implementation of the Internet Top Level Domain '.EU' , and the European Union should thus assert its visibility in cyberspace as an individual site but also one that complements the national domains, and transpose the trusted environment which the EU has created via the internal market onto the Internet.
As a general rule, registrations will be done on a first-come, first-served basis, but a so-called 'sunrise' clause has nonetheless been put in place to enable the temporary protection of the rights of former right holders.
The guidelines approved by the Council on 27 June 2001 - in other words, very recently - do not appear to be very far removed from the text that I am proposing for Parliament to vote on, so it should be possible to overcome the difficulties between the institutions.
Admittedly, there are still some difficult discussions ahead, but I feel that we should be optimistic and believe that a common position can be established in the coming months.
We have jointly made some very important recommendations.
They give greater clarity to the text and they spell out in detail the role the registry should perform.
I have concentrated in my committee mainly on the issues of the internal market, intellectual property aspects and the general policy framework.
The idea of Amendment No 36 was that the registry should adopt terms and conditions to incorporate an accredited code of conduct for online trading and therefore give businesses the opportunity to join an accredited online extra-judicial dispute resolution scheme.
Between our rapporteur and our draftsman, they produced a very sound report.
What is important about this report is that they have resisted the temptation to complicate what was basically a simple text proposed by the Commission.
It will be very important for the new registry - and I direct this particularly to the Commission - that the launch date and the priority registration period are very well publicised throughout the European Union so that people understand those rights.
All interested organisations must be represented in the register.
In the Netherlands, we remember all too well how the city of Amsterdam had to buy back the domain name www.amsterdam.nl for an extortionate sum of money, because that name had already been claimed by a pornography business.
The swift advent of the ".EU" Top Level Domain offers an excellent opportunity to boost public confidence and that of businesses in online trade.
The legal framework of the internal market also plays an important role in this field.
Mr President, I too would like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur, and to the draftsman from the Committee on Legal Affairs, with regard to the proposal put before us.
Like previous speakers, I welcome it because it is time that we in the EU had our own domain.
It will allow more business to operate on the new e-economy, and will also get rid of some of the uncertainty and some of the difficulties there are with regard to the different domains that exist at present.
I, along with other Members in the House, have full confidence in the Commission ensuring that there is an innovative and new way of guaranteeing security for this domain in the future.
As is well known, through the Internet, the citizens of the whole world can now discover new realities about countries, companies, associations and, in many cases, ways of life from the opposite ends of the Earth.
Furthermore, we have all been witnesses to the frequent bad use of the Internet.
I believe that within the Internet top level domain ".EU" we must prevent cases of improper uses of names which may harm the image of the European Union and its Member States, because the top level domain ".EU" is going to be the European Union' s shop front to the world, it is going to be our logo and is going to be part of our heritage, and as such it must be dealt with, supervised, controlled and protected.
In summary, I believe there are certain facets of economic activity which must be subject to control, if the intention is to achieve a good result, and the top level domain ".EU" must, in my view, be one of them, so that it may be synonymous with quality, reliability of the information hosted by it and the consistency of its contents.
On this point, I am not in agreement with the report before us.
With this regulation, we are helping to construct the European home, in this case in a virtual form.
Mr President, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur for her outstanding cooperation and the excellent way in which she has worded her report.
The principle underlying the registration policy is that anyone who wants to register a '.EU' domain also has the related trademark rights.
The second model prescribes subsequent intervention in the unlikely event of improper use or speculation.
We have over 18 million companies in Europe, and I believe that it gives them an extremely valuable marketing advantage if they are immediately and easily recognisable throughout the world.
Consumer confidence is fundamental for business and that is why the presence of the European Union on the Internet with a top-level domain is particularly important.
I am extremely happy about the high quality discussion we have here today in this plenary.
As far as the amendments are concerned, the rapporteurs in particular have proposed a number of amendments, which will significantly improve the text of the regulation.
The Commission also welcomes the support given by the rapporteurs to the Commission's proposals for an advisory committee.
There are also a number of proposed amendments which the Commission can accept in principle, subject to further clarification.
At the same time, it will be important to clarify how such a body would interact with the Commission and the Member States committee.
We would, however, point out that this general principle must be subject to the rules and principles adopted as public policies in relation to the registration of the '.EU' , just to avoid the problems which have been mentioned by a few speakers tonight.
The Commission is fully committed to transparency principles and supports the publication of a call for expression of interest in the Official Journal, as was also mentioned by Mr Martin.
The issue of geographical and geopolitical names is, however, an important political issue for some Member States and is fully recognised by the Commission.
I am convinced that the compromise which was reached at the Council, introducing a new paragraph for Article 4.1a may offer an alternative which Parliament may wish to consider further.
The proposal to require the registry to ensure that companies registering a name are legally established in the Community is also problematic.
The proposal that the registry should be obliged to supply information to third parties with a "legitimate interest" is also unacceptable as such to the Commission.
Mr Crowley raised the question about '.EU' and I also received an e-mail at the end of June, talking about the creation of 'www.eu' and a welcome to use our services.
Of course, it was slightly embarrassing, but we must make it clear that, after verification, we are aware of the existence of so-called alternate routes outside the domain-named system; top level domains coordinated by ICANN and of the recent introduction of the alternative route www.eu by the organisation called 'The Universal Registry'.
The future '.EU' top-level domain will, however, operate within the ICANN-approved named system, partly because of the need to ensure that most EU users can access addresses under '.EU' , but also because the Commission supports the principle of a single authoritative rule for the domain-named system.
Of the 40 amendments proposed by the rapporteurs the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 19, 21, 22, 25, 26, 28, 31, 35, 38, 39 and 40.
The Commission can accept, in part or in principle Amendments Nos 9, 13, 14, 18, 20, 29, 30, 32 and 36.
There are positive elements here but for particular reasons of revocation the Commission included that in the amendments which the Commission cannot accept, which are Amendments Nos 6, 15, 23, 24, 27, 33, 34 and 37.
In conclusion, given 40 amendments of which the Commission can accept 32 in full, in part or in principle, these amendments indicate that Parliament and the Commission are clearly pursuing a common objective to ensure that the '.EU' Top Level Domain will soon be a successful registry.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In formal terms, these amendments ultimately fitted very well into a compromise that was excepted by the committee with 49 out of 50 votes, with one abstention.
The purpose of the directive is to create a reliable regulatory framework which provides a basis for consistently deciding questions about the harmonisation of the use of the radio spectrum, allocation procedures and conditions of use at EU level, in cases where the implementation of EU policy objectives requires the use of frequencies.
We are already familiar with this distinction between political decisions and technical implementation measures from the Lamfalussy report.
The allocation of frequencies to the various user groups and users must therefore - and this is already a topical issue - be carried out in the most transparent and democratic way possible, whether at Member State level, at European level within the CEPT, and now at EU level as well, if decisions are to be made about Community activities reliant on frequencies.
I am talking about Amendments Nos 22 and 23, which have been tabled in the plenary.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I would like to emphasise the importance of the transport sector and the equal rights of each means of transport to use radio frequencies for operational purposes, above all to ensure passenger safety.
Some of the amendments put forward by our committee were adopted by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy while others were not.
Amendment No 25 concerns transparency.
I would like to see support for these two amendments.
This is all the more important given that the proposal quite rightly stresses the fact that radio frequencies are a scarce resource and that this will not change in the longer term.
Subject one is the possibility of stepping up the harmonisation of the military use of the radio spectrum.
Thirdly, the Commission, Council and Parliament, and all those involved, must join forces, finally, to open a discussion on this topic and, especially, to look for ways of bringing about harmonisation in the future.
That is why I believe that it is of great importance for the political aspects to be discussed more among the Commission, Council and European Parliament, and for the technical side to be left to the CEPT to take care of.
Mr President, I would like to thank all three institutions.
Mrs Niebler has quite rightly pointed out that there is a considerable difference between technical measures and strategic decisions on policy, and that when it comes to strategic decisions the European Parliament really ought to play a greater role than provided for in the report, so that transparency is guaranteed and democratic structures are actually established.
It is one of the major news stories of the day.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we need is a set of uniform procedures for frequency allocation.
Article 7 is about publishing information.
This proposal is part of a whole which the Commission would like to see adopted by the end of the year.
Today, following discussion in the committee, the issue is having its first reading in the European Parliament.
Despite this, the Commission has some detailed observations on various parts of the report.
From the Commission' s point of view the most problematic aspect of the report is that it does not sufficiently distinguish between, on the one hand, issues which fall under the codecision procedure and, on the other, issues to be decided by the committee procedure.
Some amendments propose that all the decisions should be made by the codecision procedure, in other words that this procedure be adopted in agreeing the Community' s common policy and also in agreeing such technical implementation measures required in order to comply with the policies agreed.
In addition, the report presents amendments according to which the European Parliament could revoke or amend measures already realised via the committee procedure.
I would like to remind you of the main principle of the proposal: whenever the European Parliament and the Council, using the codecision procedure or by other means, agree Community policy concerning the radio spectrum, such as the Galileo project or the Single European Sky project, they agree at the same time that radio frequencies are available in order to realise this Community policy in practice.
In this context the committee procedure is needed to enable us to decide on the technical implementation measures which are essential in order to realise the agreed Community policy.
In such cases, the codecision procedure is used.
For this reason the Commission cannot accept those amendments from Parliament which conflict with the central approach of our proposal for a decision.
Parliament' s amendments, according to which, all the decisions made by the committee procedure would be brought before Parliament and where Parliament would have the right to amend or revoke them if they concern issues other than purely technical implementation measures are against the rules set out in the Comitology Decision.
In this context the most important amendments from the Commission' s point of view are Amendments Nos 10 and 19, and the Commission also requests that the Members of the European Parliament reconsider their opinion on these amendments as they already have regarding Amendments Nos 21, 22 and 23.
For precisely this reason the Commission referred in its proposal to the existing opportunities for doing so - the codecision procedure and the committee procedure.
As for the other amendments, the Commission can approve Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 17 and 22 - 25.
The Commission is unable to approve any other amendments.
The debate is closed.
