For this reason, I would like the Council and the Commission to tell us how we are now to proceed in order to prevent human rights from being violated, how we may support the seventy human rights activists who have been in jail since 18 March 2003, and what means exist for setting at liberty political dissidents in general.
Cuba is one of the last Communist regimes and its economic system is also the wrong one.
I would therefore be very interested to learn, both from the Council and the Commission, how a transformation strategy of this sort might be set in motion, whereby one of the last Communist dictatorships might be brought down, something that would be desirable from the point of view of the people who are its victims in this wretched country.
The Council Presidency has, on a number of occasions in past months, issued public statements and made vigorous representations to the Cuban Government since the deterioration - we can make no bones about this - in March 2003 of the already precarious situation as regards the exercising of individual freedoms and rights in Havana.
Recently, on 21 July 2003, the European Council confirmed that the objectives of the European Union's policy on Cuba remain respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the promotion of a process of transition to a pluralist democracy, and sustainable economic recovery to improve the quality of life of the Cuban people.
The Presidency notes that, since the last evaluations, not only has the Cuban Government not taken any positive measures to satisfy the objectives of this European measure but the human rights situation has also deteriorated further.
Freedom of movement is extremely restricted, both within the country and at international level.
The Presidency regrets the lack of - even - intention to proceed towards restoration of economic and civil freedoms.
In order to promote more effective implementation of the objectives of this European common position, the Council believes that we need to pursue political dialogue, intense, critical dialogue, indeed, to contribute to the achievement of tangible results, first and foremost in the field of politics and, therefore, where political freedoms, the economy and civil rights are concerned too.
The Council would therefore be willing - and I use the conditional tense here - to support an increase in European Union development cooperation where Cuba is concerned, in the areas which could further the transition, the path to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights, and in the areas which could improve the quality of life of the Cuban people and therefore contribute to sustainable economic growth too.
Moreover, the withdrawal of Cuba's request for the second time on 17 May 2003 came as no surprise, although the Council is not required to comment on that decision.
The measures made public through the initiative of 5 June last and the Council's conclusions of June and July 2003 seek to make clear the European Union's support for the Cuban non-violent, democratic opposition and to show the Cuban authorities that trade cannot proceed normally in the absence of tangible gestures from that government.
The Union's Heads of Mission will continue to monitor the situation of political prisoners and conditions in which they are being held in Havana.
Political dialogue with Cuba, resumed in 2001, should certainly be pursued, but under the conditions and constraints which I have mentioned.
Of course, political dialogue also covers the human rights situation.
We regretted the refusal to take part in political dialogue expressed by the Cuban authorities in public statements made even just recently and the public decision to reject funding from European countries and from the Commission.
I met a group of the most well-known Cuban dissidents during my visit to Havana in March 2003.
The recent EU decision to invite dissidents to national day festivities, as the Commission did on 9 May 2003, recognises the role of the internal opposition.
I must also add that regular meetings with opposition groups in Cuba have taken place at the initiative of Member States in Havana.
The Member States and the Commission have established a Human Rights Working Group in Havana to follow human rights issues in Cuba, including the matter of political prisoners.
The Commission is regularly informed of detention conditions through this working group and through bilateral contacts with family members of those imprisoned, as well as with local human rights groups.
The EU intends to continue its dialogue with Havana to promote political, economic and civil rights reforms and is willing to provide aid whenever possible via non-governmental organisations in order to promote democratisation and improve living standards for ordinary Cubans.
Based on it, political dialogue with the government and the opposition needs to be strengthened, as well as the promotion of human rights, pluralist democracy and an open economic system.
The Commission regrets the decision of the Cuban Government to withdraw its application for accession to the Cotonou Agreement.
Membership of the Cotonou Agreement would have provided the right framework to develop a structured dialogue with the Cuban authorities and to improve the delivery of aid to that country.
The Commission is positive about the operation of our new delegation in Havana.
This is a heavy and difficult agenda to pursue, but it is essential if we wish to promote political and economic changes in Cuba.
The latest evaluation of the common position encourages the strengthening of EU development cooperation in Cuba in areas that promote the transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights, that improve the living standards of the population of Cuba and promote sustainable economic growth.
The common position states that funding should only be channelled through governmental institutions if it directly benefits the population or if it promotes a meaningful contribution towards economic reform and a more open economy in Cuba.
According to a recent statement from Havana, it seems that in future the Cuban Government will only accept aid from the Commission and the EU Member States that is channelled through UN agencies, NGOs, foundations, solidarity movements, autonomous regions and local governments.
Furthermore, the Cuban Government will apparently refuse to negotiate directly with the Member States and the Commission on development cooperation themes, programmes and projects and will only agree to deal with NGOs on such issues.
Mr President, I agree with Commissioner Nielson that since the Cuban regime unleashed its repression in March, with the detention of independent journalists and human rights activists, our relations have only deteriorated.
What is more, the prison conditions of those sentenced, according to all the news, Mr Nielson, clearly violate human rights.
I would ask Commissioner Nielson to tell us what he is doing in relation to the Commission's delegation, recently opened up in Havana.
The authorities' refusal to allow him to be with us today - announced by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy - seems to me to be very worrying, and I would ask the Presidency of the European Parliament to support the Committee on Foreign Affairs in relation to its intentions.
In view of this situation - as Minister Frattini has said - it is clear that it is not possible to change the common position set in 1996 and we must - and I address this directly to the President?in-Office of the Council - prevent any gesture which could be interpreted as an internal difference within the European Union.
We must also reject the Cuban authorities' attempts to divide us and therefore measures such as the demonstration of 14 June or the closure of the Spanish Cultural Centre are not so much acts of aggression against a Member State as against the whole of the European Union.
Mr President, our only purpose must be to improve the living conditions and areas of freedom of the Cuban citizens.
Mr President, it should be made clear that the European Union's position on the current Cuban situation is based on the view that the Cuban people are today subject to a double embargo: an external economic embargo that has lasted more than 40 years and which has indiscriminately harmed all the Cuban people, and a political embargo by a regime against its people, by a regime which denies its people their essential rights of expression and association and the right to democratic and open political participation.
The European position should clearly be to reject this double embargo, these two embargoes, which feed off each other, and which promote the most intransigent positions with regard to the future of the Cuban people.
The only certainty is that the person with practically all the decision-making power is 77 years old and, therefore, things in that country are going to change.
In recent years there has been a significant emergence of demands for democratic change inside and outside Cuba and, in this regard, the wave of brutal and entirely unacceptable oppression which was unleashed a few months ago contains a political lesson: the need to try, if not to break, at least to slow down this entirely ineluctable process.
Within this context, we should not have any illusions with regard to the possibilities of modifying current political decisions on the basis of pressure.
If 40 years of embargo have not helped to do this, I believe we should abandon any tactical approach of this sort.
From a qualitative point of view, we must take a different position: in view of the prospect of inevitable change, to help the Cuban people, to alleviate their sufferings and their needs and to hold constructive dialogue in order to prevent the change from taking the form of civil confrontation or violent confrontation but, on the contrary, to take the form of peaceful transition based on dialogue, agreement and the national independence of Cuba.
I believe this must be the principle underpinning the European Union's position in relation to the current crisis of change in Cuba.
This must be the essential factor in the European Union's pursuit of a constructive policy of dialogue and solidarity with the Cuban people.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the assessment we made in December of last year, the situation in Cuba has only worsened.
All the proposals for cooperation, for promoting openness, democratic transition and economic support have come up against a brick wall of intolerance, rejection and, what is worse, a response which, as has been said, affects dozens of members of the Cuban opposition, independent journalists and human rights activists.
This situation requires a categorical response and, as has been requested here, a unanimous and very clear response on the part of the institutions of the European Union, in order to promote the democratic process and, fundamentally, to guarantee human rights - some of which are as essential and important to a society as the exercise of freedom of expression.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Nielson, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left unreservedly condemns the death penalty, and it has done so in the case of Cuba, as in the rest of the world.
Our group also criticises the lack of freedoms and rights in Cuba - as it does in the rest of the world - but I would like to point out my experiences when I travelled from Argentina to Colombia and to Cuba last December.
I believe that the European Union can and must play a completely different role with regard to Cuba, a positive role, and one which is totally opposed to that of the United States.
In fact, one of the most important elements in understanding what is happening in Cuba comes from the conduct of the United States: the permanent blockade which has lasted more than 40 years, the Helms-Burton laws - condemned by the UN and denounced by the European Union - are a serious abuse.
Colin Powell himself recognises that USD 22 million are channelled to the dissidents, in order to promote disturbances, in order to even promote an assault, as in the case of the actions in Iraq.
Because, as Fidel Castro quite rightly said in January 1999 - when the euro was put in place - the euro gives great hope that the developing world, and all countries, will be able to be freed from the yoke of the dollar.
I believe that the European Union must play this positive role and not the negative role played by the United States.
Mr President, Commissioner, those of us who love Cuba and the honest and down-to earth Cuban people are deeply upset to see human rights and in particular the right to freedom of expression persistently breached by President Castro's regime.
Indeed, Cuba is the only country in Latin America not bound by a bilateral cooperation agreement with the European Union, despite the fact that through some of its Member States, the Union is the main source of business and investment in Cuba.
Following the collapse of the Soviet bloc, the Union became the island's main trading partner and in this capacity, we believe that the Union's key role presents exceptional opportunities for exerting moral and political influence in order to take democracy and respect for human rights forwards in Cuba.
The Union must consequently play a key role where Cuba is concerned.
They are suffering as a result of the policy of confrontation with the United States after 44 years of the blockade and the Helms-Burton law.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Parliament on its initiative of tabling the debate for today, which in fact provides a good opportunity to respond to the ongoing worsening of the humanitarian and human rights situation in Cuba.
Fidel Castro's regime still responds to the international community in a negative way and persecution is unfortunately still taking place in that country, which is so dear to many of us.
We are consequently all the more disappointed and indignant, because the Cuban regime has betrayed and rejected our good faith and has dashed our hopes of seeing positive developments in the Cuban regime, expressed in particular through the attempt at openness made by a delegation at the beginning of the year and in the visit to Cuba made by Commissioner Nielson, also at the beginning of the year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Cuba is today the only country in Latin America, as has just been said, with which the Community has not concluded a cooperation agreement.
Lastly, we have all the more reason to be circumspect on the issue of human rights because the United States - which the German Foreign Minister, Joschka Fischer, described on a visit to Washington in July as the main ally of every European State - without any mandate, moreover - have for the last year and a half used a Cuban enclave, Guantanamo, to breach practically every principle of international law and to settle their scores using somewhat barbaric methods more suited to another age.
For all of these reasons, I believe we should review our attitude towards Cuba and show that country greater solidarity.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, today's debate on the situation in Cuba tells us one simple fact: it tells us how difficult it is to promote and support human rights and democracy when we are faced with a totalitarian regime and we have been trying everything for years: constructive dialogue, economic cooperation, humanitarian aid.
Maybe we could reflect on another point, we could reflect on the fact that, when our democracies are divided over a dictator, we will not go far.
The frustration is real: constructive dialogue with a dictator is proving to have its limits and the real question is what to do.
This Parliament is going to adopt a very tough resolution, expressing its inescapable commitment to the cause of human rights and to all those in Cuba and outside it who are fighting for its freedom and its dignity.
And I would ask myself, Commissioner, whether in these circumstances, with a country which does not wish to have a link with the European Union - because it has rejected incorporation into the Cotonou Agreement for a second time; with a country whose leaders reject Community aid; with a country whose leaders insult and denigrate European Union Heads of Government; with a country which imposes endless restrictions on the presentation of identity cards by the Commission's diplomatic representative, it is worth, Commissioner, keeping the office in Havana open.
The draft compromise resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, contains a condemnation of the closure of the Spanish Cultural Centre in Havana.
What I do not know is whether the Cuban authorities know that it is much more difficult to preserve and maintain the balance of freedom than to bear the weight of tyranny.
The people who know this best, Mr President, are exemplary people - such as Oswaldo Payá, the winner of this Parliament's Sakharov Prize, nominee for the Prince of Asturias Cooperation Prize and nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize - who bravely fight for their rights as people and as citizens and ultimately for their freedom, because they are perfectly aware that at the end of the day, Mr President, freedom - as a compatriot of mine said some years ago - does not make men happier, but simply makes them men.
It is, though, a matter of concern to us that the introduction of democracy and of a freely-chosen economic system should be peaceful and not enforced, whether by what one might term Castro's internal power relationships or by international big business.
The European Union's presence in Cuba is important, in that it will enable Cuba to introduce a democratic system.
These also include a number of Liberals whom I have met personally in Cuba, such as Osvaldo Alfonso Valdés, the leader of Cuba's Liberal Democratic Party and Adolfo Fernández Sainz, the international secretary of the Party for Solidarity and Democracy.
This happened less than a month after the European Commission's office in Cuba was opened.
It is not only a violation of human rights, but also a slap in the face for the European Union.
We must give a clear signal to the regime in Cuba that we no longer tolerate the situation.
A restriction of high-level bilateral government visits, as announced by the Council in its statement of 5 June, is, however, too weak a measure.
We must be clear in what we say and as far as I am concerned, the Council should consider taking the same measures as we have done in Zimbabwe, namely deny Fidel Castro access to the European Union, as, in fact, Greece has done in the context of the Olympic Games.
In the Netherlands, organisations such as Novib, Oxfam and Hivos are currently receiving the criticism that they are offering support to one of the world's last Communist dictatorships via support to bodies such as the Anap farmers' union, Casa de las Americas and the Martin Luther King Centre.
According to Carlos Payá, spokesman of the Faella Project and brother of Osvaldo Payá, financing these organisations is tantamount to financing Castro.
Mr President, Cuban-EU relations, which had been steadily improving in recent years, have recently been plunged into crisis by President Castro's arbitrary and provocative decisions to imprison 70 dissidents and human rights activists and carry out executions.
Nor should Cuba be allowed to participate fully in the interparliamentary meetings between representatives of the European Union and Latin Americans, such as the Parlatino, as though it were a functioning democracy, whilst Castro's suggestion that EU humanitarian aid can only be given if it is distributed in a disguised fashion via other agencies is totally unacceptable.
The latter is another country where contact with human rights activists is also essential.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, half a year after the operation carried out by the Castro Government against internal dissidents - the most significant since the triumph of the Castro revolution - more than 70 internal dissidents - including promoters of the Varela Project, trade unionists and independent journalists - imprisoned for the sole crime of dissenting from official policy and freely expressing their opinion, remain in prison in conditions which, furthermore, clearly violate the most fundamental principles of humanitarian law and which genuinely threaten the lives of some of them.
In view of this situation and in view of the facts it is essential that we reiterate our unanimous condemnation of the Castro regime and demand the immediate release of all political prisoners, and it is also essential that we express our solidarity with the Cuban people, who most directly suffer the consequences of the lack of freedoms and demonstrate to them through action - rather than words - that we wish to help them to take the road of peaceful transition towards democracy they have set out upon.
As the Uruguayan poet Eduardo Galeano said, Cuba hurts.
And because we in this Parliament are hurt by it - and today we are receiving representatives of those countries which had been deprived of freedom under the Soviet totalitarian regime - we wish to tell them that they should not lose hope.
I totally agree with the need for pressing on with the process of democratisation and opening up political life in Cuba.
Thirdly, two different views were expressed about the delegation in Havana.
It is quite clear that this delegation is not only useful in this situation but also essential in order for the Commission to do what Parliament expects and asks of us.
It is important we stick to a long-term perspective: there will be a Cuba after Castro and nations are more important than regimes.
Mr President, I would just like to say that I hope that, after this debate, the President-in-Office of the Council, and we, ourselves, too, will have the chance to hear - as in the case of the Commission - a response, a summing up of the debate.
The next item is the debate on the European Convention: presentation of the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
Colleagues, welcome to this special debate on the European Convention.
This is the first opportunity that we in the European Parliament, in plenary session, have had to hear directly from the President of the Convention, reporting to this House on the outcome of the Convention and on the way forward for its content through the Intergovernmental Conference.
As you have just said, Mr President, the Constitution is being presented now because this is the first plenary part-session of the European Parliament following the conclusion of our work.
This is why I am presenting the text to you in this part-session.
I must tell you that you are fully entitled to have this presentation, because the European Parliament is really the institution behind the Convention and thus the draft Constitution.
As long ago as 1984, spurred on brilliantly by Altiero Spinelli, Parliament drew up an initial draft constitution for Europe, at a time when nobody dared talk about it or even think about it.
Lastly, Mr President, I am not forgetting that you have given the European Convention a home on your premises.
This presentation is, therefore, an emotional occasion, but also a realistic one, because I stand here before you both in order to present and assess what we have accomplished, and also to reiterate what remains to be done to ensure that Europe gains a real Constitution.
Two years ago, the very word 'Constitution' was still taboo, to the extent that the Laeken declaration only alluded to it indirectly.
According to the latest Eurobarometer survey, drawn up by the Commission, Mr President, and conducted in June and July throughout the European Union, 70% say that they are in favour of a Constitution and only 13% are not in favour.
In Italy, which is the current holder of the Council Presidency and which consequently has a major responsibility for the success of the Intergovernmental Conference - I must take this opportunity to welcome the Vice-President of the Council, who is a member of the Convention and the Minister of Foreign Affairs - 82% approve of the idea of a Constitution.
I shall give the example of Finland, whose representatives have played a very active role in the Convention: 53% of the public is in favour and 37% against.
Our joint endeavours to explain the content of the Constitution have also enabled us to make progress in increasing European citizens' understanding of our project.
And to you who represent them, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I have one request to make: never forget the citizens.
It was published, as you know, in all the languages of the Union and in the language of every new Member State.
The members of the Convention have worked long and hard.
They have taken part in twenty-six plenary sessions, some of which have lasted two days and they have heard more than 1800 speeches.
Every proposal, every amendment, every alternative solution, whether it came from a Convention member, a Member State, the European Commission, civil society or, of course, from the European Parliament has been rigorously examined and pored over with a critical and objective eye.
I believe that our proposal goes as far as it is possible to go, given the political, social and cultural climate in Europe today.
If we seek to go further, as some would like to see, and perhaps I am one of those, there is a danger that, as a result of some people's rejection of the idea or of other people's disapproval, we will tear apart a Europe that has only just been united.
This is an unacceptable risk that no one has the right to take.
And you yourselves, the Members of the European Parliament, have encouraged us to go as far as possible, whilst outlining the limits of what is reasonable and acceptable.
What then are the basic proposals put forward in the Constitution?
First of all, a central point, which underpins the entire system: the affirmation of the dual nature of the European Union, a union of European peoples and a union of European States.
Next, the establishment of a single text that replaces all existing Treaties, of which there are four, plus a few others, and the attribution of legal personality to the European Union.
Another proposal is the clear, transparent and stable definition of the Union's competences, and these are three aspects that I wish to reiterate.
Mr Méndez de Vigo, a Member of the European Parliament, who is present here today, has played a major role in his capacity as chairman of the working group on this issue, which had been deadlocked since 1990.
Furthermore, the Union is given new means with which to act in three areas in which the citizens believe them to be a priority.
First of all justice, because in this field we envisage the construction of an area of security and of justice that will enable us to fight more effectively against major cross-border crime and to achieve the mutual recognition of civil rights between Member States.
In the field of the Union's foreign policy, the Convention has met the citizens' second expectation by proposing the appointment of a European Union Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will chair the Foreign Affairs Council and work to ensure the development of a much-needed common foreign policy.
Lastly, the Union's economic and social governance will be improved, especially but not exclusively, between the countries that have adopted the euro, to ensure the stability and success of our common European currency.
The Constitution will give Europe a single institutional system, and by that I mean just one institutional system that will replace the system of the three pillars.
The institutions that the Constitution proposes are stable, democratic and effective.
The European Parliament, the main Union institution featured in the Constitution, becomes the Union's main legislature and the overseer of budgetary policy.
This Council will now have a face, with a President elected by his or her peers, who will organise its work and plan for the future.
The European Commission, which is to be structured in a way that confirms its collegiate nature and whose composition is in line with the number of functions it performs, will act as the driving force and the main executive body of the Union.
The President of the Commission will be able to appoint non-voting Commissioners in order to ensure, if he or she wishes, that all Member States are kept informed.
Speaking now to you, who have worked so hard on this matter, I wish to reiterate one essential point: the democratic legitimacy of the system proposed in the Constitution.
Parliament's rights are also extended in budgetary matters.
Admittedly, the debate on the issue of the possible presentation of candidates was a difficult one and I am unfortunately unable to take it any further.
Candidates will be presented at the proposal of the European Council, but with two new features: firstly, the outcome of the elections to Parliament will be taken into account and, secondly, the necessary consultations will be held.
At the behest of Giuliano Amato, the Convention has succeeded in undertaking an enormous task of simplifying and classifying European decisions.
In now making a distinction between legislative and executive acts, we are taking a step closer towards the traditional systems in force in the Member States, systems that are familiar and understandable to all citizens.
The democratic system imagined by Montesquieu and the thinkers of the enlightenment - I, like many others, have been greatly interested in Montesquieu's thinking - cannot, contrary to what is sometimes said, be transposed, because Montesquieu's system was designed to meet the needs of a nation State and what he calls the 'balance of powers' is a balance that exists only within such a nation State.
Nevertheless, we have managed to transpose it to some extent, to define a new balance of powers that takes account of the duality that is and will no doubt remain a unique feature of the European Union: the union of peoples and the union of States.
We have consequently defined a democratic model on a European scale, which takes account not only of the size of the population - 450 million inhabitants - and of the diversity of the Member States, both old and new, but also of the desire for the European continent to be united.
In short, if I may say so respectfully and cautiously, we have created a form of Montesquieu for the Europe of the twenty-first century. (Laughter and applause) Before entering into force, this Constitution still faces two sizeable obstacles to overcome: its approval by governments and its ratification by the democratic expression of Europe's peoples, in the form of Parliaments or referendums.
I should like to say a few words about the role that you will have to play in this process.
Before doing so, however, I wish to remove any ambiguity about the future role of the Convention.
On 20 June 2003, in the Convention's name, I sent the first two parts of the Constitution that had been drawn up by the Convention to the Greek Presidency.
When in Rome, on 18 July, I handed over to the Italian Presidency the by then completed text of the draft constitutional treaty, I added - I shall quote this short passage in full, for Parliament's records - that the Convention has executed the mandate conferred on it by the Laeken European Council and has completed it.
On the other hand, the Convention members, not least the President of this Parliament, the vice-presidents and myself, will remain available to anyone, and that includes those within this hemicycle, who wishes to ask us about the arguments that have led us to put forward any particular proposal contained in the Constitution.
The Intergovernmental Conference will open in precisely one month, under the Italian Presidency, a representative of which will perhaps say something about this a little later.
The Thessaloniki European Council decided that the conference would take our draft Constitution as its starting point.
How, in fact, could a draft that took us sixteen months of continual work to draw up be improved on in two and a half months?
Furthermore, how can unanimity provide more thorough solutions than those on which we struggled to reach consensus?
If the Intergovernmental Conference succeeds in improving the Constitution, the Convention Members will be the first to applaud its success.
The second possibility is that the Intergovernmental Conference will end up submitting proposals that are less worthy than those put forward by the Convention.
The third solution, which appears to be the most suitable one, consists of approving the draft Constitution. (Applause) If the draft Constitution produced by the Convention is to be approved, however, we would equally have to accept, of course, and I address my words now to the Presidency representatives, that some unanimously accepted amendments will need to be made to it.
I wish to ask you, without dwelling too much on the matter, to consider the gravity of the consequences of failure.
Lastly, let us not forget that after the Intergovernmental Conference, we will face the real ordeal by fire: the draft's ratification in each Member State, in each of the twenty-five Member States.
If, on the other hand, what is submitted is a mutilated or truncated draft Constitution, I fear that it will be rejected in one or more Member States.
Mr President, the European Parliament has a crucial role to play throughout this process and I would ask you to be active and vigilant.
Indeed, it is your duty to ensure that the general public is well informed.
No, this will be a constitutional Intergovernmental Conference of a type never seen before, which must result in the creation of a Constitution.
At the last sitting of the Convention that you attended, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and members of the Convention, I suggested that the Intergovernmental Conference should take its inspiration from our working method, which was actually imposed on us, by making it mandatory to make public, if necessary on the Internet, any proposal to change the Constitution and any amendment to it. (Applause) This will give the general public and the media a precise idea of the content of the debates.
You will, therefore, deliver an opinion on this Intergovernmental Conference and you will do so before the conference opens in Rome.
If, on the other hand, the Union's governments adopt at the Conference a constitutional treaty that closely resembles the draft Convention - we do not expect it to be exactly the one we have drawn up - and if this receives the approval of the European Parliament, it will occupy a central position in the great political debate that will take place in the European elections of June 2004.
Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, at the very end of our work, we added into the Constitution, at the request of your representatives, a number of symbols and, in particular, a slogan for the European Union, which is 'united in its diversity'.
I would like, first of all, to express my deep satisfaction at the fact that the Thessaloniki Council endorsed the draft Constitution adopted by the Convention, describing it as a historic step towards achieving the objectives of European integration and then describing the Treaty as a 'sound basis' upon which to open the Intergovernmental Conference which is to take place during the Italian Presidency.
The Laeken mandate was explicit: to rethink the entire European institutional set-up on the eve of the major historic event of the reunification of the old continent once and for all.
For the first time in the history of European integration, the task was not entrusted to - albeit esteemed - government officials, but to a genuinely democratic, representative assembly, in other words to a Convention made up of representatives of the national parliaments, the European Parliament and the Commission, and representatives both of those countries which have been part of the European Union from the beginning and of those which are about to become full members of our great family.
Now, after 16 months of work, we have achieved a major result which was, in many respects, unhoped for and which I feel is even more significant if we consider the innovative nature of the working method which the Praesidium proposed to the Convention.
It is why the Italian Presidency considers that Mr Giscard d'Estaing is right when he states categorically that the further the Intergovernmental Conference moves away from the agreement reached by the Convention, the more difficult it will be to find consensus again and, therefore, the greater the likelihood of failure, and that failure would be a resounding defeat.
We have made that clear publicly before our own citizens, before the Italian parliament, but it is right to state the fact once again in this Chamber.
The text was, indeed, a compromise, but a superior, noble compromise between different bodies, perspectives and interests, a compromise based on a number of points which we feel to be essential and which I too want to mention again briefly: the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the text of the Constitution; changing the complex and, in some respects, outdated pillar structure of the current Treaties; clearer distribution of powers between the Union and the Member States with all due regard for national identities and the internal organisation of the respective States, that dual principle to which Mr Giscard d'Estaing referred; the introduction of mechanisms to ensure genuine respect for the principle of subsidiarity and to bring about increasingly extensive involvement of the national parliaments in the work of the Union.
The Convention established that there are four institutions: the Council, the European Parliament, the Commission and also the national parliaments, which represent the will of the people.
It is a balance based on the distribution of powers between the European Council, which takes on the role of a political institution, with the task of laying down the Union's guidelines and general political priorities, the Commission, representing the Member States, which keeps its central role of guardian of the Treaties and guarantor of the Community interest, and the European Parliament, which becomes a full colegislator.
That is why the delicate but considerable balance achieved by the Convention will be the basic reference for the Intergovernmental Conference.
To preserve this spirit and ensure continuity and consistency with the work carried out by the Convention, I believed and continue to believe it desirable for the representatives of the Commission and the European Parliament to take part in Conference and for the Chairman of the Convention and its Vice-Chairmen, Mr Amato and Mr Dehaene, to take part too.
The European Parliament must continue to play a fundamental part in this stage of the project of constitutional reform.
Indeed, if this major opportunity were to be lost, it would be a negative signal for all the European citizens and we would certainly be doing irreparable damage to the project of European integration.
The project of building a united Europe is currently going through a crucial stage in its history with, on the one hand, reunification with the countries of the east, which are once again fully embracing the principles of freedom and democracy, and, on the other, the transition from an economic dimension to a political dimension, which can only go hand in hand with the building of a European identity which will enable the Union to become an element of stability, prosperity and peace on the world stage.
The first Treaty of Rome launched European unification; the second must - and will - bring about the transition to the new reunified Europe: a Union which is politically and economically stronger, destined to become an element of stability and prosperity on the world stage.
There are three guiding principles which the Presidency intends to follow in directing the proceedings of the Intergovernmental Conference, which, as you are aware, will open on 4 October in Rome.
First of all, the Presidency considers it essential to adhere to the timetable drawn up by the Thessaloniki European Council: this will mean pressing ahead resolutely in an attempt to achieve a positive outcome in time for the European Parliament elections scheduled for June 2004.
This requirement has dictated the Italian Presidency's primary objective of conducting the IGC proceedings at a rapid pace, in the hope of reaching an overall, comprehensive agreement on the constitutional text by December.
The future Constitutional Treaty - a Constitution for Europe, as Mr Giscard d'Estaing has described it - can then be signed sometime between 1 May 2004, the date on which the ten new Member States will join the Union, and the European Parliament elections scheduled for June 2004.
The second objective of the Presidency is to preserve the structure and balance of the text drawn up by the Convention.
The political wealth accrued as a result of the success achieved will not be dissipated or weakened by the Conference's proceedings; rather, the Conference must undertake to improve and supplement those parts of the Treaty on which full agreement has not yet been reached, the parts of the Treaty - I reiterate for the sake of clarity - which do not deal with the institutional pillars defined by the Convention.
The Italian Presidency will therefore oppose any questioning of the overall balance of the draft and its basic features.
The third and final point which will constitute a guideline during the Conference is the need to achieve consensus on a number of topics which are still controversial using the desired principle of unanimity: this will, under no circumstances, force the Italian Presidency to negotiate a 'downwards' compromise which would constitute a retreat from the Convention's proposals.
We are not drafting a Constitution for Europe designed to last only a few years, and here we are relying on the fundamental support of the European Parliament.
As you know, the Italian Presidency has started the procedures for convening the Intergovernmental Conference, which will open in Rome on 4 October.
We believe that the Conference must be conducted at a high political level, as has already been stipulated by the European Council, namely at Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister level, but we also believe that the representatives of all the European institutions must take part so that the IGC is genuinely the ideal continuation of the Convention's work.
On that basis, I will put forward a proposal to the effect that the European Parliament should be guaranteed participation through its representatives in the work of the IGC, both at the level of Foreign Affairs Ministers and at the level of Heads of Government, with the participation of the President of the European Parliament.
Any other solution would, indeed, represent a step backwards in relation to the democratic method for revising the Treaties based on the principle and the requirement of transparency and consideration for the citizens.
We undertake to prevent any such destructive attempts succeeding. (Applause) . (IT) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my warm thanks to all the members of the Convention, and to you, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, in particular, for the dedication and intelligence you have shown in the long months of intense work that have distinguished this phase of the constitution-building process.
The draft prepared by the Convention thus provides the basis - I would say an excellent basis - for drawing up the final version of the Constitution.
This is a good thing because, above all, the text has great symbolic value: this is the first time the Union's foundations have been debated in an open, democratic forum representative of the peoples and States of Europe.
Secondly, the draft Constitution resolutely tackles the issues of the institutional balance of powers and the complex nature of the Union.
The debate has been intense and thorough, and it has allowed all the fundamental issues put forward to be dealt with coherently, namely: finding a new, more effective way of reconciling the two tracks of European integration, the Community and the intergovernmental; striking a balance between the States' political representation and that of the people, and the resulting roles of Parliament and the Council; devising a way to organise the representation of the Union's general interest and the legitimate interests of the individual Member States.
The Intergovernmental Conference that is to finalise and formalise the work of the Convention is now commencing.
From the start - ever since the Commission and Parliament advocated the Convention approach after Nice - we in the Commission have always said that the Intergovernmental Conference should be a short, focused, conclusive phase.
Indeed, there are aspects of the draft Constitution that bear clear witness to the fact that the compromise reached is incomplete and that the result achieved to date cannot be the end of the line, as we had originally hoped.
As it stands, the draft Constitution still provides for unanimous decision-making in over 50 sectors, including some key areas of the Union's work.
Everyone agrees, moreover, that one of the shortcomings in the current situation is the lack of a proper instrument for coordination of Member States' budgetary policies.
Then there is the key issue of the future balance of powers between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
The draft Constitution proposes a Commission made up in a way that will, in my opinion and the opinion of the College, make the institution representing the Union's general interest less able to do its work effectively and credibly.
More progress is therefore needed - and this is not at all incompatible with the need to keep the Intergovernmental Conference brief and bring it to a swift conclusion - to make sure every Member country has a full Commissioner.
At the same time, the present text of the draft Constitution leaves choices open on key points, such as the way the Councils are to work and responsibilities in the field of external relations.
The task of the Intergovernmental Conference is to make the work of the institutions more transparent and more effective and to prevent duplication and halfway solutions that may breed future conflicts.
Essentially, this has been the case every time the Treaties have been amended.
This may always have been part and parcel of European integration - a mixture of vision and reaction to crises induced by growth.
At all events, if we want to capitalise on our experience and if we genuinely want to draft a Constitution that will last, we must provide for mechanisms that allow decisions to be taken tomorrow where they cannot be taken today.
Indeed, the worst-case scenario would be to find ourselves with inadequate constitutional provisions that, in practice, simply cannot be amended because of the requirement of unanimous agreement among 25 or more Member States.
This is true of unanimous decision-making, which still applies today in many sectors, and it is therefore even more true when it comes to bringing policies up to date, a process which we are unable to tackle now.
This we must avoid at all costs if we want to perform the historic task entrusted to us responsibly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our work, we need to keep a clear vision of the path the Union must continue to follow: peace, freedom and solidarity must continue to be our goals in the day-to-day work of the institutions.
The Union must speak with a single voice in the world - a strong, authoritative, peaceable voice.
It is based on the duty of mutual defence, in the firm conviction that the defence of each and every Member State is the best way to show that we belong to a single family.
We meant ensuring that the members of the Convention were aware of the historic importance of the moment, of the difficulty of the challenge and of the will to rethink Europe in accordance with what was best for the citizens in the new Europe following the great enlargement.
I believe that in the creation of that Convention spirit, which has been the key to this success, you have played a leading role, Mr President.
I believe that what we have carried out is an exercise in realising those slogans which this European Parliament has had since the 1990s: more democracy, more efficiency and more transparency.
I believe that this Constitution is more democratic, more efficient and more transparent.
It is true that we have done so, but we have done so precisely in order to provide the European Union with greater democracy.
Today this Parliament, with this Constitution, is a fully democratic Parliament, fully integrated into the decision-making process.
But I believe that, in the modifications we have introduced, the idea of preserving the balance was absolutely essential.
I believe that to criticise the Constitution - to say that it should have been done this way or that - is the work of experts and professors, but I do not believe it is the work of the European Parliament.
I remember that in the twenties there was a debate in Germany on the guardian of the Constitution between Carl Schmitt and Hans Kelsen: Der Hüter der Verfassung.
I therefore believe that our political message should be to become the guardians of this Constitution.
That is the great thing about this draft constitution.
We, as politicians of our generation, have, for the first time in a millennium, the opportunity to unite the whole continent in freedom and peace.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our commitment to Europe has as its goal an active, democratic and transparent European Union, one that is founded on values, principles and rules.
President Giscard, I have a clear recollection of how, in January 1992, when Egon Klepsch, the chairman of our group, was elected President of the European Parliament, I stood behind you as we together - you first, with me following modestly behind - cast our votes for Leo Tindemans as group chairman.
If, back in 1992, somebody had said that Valéry Giscard d'Estaing would, in September 2003, put before the European Parliament a constitutional treaty, a constitution for Europe, I would have said that was wonderful, that it was a dream, a vision!
I would also like to express warm thanks to our members of the Praesidium, Mr Iñigo Méndez de Vigo, Mr Klaus Hänsch, and, representing all our Members in the Convention, their chairman, Mr Elmar Brok, and our colleagues in the Convention.
You will all have the opportunity to take the floor at our second September sitting, when we will be discussing the reports by Mr Gil-Robles and Mr Tsatsos.
It is very much to be welcomed that this constitutional treaty guarantees the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the right of appeal for all national parliaments, and that there is an elaborate network of balances interconnecting the different levels of the European Union.
We especially welcome the way in which a place has also been found in the constitution for local self-government.
We have, as a group, seen it as very important that the Foreign Minister, too, should be subject to approval by vote of the European Parliament.
Mr Fini, Mr Frattini, we want the European Parliament to have representatives - I am deliberately avoiding the term 'observers' - at the Intergovernmental Conference, who will have every facility afforded them to play their part in its work.
You worked for the direct election of the European Parliament.
Our group thinks that you have done some good work as President of the Convention.
I am not now going to analyse the work of the Convention, something we shall do in the course of the second September part-session on the basis of the Tsatsos report.
Allow me to comment on your quotation from Montesquieu.
Indeed, the great historic originality of our work is to devise a democratic structure that goes beyond the nation state in the era of globalisation.
Indeed, all Europeans, both men and women, could identify with this speech made 2 500 years ago.
The Constitution has served Parliament, in its capacity as a legislative power, best, according it its central statute.
Where the executive is concerned, I think that it made sense to have divided the Council into a legislative council and an executive council, but that the solutions proposed at the end of the Convention are not as satisfactory.
I concur with a number of the criticisms made by my colleague, Mr Hänsch, concerning the President of the Commission, and I am also in favour of more flexible solutions for revising the Constitution, given the historic situation we are in.
I would add, especially, that the spirit of the Convention was already present at the end of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, President of the Convention, I too have the honour of congratulating a predecessor for the impressive work he has done, but I cannot continue in the vein of Charles Aznavour and say 'You are for me, formidable'.
It will also express views on other, much more controversial institutional aspects and explain why it is making the case for ratification through referendums.
A constitution is, in principle, a fundamental law determining a country's form of government.
It is also able to lay down a number of benchmark values and fundamental rights.
In no circumstances can it aspire to restrict for thirty to fifty years - for that is the lifespan of this document, as promised by President Giscard d'Estaing - the freedom of sovereign nations to choose their own model of society.
On four occasions, there subsequently recurs the liberal theme of an open market economy characterised by free competition.
It is, however, precisely against this obsession with all-out competition and against this inclination to reduce the whole of life in society to the level of a commodity that a growing number of our fellow citizens are protesting and mobilising.
Unbeknown to most people outside this House, the 340 articles comprising this part - in other words, three quarters of the entire draft Constitution - have not been subject to any discussion within the Convention during the 16 months of work, the results of which were presented to the Thessaloniki European Council.
It is, however, this part that defines, in particular, economic and monetary policy and the inordinate powers of a European Central Bank obsessed with price stability and the rise in salary costs.
Deeply convinced as I am that, now as never before, there is a European need for hope in transforming the world, I think it would be very damaging to provoke, in this way, many anti-liberals into becoming anti-Europeans.
Mr President, the text adopted by the Convention indisputably represents a step forward for European democracy.
Many of our demands have been complied with: the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the improvement of the legislative process, including the introduction of the citizens' right of legislative initiative; the inclusion among the Union's goals of a number of aims, and we will fight and enlist the citizens' support to see them achieved; full employment, fair trade, pluralism, the protection of human rights, conflict prevention, the sustainable development of the earth.
Clearly, however, for us, this European constitutional process is not yet finished.
In particular, it failed to bring instruments and policies into line with its most innovative objectives, it preserved the unanimity requirement and it further increased the Council's supremacy in key areas of the Union's competences.
While we acknowledge the high quality of its work, we feel that the way in which the Praesidium and you, yourself, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, conducted the Convention's work, the rules chosen to govern the process, must be carefully assessed and analysed, for they have had a definite effect on the quality of the text adopted.
It was a serious strategic error to agree right from the beginning to the Convention being polluted by the very intergovernmental method that it was trying to leave behind.
We have two practical proposals for the future: the Chairman of the Convention must be elected by the Convention itself and its work must be conducted more explicitly according to the Parliamentary method, which, although based on the search for consensus, is also based on the rule of majority voting.
We have two extremely important challenges ahead, the first of which is certainly to prevent the positive results achieved by the Convention being nullified during the Intergovernmental Conference by the endeavours of those same governments which were opposed to the Convention and now want to challenge its work.
Over and above the provisions of the Treaties, it is clear that the most important innovation of the Convention has been to take away the governments' monopoly on reform of the Union.
Lastly, Mr President, it is absolutely essential to abolish the unanimity requirement for revision of the Constitution and to introduce power of ratification for the European Parliament.
The actual historic import of the Convention's work will depend, not least, on the Italian Presidency.
If there is in fact to be a constitution, it can, therefore, only proceed from the constituent power, that is to say the sovereign people, and it can only be ratified by that same sovereign people.
Of necessity, a European referendum, that is to say a consultation organised on the same day in each Member State.
Moreover, do the peoples of Europe want to construct an independent Europe capable of influencing the balance of world power?
We could have effected an economic and social revolution, overturning what President Prodi called the stupid dogmas, established in Maastricht and reinforced in Amsterdam, that, increasingly with every day that passes, manifestly condemn Europe and, in particular, the euro zone to deflation and unemployment.
We could have effected a political revolution by declaring our independence, affirming our vision of a multipolar world and defending the central role of the United Nations in world affairs.
We could even have effected a cultural revolution by establishing, in opposition to the commercial organisation of the world, the right of peoples freely to choose their way of life and their own allegiances.
We might, above all, have effected a democratic revolution by turning Europe into an extension of our national democracies, instead of arranging the latter's demise, and by creating a genuine political space peculiar to Europe through the Congress you proposed and by having recourse to a referendum.
The Convention never replied, preferring not to commit itself.
In essence, it takes the form of a state, of a central and supranational decision-making power with its unique institutional framework, its law superseding the national constitutions, its common law majority decision-making procedure and even, now, its Constitution with its constitutional super-court.
I should also like, in my turn, to ask you a question: do you think that this European superstate really is what our peoples want?
At the same time, however, they want their countries to retain their freedom to take decisions and the freedom to choose their national democracy, the only form of democracy in the full sense of the word to date.
In these conditions, do you not think that the European superstate is a very poor response to a good question?
A single package forged through consensus was the optimum solution possible at the present phase of integration.
If the IGC were to begin to unpick the Convention's proposal it would also subvert the very concept of the Convention itself, which is a major breakthrough for constitutional law and parliamentary democracy in Europe.
We also require a sensible plan should the entry-into-force provisions be frustrated by accident or by design.
At the last session of our Convention, moreover - rather curiously, because no explosion of political emotion was expected - those from a variety of political backgrounds present on all the benches had come together because of the feeling there was that perhaps the new unified Europe had an opportunity to move forward.
Mr Frattini, you will of course have a lot of technical work to do at this Intergovernmental Conference.
I believe that your three principles are sound.
Mr President of the Commission, we have had debates.
I came to visit you, on my own initiative moreover, in Brussels when our work was almost complete in order to take note of your personal reactions to what our document contained.
You stated that this compromise was incomplete.
You are yourselves parliamentarians from all the Member States, old and new.
You raised the issue of qualified majority voting.
Now, there are in fact two systems of qualified majority voting.
We are told we should have gone further in the difficult debate on the number of questions that are to be subject to qualified majority voting.
We talked about the matter with our other colleagues, since, as you know, other Member States had major reservations about the tax issue.
This point is very important because we have put in place an arrangement that, over time, will permit the transition to qualified majority voting.
In other words, what you are seeking to obtain by negotiation, the European Council will be able to achieve through the exercise of its powers in application of Article 24, paragraphs 4 and 5.
I am not talking about the composition of the Commission.
They were the subject of debates within the Convention.
Moreover, the new Member States that, at the beginning, were understandably very keen that there should be as many Commissioners as Member States - leading to figures bearing no relation to the number of responsibilities to be exercised by the Commission - have accepted, as we proposed, that the reform should only apply as from 2009.
In other words, all the new countries will have Commissioners for the period 2005-2009.
Now, it is obvious that, within the framework of a Constitution, there is some sort of internal revision procedure that bypasses the general circuit of treaties and of the twenty-five or twenty-seven ratifications.
We had no mandate for dealing with this subject, but the problem remains unresolved, and I have a sense that, in the years to come - perhaps not within the next 30 years, but certainly in the years to come - the question of a possible future constitutional revision procedure will have to be addressed.
The request that this issue be dealt with was particularly strong in those EU countries that have federal structures.
It is therefore an original structure, and those who say it would be enough to copy the institutions of the nation state are mistaken because the nation state model would not enable us to deal with the problem of the double legitimacy of the Member States and of the populations.
Mr Wurtz, your quotations from our document were chosen specifically in order to show that, as you said, the document in a way constitutionalises the liberal economic system in Europe.
Now, if you take Article 3 on the objectives of the EU, which we have debated at length, what do we read?
We read first of all that the EU is an area of freedom for people, an area of freedom in the economic sense of the term with, indeed, the four freedoms laid down by the basic treaties.
We would, however, add to the objectives of the EU a social market economy, highly competitive and aiming at full employment and social progress.
We foresee the EU combating social exclusion and discrimination, promoting equality between women and men - which is a crucial point in our documents - and protecting the rights of children.
Alongside economic freedom, which is a spatial freedom, the Constitution therefore carefully describes social objectives.
They are not secret, but they have to be translated.
These are the articles from the treaties, since we had no mandate to modify them other than to take account of the changes: a new institutional system, changes of name, European laws, framework laws, voting procedures and the legal base for policies.
Mrs Frassoni, whom I had met in the course of our debates in the Convention, talks about intergovernmental methods.
On the contrary, we wanted to revive the institutional triangle.
You talk about having the President of the Commission elected by the European Parliament.
Mr Pasqua, how was the constitutional committee composed that, during the summer of 1958, drafted the constitution of the Fifth Republic?
What is important in the constituent procedure is ratification.
The absence of a 'European political constituency' is a mistake.
Many of you will, I hope, take your places in the next European Parliament.
You will have an EU Minister of Foreign Affairs to question and, when situations arise such as you have already experienced, there will be someone to whom you can put your questions about why one particular argument is to be defended and not another, or one action participated in and not another.
Rather, you were inspired by the common European good; and, although, on certain points, we did not always follow up your proposals because we were seeking balanced, compromise solutions, you have nonetheless inspired many of our advances, particularly in the area of social governance.
I thank everyone who has taken part in the debate.
The debate is closed.
The swaggering of Mr Giscard d'Estaing and those behind him and the rejoicing of the then Greek Presidency and the current Italian Presidency do not suffice to refute the above reality.
Those promoting the anti-grass roots policy have the nerve to call by the name of 'constitution' a text which not only fails to crystallise the democratic achievements of the people, but also reduces them to a text which establishes capitalism constitutionally, which redistributes power for the benefit of the strong, which hands over more national sovereignty to the imperialist, Euro-unifying centre and which dangerously extends the militarisation of the European Union.
The result does not surprise us.
It could not be otherwise, because it could not fail to reflect the nature of the ?U and its current political situation.
With more than 400 articles, progress is being made in the following areas: the classification of legal acts as European laws, framework laws or 'delegated' laws; and the creation of a Minister of Foreign Affairs and three Presidents - of the European Council, the Council of Ministers and the Commission - and of a whole orchestra of institutional instruments in which, although the conductor cannot be tracked down, it is easy to locate the big drum of the European Parliament which, once more, is gaining in volume without managing to gain in political credibility.
Such a basis can be a hazardous one in all sorts of ways, all the more so in view of the character of the 'new man' that the 'European citizen' is, which is marked by oblivious barbarism, as demonstrated by the refusal of the members of the Convention to make reference in their text to the historic role played by the Christian faith in the real constitution of Europe.
I would like Amendment No 42 to be put to the vote after Amendment No 55.
As the work of the Convention has been completed, I think we should delete the word 'Convention' and just leave the word 'IGC'.
an instrument based on Title VI of the EU Treaty can only be adopted when the EC Treaty provides the possibility of achieving the same objective'.
It should be noted that, in order to achieve the employment targets set by the Council in 2000, more than 15 million new high-quality jobs with rights will have to be created by 2010.
Poverty also remains at scandalous levels: more than 15% of the population, or around 56 million people, is now in danger of falling into poverty.
As it happens, we already have an appropriate legal basis for the social dialogue.
I deplore the fact that these sums are not being redistributed into the Community budget and are being returned to the coffers of the Member States.
We really cannot conclude that the tiny Community budget, which for 2004 could represent less than 1% of Community GNI, is more than enough, when the needs for economic and social cohesion will only increase with enlargement.
Some people say that I talk too much in this House, in my explanations of vote, but, as you know, Mr President, I represent the Italian Pensioners' Party, and pensioners do everything, including eat pan-fried fish.
This protocol provides for compensation of greater value than the fishing rights that have been allocated; these sums total around EUR 43 million and EUR 28 million respectively.
The protocol also puts forward a proposal for sustainable partnership taking account of the crisis facing the fisheries sector.
It is right to state that the financial assistance we give Greenland for the crisis it is currently facing cannot be included in the financial compensation for the fisheries agreement, because this would overload the relevant budget line, which already faces serious shortfalls.
This demand forms part of a concerted effort to break the link between fisheries resources and the fleets which have historically fished them.
The Union's management of its own fisheries resources has been an unmitigated disaster.
Those countries which have best managed their resources are those which have respected historical rights from the past - and give their fishermen hope for the future.
The Poignant report on the proposal for a directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers is a move in the right direction because it raises the issue of the recognition of seafarers from third countries.
This imposes an evaluation of the training system of each country, so that certificates of competency can be issued - and not simply an approach on an individualised basis - which will be valid for five years.
The European fleet has a genuine interest in the possibility of having seafarers from third countries come to the EU.
Of the approximately 140 000 sailors serving on vessels flying a European Union flag, around one third (that is 47 000) come from third countries.
This proposal, which aims - with the help of the European Maritime Safety Agency- to replace the current procedure for recognition of certificates of competency according to Member State with a recognition procedure at Commission level is therefore an important step in the right direction for guaranteeing the highest level of safety possible.
Unfortunately, we need to deal today with the lack of personnel within the European Union, and in particular in France, in all nautical occupations.
The level of training does in fact have a significant impact on maritime safety.
Seafarers themselves and other workers need to fight for a different policy of radical change, not only to the system and to the safeguarding of free state education, but also to international agreements and conventions, so that they lay down minimum education levels, introduce strict provisions for determining ships' crews and fully safeguard the employment and insurance rights of seafarers.
Thus, in conjunction with the renewal of ships, we shall have safe shipping. . (PT) As this wide-ranging study has revealed, Europe is suffering from a shortfall in qualified national seafarers, given the scale of Europe's maritime transport.
To this end, the entire proposal seeking to ensure a level of qualification for seafarers that is as high as possible is to be welcomed, as are the proposals to introduce a standard working language and to simplify the recognition procedure, which is excessively complicated, according to those working in the sector.
If, as has been suggested on many occasions, we need to promote and improve maritime transport, replacing in particular long-distance and heavy goods transport by road, an action programme to promote the maritime profession must be implemented. . (PT) The minimum training of maritime workers should, in my opinion, fall within the exclusive competence of the fishermen's unions, in line with their respective regulations.
I support all the articles of this regulation and I voted for the motion, but I must express my great disappointment, as representative of pensioners throughout Europe, at the fact that, with Amendment No 55, which we adopted, we are preserving the total ban on people with disabilities throughout Europe travelling in Europe, travelling outside the borders of their own State and taking up residence in another European State, because, in so doing, they would lose a large part of the allowances on which they depend to live.
We need to ensure that EU citizens working, residing or staying in another Member State are properly protected.
Attempts to include taxation issues are outside the scope of this regulation and I voted against such proposals to day.
The definition of 'family' is a matter for the national legislation of the Member States.
It is a disgrace, in my view, for Parliament to want to retain the option of placing citizens outside of the law on account of their sexual orientation.
There are, of course, various arguments that can be used to support this view; you could, of course, say that this is a case of subsidiarity, or that it is more important to adopt the report than the principled choice in Amendment No 20.
To do so nevertheless infringes another right, namely the right of every European to be able to work within the European Union.
Fortunately, this selfsame Parliament has, probably unwittingly, recently adopted a similar amendment in the Santini report.
This report coordinates but does not seek to harmonise either social security or taxation systems, which are the responsibility of Member States.
I voted for the Gröner report, whose laudable intention is to combat violence against women and children.
This programme cannot, however, be implemented in the most effective way possible with the level of funding provided for by the Commission.
The amount in question - EUR 40 million - strikes me in fact as quite insufficient if we really want to allow a larger number of non-governmental organisations to benefit from the programme and if the idea is to meet the needs of the new Member States.
It also appears to me that it would be a desirable development in dealing with violence as a violation of human rights if the programme were on a more appropriate legal basis than Article 152 of the EC Treaty.
However, some of the measures in this report encroach on areas better dealt with at Member State level.
There is no evidence that taxpayers' money spent on projects at EU level is more effective than when it is spent on national programmes, although the sharing of experience and best practice may make a positive contribution to the reduction of violence of this type.
Whilst accepting the good work carried out by the Daphne Programme, the British Conservatives, for the reasons outlined above, have voted against further budgetary appropriations and abstained on the final vote. . (DE) Today, I have taken a firm stand in favour of extending the EU's Action Programme to prevent violence against children, young people and women (Daphne II) from 2003 to 2008.
I hope that this measure will be adopted without delay in order to avoid a conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Council and so that a realistic financial perspective can be put in place.
I also wish to emphasise that the programme's implementation must enable its reach to be extended, to encompass the accession and candidate countries or any other countries that enjoy privileged relations with the Union. . (IT) It is the moral duty of all citizens of all societies to combat child abuse and child pornography.
It is with pleasure and satisfaction that I welcome the Community programme, Daphne II, on the prevention of violence against children, young people and women, supported by the delegation of which I am head and by the entire UEN Group.
Indeed, the Gröner report has incorporated two proposals adopted unanimously today by the House here in Strasbourg, which advocate two further measures that the Community programme will have to develop: promoting awareness campaigns condemning violence and facilitating the provision of psychological, moral and practical support for victims, and, above all, exploring the possibility of creating filters banning the dissemination of information consisting of child pornography on the Internet.
This extraordinary means of communication and information provision, the Internet, can, indeed, be an inexhaustible, unregulated source of messages of violence and brutality aimed at minors and of which minors are often the instigators.
As we all know, these have traditionally been compiled by the Member States on the basis of a common methodology and supplied to the Commission (Eurostat) under a gentlemen's agreement.
I therefore agree with the Commission's vision of upholding and improving the quality of data and of establishing a framework for data transmission, which will provide economic actors with greater transparency and better access to information.
I believe that, in this area, as in many other spheres of Community action, the coordinated compilation of data and the sharing of such data as well as comparisons and exchanges of experience constitute an enormous advantage for the efficiency and economy of action, both of the European Union and of the Member States.
It appears, for example, that Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam is being breached in Italy.
There is discrimination against elderly people and people with disabilities, who are given - or not given - financial support just because they are over, or under, 65 years old.
Fully aligned with the philosophy of the ?U, the report maintains that the Community should have the facility to force the Member States to impose specific criminal sanctions in the event of infringements of Community law.
Unfortunately, the rest of the report takes us in precisely the opposite direction by relying on the extensive interpretations of the Court of Justice, by calling on the Commission, in its capacity as guardian of the Treaties, to lodge complaints and by asking the Intergovernmental Conference to define Community competence in criminal law.
The Members belonging to the 'Hunting, Fishing, Nature and Tradition' delegation within the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities have therefore voted against this report, which, using a technique familiar to us in this area, ends up requiring us to do what we have said we do not want to do. .
They are the exception rather than the rule, and it is most important that the Community, in responding to paragraph 10 of the report, does not acquire any general competence in criminal matters which should be left to the Member States. . (PT) The scoreboard on implementing the social policy agenda must be a useful instrument and one that serves social policy, providing practical information on progress that is made and solutions to problems.
We are currently going through a period of economic slowdown, which could cause levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to rise even further.
Furthermore, we must invest in education, training and lifelong learning, in making it easier to reconcile work and family life, and in encouraging active ageing and improving health and safety at work.
Given the prospect of enlargement, efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion must be stepped up, bearing in mind the social conditions in the 10 new Member States.
The Member States, the social partners and other parties involved must commit to implementing the political initiatives set out in the social agenda and the guidelines on employment.
The report was amended earlier in committee and several difficulties which arose at that stage of the procedure were overcome.
Issues such as continuing high levels of unemployment in some of the Member States, tackling poverty, combating discrimination on grounds of disability, promoting active ageing and providing childcare facilities are all important and need to be dealt with as priorities.
Building a social Europe requires consensus-building between the social partners, not creating new impediments.
The report highlights for example the continuing high levels of unemployment and poverty in some Member States and rightly calls for solutions to these problems to be treated as a priority in Community policies, not least in the forthcoming mid-term review of the CAP, the Structural Funds and the Stability Pact.
The EPLP supports long-term solutions on the management of collective actions across the EU, which will provide a fair solution to both EU workers and consumers.
The objective is to conceal the barbarity of capitalist exploitation behind 'charity' programmes and to avoid acute social outbursts.
Across the world today there are an estimated 600 million people with disabilities.
It is essential, therefore, that there are international rules and regulations with regard to the treatment, respect and promotion of people with disabilities.
One of the most important elements of our work here today, and the vote in favour of the Lynne report, has been that it sends out a clear message, not just from the 15 countries of the European Union but also from the 10 accession countries, that we want to establish common standards and rules.
I am in favour of this and support the demand that the Commission should draw up a precise and rigorous timetable for this. . (PT) Despite the fact that this is the European Year of People with Disabilities, little real progress has been made in promoting and protecting the disabled.
The 'European Year of People with Disabilities' raises awareness of the concerns of over 40 million people in the EU with disabilities.
It is also important that the EU leads the way in establishing fundamental rights for the approximately 660 million people world-wide who have some form of disability - almost 10% of the planet's population.
This must cover the right to quality of life, to access to employment, education and training, the right to inclusion, civil and political rights, to financial support, to healthcare, to culture and leisure and the right to equal treatment before the law.
It has to be emphasised, though, that such a concern is largely at odds with current trends in the European Union and in the principal international economic organisations.
The integration of people with disabilities into society, including into the world of work, is required by a solidarity which it is difficult to reconcile with the profit motive.
The commitment to leave behind the separated structures, which only very inadequately prepare people with disabilities for integration and independence, in order to enable them to participate fully in society and to combat prejudice, has its price.
I must express my complete support for the proposal to adopt a legally binding convention that would protect the rights of the disabled and that would ensure that these rights are respected at world level.
Real progress should also be made in mainstreaming disabled people's rights within our development cooperation policy.
MEPs in the committee have stressed that the outcome of the UN process must be a legally binding convention with an effective monitoring mechanism. . (PT) I have voted in favour of this report in the knowledge that, in this European Year of People with Disabilities, a great deal needs to be done to eliminate the physical, technical and social barriers facing the disabled in their daily lives.
The most recent tragic events confirm how the fight against terrorism and efforts to establish security and stability in Iraq must continue to be a priority for all countries and for the international community.
Our enemies are those who are targeting the advocates of moderation and the decision to take up a new and difficult challenge; those who targeted Sérgio Vieira de Mello because he was doing good, because he was toiling with his forces to set the country back on its feet: those who targeted him are the enemies of us all, the enemies of the project to build a democratic Iraq.
The reestablishment of law and order is putting great pressure on the coalition forces, but this is the time when it is necessary to draw in the threads of solidarity so that an increasing number of countries can work together to re-establish security.
After the cowardly terrorist attack on the United Nations in Baghdad on 19 August that claimed innocent victims from among those who served the cause of peace, including Sérgio Vieira de Mello, whom I have just mentioned, and after the bloody attack in Najaf on 29 August, it is the duty of us all to further increase our efforts to bring about the political, civil, social and economic reconstruction of Iraq.
In particular, we feel that the United Nations should play an increasingly central role, further consolidating its mandate in this difficult, post-combat phase.
The Presidency is making every endeavour to this effect.
We welcomed the Security Council's adoption of Resolution 1500 and consider it to be a particularly important step forward in that it acknowledges the key role of the Iraqi Governing Council in the formation of new institutions in Iraq.
The Presidency is therefore convinced that, to achieve the objective of establishing a free, democratic Iraq, it is necessary for the entire international community to combine its efforts to give the Iraqi people a future of peace and hope.
Indeed, our commitment to the reconstruction of Iraq should not be limited to security but should extend to humanitarian aid, social services, all the Iraqi people's needs and, last but not least, culture.
We therefore need to rebuild the country's infrastructure and transport network, providing all the aid necessary but also - or rather, first and foremost - establishing the institutional framework for the future democratic Iraq, rebuilding the education and school systems and the academic world.
Once conditions of full security are re-established, it will be possible to start laying the foundations for a civil society based on freedom and mutual tolerance, with which Europe will be able to build relationships of cooperation and solidarity.
The reconstruction of Iraq can and must be achieved.
He was an outstanding international civil servant - a man of integrity, dedication and wisdom and he was a wonderful and gallant example of the fact that international bureaucrats do not have to be boring.
So we pay tribute to him in the warmest terms.
Like the minister, I am pleased that the Security Council has now decided that attacks on the United Nations and on humanitarian organisations will be treated as war crimes.
It is precisely the vital importance of the UN's work that explains the purpose of those responsible for the appalling attack on its headquarters in Baghdad.
The murderers want this transition and the building of Iraq's democracy to fail through a strategy of creating chaos.
Whatever our past disagreements - and important as they were, there is limited point today in focusing on them - we all have a stake in the emergence of a prosperous, stable and democratic Iraq.
I have no intention today of going back over old ground and old arguments, though I appreciate that some of those who raised doubts and criticisms in this Parliament and in the political institutions of the country I know best will not feel - to put it mildly - that events have proved them wrong.
In passing, I would add that we have not come close to cracking the problem in Afghanistan, another country where regime change has proved rather more straightforward than building a pluralist nation.
It requires a sustained political and financial commitment to cover the gap between rhetoric and reality.
It requires international commitment through the United Nations and its associated bodies.
If we want to see the maximum international involvement, then we have to take account of how most countries think that involvement can be most effectively legitimised and made to work.
Alongside this important contribution, the Commission has been preparing its proposals for a European approach to reconstruction in Iraq, as requested by the European Council in Thessaloniki.
This is a message which I have personally made clear in meetings over the summer with US Secretary of State Colin Powell and Under-Secretary Alan Larson.
Let me give one example of political reality.
Maybe I am wrong.
Over the summer, Commission officials have been participating in the international needs assessment missions as part of World Bank and UN teams and I would like to publicly thank them here for their willingness to do this in difficult security conditions.
Two of our staff missed being victims of the 19 August attack by a matter of minutes.
It will take place in Madrid on 23-24 October 2003, and Spain has joined the group as host.
It is with this perspective in mind that I have made some initial contacts with the Chairs of the relevant committees to look at the budgetary implications for 2003-2004, and I had a useful meeting yesterday with the budgetary rapporteurs of the relevant committees.
And we must still be in a position to respond to the hopes and needs of other parts of the world, for example Afghanistan and Palestine, where the needs do not get any less.
When we make our proposal, you, as the budgetary authority, will have to decide whether we have the right balance.
For Europe, I hope we can all now recognise that the European Union is incomparably more effective when we work together, especially on the biggest issues in contemporary politics.
If we can do that now, in Baghdad and Basra and beyond, then perhaps we can help to ensure that the removal - and we are all agreed that this is at least a benign outcome - of a wicked dictator leads to a better life for the people of Iraq.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my agreement with the statements by Commissioner Patten and the President-in-Office of the Council, to the effect that we now need to make a joint effort to bring peace to Iraq and thereby stabilise the region as a whole.
Not only many European governments, but also Members of this House, have had differences of opinion on the war in Iraq.
I believe that President Bush is right to call for a UN resolution on this subject now.
If Europe and the Americans can do this together on an equal footing and work together with the UN in doing so, then I am sure that Parliament would be prepared to accept the Commission's budgetary proposals and forward them, together with its mandate, to the Donors' Conference.
Considerations such as these should also, however, apply to Afghanistan, and I believe that we should therefore attempt, by means of a new Petersberg conference, to bring about a truly fair balance of power and the equitable distribution of aid, including to the Pathans, in order to establish peace there as well.
I get the impression that in neither Iraq nor Afghanistan has such a strategy been in place before now.
We are facing a situation in which the devastating fire which destroyed the UN headquarters in Baghdad and also the murder by means of car bombs of the Shi'ite religious leader, Mohamed Baquer al Hakim, are part of a terrorist fight, but also of something which could be compared to a resistance and, at a time when everything that happened before the war is being reconsidered, we must be aware that what is required in Iraq is not more besieged troops, but to seek a timetable for the country to be reconstructed, and reconstructed, furthermore, with the involvement of the Iraqis.
It is very important for the Iraqis and also to demonstrate our commitment, but, in any event, what is being considered - and what we Europeans must resolve - is the approach to the future.
This problem of the so-called chain of command, particularly in a situation in which the Budget Office of the United States Congress says that they cannot run to the presence of troops beyond March 2004, and also at a time when the US administration is presenting a new resolution to the Security Council.
The issue is very clear: we cannot ask for supplementary efforts while maintaining the current situation of occupying forces with a chain of command essentially led by one country.
If we believe in multilateralism, if we believe in a serious commitment on the part of the European Union to the United Nations and the international community, we must propose sharing responsibilities, replacing the occupation approach with one of returning sovereignty to the Iraqis.
And this requires a very clear and precise timetable and also requires a joint effort involving us Europeans and, also in a very direct way, the Arab countries, in order to achieve something which erases the image of an unacceptable form of neocolonialism.
Mr President, Liberal Democrats in this House join the tributes which have been paid to Sergio Vieira de Mello and all the other victims of the callous attacks on the United Nations in Baghdad.
The unstable and violent situation in Iraq shows that while a coalition of the willing may be able to win a military conflict, winning the peace without the legitimacy of the United Nations is a much more difficult matter.
My Group, therefore, welcomes the tentative moves towards a UN resolution which would place the coalition forces in Iraq within a multilateral framework.
Liberals have always favoured a multilateral resolution to the problems posed by Iraq, and if the coalition is belatedly coming round to that view, then it is better late than never.
The so-called 'coalition of the willing' was a curiously outdated 19th century balance of power concept, which always carried with it the danger of leaving at least one nation feeling aggrieved.
There is no reason why the United States should not retain command of a multinational UN force in Iraq, but it must be based on a UN resolution and give the UN and contributing nations the central role in decision-making.
Failure thus far to find weapons of mass destruction is leading to searching questions at hearings in London, Washington and Canberra and raising doubts about the legitimacy of the enterprise.
The way to give the international presence in Iraq a sense of legitimacy and regain the trust of the Iraqi people is to mount a UN-backed drive to restore security, to improve the lives of ordinary Iraqis and to move towards government by popular mandate.
My Group welcomes the Commission's initiative in convening a preparatory meeting today in Brussels for the important conference of international donors next month in Madrid.
When representatives of my group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities visited Baghdad in February of this year, we talked with the weapons inspectors, and it was our extremely clear impression that the inspection was working and that, if no weapons of mass destruction had then been found, it was first and foremost because they probably did not exist.
I think it can probably now be stated that our fears at that time were justified and that the attacks that are now being made upon, for example, civilian targets, the UN building and the Iraqi police are a sign that the Iraqi people are experiencing the current situation as an occupation.
The demonstrations at his funeral were a mixture of protests against both Saddam Hussein and George Bush, meaning that, even among people who must have felt they were perhaps free of a dictator, there were very strong reactions against the American occupation.
We therefore now see it as a very important task to rebuild and strengthen the UN.
Mr Kanaan had worked for the European Parliament as an assistant to Pierre Pradier, and for the Commission, particularly in Burundi.
Today, Saddam Hussein is no longer in power, but the Iraqi people are not yet living in peace.
There are those who say we have no right to occupy a country.
What this means is that we have to work towards a solution by taking a different route, that of a conference on stability and peace in the region, and then hand over to the UN, which will take charge of rebuilding democracy in Iraq.
Mr President, it is a matter of very great concern that the security situation in Iraq has deteriorated very badly in recent weeks.
The US forces in Iraq are simply not able to ensure the security of either Iraqis or foreign nationals.
I strongly believe that the United Nations must be called upon to play the central role in the political, economic and military transition in Iraq.
I am convinced that the difficult political problems in Iraq can only be effectively addressed in Iraq under the auspices of the United Nations.
I do not believe that the troops in Iraq can oversee the peacekeeping efforts in that country.
The forces there cannot responsibly administer day-to-day activities in the country.
We need to come together to ensure that the citizens of Iraq are protected.
The situation in Iraq is a dispiriting one, to say the least.
The Council can considerably enhance the internal and external legitimacy of the newly formed Iraqi transitional government by recognising this policy and giving assistance in any way possible.
This House can invite the newly-appointed Iraqi Foreign Minister, Hushyar Zibari, to Brussels or Strasbourg, to give us first-hand information about the situation in his country.
This is the basic situation which, I fear, despite the Convention which you all applauded this morning, will not, alas, change in the coming years: we Europeans have not established a policy, neither in the past nor, I regret to say, now.
It may well be that we too continue to be undecided, even at a time when success in Iraq is in everyone's interests, first and foremost the interests of the Iraqi people, who have suffered 20 years of martyrdom at the hands of Saddam Hussein.
They, like all of us, have the right to a different kind of life and a different kind of development.
Mr President, the prophets of doom, such as myself, you, Mrs Frahm, and many others, unfortunately seem, at present, to have been right during the debate on possible intervention.
I do not believe that it is sufficient to catch Saddam Hussein, which needs to happen soon, in order to put an end to the chaos that the dictator on the run is so keen to maintain, but that many others with him and, if need be, after him have decided to magnify further.
I am thinking, of course, of the religious extremists who are prepared to die in order to fight the United States under the banner of Al Qaeda and other fundamentalist organisations.
I am also thinking of its large neighbour, Iran, which cannot remain unaffected by the situation in Iraq.
I am thinking, above all, of the Iraqi people themselves who, rightly or wrongly - as many have said here - consider the occupation of their country to be unacceptable, regardless of the justification.
In this latter, mainly psychological field, in my view the international community, which quite rightly hopes to end this chaos as soon as possible, has no option but to legitimise its action by voting on a new Security Council resolution that entrusts the United Nations with the task of restoring order in the country and preparing the necessary transition to a legitimate Iraqi Government.
The sooner the people of Iraq themselves take on responsibility for the rebuilding of their country - its political system and democracy, not forgetting of course the technological, social and cultural dimension - the sooner we can expect the situation to return to normal.
Mr President, Iraq today belongs to the Iraqi people.
These already number many nations, but lack the benefits of Nato's longstanding expertise and close coordination.
The Nato umbrella could properly protect the UN's essential guiding hand in an advisory, humanitarian and developmental role.
Inward investment, the development of civil society, small businesses and citizens' rights and freedoms, are also part of the democratic process that is starting to come together.
Mr President, it is too late now to discuss whether the war in Iraq was right or necessary.
The dictator Saddam Hussein has been ousted, but the country is not at peace, conditions are chaotic, and aggression on the ground is increasing, not only in Iraq.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, history often needs time to judge the pertinence and effectiveness of a political decision.
In the case in point, it has scarcely need of time to judge the decision taken by President Bush and his henchman, the British Prime Minister, to destroy Iraq, for that was indeed the aim.
As I have already said in this House, a year ago Iraq was the only Arab country that was totally free of any trace of Islamic fundamentalism.
I regret this on behalf of Europe for in actual fact all they have done is encourage a sad, short-sighted policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the developments we are currently witnessing in Iraq are, in some ways, reminiscent of what happened in the former Yugoslavia.
It is our responsibility, and it is also in our interests to do so.
I therefore want to say this to Commissioner Patten: he can count on the support of the CDU/CSU delegation in this House, both for his commitment and for the fact that we must put our money where our mouths are - for it will cost money.
So let me say again: it is in our interests to make an effective contribution, together with the United Nations and, of course, with the United States of America and Great Britain, to support the road towards peace, stability and the rule of law in Iraq.
Mr President, as we discuss the war in Iraq we should realise immediately that never in the history of the world has there been a war in which the vast majority of victims have not been innocent civilians.
The first half was the worst in the history of the world: two world wars and 50 million human beings slaughtered.
The answer to difference is to respect it.
Principle number two is to have institutions to do that.
Principle number three creates the circumstances in which they can then all work together in their common interests and break down the barriers of the past.
Those are the three principles we have in our peace process in Northern Ireland.
The European Union and all the world's major countries should come together to create that kind of world and to take the necessary steps to prevent war.
In doing that, let us build a world for the new century and the new millennium in which there will no longer be any war or any conflict but total respect for diversity.
No one who has witnessed the deaths of coalition troops, the bombing of the UN headquarters building in Baghdad and last week's attack on the mosque in Najaf, could fail to agree that security and stability are now the paramount concerns in Iraq.
Clearly the United Nations has an important role to play in this process and it is endeavouring to do so.
European and UN responsibility should be fully engaged in supporting the process of reconstruction which is currently being taken forward by the coalition forces in Iraq, and the courageous men and women who are taking it forward on our behalf.
We have the choice of either indulging in sterile argument, accusing each other of being irresponsible - which reminds me of the old medieval arguments about how many angels fit on the point of a needle - or of the international community, in general, and the European Union, in particular, mobilising the best of its efforts in order to restore security, stability and democracy in Iraq.
Clearly, however, in addition to tanks and weapons, now we have to take to Iraq a roadmap for democracy, a roadmap for political and institutional reconstruction and for a new Iraqi Government.
That is why the Presidency has said and continues to say that we need a UN mandate; that is why, because Europe currently feels the need to reinvigorate UN action but, at the same time, wants the United Nations to be more effective, more capable of taking decisions and shouldering responsibilities than it was during the eventful weeks preceding military action.
I believe we must look to the future, to when Europe will be able, for instance - as someone has said - to express in the Security Council opinions which have been discussed beforehand and agreed upon by the 25 European countries.
It would, I believe, be an excellent, exemplary way of boosting Euro-Atlantic cohesion, to which the Presidency is committed, doing so precisely on the matter of Iraq, an issue which has damaged the relationship between us Europeans and our US friends in recent months.
If one wants to see an international rule of law, one must, from time to time, accept that it needs the sanction of force if it is to be effective and if it is to be applied.
This is a point underlined by the International Crisis Group report, to which I referred earlier.
You have to build democracy through local elections and regional elections, municipal elections, elections for professional bodies, trade union elections, elections in all those functional organisations.
That is the way we will embed pluralism in due course in Iraq and, I hope, in other countries in the region.
The principal issues are these: we have to have a proper assessment of the needs of Iraq over the next 14 or 15 months.
Secondly, we have to agree on the circumstances in which we can best and most effectively contribute to meeting those needs.
There are three things that I want to mention again.
The first is that for the international community, it is imperative to have a multilateral umbrella for our contributions.
I repeat that unless I can give those guarantees to the budgetary authority it would be very difficult to persuade people to make the budgetary switches which will be required in order to achieve a reasonable level of generosity within the bounds laid down in the financial perspective.
The debate is closed.
WRITTEN DECLARATIONS (RULE 120) Mr President, the present situation in Iraq and all that has preceded over the last 12 years are not only the result of the world-domination policy of the USA and its closest allies.
Political dialogue with third countries is still optional.
The European Union's role in the world concerns the European citizens and therefore their representatives.
According to my research, there was only one single occasion last year when the Council discussed a human rights resolution from this House.
Of all our written questions, not one was answered in time.
I welcome the fact that the Council is present in this debate, in the person of Mr Antonione.
On our part, we as a parliament may be very active in condemning many human rights violations across the world, but we do not give enough consideration to what comes next.
Half of the world's population lives in countries where freedom of religion is restricted.
Almost half of the violent conflicts in the period under scrutiny have a religious dimension.
The revolution of global contacts does not immediately lead to more understanding and respect between communities of faith.
Worldwide, more than 260 million people suffer discrimination, violence and exploitation on a daily basis, purely by reason of their origin.
More than 300 000 young people are currently taking active part in armed conflicts.
Finally, modesty does not become the European Union as a community of values and economic power where human rights are concerned.
We in Europe should have the nerve to stick our necks out; the victims are eagerly waiting for this. . (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this great opportunity to address you as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, and I am particularly happy that it has come in the context of a debate on human rights.
Before I proceed, I must offer my condolences and the condolences of the Italian Presidency for the death of Sérgio Vieira de Mello, who, in his capacity as United Nations High Commissioner, had already established himself as a valiant champion of the promotion and defence of human rights at international level.
The protection and promotion of human rights is one of the fundamental pillars of the European Union's foreign policy and it is a constant reference point for its activities on the world stage.
Human rights are one of the key factors in addressing the major challenges of our time: I do not need to mention the close connection between peace, security and stability, on the one hand, and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law, on the other.
Similarly, there is a close connection between the fight against extreme poverty and underdevelopment and measures seeking to secure fundamental human rights, starting with the right of every human being to life, integrity and dignity.
In this context, we therefore believe that it is of key importance during this six-month term to set the north-south dialogue on a more constructive basis, for it has deteriorated considerably in recent months, particularly as regards the subject of human rights, which must continue to be an essential part of the dialogue.
Then the Italian Presidency attaches great importance to the tragic phenomenon of child soldiers.
However, it will be analysed in a careful assessment by the other elements and bodies of the European Union.
I will start with a general point made in the report with which I, personally, agree: despite the prodigious efforts of the Union and other countries, the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the world is, still today, marked by serious abuses and violations.
The report focuses on some of them, such as the prevailing of political and economic interests over human rights and the need to achieve compromise positions in international fora to the detriment of positions of principle.
Indeed, if we are now convinced that the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms lie at the very heart of democracy and civilised coexistence, we cannot, at the same time, fail to be of the opinion that the pursuit of legitimate political and economic goals demands the consolidation of democratic institutions and the principles of freedom and justice.
With regard to the approach of structured human rights dialogue with third countries, the line proposed in the report is precisely that which the Council intended to take on this instrument.
I also endorse the point contained in the report on the need for political dialogue and condemnation to go hand in hand with proactive programmes and measures in the field of combating poverty, support for institution building and education.
Monitoring, resolutions, dialogues, human rights clauses and cooperation and technical assistance programmes in the field are all instruments for achieving a single objective - the unceasing defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the world.
The Union's human rights dialogue underway with China and Iran does not mean that it cannot condemn violations and abuse through ad hoc resolutions too, where it considers that to be necessary, in the United Nations Commission on Human Rights or the UN General Assembly, nor does it mean that it cannot provide them with technical assistance in the field intended to consolidate respect for human rights.
It is certainly limiting to assess the Union's activity on the basis of the number of resolutions per country that it presents to the Commission on Human Rights or to the General Assembly, or even on the basis of the resolutions which achieve sufficient consensus.
In any case, the part played by the European Union in the field of human rights within international fora is fully recognised.
This European activity targets a large number of countries.
There is another aspect I would like to focus on which is dealt with in particular depth in the report: intercultural and inter-faith dialogue.
The report specifically highlights the key nature of this issue for the wider framework of the protection of human rights.
I represent a country which, because of its location, culture and traditions, has always been particularly sensitive to this issue and which has now acquired influence and importance which it has never known in the past.
Ideological opposition to and political exploitation of human rights and fundamental freedoms are, I am afraid, a fact, however much we might condemn them.
The atmosphere of antagonism that increasingly marks dialogue in the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, which is also dealt with at length in the report, is an issue on which the Greek Presidency has already launched a debate, which we intend to pursue and develop.
The action of the Union and the western countries, in general, in the field of human rights is clearly perceived by part of the international community, particularly the southern hemisphere, it would appear, as a manipulative attempt to pursue political and cultural abuses of power.
The very principle of the universality of human rights and the conviction that they cannot be constrained or limited by any social, economic or cultural group are challenged.
Fundamentalism, whatever its origin or nature, is, in part, the result of an inability to communicate, to search for common values based on mutual respect and tolerance.
It must be our objective to integrate, harmoniously and coherently, the issue of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms into all the Union's policies on third countries.
I am therefore particularly pleased to note that this concept is expressed clearly and forcibly by Parliament in the report.
In this connection, I fully support the idea that the human rights clause contained in association and cooperation agreements should be implemented unfailingly whenever the conditions for its application arise.
I also feel that a relationship of cooperation with a country at all levels - political, economic, scientific and cultural - must, of necessity, include open, constructive dialogue on matters of protecting fundamental rights and freedoms.
Experience has taught us that setting up committees or working groups may often be the most immediate, obvious solution but it sometimes proves not to be the most effective way of proceeding in practice.
This practice was taken up by the Greek Presidency and will continue to be a firm reference point for the Italian Presidency in its work.
I feel that, ultimately, it represents proper, appropriate recognition of the essential, indispensable role played in this field by NGOs, which are and will continue to be the European Union's necessary, privileged consultative partners.
Lastly, I would like to focus on a criticism made in the document, relating to institutional relations between the Council and the European Parliament in the area of human rights.
We will analyse in more depth the opinion expressed by the rapporteur to the effect that there needs to be an improvement in relations between the Council and Parliament, and I hereby commit the Italian Presidency to continuing the work started by the Greek Presidency in this area.
The invitation extended by the Greek Presidency to the rapporteur to take part in a meeting of the Human Rights Committee is representative of an approach which seeks to involve the European Parliament more closely in the Council's work.
The governments of the Member States of the Union now recognise the imperative need to guarantee the European Parliament's role as a driving force in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to foster forms of closer cooperation.
I am happy to end by noting - and this is the point of most political significance - that the Council and Parliament agree on the importance and central nature of the issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Union's policy and external relations.
The Commission will, as usual, respond in writing to all the recommendations addressed to it in this report.
First, some remarks on the principal themes of the report - freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
We tried to work on these issues in several different ways.
First, through efforts in international fora.
The EU's statement on human rights in the world at the last CHR highlighted concerns relating to religious freedom or freedom of expression in 12 countries, including China and Iran.
Dedicated human rights dialogues offer a particularly valuable opportunity to address the issue.
In evaluating the dialogue with Iran, for example, the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 18 March 2003 underscored its concern at discrimination against religious minorities - particularly Baha'is - and the need for more progress as regards freedom of opinion and expression.
Freedom of expression will form the main subject for discussion at the next round-table under the human rights dialogue on 15 and 16 September 2003.
It has supported campaigns to promote freedom of expression - for example, a continuing project in the ASEAN countries, - and freedom of expression has been identified as a priority for 11 EIDHR focus countries in 2002 and 2003.
The Cotonou Agreement shows that a comprehensive system can be negotiated with as many as 77 countries, but it also illustrates that there are some challenges and real problems to be dealt with.
I agree with Mr van den Bos.
Turning now to the human rights clause, I am pleased that Parliament's report emphasises the potential for the clause to induce positive change in the human rights situation in third countries.
Last May saw the launch of the first working group dedicated to governance and human rights in the context of the Cooperation Agreement with Bangladesh, with the inaugural meeting tackling a wide variety of issues, including the death penalty and the judicial system.
Turning to the UN Commission on Human Rights, the human rights clause not only constitutes a commitment to human rights in a domestic context, it also pledges the EU and third states to the promotion and protection of human rights in the international arena.
That is heartening, as the EU's voice is immeasurably strengthened when its institutions speak with one voice.
The EU has its work cut out: only 47 States have issued a standing invitation to the CHR's thematic procedures - 28 of which are EU Member States, accession states or candidate countries.
Moreover, 80 states have not ratified all 6 major international human rights instruments.
The EU has made a good start in efforts to improve the impact of its actions at the CHR; for example, this year's session saw earlier finalisation of draft EU initiatives allowing more scope for effective lobbying of third countries.
These efforts will continue in the knowledge that it is only by marshalling all the resources at the EU's disposal - political, diplomatic and financial - that we will really be able to effect the necessary change.
The first is about children in conflicts, an issue which has already been commented on.
However, in post-conflict cases - for example, Sierra Leone - we have been quite successful in the resocialisation of children and other related work.
The documentation coming from these centres is the most necessary element in our attempt to address the problem we are up against and deal with the terrible regimes that carry out torture.
I thank you again for this comprehensive report.
The degree of consensus in this House also shows that all the political families continue to view the commitment to human rights throughout the world as a core element in achieving democracy, social progress and the peaceful coexistence of nations.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers that the focus of this year's report - freedom of thought, conscience and religion - is a good benchmark by which to measure the state of democracy and human rights in every country and in every society.
Democratic thought and action should also preclude any situation in which it is only the members of a specific religion or denomination who are viewed, in effect, as full or fully accepted citizens of a state.
I also do not know of any world religion which is fundamentally intolerant or hostile to other religions or, indeed, towards its own believers.
Yet we all know that countries which do not respect human rights at home are structurally weak, whereas respect for human rights has a stabilising effect at home and abroad.
Pressure from the EU to enforce human rights is ultimately a better method of achieving domestic and external stability than policies which I would describe as a slavish adherence to the status quo, which give preference to short-term superficial stability and only change when conflicts actually spill over to other countries.
This Parliament will continue to demand statements on unpleasant issues, and it will continue to demand compliance with the content of our resolutions, for we believe that words and deeds must go hand in hand in human rights as well, and that without a pro-active human rights policy towards the states in question, it will be impossible to reduce the conflict potential in the world.
That is why the role of human rights defenders in the world is vital.
Let me make a special reference to Aung San Suu Kyi, now on hunger strike in Burma.
We must respect also the human rights of disabled people, included in our report for the first time.
Our message is clear: these are our values.
After all, the European Union is at risk of losing all credibility if it does not succeed in speaking with one voice, even if strategically or economically important countries, such as China or Russia, are involved.
It therefore delights me that the rapporteur has adopted my amendments on this matter.
Ladies and gentlemen, when we look carefully at a resolution on human rights that has no less than 56 recitals and 197 paragraphs, after consideration of 284 amendments in committee, we have many contrasting impressions.
The attitude of the United States provides us with an illustration that is more than a caricature in this area: treatment of its prisoners, refusal to accept the ICC, preventive war, death penalty, etc.
This is evidence of our interest and thus our belief that this report is useful.
I do still have some concerns regarding the desire on the part of some people to replace freedom of conscience with religious freedom and some other fears regarding certain political links.
The most important thing, and I must emphasise this, is the need to wholeheartedly defend human rights, all human rights, including economic and social rights, throughout the world.
We for our part still want to lay emphasis on the rights of political prisoners and the right to a healthy environment.
Torture, together with the death penalty, is a violation of the most fundamental of human rights.
It is not enough to invest in prevention and especially in the broadest possible ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention Against Torture.
That is certainly not because the rapporteur has failed in any way but because, year after year, we have been emphasising very similar needs for change.
In a world where views on security based on arms and cooperation are in conflict with one another and in which the situation regarding universal human rights and the sovereignty of states is tense - this is a question of the fate of the United Nations - the EU has an opportunity to place human rights at the heart of its external policy.
Mr President, I should like to praise the rapporteur most warmly for his excellent work, which is also very interesting from the point of view both of principles and of practice.
After all, they are in many cases the heroes of civil liberties.
I should, however, like to ask for attention to be given to my amendment on freedom of conscience, which I tabled immediately, of course.
It is all the sadder that plain prejudice on the part of the press has often led to only this 1% of the text that deals with violence in religion being given so much attention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, like Mr Caudron and all of us here, wonder what we can do to stop this annual event of our report on human rights becoming a ritual.
I feel that there is something we could do, and that is to press on with our practical monitoring and condemnation of human rights abuses, to implement the resolutions adopted in this House without confining our duties to the declarations of principle that we write on our cards, to provide - as the Commissioner, too, has said - funds and practical resources, as well as training and support, for those who work in the field of human rights, starting with the United Nations, and, lastly, to support journalists - many journalists have been killed in the past year, Commissioner - whom I believe are a source of witness and verification which is important, not least for Parliament.
We need to avoid fresh forms of intolerance and new forms of discrimination developing in the name of God, not least in some highly civilised countries, in some highly civilised Western democracies: a world divided and traversed by new crusades would be a terminally ill world, and we must prevent it.
Today, Mr President, I believe that the battle for human rights can no longer be seen as a battle of principles, that it cannot be won by cunning or by taking short cuts.
We therefore call upon the Council to make every endeavour to ensure that the human rights clause - we have already heard this in the Council's speech - is not seen as just a minor addition but represents a firm ideal of legal and democratic civilisation which Parliament will ensure is never diminished.
Mr President, the EU and US should be the two principal forces leading the fight for human rights internationally.
We think 'how can Americans insist on executing people, insist on boycotting the International Criminal Court and insist on denying Guantanamo bay detainees a fair trial?' There are about 18 EU citizens and residents incarcerated at Camp Delta.
There must be joint EU pressure on the US to secure civilian trials with normal safeguards.
The war on terror must not become an onslaught on civil liberties.
Mr President, when the European Union talks about human rights, the people have every reason to worry.
Even religious freedom is being used for this purpose, while the Turco resolution reaches the point of proposing an 'offshore' law with punishments and sanctions in accordance with the US standard.
On the other hand, the European Union and the report turn a blind eye to the violations of human rights in the USA, with the anti-terrorism legislation allowing secret arrests and special courts martial.
The European Parliament draws attention to bans on missionary activity and threats of punishment in cases where people change faith.
The European Parliament would point to the vulnerability experienced by members of religious minorities around the world.
We also warn against intolerance based on atheism.
We also indicate the important role of the media in disseminating knowledge of religions and cultures.
Finally, this important document contains legitimate repudiations of the choice of Libya as Chair of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
This structural secularity places beliefs where they are needed, in other words in the private domain.
With regard to sects, I will refer to the words of Anna Morelli, a Belgian historian of religions: what is a sect, if not a religion that has not received the support of a political power.
The van den Bos report would have been even more forceful if his conclusions had gone this far.
Mr President, Mr van den Bos is to be congratulated on his work, but the trouble with a wide-ranging report like this is that it eventually includes everyone's pet hobby-horse and the key messages may be obscured.
We are reminded that in the fight against terrorism our democracies must take care not to abuse civil liberties and human rights.
It should concentrate action on a few areas where there is the possibility of getting results and then act with consistency and determination.
I think of Burma - on which I shall speak tomorrow - and Zimbabwe, where millions of people are suffering under Mugabe's tyranny, a situation shamefully tolerated and encouraged by leaders in some African countries in the region.
Corrupt and brutal governments in failed states are usually the main source of human rights abuse of millions of the world's most disadvantaged people.
As British Conservatives, we are insistent that, in return for enhanced development assistance, recipient countries should implement their side of the bargain, namely good governance, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Mr President, if human rights form the core of European values, this annual report on human rights represents one of the most important dates of the year within this European Parliament.
The resolution identifies some structural changes at EU level which could genuinely improve enforcement of human rights, including better operation of the human rights clause between the EU and third countries, inclusion of the European Parliament in discussion of the operational programme on human rights, and the introduction of benchmarks which enable EU action short of the two often blunt instruments of sanctions policies or suspension of aid.
I hope the Commission will consider these in detail.
Finally, just as Parliament voted earlier today in favour of a UN Convention on disability, it is right that the abuse of the human rights of people with disabilities are represented within this comprehensive resolution.
This is not just about economic and social rights, but about people all over the world who have lost their lives or who have been subject to abuse simply because they are disabled.
Mr President, this report wants us to believe that the European Union has a major role to play as regards human rights at global scale.
Even though limited human rights are only assured in wealthy countries because they are refused to the poor people of the planet, it is precisely the wealthy countries, so proud of their human rights at home, that maintain in the poor countries a number of terrible regimes, based on oppression and, in particular, on endless misery.
Mr President, although satisfied with the report, my group too feels that it must use the time available to stress that it is essential that the European Parliament continues to make use of all the resources available to it more resolutely to ensure that the issue of human rights is given greater prominence in our decision-making and that the policies we follow are more effective.
I believe that, as far as human rights in general in the world are concerned - and I would single out in this broad category the rights of the child and women's rights - there is still potential which has yet to be fully exploited in the decisions that we take regarding all the aid policies, not least in respect of developing countries, potential which we must exploit with greater determination and resolution to promote the need to respect human rights.
I believe that there is a problem of information here, too, and I agree with the statement in the report regarding the need for Parliament in general and the committees handling the decisions relating to these countries' policies, in particular, to have greater, quicker, more certain access to absolutely up-to-the-minute daily information on what is happening in those countries.
I sensed quite a lot of frustration in many of the contributions reflecting the lack of clear decisions with binding effect and the lack of effective instruments to enforce respect of human rights in the world.
We have to take care and stay faithful to other values that are important for our self-esteem and our project.
More than half of the population in the world gets less than two dollars per day.
We are trying to create one.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
WRITTEN DECLARATIONS (RULE 120) - (FR) The report rightly condemns the human rights situation in many countries.
Indeed, 2002 marked a worrying, repressive turning point in those countries, particularly with regard to freedom of expression: detention of and judicial proceedings against leaders of the Kabylie citizens' movement in Algeria and now attacks on the freedom of the press; imprisonment of an Internet journalist in Tunisia; censorship and the charging of journalist Ali Lmrabet in Morocco; and attacks carried out by the Moroccan authorities in Western Sahara.
Finally, in many countries, the supposed fight against terrorism provides an excuse for security and repressive measures.
In my view, according to Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union, the European institutions may monitor, each according to their respective remits, strict respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms on the part of the Member States.
I then brought together the major non-governmental organisations - Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the International Federation for Human Rights - as well as representatives of the national parliaments, including the candidate countries.
For me, this meant first of all looking at perhaps one of the greatest splits in the European continent since the fall of the Berlin Wall, namely the consequences of 11 September, both within and outside the Union.
While crossing the country, I saw that there are still very many negative effects of 11 September.
It is then important to remember, within the context of defending the first fundamental right - the right to life - which is set out in the first chapter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the need to remain united in the fight against terrorism.
In 1994, I had the good fortune to meet with Nelson Mandela, who was just about to take power in South Africa.
The UN has listed more than 142 definitions of terrorism.
Nonetheless, Mr President, the fact remains that terrorism today is a real source of conflict from all points of view and can lead to caution within societies and cause them to shut themselves off.
It is therefore up to us to ensure that in this context we find solutions as quickly as possible.
I am thinking, in particular, of the concern regarding the fact that citizens, European nationals, are today being held in what I would call great secrecy in Cuba because they are suspected of have carried out terrorist acts.
The second thing that worries me is the situation in our prisons.
I think that it is particularly shocking at this beginning of the millennium to see what is happening in the EU's prisons, where the situation is far from satisfactory.
There is one particularly significant aspect to this report: this is the first Parliamentary report drawn up on the basis of the annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the Union and in the Member States drafted by the network of independent experts set up by the Commission at the specific request of the European Parliament.
I therefore welcome the fact that the network's report has been useful to your work.
I am also aware that it is certainly possible to improve it in future and to make it more operational, as proposed in item 4 of Mr Sylla's report.
I can also state that, in future, the honourable Members of this House will also have access to the national reports drawn up by each expert in the network and that meetings between the network and the future EP rapporteur will be held more frequently.
Similarly, as early as October, the Commission will be holding a meeting with representatives of non-governmental organisations to ensure that the information included in the report is as complete and as reliable as possible.
We are clearly at an extremely important juncture for the protection of fundamental rights in the European Union.
With regard to the cases raised by Mr Sylla's report and to some of the problems in the field of fundamental rights in the European Union, I wish to inform the House that the Commission has already adopted, or is in the process of adopting in relation to some of the issues, measures that will provide solutions.
In October 2002, the Commission presented a proposal for a directive on compensating victims of crime in general, which specifically covers victims of terrorism.
Similarly, the Commission is closely monitoring the situation of the Roma minority in the context of enlargement, both from the point of view of countries' compliance with the political criteria for joining the European Union, and of their receiving funding through the PHARE programme.
Consequently, before any restructuring takes place, employees must be informed and consulted in order to eliminate or mitigate the social impact of such decisions.
The issue of reconciling family and working lives forms an integral part of the aims of the Community framework strategy for gender equality for the period 2001-2005.
With regard to the draft proposal for a framework decision on the procedural safeguards given to suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings in the European Union, which has arisen as a result of the Green Paper published by the Commission on 19 February, the drafting of this proposal is now under way and the text will be available at the end of November, once it has been adopted by the Commission.
Central to this Constitution, according to the conclusions of the Convention on the Future of Europe, will be the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was adopted by the preceding Convention and which received the political endorsement of the three institutions at the Nice European Council.
This means that a constitutional legal system will be based on the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union.
The Commission realises the importance, however, of implementing Article 7 of the Treaty of Nice before the Charter can take full effect.
To this end, I wish to confirm that at some point in September, the Commission will approve and submit to Parliament and Council a communication on the implementing conditions of Article 7 of the Treaty of Nice in the field of the protection of fundamental rights.
As the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport for this report, I am happy that in paragraph 38 Italy is finally and explicitly named and shamed concerning its media concentration and the influence in this regard of its Prime Minister, without any rules at all on conflict of interest being adopted.
I say I am glad because the majority of Members on the Culture Committee sadly voted against making an example of Italy for its bad record in media concentration, which poses a very serious threat to democracy everywhere.
A recent report on media conflict of interest in Italy by the NGO Reporters Without Borders quotes Freimut Duve, the OCSE's representative for media freedom, who has repeatedly condemned the concentration of so much of the Italian news media in the Prime Minister's hands.
The OSCE says it is both a challenge to the European constitutional architecture and a bad example for new democracies in transition.
I could elaborate further, but I am sure you all understand the problems that media ownership concentration in Italy poses to democracy and freedom of information.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights, I should like to express our deep satisfaction with the comments and recommendations in the report on safeguarding and applying democracy and equality in daily life and practice, in the sense of a balanced participation of the sexes in democratic institutions and respect for the human rights of women.
It is not possible, Commissioner, for women to be treated as human beings and citizens with restricted rights in twenty-first century Europe.
Only then will we be able to talk of the universality of human rights and mainstreaming.
I should also like to take the opportunity of today's vote on the report on the DAPHNE programme to prevent and combat violence against women, Commissioner, to call once again on the European Commission and the Member States, to put combating violence against women, which is the worst form of violation of women's rights, high on their political agenda.
First of all, I would like to remind you that this is the third report since an extremely important reform, which Parliament desired, which involves looking at the situation of fundamental rights in the Union in light of the Charter, and this implies a number of obligations.
My second comment relates to the countries.
In reality, the report forms a whole and, thus, the resolution should contain only the true substance of the report and highlight only what Parliament would like the public to remember.
Also from this point of view, it would be in our interest to ensure that the resolution contains only the important points, those that correspond, in fact, to the reasons why Parliament decided to draw up this report.
It is very important not to forget these aspects concerning the method if we want the report to be adopted with as broad a political foundation as possible.
Mr President, this is the fourth plenary debate in this parliamentary period on the human rights situation in the European Union.
Structural highlights are, and continue to be, the misconduct of government officials such as police officers, the situation in prisons, trafficking in human beings, forms of unequal treatment and discrimination, racism and xenophobia.
All in all, it therefore seems to me that the human rights issue within the European Union has become more pronounced over the past few years, despite the efforts of many to carry out improvements in specific areas.
First of all, our work has become more systematic and objective, because we have taken the Charter of Fundamental Rights as our guiding principle.
Our work has also become more professional since we can now fall back on the network of experts under the guidance of Professor De Schutter.
I am therefore very much looking forward to the communication that the Commissioner has announced regarding the further details of Article 7 of the Treaty of the European Union.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur and saying that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports the report.
Mr Cornillet, I wonder for what purpose we should have this report if we did not single out a number of countries.
The question to the Commission and the Council is, of course: what practical measures are you taking to tackle the problems?
There is a political anxiety whereby all the countries apparently feel able to compromise fundamental legal principles.
We must give all children who find their way to the EU the chance of a life of dignity.
There are many deficiencies in this area, including in my own country.
The third area concerns a sensitive but important issue.
The EU Charter of Fundamental Rights states clearly and unambiguously that '[t]he freedom and pluralism of the media shall be respected'.
We cannot have this situation.
Mr President, I would like to welcome this report, which is an informative instrument on more than one level: it is an excellent compilation of the existing legislation, it monitors accurately the development of the legislation and, in particular, the effects of 11 September, and it provides clear proof that the perception of danger has changed the terms of the balance between freedom and security, that the increase in the number of exceptional laws has substantially limited our fundamental rights and held them up to ridicule.
With the adoption of European provisions such as the framework decisions on terrorism and the European arrest warrant, or even the freezing of assets of certain entities and individuals considered to be terrorists, the European Union is consolidating the many anti-terrorism and repressive laws adopted by the Member States.
A simple suspicion can result in detention.
Entire populations that were already vulnerable have been even more so since 11 September: nationals of third countries, asylum-seekers, Roma and Muslims.
With disregard for fundamental rights and public freedoms, these populations are often treated as if they pose a threat or a danger to state security and it is easy to blame it on 11 September.
The association agreements with Algeria, for example, are a good illustration of this amalgam of terrorism and immigration.
We must now make all efforts to ensure that human rights are at last respected in the European Union for all residents, regardless of their nationality.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in both his explanatory statement and in the speech he made to this plenary, the rapporteur informed us that it was not his intention to draw up a report presenting an exhaustive framework of breaches of fundamental rights in all countries of the European Union.
The report does, however, in most of its 150 long articles, give in to this temptation, straying from its stated intentions and boundaries and in some cases serving as a political judgment on the Member States.
Such a role does not fall within the sphere of the European Parliament's competence, as we know, except in serious and specific situations that could trigger the sanctions set out in Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union.
No one should conclude from my words that I am any less concerned about or attentive to protecting fundamental rights or to fighting against the various forms of discrimination.
Today, in stark contrast to the generous nature of the policies that have traditionally defined democratic systems, sophisticated forms of international crime and terrorism exist and only with a considerable sense of responsibility and balance will it be possible effectively to fulfil the requirements that the complex current situation sets for us all.
Mr President, I come from an ancient nation that prides itself on having been the first in Europe to abolish the death penalty and to abolish slavery and life imprisonment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, it would be a mistake to take the blinkered approach of looking at the issue of the protection of human rights solely in terms of the rights of individuals, seeing them as the one and only matter of any significance to anybody and disregarding the rights of peoples, their traditions and their cultural identities.
This can lead to blunders and completely the wrong line being taken, as, for example, where, examining the problem of widespread crime among immigrants from third countries, the report states that this is surely due to poor integration policies while completely disregarding the rights of the communities on the receiving end of this kind of unregulated immigration who suffer the damage and the harmful effects, not least in terms of their culture, of what is, in some cases, a genuine invasion and abuse of the rights of the people of the country of reception.
We are therefore extremely critical of a report which also seeks to introduce euthanasia by the back door.
I say 'unfortunately' because it was an important and substantial report.
We can discuss the issues you raise in it, and we can be for them or against them, but the point is that they do not belong in the report about fundamental rights and respect for these rights in the European Union.
For that reason, and as a matter of principle we, in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, will vote against this report.
You also, however, criticise a number of Member States, and as a rule you do so unfairly.
Finally, we reject the report outright because of your demand that homosexual couples be given the right to adopt children.
The Group of the European People's Party resolutely rejects your report for all the reasons I have stated and will vote against it.
Mr President, I would first like to stress the importance of this report, and in contrast to what some fellow Members have just said, to say how courageous it is to identify countries guilty of failure to respect the most basic human rights.
Furthermore, the conclusions of the report are extremely important as regards the other challenges we face.
Mr President, in the Spanish state, fundamental rights are being violated by terrorist killings, extortion, threats and violence.
Faced with these, the response, under the rule of law, must not be an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, but the application of democratic law and scrupulous respect for the human rights of all citizens, including the perpetrators of violence.
All of this goes against the constitutional objective of rehabilitation and social reintegration of prisoners with a view to achieving a fairer and more civilised society.
This Parliament is making a hopeless fool of itself by entrusting this report to a Communist.
I will allow him 30 seconds to make any comment he wishes to make.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with the new annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the European Union which, owing to the method used for its production - a different political group every year - makes it impossible for the final result to reflect a consensus - which furthermore is necessary - of all the groups in this House.
This is why in paragraph 12 we called for a European instrument for compensating victims which, let us hope, will be reflected in the 2004 budgets.
One of them is its proposal on active euthanasia, which clashes head-on with a decision of the European Council of 26 March 2002, or the chapter relating to immigration and asylum, which confuses economic immigration with asylum seekers - an issue which has already been overcome by the Commission and also within our Parliamentary debate - or the request for equivalence between marriage and homosexual partnerships, and it also proposes that homosexual partnerships be allowed to adopt children, something which goes further than the logical non-discrimination against any person on the grounds of their sexual orientation.
I believe that the first thing I said in my speech was that in the Spanish state fundamental rights are being suspended as the result of the actions of violent people.
If we really want to resolve the political conflict being endured by the Basques, however, we must begin by respecting all the human rights of all the citizens, without exception.
Measures intended to create a genuine and coherent Community policy on illegal immigration are experiencing delays in being adopted that are incompatible with the urgency and the gravity of the problems facing these individuals.
Measures designed, on the other hand, to guarantee security or to control illegal immigration, measures that are generally repressive, have shown themselves able to bring about consensus between governments more easily than measures that are positive or which seek to integrate communities.
We can see the progress made in 2002 with the adoption of various instruments that constitute the first steps towards a common immigration and asylum policy.
These instruments are not sufficient, however, to remedy the weak legal and social position of the several thousand immigrants who have settled in our countries and whose situation is extremely precarious and exposed to all types of abuse.
One fundamental instrument is still awaiting final approval by the Council: the European Statute on Long-Term Residents, which applies to immigrants who have lived within the territory of a Member State for more than five years and which will give those concerned the right to a set of benefits in the same conditions that apply to nationals of that country.
Mr President, finding a way out of these dead ends is crucial if we are genuinely to raise the level of protection of fundamental rights within the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some of us are extremely concerned: 'Our children, our children, our children ?'.
Our rapporteur warns them that 87% of cases of child abuse occur in the family, according to figures never discussed; another 4% occur in seminaries.
Whether you are talking about our Benito Mussolini, Saddam Hussein or any of the others, the right of peoples has always prevailed over the right of individuals.
Our President has declared inadmissible, unacceptable, an amendment calling for freedom of access to documents.
We should therefore all be sitting here calmly, but, as you can see, it is a report which still provokes heated debate after four years.
Moreover, we are discussing principles which distinguish a civilised society from a tribal community, and, in this respect, the Charter of Fundamental Rights would seem to be the most appropriate, most equitable, most reliable reference when it comes to principles and values.
It is a shame that all these issues, these principles, are jeopardised somewhat, adulterated by invasive ideological and political views when they warrant greater respect.
Once again, we are attempting to impose on 15 Member States a model which is only accepted by three countries in Europe, and we are doing so, ladies and gentlemen, with force which, although purely verbal, is, nonetheless, violence.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report, which each year gives us an opportunity to examine the fundamental rights situation in the European Union, provides an excellent reminder for those who would prefer to forget the universal nature of fundamental rights.
This right is denied to legal residents in several Member States on the grounds that they are not national citizens or are non-EU citizens.
Mr President, a practical approach to this report will immediately highlight its most important virtue - the fact that European institutions will no longer be able to ignore the pitiful situation of human rights protection in daily life in the Member States.
As the rapporteur says, this annual report will, in future, be valued and possibly even feared.
Commissioner Vitorino, in paragraph 22, the report clearly calls, as an urgent matter, for action to be taken in favour of prisoners who suffer from serious diseases.
Bautista Barandalla, a Navarrian prisoner, suffers from an incurable illness.
His case is the object of my written question to the Commission tabled last March.
Furthermore, it was the subject of a number of amendments, which I discussed with the Chairman of my committee once again this morning.
I find it really shocking that the role of the rapporteur should be reduced to a duty of responsibility.
My intention was quite simply to emphasise those points that I regard as important, and in particular the aftermath of the attacks on 11 September 2001, conditions in prisons and discrimination.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
WRITTEN DECLARATIONS (RULE 120) The next item on the agenda is Question Time (B5-0273/2003).
However, all the questions will receive a written answer so we will be able to fulfil our obligation.
The immigration strategy followed by the Union is intended not only to draw up and implement measures to combat illegal immigration and to prevent and control this phenomenon but also to strengthen relations with third countries of origin and transit of immigrants.
We must, therefore, remember that the conclusions of the Seville European Council of 21 and 22 June 2002 noted that it is crucial for the European Union and its Member States that migration flows should be managed in accordance with the law, in cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of such flows.
They also noted that combating illegal immigration requires a greater effort on the part of the European Union, with the use of all appropriate instruments in the context of the European Union's external relations.
In line with the Seville European Council, the conclusions of the Thessaloniki European Council of 19 and 20 June 2003 reaffirmed that the EU dialogue and actions with third countries in the field of migration should be part of an overall integrated, comprehensive and balanced approach.
It should also be mentioned that, in December 2002, the Commission produced a communication entitled 'Integrating Migration Issues in the EU's Relations with Third Countries', which stressed, in particular, the relationship between migration and development.
The Council therefore notes that, in order to establish an effective migration policy, we need to develop a genuine partnership with third countries to bring about more effective, common management of migration flows.
Moreover, I must mention the Commission's working document of July 2003 on closer cooperation with countries of origin with a view to managing migration flows.
This document, intended to implement the conclusions adopted by the Council on 19 November 2002, examines the state of cooperation with a number of third countries and makes proposals for closer, improved cooperation.
We will undertake to return to this question to explore it in greater depth and see how we can respond more fully.
The European Council has taken note of the results of the various operations described in the report.
As far as the Ulysses project is concerned, the Council was informed that it was to be implemented in two stages: the first stage, in the Mediterranean, took place between 25 January and February this year, and the second, which was to be implemented at the beginning of April, also this year, was temporarily suspended because of the war in Iraq.
The second stage was finally implemented between 27 May and 2 June this year and consisted of the surveillance and monitoring of the territorial waters off the coasts of the Canary Islands in the Atlantic Ocean.
The second stage saw the active participation of the United Kingdom, France and Spain.
The added value of the Ulysses project lies in the fact that various human resources and pieces of equipment were pooled and deployed jointly in a number of practical tasks, and in the fact that information was exchanged using advanced technologies.
However, I would point out that, as it states in its programme, the Italian Presidency will endeavour to promote joint management of migration flows which preserves a proper balance between the policy of integrating foreigners legally residing in the European Union - not least promoting social, cultural and religious dialogue - and resolutely combating illegal immigration and the trafficking of human beings.
With the decision to combine the three previous Council formations - Internal Market, Industry and Research - in a single Council formation responsible for issues relating to the competitiveness of European enterprises, both horizontal issues and individual political measures, with a view to introducing new legislation, a major step has been taken towards a more effective Council structure for the sectors concerned.
As the honourable Member mentioned, at the Brussels meeting in March 2003, the European Council stressed the role of the Competitiveness Council formation, stating that it should be effectively consulted within the Council's decision-making processes on proposals considered likely to have substantial effects on competitiveness, alongside the responsibility of all Council formations to assess the impact of their work field.
The agendas of the sessions of this Council formation held thus far and the results of these sessions adequately reflect the objectives established by the European Council and the Presidencies' desire to create the best possible conditions for achieving them.
Under the previous Danish and Greek Presidencies, the work of the Competitiveness Council was organised in such a way as to allow the fullest possible integration of the three principal sectors within its scope and greater efficiency in addressing related issues.
The Italian Presidency certainly intends to further develop and enhance the work of this Council formation on the basis of experience gained thus far.
The Italian Presidency intends to follow up the constructive, fruitful debate held at informal ministerial level in Rome on 11 and 12 July 2003 with appropriate measures, with the aim of paving the way for an integrated competitiveness strategy, a strategy which will have to be debated and adopted in one of the November Council sessions.
As has been pointed out, a number of initiatives and some practical steps have been taken to ensure that the Competitiveness Council can fully play its specific role alongside and in close coordination with the work carried out in the other Council formations, although it is, as yet, too early to come to any definitive conclusions.
However, there is no doubt that the European Parliament has a major role to play in this regard and the Italian Presidency fervently hopes that there will be constant dialogue with Parliament on how best to implement the joint competitiveness programme, not least on the basis of the proposals announced by the Commission within the framework of the integrated strategy.
The competitiveness, or rather, the declining competitiveness of the European Union is the biggest challenge that we are facing.
This Parliament is looking to the Council to take the issue of competitiveness seriously.
For this reason, there will also be an in-depth discussion of the issues of taxation and employment.
Question No 5 by Piia-Noora Kauppi (H-0437/03): Subject: Continuation of the eVote initiative, which represents interactive Internet democracy, during Italy's Presidency During its Presidency, the Greek Government has successfully promoted interactive Internet democracy by means of the so-called 'eVote' initiative.
This was particularly important during the Greek Presidency given that, inter alia, that period marked the final phase of the work of the Convention, culminating in the presentation of the EU Draft Constitutional Treaty to the Thessaloniki European Council.
The Greek Presidency's e-Vote initiative, and other instruments created by the EU institutions, such as the Futurum website and the Convention website, have made an effective contribution to ensuring that our citizens' views on the future of Europe are heard.
At its meeting in Thessaloniki in June 2003, the European Council called upon the Italian Presidency to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 48 of the Treaty in order to allow the Intergovernmental Conference to be convened in October 2003 to approve the Constitutional Treaty.
During that Intergovernmental Conference, the Presidency will endeavour to keep the public properly informed about the progress of the proceedings.
The Italian Presidency's website will be one of the instruments used to disseminate information about both the IGC and all the other work carried out during these six months.
I would accordingly like to emphasise that the Italian Presidency attaches great importance to the participation of young people in European integration.
As regards the implementation of the Commission White Paper entitled 'A new impetus for European youth', which is designed to follow up the Council Resolution on the framework for European cooperation in the field of youth, the Presidency intends to support the process of awareness-raising to increase the involvement of young people in policy-making and decision-making in areas which affect them.
It is also proposed that suitable strategies should then be drawn up taking these considerations into account, following an analysis of the results of the consultation on the participation of and provision of information to young citizens of the European Union.
One part of this initiative was that the opinions the public expressed via the Internet were directly visible at summit meetings.
Today here in Parliament my fellow Member, Jo Leinen, introduced an initiative such as this, where the Intergovernmental Conference would also be conducted transparently, with the public able to send in messages to our representatives there.
In particular, the humanitarian organisation's charges relate to the absence of legal assistance for detainees, the impossibility of communication with their families and the lack of proper access to drinking water and hygiene facilities.
In particular, the Council has not discussed the situation of prisoners in Iraq, although the issue of human rights in Iraq continues to be of enormous concern.
The Council is closely following all aspects of the situation, including, of course, the issue of human rights.
The responsible authorities and specific obligations under applicable international law of the United States and the United Kingdom as occupying powers are the subject of Resolution 1483(2003) of the United Nations Security Council.
This resolution also calls upon all concerned to comply fully with their obligations under international law, in particular the 1949 Geneva Conventions and the 1907 Hague Regulations.
There is a legal problem with the detainees, but there is also a problem with their fundamental rights, their inability to communicate with their families, with drinking water, sanitation and so on.
We will therefore check to establish exactly what the situation is and we will then proceed on that basis.
Question No 7 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0446/03): Subject: Euro-Mediterranean dialogue and the status of women The 19-20 June 2003 Thessaloniki European Council Presidency conclusions include the following: Paragraph 66 (Relations with the Arab world): 'The European Union is convinced that it must strengthen its partnership with the Arab world.
Modernising such societies involves including women in democratisation processes.
What form, therefore, is the Italian Presidency's action going to take as it endeavours to promote women in the Mediterranean area?
Similarly, the MEDA II Regulation referred to the need to recognise and strengthen the economic and social role of women and to the importance of education and of the creation of jobs for women.
One innovative feature of the Barcelona Process is the regional cooperation aspect, with regional programmes open to everyone.
This has led to the creation of the Euromed regional programme on the role of women in economic life, scheduled for 2004, with a budget of EUR 5 million, which is intended to promote opportunities for women by encouraging capacity building and information provision.
The programme seeks to have action plans drawn up at national level, focussing on access and participation for women in the job market, supporting legislative reforms and drawing up policies that foster active training and the active development of the job market.
It also encourages the promotion of women in the business world by creating networks for women active in the liberal professions and in business, and by facilitating access for women to financial instruments.
During the Italian Presidency, we will see the completion of the process of defining priority cooperation sectors in which intervention is envisaged, and, during the second half of 2003, the Commission's EuropeAid Cooperation Office will publish a call for proposals for this specific programme.
Mr President?in-Office of the Council, you have not really been very explicit, because all you are telling me is that proposals will be presented during the second half of 2003, but without being specific about them.
There is also scope for greater emphasis on women's issues in the political dialogue, and such emphasis is justified.
We will therefore be sure to take your comments fully into consideration, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, and we will also commit ourselves to seeking to achieve the best possible results.
As the time allotted to questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 8 to 32 will be replied to in writing The next item is the joint debate on the following reports, produced on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation: A5-0273/2003 by Mr Paul A.A.J.G.
Mr President, we have before us the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Development and Cooperation on the Commission communication on water management in developing countries and priorities for EU development cooperation, and on the establishment of an EU water fund, which the plenary is to vote on at noon tomorrow.
In practice we are considering two related motions.
The number of people who die each day from diseases linked to a lack of drinking water and of sanitation is put at 30 000.
The United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has enshrined access to water as a fundamental human right.
The 145 countries that have ratified the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights have an obligation to ensure that everyone has access to water, equitably and without discrimination.
Back in 1991, at the end of the World Water Decade, an international commitment was declared to provide safe drinking water for all by 2000.
Two years after that deadline, it had to be recognised at Johannesburg in 2002 that this commitment was a long way from having been met, despite the efforts of the World Bank in particular.
A new, scaled-down objective was agreed at Johannesburg: to halve the number of people without access to safe drinking water and sanitation by 2015.
The European Union wishes to play an active part in achieving this objective and the Commission has set out its priorities in the communication before us.
In the motion for a resolution to be voted upon at noon tomorrow, the Committee on Development and Cooperation suggests that the following priorities should be adopted, aware as it is that it would scarcely be credible to continue along the path mapped out by the World Bank in 1993 in its report on Water Resources Management.
It has in fact become apparent that the privatisation of water services in accordance with the 'full cost recovery' principle has generally led to an increase in charges, preventing the poorest communities in the poorest countries from having access to drinking water.
We therefore think it is essential for water distribution to be regarded as a public service.
The public-private partnership system may be one means of improving access to water, but it should not be viewed as a panacea.
As regards management, the countries concerned have both the right and the duty to adopt a policy that clearly involves local populations in management.
Furthermore, the Committee on Development and Cooperation is of the view that the success of the fund depends on participation by its beneficiaries, who must be involved in the processes of design, implementation, monitoring and assessment, as well as in the management and control of the fund, as I have already said.
We would also like the Commission to study - and please note that I am saying 'study', we are not talking about a proposal as such - the scope for introducing a tax on bottled mineral water in the EU countries and in the relevant ACP countries, a very low tax, about half a euro cent, which would make an important contribution to the fund.
Amendment No 1, tabled by the Socialist Group, complements the existing proposals very well, even if the report was adopted unanimously in committee.
As regards Amendment No 2, which relates to recital L, I would prefer it if the Socialist Group would eliminate certain terms that weaken the text.
I also find Amendment No 11, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, perfectly acceptable.
Furthermore, I myself tabled Amendment No 5 on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and this amendment seems very important to me on the eve of the Cancún Summit: in line with what I have just said, my group invites the Commission to withdraw the demand, made in the context of the GATS Agreement, that water distribution and purification services should be liberalised.
We regard this demand as running counter to the essential objective of providing access to water for all in poor countries.
If it is adopted, this amendment will strengthen the European Parliament's political message.
In 1999, in the run up to Seattle, Commissioner Lamy, who will be negotiating on behalf of the 15 EU countries at Cancún, was given a specific mandate.
I think that a new mandate is desirable, bearing in mind, not least, the objectives and commitments entered into by the European Union in different international forums.
Quite the opposite, in fact: indiscriminate liberalisation and deregulation in developing countries have, in practice, proved to be extremely damaging to development objectives.
Even where liberalisation has led to an increase in GDP, the distribution of wealth within the countries concerned has very often deteriorated.
For this reason the report calls for regional integration between developing countries, and a model of symmetrical market opening, so that the developed countries can dismantle their barriers to trade, including non-tariff barriers, giving the countries of the southern hemisphere the time they need to step up their production, make it more competitive, and expand their markets.
I do not think it is appropriate to open negotiations on these issues.
The reasons for this relate, on the one hand, to the competences and power of the WTO, and on the other hand to the problem that I have already mentioned, namely the developing countries' lack of negotiating capacity.
I believe, in fact, that it is vital to tackle other issues and to give the special and differential treatment clause some real substance, by implementing a global system of guaranteed prices to support producers of commodities such as coffee and cotton.
The issues that need to be dealt with in terms of development are achieving and promoting fair trade - something that is, in fact, being pioneered in civil society - and the provision of assistance to countries to enable them to diversify their production without creating enclaves in export sectors, by actually promoting the integration of those sectors with the rest of the economy.
I therefore consider that the Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement, which states that the agreement may and should be interpreted so as to preserve the right of the Member States to protect public health, should be implemented without delay and without resorting to agreements stipulating procedures that are so restrictive and bureaucratic as to be unworkable.
With regard to the negotiations to be held in Cancún, it must be pointed out that we need a democratic, transparent system within the WTO and sufficient negotiating capacity for all countries, which do not exist at present.
It calls on the Commission to reduce its pressure on developing countries to indiscriminately liberalise and deregulate their markets.
The Commission is collaborating with developing countries to help put in place a sound regulatory framework for the provision of basic services.
I want to draw the attention of Parliament, and especially members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, to the communication on the reform of state-owned enterprises that we have pursued in the Commission.
This is what makes things so extremely difficult.
They get fresh water and pay for it by the litre, but it is almost impossible to organise the next phase in the cycle economically.
Therefore, the divisive image of the past round of the international water debate, especially among NGOs in Europe, has been wrong - it is easy to warn against the risk of undue profiteering from more donor-funded activity in the water sector - but this is not the real problem.
The real problem is to attract long-term, humble, down-to-earth funding for the necessary investments.
It is very similar to the problem of the health sector.
Annual public health sector spending per capita in Sub-Saharan Africa is somewhere between one and six US dollars.
It is not that difficult and our technology is quite overwhelming.
It is also too easy to take a shortcut by cancelling all these countries' debts.
We are doing everything we can on that front.
This is why we urge Member States to accept our proposal to accelerate spending and to create a water facility to ensure that the money, which is still conditional for the 9th EDF - the EUR 1 billion that depends on performance - could be accepted and mobilised to accelerate our action on the water issue.
Parliament should give more of a helping hand in this.
Whatever happens in the WTO, the Cotonou route is there and it would be highly beneficial for our ACP partners to engage strongly in it.
I look forward to listening to the next contributions and, as always, to engaging in dialogue with this Parliament.
Experts have calculated that it will take at least fourteen days of rain to restore our rivers and reservoirs to their normal levels.
The water supply in the EU is obviously secure, and, what is more, it is affordable for everyone.
Admittedly, in the UN Millennium Declaration, 189 governments pledged to halve this figure by 2015, but at present, there is no prospect of this ambitious goal ever being achieved.
The USA uses most water, consuming around 296 litres per person per day.
Households in Germany and many other European countries, on the other hand, use only half this amount.
Almost 40% of the global population live in river catchments extending across more than two countries.
Countries located upstream often exploit their natural advantages over the countries downstream.
The situation in the Middle East is explosive.
The European Commission and the European Parliament are aware of the scarcity of water resources and the associated problems, which primarily include a fair system of water management.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is working to ensure that water management is not exclusively a monopoly, either of the state or of major corporations operating on a global basis.
A healthy mix of public and private sector involvement should ensure that the populations in those areas of the world that have water problems can be supplied with fresh water at affordable prices.
Although this has been a rather low-key debate today, this report has been the subject of very intensive discussions among Members of this House in recent days and, indeed, in recent weeks, not only in the meeting rooms.
It is obvious, after all, that a Commission communication on water management in developing countries will always trigger very heated and intensive debate.
When we talk about water management in developing countries, it is obvious to me that the Commission, and the European Union, should be promoting sustainable water management.
He mentions intensive farming, which is predominantly export-driven, structural adjustment programmes imposed on countries in the past, which have weakened their public services, and he mentions the setting of wrong priorities in project funding.
I think that this is a very good signal to send out, and there are also very positive approaches in the Commission's current policies which aim to avoid these pitfalls in future.
I would ask Mr van den Berg to tell us about this himself.
As my party has already highlighted in an amendment, contributing this know-how results in increased economic activity, which promotes a considerable diversification of products.
Worldwide, there are some 260 reservoirs that are shared by various countries.
Access to drinking water and proper sanitary provisions are fundamental rights of the population.
Mr President, in all the EU's key documents, combating poverty is held up as the primary goal of development policy.
It is undisputed that the EU spends substantial sums of money on development assistance and makes every effort to conclude a variety of partnership and cooperation agreements in the different regions of the world, for both sides' benefit.
What is also undisputed is that despite all these efforts, poverty in the world has increased, especially during the last decade, and there appears to be no imminent prospect of any change in this trend.
Parliament has before it a number of reports covering extremely important aspects of development policy.
The situation in the health sector is no less precarious.
The rapporteur and, indeed, the entire Committee on Development and Cooperation are seeking to bring their experience and authority to bear in order to combat growing poverty with all its manifestations and impacts.
The Commission wants to help the developing countries to take advantage of trade.
Helping the developing countries to take advantage of trade first and foremost means changing the rules governing trade to make them more favourable to developing countries.
Promoting fair trade is still the only viable long-term strategy.
It is only by changing and diversifying their production that the developing countries will really be able to establish their independence and play a key role in world trade.
The Commission's efforts should be directed towards achieving that objective, and this is the issue that the Cancún conference should focus its work on.
Mr President, nobody can dispute the need to create a fair global trading system, but we should not delude ourselves in thinking that fully-liberalised trade will in itself bring about fairness.
In terms of agricultural policy, for example, abolishing all market support and protection would remove about two-thirds of EU farmers from the land.
The current development round at the WTO is supposed to give special attention to the needs of developing countries and their desire to better integrate themselves into the global trading system.
Sixty per cent of the world's population lives in rural areas and the vast majority are in developing countries.
It is worth noting, at the same time, that trade in agricultural products represented less than 6% of total global trade in 2000.
The experience of agricultural trade liberalisation in Mexico should serve as a warning against the promotion of fully open markets as a solution for the needs of developing countries.
Two decades of this policy in the North American Free Trade Area have led to an increase in rural poverty, malnutrition and emigration.
In terms of creating a fair trading system, the EU has made a significant contribution with its everything-but-arms initiative.
We have committed ourselves to eliminating the customs duties applied to the exports of the world's 48 poorest countries.
Finally, the low prices of raw materials and agricultural products constitute an impediment to development in many countries.
The rapporteur rightly says that Europe must make an effort to bring about a trend towards higher prices for these products.
Both the Commission document and the report recognise this and consequently deserve our full support.
Mr President, I stand here tonight conscious that in Cancún the Commissioner and others will have to battle to protect very poor people.
When you end that count, 80 people in the world will have died of starvation.
We give two dollars a day to a cow.
We must understand that link and we must start doing something about it.
We must understand that link and have the spine and the courage to fight to allow people - who can do things such as grow and market their food and create rural agriculture in the developing world - to export produce.
We should stop protecting our cows and our farmers in Europe inefficiently, and stop destroying our own customer base.
However, I would argue, as I am sure many speakers in the debate would argue, that trade liberalisation is not a panacea for generating the kind of self-sustaining growth and poverty reduction that we want to see as a result of our policies - we are talking about coherence here - let alone the objective that we have of promoting human development.
Since the 1970s deteriorating trade terms have cost developing countries a great deal.
Many ACP countries have lost more than seven times the amount they get in development aid.
But they also insist - and this is the case not just with Cancún, which most people will talk about, but in the EPA negotiations - that duty-free access to EU markets is simply not a sufficient spur to increase exports.
They are aware, as we are, of the importance of addressing supply-side constraints, the need for adjustments and the need to meet the associated costs for developing countries.
We need to understand - and I want to make a strong case for this - that capacity constraints are an essential part of how we deal with the ability of developing countries to tackle the trade issues that they face at this time, in bilateral, regional, and multilateral negotiations.
In all of these negotiations there is a substantial and obvious imbalance between the parties negotiating in terms of economic size, political power and the sheer capacity to deal with the issue.
I hope that at Cancún, although Commissioner Lamy denies that it is a central issue, we will realise that for developing countries it certainly is.
Mr President, it is high time that forces were joined to help the developing countries to greater prosperity.
The best way of doing this is generalised free trade, which offers the best guarantees for sustainable economic growth in all parts of the world.
It is certainly the case that the liberalisation of trade is the key to development, but it also needs an important nuance.
These constraints must be a permanent factor in the inclusion of less developed countries in the world trade system.
Globalisation offers benefits to all countries that engage in the world economy.
I am thinking for example of South Korea compared with North Korea, of East Germany compared with West Germany before unification.
The difference is enormous not just where income levels, but also knowledge levels are concerned.
The infant mortality rate fell worldwide from 64 per 1 000 in 1980 to 56 per 1 000 in the nineties.
Around 80% of people in the developing countries have access to good water supplies, and illiteracy has fallen to 20%.
There is still much to be done, but there is also hope.
Everyone knows that it is quite simply about money.
But water itself and its distribution have become a colossal source of profits for the multinational conglomerates.
These conglomerates - Vivendi, the former Société Générale des Eaux, Suez, Bouygues - are free to raise water prices while international institutions vote through resolutions and prepare the ground for them by systematically dismantling public water services in poor countries.
In 10 years, the number of human beings without drinking water has risen from 1.2 billion to 1.7 billion.
Mr President, the next round of World Trade talks begins in Mexico next week.
I certainly hope that the countries participating in these negotiations - including the European Union and the United States of America - come to an agreement on one very sensitive issue.
There are 42 million people in the world who are sufferers of the AIDS virus - many of whom are based in Africa - yet the technology and the treatment is available to combat diseases such as AIDS.
If developing countries can be given the right to distribute these much-needed medicines to their own people on their own licensing terms, then the costs of these medicines would be substantially reduced.
We all know what our responsibilities are when it comes to the issue of combating AIDS and we must act accordingly.
A successful outcome to these negotiations would mean saving the lives of millions of people in the world.
This round of trade talks must truly be a development round.
Saving people's lives must always come before any doctrine on intellectual property rights.
That is a very important factor for ensuring the continued protection of sources of water.
I am delighted to vote in favour of Mr Lannoye's report.
In 10 years the number of those suffering from a shortage of clean water has instead increased by half a billion, the number at present being approximately 1.7 billion.
One in four people in the world drinks dirty water.
Universal, equitable and non-discriminatory access to clean water is a basic human right.
Experience has shown that it is impossible to leave the problem of water shortages to the market to resolve.
We also have to recognise the fact that privatisation normally means higher prices for water and purification services, which naturally cause the greatest problems for the poorest people.
Because access to water has been established as a basic right it should affect the way we think about it.
Around 6 000 people, mainly children, die each day of infectious diseases, often caused by poor hygiene.
We must, moreover, develop people-oriented technology for households as a solution to water and water purification problems.
I wish to express my support for Amendment No 19, which requests the application of a water-debt trade-off, so that debts can be cancelled and the money used to fund basic water purification infrastructures.
Mr President, I would like to highlight two aspects of the Lannoye report on water.
Given that we will be represented at the WTO conference in Cancún next week, I would first like to mention the connection with the General Agreement on Trade in Services.
I think that the European Union should make its attitude clearer.
No one could imagine suggesting to the United States that they should subject their anti-missile defence to the authority of a WTO dispute resolution body, with rules such as national treatment, most-favoured nation rules, or the obligation to award a contract to any other WTO country if it responds to an open invitation to tender in this crucial area.
I therefore believe that in the context of GATS - and I hope that the Commissioner responsible for development will have a decisive influence on those discussions, and that those discussions will not just relate to trade policy - we should not put pressure on these countries to liberalise their public services, in particular those relating to water, as a quid pro quo for giving them access to our markets, such as the agriculture market.
Over a period, in a pragmatic and gradual way and by means of sectoral aid, we have to accept that the countries of the South can protect their own economies.
Encouraging them to create markets on the huge scale required is essentially the objective of regional integration.
These countries should be in a position to export more diversified, sophisticated and industrialised products.
Firstly, I believe that the debate goes much further than privatisation or liberalisation.
It therefore requires protection and regulation not only by states, but also at international level.
It is a resource which must be shared.
Mr President, I am sure you have seen it, that Oxfam cow, to which we are currently giving shelter in our Parliament.
It also clearly chooses the side of the developing countries.
Unambiguously, the rapporteur stresses that, two years ago, clear agreements were made in Doha, but that there are difficulties in following them and observing them.
In June, also in Europe as a party to the treaty, we just in time reached an agreement on the reform of European agriculture.
Apart from agriculture and medicines, the core of the Doha negotiations, the trade in services will also be on the agenda in Cancún.
I would say water production in particular, that is what my group actually supports.
Water production must therefore stay in government hands, but for many developing countries private capital is needed for water distribution.
Social democrats are in favour of public services remaining in government hands, a public responsibility of government control.
But that does not mean that the private sector does not have an important part to play in parts of water distribution.
In my group, as my colleague has already said, there are different thoughts about this.
A second product that warrants special attention in the light of trade and development, and which is often overlooked in the discussion of agriculture, is cotton.
Four West African countries have called on the WTO to recognise the strategic importance of cotton for development, combating poverty, and food security in Western and Central Africa.
Ten million people are directly dependent on the production and export of cotton.
Mr President, knock on any mud hut in any poor country and ask the poor family inside what it needs most of all.
I hope you will assure us of this because I do not want my colleague here to persuade the PPE-DE Group to vote against the Lannoye report tomorrow.
The money we are talking about is part of the EDF.
We are not talking about a conventional method of funding projects, but something that could accelerate things.
We hope that this debate and the welcome support from Parliament will make it possible for Member States to accept what we have proposed.
To be direct, this is about eliminating the risk of losing EUR 1 billion of the EUR 13.5 billion reserved in the 9th European Development Fund which is up for evaluation next year.
That money was made conditional some years ago, under the Cotonou Agreement and the 9th EDF, on the performance in the first part of the period.
This is why we came up with the idea of reserving this money for the Water Initiative, in order to make sure that we all agree on this high-priority dossier and reserve the money for it so as to more or less lift this EUR 1 billion out of the general discussion.
I hope that support from Parliament on this will muster enthusiasm among Member States.
The result is that now, Vietnam and many other developing countries are quite successfully moving into coffee production, consequently dumping it on the market, and damaging the market to such an extent that we have a crisis that is very difficult to deal with.
The reality of the market is here to stay.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0217/2003) by Mr John Bowis, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Commission Communication on health and poverty reduction in developing countries (COM(2002) 129 - C5-0334/2002 - 2002/2178(COS)). .
Those tasks are essential to your economic wellbeing and to your country's economic growth.
We, the countries of the European Union, have accepted the challenge to help the least- and the less-developed countries to overcome poverty and to become partners with us in world trade and development.
We have acknowledged the fundamental link between good health and the reduction in poverty and we now need to enhance this priority in our development policies.
The Commission has sent us a good communication, which I welcome.
However, there are other enormous health challenges we must also address.
Let me start with the final point in our report.
Each and every year we make up our domestic failure by recruiting 63 000 doctors from the developing countries.
Only 9 of the first 61 country strategy papers had health as a focal area for cooperation.
Nigeria is an example where dramatic improvement was possible in fatal childhood diseases once the programme developed a home-to-home strategy and changed the public perception about immunisation.
Then there are the diseases and disorders beyond the three priorities of TB, AIDS and malaria.
Yet the cost need not be prohibitive, and our report points to examples of inexpensive interventions and changes of local practice which can make a significant difference.
None of us can be satisfied with our efforts to date to defeat poverty by promoting good health.
We are all in development mode and our commitment must be to drive our policy forward and faster.
This relates to a long discussion with Parliament and the Committee on Development and Cooperation about the percentages allocated to different sectors.
The Commission is prioritising support for improved health and education outcomes.
It is a matter of the credibility of the link between budget support and outcomes in these sectors, but this is the best way we can do this.
The Interreg contribution through budget support is real and it has the advantage that it also makes it possible for us to fund, and for support to be received for, the ongoing recurring costs.
The specific challenges as regards HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis have been meaningful, leading to our contribution to the global fund.
Our engagements at country level mean that we now know better what to do than we did some years ago.
I do not want to start a discussion tonight on these issues, but it is an added problem on top of all the other existing problems.
The point I want to make here is that it is very nice to see that our decision last year to untangle the procurement of medicine for these diseases adds to the reality and impact of what was agreed in the WTO last weekend.
So it is the combination of this deal in the WTO and our untying of procurement there that really is dynamic.
Illness and poverty are two sides of the same coin and therefore any strategy for combating poverty must take account of this interrelationship.
In developing countries, 28 000 children under five years old die every day as a result of illnesses which can be prevented with existing medicines.
AIDS, as well as killing more than 2 million people in Africa, is hindering the possibilities for development in a society by removing thousands of active young people and mothers who, in turn, leave behind orphans.
Furthermore, they are much more vulnerable to risks of illness, which is always linked to poverty, precisely as a result of their reproductive role.
Incorporating the views of women into the fight against poverty and illness is essential to the least-favoured societies since they are responsible for the care of children and because they are an indispensable factor in the well-being of individuals, families, local collectives and nations.
The EU has undertaken to reach the development aid target of 0.39% of GDP on average for all EU Member States by 2006.
At the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey in March 2002, it was agreed that each of the current EU Member States would by 2006 increase the proportion of GDP spent on development to at least 0.33%.
Yet we live in an era when Volkswagen, for example, has to appoint three apprentices to every training place in the developing countries because two out of three die during training, either from Aids or from other - water-borne - diseases.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has presented a very comprehensive report demonstrating, in an impressive and multi-faceted way, that there can be no sustainable development without good health.
Poverty reduction must therefore be linked as a matter of urgency with measures to combat diseases, and great efforts are needed to build an effective healthcare system in the developing countries.
The scenario we are dealing with today - and this is where the campaign against tuberculosis, malaria, and AIDS comes into play - is that we are dealing with diseases - AIDS in particular - which are not curable but which can be treated, thus giving people the opportunity to live for longer.
According to the statistics which I have available, in Burkina Faso, agricultural production has decreased by 16% because people are sick or have already died of AIDS and therefore can no longer work in agriculture.
This means that massive economic damage will result in these countries unless there is an effective healthcare system to help restore public health to the necessary level.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission communication and Mr Bowis's report are based on the vicious, infernal and fatal circle which robs developing countries of any real right to health for the majority of their population, which only aggravates their underdevelopment still further.
The same applied, incidentally, to my own report on the financing of clinical interventions to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which was adopted several months ago.
I therefore give my unreserved support to the rapporteur and to the proposals he and the Committee on Development and Cooperation have put forward.
As several other Members have said, three million people die in the world every year for lack of drinking water.
In March 2003, in the wake of the Sixth Framework Programme on Research and Technological Development, I persuaded the European Parliament to adopt a EUR 600 million research programme to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis under Article 169, which also made a concrete contribution towards achieving the same objectives.
I am seizing the opportunity I have been given this evening to inform fellow Members about the implementation of this programme since its final adoption on 16 June.
Measurable progress has already been accomplished over several years, very often with the encouragement of this House, acting in close partnership with the European Commission.
By way of conclusion, I would like to reiterate my support for the committee's proposals, my total support for our rapporteur, my personal commitment in these areas, not to mention the commitment of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, and I invite the Commission, and above all the Council, to step up Europe's commitment if we are to avoid a situation in which far from improving, the developing countries' position deteriorates in future.
Mr President, up to now we have placed particular emphasis on the fight against communicable diseases, especially HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
I therefore very warmly welcome John Bowis's report, which approaches health in the broadest possible way and takes account of the impact on health of food, environmental and educational policy.
For example, countries without any production capacity will be subject to a double system of mandatory licences and restrictions that they could often find costly.
If health really is one of the priorities of the European Union's development policy, then the Member States should make a firm commitment to grant the mandatory licences developing countries need if they are to protect their public health.
We Members of the European Parliament need to join together to exert continuing pressure if this communication is not to be just a dead letter.
I was working for a development cooperation organisation examining the tracks of the hurricane that had raged in the autumn of 1998 and familiarising myself with the situation regarding AIDS patients and conditions in the slums.
I think that if it does not result in any practical decision being made, or a gesture made for better things to come, or a hunger for justice, which has concrete results, I do not have the right to call myself a politician.
Mr President, in 2001 this Parliament asked the European Commission to make primary education and basic health care spearheads of development policy.
Along with tuberculosis and malaria this is a disease requiring extra attention in the Commission's policy.
In the present announcements this attention is very clearly in evidence in the action programme.
The arguments for the approach to these three diseases remain valid and have even become clearer still than previously where AIDS is concerned.
Public opinion however is not yet fully mobilised around a clear realisation of the worldwide crisis that these three diseases represent.
The disease is difficult to recognise at this point, but relatively easy to treat.
It can take anything from a few weeks to years before the disease progresses from phase 1 to phase 2.
An unnecessarily large number of people die because the diagnosis cannot be made in time and medicines are not available or are far too expensive.
The agreement on the cheap AIDS medicines that was concluded last Saturday as part of the WTO negotiations is a big step forward in combating this poverty-related disease.
To give priority to basic health care ahead of regulations in the field of intellectual property was a crucial decision.
It is also important in the WTO negotiations that, where the trade in services or GATTS is concerned, the right of every WTO member to regulate public services should be guaranteed and that developing countries must not be compelled to hand government control of basic services such as health care over to the market.
I would like to say expressly that, in this, I feel supported by the attitude of the Commission and Commissioner Lamy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
They are crucial to us for four reasons.
First, good development practice means that aid is successful when the beneficiaries themselves participate in the programmes that deliver that aid - helping people to help themselves.
I supported Commissioner Nielson when he made proper criticisms regarding the management and efficiency of the former liaison committee of EU development NGOs in Brussels.
It is true that non-state actors can suffer from the same problems of bad governance for which we sometimes criticise governments of developing countries.
Yet the Commission's communication and this Parliament's conviction is based on the principle that we can do better.
I am grateful for the active cooperation of the Commissioner's services, but the results of my questionnaire - showing that non-state actor consultation took place in only half of 63 beneficiary countries and that the totals by region record only 2 or 3% of the total funding provided going to non-state actors - represents a challenge for the time ahead.
I welcome the fact that the Commission supports my proposal in the resolution for one staff member per delegation in developing countries to be responsible for NSA consultation and participation.
I hope the Commissioner tonight will not simply support the principle of training in this respect, but will also commit himself to beginning to deliver it in practice.
I propose in the resolution that this process be supported through the creation of multi-stakeholder committees by country or region, a proposal which is meant not to increase bureaucracy but to ensure systematic means of participation by NSAs.
I know that the Commissioner has a healthy scepticism of my interest in budget quotas, but the 15% identified in his own programming guidelines should provide a firm baseline in the budget for non-state actor participation - 85% for governance seems not an unduly small amount.
I advance the proposal that the delegation should manage its own small-scale, capacity-building funds - a model which is effective for some Member State interventions, including those in the United Kingdom.
It is now five years since the Commission established a small, informal working party under the then Director-General of DG Development to recommend a new relationship with non-governmental organisations.
Now it includes the proposal from the European Convention for a legal base on civil dialogue.
In development specifically it has included the legally-binding, contractual participation laid down in the Cotonou Agreement, a principle that we believe should be extended to the EU's relationship with all regions of developing countries in the world.
However, it is now time to move from discussion about NGOs, civil society and non-state actors in order to effect real change and improvement.
Commissioner Nielson's communication gives us the opportunity to do just that.
One is that we deliberately played up expectations, especially in the ACP countries following the Cotonou Agreement, making an interesting breakthrough in giving them a role in the debate over country strategies and also starting a new activity of being able to fund the different non-state actors in these countries more directly.
But these activities of NGOs and so on in our partner countries are not something we run or organise.
In some countries these things are very new.
We are pushing for it, but I cannot accept that the Commission can or should be made responsible for how successfully this can be done in another country.
We have compared our attempts to the somewhat similar ones to broaden participation in the discussions in the poverty reduction strategy paper process, handled by the World Bank with the same countries in most cases.
This should not be seen as a civil society beauty contest between the Commission and the World Bank.
Mr Howitt wrote something in the explanatory statement that I disagree with.
He says that the organisations themselves complain that any consultation they enjoy is entirely ad hoc and that the Commission can be accused of only consulting when it wants to legitimise its own perspective.
I have checked whether the new umbrella organisation of development NGOs agrees with this description of the relationship.
The hard-core of cooperation - the funding and administrative working relationship - is better than it has been for many years.
What is most interesting in terms of the funding aspect is that the NGO budget of EUR 200 million per year is only a small part of the total activity that we are funding through NGOs.
The total amount of money per year going through NGOs is closer to EUR 1.5 billion - food aid, food security, part of the humanitarian aid for NGOs, and a great volume of project implementation work where we use different NGOs in the field.
The EUR 200 million budget is so heavily in demand that we have an impossible situation if all of the discussion is concentrated there, especially in view of the ten new Member States that will join the EU.
We should take care to provide good opportunities for NGOs in those countries to get in on the action.
The EUR 200 million budget for NGOs should be looked at with a view to making sure that civil society in the new Member States does not feel marginalised because of stiff competition for that specific budget.
Mr President, the role of NSAs - non-state actors - in helping development has been acknowledged and I agree with Commissioner Nielson in what he said.
I am very much in favour of tilting the balance to established private corporations with a good track record in development and in developing countries, so that they may also receive aid that would be very well utilised.
We also have two categories that the EU has never considered.
I have personal experience of both Rotary Clubs and missionaries working in East Africa for very little money.
There are so many seminars which now, with information technology, are totally unnecessary.
Transparency International is supposed to monitor the role of such bodies, but it has not done the job it is supposed to have done.
I am pointing out these things for this Parliament and for Commissioner Nielson to put at the back of their minds because much has already been said and will be said.
Whenever the EU gives any aid to any poor country, please let us inform the population what we are doing: how much money we are giving for each sector and to which actors or players or stakeholders this money is being given.
Because the poor will be the best invigilators, the best inspectors, the best reporters to our EU delegations if they find that this EU money is being misused.
I wish Commissioner Nielson much luck in what he is doing.
Furthermore, he did significant work by means of a questionnaire aimed at ascertaining the situation with regard to the participation of NGOs.
It is a fact that NGOs have had a decisive influence on the current configuration of a more open international society and on the democratisation of a system of international relations which until very recently was restricted to states and intergovernmental organisations.
We believe that the active participation of NGOs in the implementation of the Community's development policy represents the principal added value of European cooperation, since it provides a degree of effectiveness which development policies do not have when they are implemented solely within an intergovernmental context.
Only in a minority of cases do non-governmental organisations and civil organisations in the countries receiving aid participate in the creation and implementation of the development actions benefiting them.
As Mr Howitt's report points out, we will ask the Commission for data on the participation of non-state actors in the production of strategy documents by region and country.
The structuring of civil society, including companies, NGOs, local organisations and the like, is essential to development processes and cooperation relationships.
Public involvement in cooperation with developing countries is at the heart of our concerns.
We believe that participation should involve a wide range of actors, including partners from the South, and it should prevent the poorest countries from being marginalised.
It is this process that we need to support by providing the structural aid needed to guarantee that non-state actors have the independence that is vital for dialogue and for the involvement of all strata in society.
At present civil society is only recognised in the text of the Cotonou Agreement.
Involving non-state actors in their governments' development strategy is essential to guaranteeing pluralism, freedom of expression and democracy, which underpin the European Union's missions throughout the world.
We are therefore pleased to welcome this report by Mr Howitt.
Mr President, although we welcome the Commission communication, I regret that it does not adequately reflect the fundamental principle - stated in Cotonou - of participation by non-state actors (NSAs).
It is even more important, therefore, for the Commission to take this step in the right direction at last.
I would like to focus this evening on a group of non-state actors to whom the report does not give explicit credit.
The report mainly refers to two categories of non-state actor: the trade unions, on the one hand, and private sector actors, on the other.
They are established in most Member States and in a total of more than eighty countries worldwide, and they are recognised by the local partners.
Most importantly, the foundations cover a wide range of fields: poverty alleviation, good governance, pluralist democracy, human rights, promoting SMEs, 'green' business, rule-of-law structures, control of security forces, healthcare, education and training in developing countries, etc.
If the Konrad Adenauer Foundation or the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, for example, had not been present in a country such as Zimbabwe in recent years, many NGOs and civil society would have been without major partners to support their commitment to human rights, democracy and good governance.
For this reason, the independent political foundations should also be given particular consideration in the present and, above all, in the future debate. .
The NGOs I consulted are part of the public record.
Perhaps, rather than rejecting the criticism, the Commissioner should reflect on why - if it is true - it might be that NGOs are saying something slightly different to him than they are saying to this Parliament.
If they are grown up enough to discuss and criticise something they are unhappy with, they should do so directly.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
In fact, our initial proposals were considerably improved by means of the proposals made by the rapporteurs Mrs Ursula Stenzel and Mrs Regina Bastos, respectively, and the text of the final resolution was approved unanimously, as I hope will be the case in tomorrow's vote.
Our report is an assessment of a document produced by the Commission which analyses the European Union's development policy and the execution of foreign aid during 2001.
It should be pointed out at the outset that this is a very useful compendium of data and comments which are not available in any other form for easy consultation.
The document describes in a reasonably clear way how the Commission spent the funds available to it during 2001, both in the field of development cooperation and with regard to humanitarian aid.
Furthermore, we take account of the fact that 2001 was still a time of transition, during which the details of the form to be taken by European policy in the areas we are interested in here, and the best mechanisms for implementing that policy, were defined.
Furthermore, what is demonstrated is that the complexity of the procedures - which are often excessively bureaucratic - means that, in certain regions and in the year under examination, the Commission was not able to spend a significant proportion of the resources available to it.
The participation of non-governmental organisations from our countries is often the determining factor in terms of our interventions achieving good results.
In other cases, the cooperation we are able to lend to the United Nations and its specialised agencies on issues of development and humanitarian action appears to be very important.
Of the conclusions of our resolution, there are one or two I would like to highlight: the first is Parliament's request - which is being repeated once again - that the European Development Fund (EDF) should be included within the European Union's ordinary budgets so that it becomes more transparent and subject to Parliament's control; the second is, in reality, our congratulations to the Commission - and more specifically the people responsible for our actions, both in development cooperation and in humanitarian aid.
We sincerely believe that, despite the criticisms made, there has been considerable progress in terms of what is done in these fields but, above all, we note that there is genuine concern to take stock, expose problems and to seek the participation of many - of Parliament as well, of course - in order to ensure that things are done better every day.
Thank you, finally, to the officials of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and those of my group, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, who cooperated with me generously and very effectively throughout the production of our report. .
I have stated a number of times - some thought it was a bad joke - that the main reason why we are so bad as regards informing the public about what we do in development cooperation is that we do not know what we are doing.
I am pleased to inform you that the 2002 report is just about to be published.
I should like to stress that production of this kind of report is a complex process.
On the one hand, it is an important management tool for our own institutions.
At the same time, it should be easy to read, without too much technical jargon.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.) The report calls upon the Commission to waste no time in renegotiating the fisheries agreement between Greenland and the EU.
This means that the EU would acquire greater influence over Greenland's economy.
The members of this union of states, obliged to join together, but competing with one another in order to defend their own bourgeoisies, apply Community law only in so far as their big businesses and major industries find it convenient for them to do so.
I would like to start by stressing the need for a regular report of this kind and the importance thereof so that we can constantly improve the situation of the fundamental rights of the European citizens.
It is essential that we develop strategies promoting equal access for all to fundamental rights such as education, healthcare and culture and to a permanent job and housing.
I do not feel that the report reflects or upholds certain values of our European civilisation.
