The enforcement of the safeguard clause should be considered as not to be directed against the Romanian citizens because it is normal for those who are guilty of not meeting their obligations to answer for it, and not the Romanian citizens. (HU) Mr President, on 13 February Australia's Labour Prime Minister Kevin Rudd made a formal apology on behalf of the Australian government for the indignities inflicted on the indigenous Aboriginal population over two centuries.
Mr President, next Sunday, on 24 February, Estonians will celebrate the 90th anniversary of the birth of their independent statehood.
However, a special feature of the 90 years since the proclamation of independence that we share with our neighbours - Latvians and Lithuanians - is that we have enjoyed freedom for only 39 years, because of foreign occupations.
Therefore, I would like to recall one important fact: exactly 25 years ago, the European Parliament, as the first European institution to do so, reacted to the appeal of 45 freedom fighters from Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and adopted a resolution supporting the idea of restoring sovereignty to the three occupied Baltic nations.
The cause of their looming extinction is the illegal poaching of tigers in India.
The open letter published by me in connection with these anti-Romani statements was signed by a total of 72 Roma non-governmental organisations including 33 in Italy, 12 in Hungary, 9 in Macedonia, 4 in Romania, 3 in Turkey, 2 in Moldova, 5 in Bulgaria, and 2 in France.
Mrs Olga Kazulin has also been detained.
Mr President, I am seriously concerned by the misconception that a colleague of mine, Sahra Wagenknecht, spread in an interview with the Russian news agency 'Regnum' on 7 February this year.
I would also like to remind my colleague that one of the purposes of the state is to guard the sanctity of private property.
The Russian population should not be left to cope on its own. (Applause) (HU) Mr President, Kosovo's independence signifies a major change in the Balkans.
By averting this risk we could facilitate another settlement that would include the long-term, and not merely superficial, regulation of relations between Belgrade and Novi Sad, and between the indigenous minorities in Vojvodina and the state; it could also help to break the deadlock and enable a functioning state to be established in Bosnia.
I urge you, Mr President, to convey this matter to Commissioner Špidla and Commissioner McCreevy, both of whom have a role in this matter. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
For the first time in around 50 years, Hungarian-speaking Csángó children in eastern parts of Romania are able to learn Hungarian again, although in some villages this only takes place outside of school, if at all.
We are sure that from now on the majority ethnic groups in European countries will place importance not only on the acquisition of the official language of the state, but also on ensuring that other groups living alongside them are able to preserve their mother tongue and learn it at every level in their own education institutions, and that they are able to use their mother tongue in the public administration, in the courts and in the legislature. 2008 is the Year of Intercultural Dialogue.
Chairman, All countries are affected by the problem of raising children in a disadvantaged position.
The ratification of this convention has been ongoing since March 2007, but only 16 countries, two of which are EU Member States, have ratified it.
Its 50 articles describe in detail the rights of persons with special needs in every area of human activity (health, justice, family) and call for them to participate in decision making. (RO) The European nationality offers a series of rights and freedoms on the entire EU territory.
I also request the European Commission to verify whether the Member States comply with the obligations they undertook via treaties, regarding discrimination based on nationality. (CS) In your contribution you spoke about the importance of ensuring that the International Protectorate in Kosovo remains part of Serbia in conformity with Resolution 1244 and international law.
This is why I ask for the present regime to be maintained after 2009 and for tobacco growers to continue... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) On 4 February 2008, the Romanian Parliament ratified the European Union Reform Treaty.
Following Romania's and Bulgaria's accession, the guarantee of increasing the financial resources of the cohesion policy after 2013 has become a requirement.
Over the last 14 years, REPS have been paid at a very early stage once the documentation has been filed with the Commission or with the Department of Agriculture in Ireland.
I now understand that the payments are going to be delayed, and that over 6 000 farmers are already behind in respect of receiving payments.
I also understand that this figure will rise to over 60 000 in the next few months.
A state is sovereign when its authority is independent, autonomos in Greek, that is to say when it can decide for itself what it does.
A state is sovereign when its authority is exclusive.
A state is sovereign when it respects the principle of uti possidetis, the inviolability of borders.
For over 14 years the Department of Agriculture authorities in Ireland - with the acquiescence of the Commission - had a scheduled payment of the Rural Environment Protection Scheme payments to thousands of farmers and their families.
Please do not pick rows with Irish farmers or any section in Ireland this year above all years, and let them have the monies they are entitled to have, in the way they have been paid for over 14 years now.
