In my opinion, there are many reasons why we should provide substantial support for this country as it seeks EU membership during a difficult period characterised by huge financial instability.
I would like to emphasise that this is also an issue which is in the interests of Serbia's neighbours, including some countries that are not yet members of the EU, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, but which are applying for membership.
However, there are also countries here which are EU members already and which might be threatened by instability in Serbia, such as Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, first and foremost, I would like to note that the Commission greatly welcomes the positive and constructive attitude of Parliament on the process of adoption of the Commission proposals for macro-financial assistance for four partner countries: Armenia, Georgia, Serbia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Armenia, Georgia, Serbia and Bosnia are among those having suffered the most from the effects of the crisis, irrespective of the difference in their economic structures and level of development.
I also wish to express my appreciation of these initiatives proposed by the European Commission and Council, aimed at providing macro-financial assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.
The authors of the resolution have done well to remind us that the economic situation in Georgia before the conflict began was very good.
The conflict in Georgia in 2008 caused a serious worsening of the economic situation in the country.
We are dealing with a country which aspires to cooperate closely with the European Union and, in the future, to also have the opportunity of developing this European perspective.
This is our obligation as the European Union, especially in a situation where the Sarkozy Plan is not being carried out for Georgia, and we are not able to ensure, as an arbiter, as the European Union, that relations between Georgia and Russia are regulated in accordance with international law.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, our Neighbourhood Policy is able, to a large extent, to provide financial assistance to countries in our neighbourhood which are in trouble, so I am very happy that Members of Parliament so unanimously supported this Commission proposal.
As I said, we will see in the very near future the possibility of developing the framework agreement which establishes a certain frame for this kind of assistance, and within this assistance framework, we can then provide rapid assistance.
Firstly, macro-financial assistance to EU neighbourhood countries is justified for two reasons: firstly, it has intrinsic political value as a way of the Union gaining prestige by assisting countries in difficulty, within the context of a policy of good neighbourliness.
Secondly, it is justified by the EU's own interest in contributing to the financial, social and political stability of our neighbourhood countries as a condition for their development and democratic consolidation, as this is also a prerequisite for our own political stability.
In the case of Georgia, the proposed macro-financial assistance of EUR 46 million in the form of grant instalments is aimed at supporting Georgia's recovery after that country experienced a severe economic downturn following the eruption of the military conflict with Russia and the global financial crisis.
The EUR 100 million for Armenia is forecast to have an immediate impact on Armenia's balance of payments, and would in this way contribute to the alleviation of financial constraints on the implementation of the authorities' economic programme and to financing the budget deficit.
Article 308 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is aimed at measures adopted as part of the internal market, which are not directly provided for in any treaty and are not necessarily similar to those which need to be adopted to provide MFA to third countries.
