At a meeting on 18 June the General Affairs and External Relations Council re-emphasised the importance of an arms-trade treaty.
An important step was taken with the adoption of resolution 61/89 by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 6 December 2006.
About 80 states, including all Member States of the EU, have so far answered the UN Secretary-General's call.
The European Union's Code of Conduct on Arms Exports is the most fully developed international instrument for the control of arms exports.
We are fully engaged in the implementation of the 2005 EU strategy against the illicit spread of small arms and light weapons.
The EU can and must take the lead in this area.
In conclusion, I find it noteworthy to mention that, of the 17 leading arms exporters, more than half are EU Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, this House has spoken out in favour of an international treaty on the transfer of weapons on many previous occasions.
A resolution that was approved in December 2006 with the support of 153 countries has been the departure point for our debate today.
It is right that we should remember that 153 countries signed it, because that gives the process genuine legitimacy.
Fourthly, the governments must also pay attention and give every possible support to the setting up of a group of experts that will have to be created in 2008 with a view to defining the content of the treaty.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, I warmly welcome the fact that we have this joint motion for a resolution on an international arms-trade treaty, because time is running out, as arms expenditure and arms exports spiral throughout the world.
Once a conflict has been fuelled, along comes the EU with its military missions in Africa - in the Congo, Sudan and so on.
Last year 153 countries supported a United Nations resolution on a process to create a treaty on Trade in Arms.
In Northern Uganda alone, 2 500 children have not attended school during the last 20 years of armed violence.
The UN resolution of 6 December 2006 sets the scene for a treaty against this free circulation and in favour of control of the trade as a whole.
The key role that the European Parliament is playing in this discussion has also been a great source of help and support.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday 21 June 2007.
