Let us move to a free market-based economy. (NL) The fact that this Parliament has come down like a ton of bricks on a perfectly reasonable decision by the Italian Government in the last few days is symptomatic of the suffocating atmosphere of left-wing political correctness in this institution.
The launch of a fingerprinting system by the Italian Government as an impetus to tackling the enormous problems resulting from mass Roma immigration into the country definitely has the support of the vast majority of the people.
However, we believe that, in the current situation, in which we do not have all the facts to hand, we should not adopt a resolution, because to do so would be to anticipate the facts. (SK) I abstained from voting on the motion for a resolution on the situation in China after the earthquake and before the Olympic Games because the voting did not cover any amendments requiring the release of political prisoners, in particular the candidate for the Sakharov Prize.
Press freedom is very important since it is independent media that provide information on the human rights situation in China without censorship.
This satellite television station broadcasts 24 hours a day in Chinese and English via satellites over Asia, Europe, Australia and North America.
The French company Eutelsat, which facilitates NTDTV satellite broadcasts, suddenly discontinued these television broadcasts over Asia on 16 June 2008, clearly under pressure from the Chinese Communist Party.
I should therefore like to call upon this House to return to the clear statements of its policy on China and Tibet in past years and decades and regard this resolution as a moment of weakness before the summer recess. (LT) I would like to say a few words about the document, about China.
Today we have stated that the situation in Tibet is normal, which is not true.
The vast majority of us - that is, the majority of this Parliament - have spoken up for human rights and for the cultural autonomy of Tibet. (PL) Madam President, I would like to state my reasons for voting against this report.
I feel that this report is actually - and I say this with deep conviction - one of the most controversial documents adopted by Parliament in recent times.
I wanted to give the floor to Members who are effectively non-attached, but I am perfectly entitled to do so. (NL) One of the reasons why I voted against the Brok report, diluted as it is by amendments, is its recommendation for a 'communication policy' that will in actual fact boil down to even more EU propaganda.
Consequently, the EU would do better to stop this and show respect for the opinions and complaints of Europeans instead of doing exactly the opposite. (DE) Madam President, I voted in favour of the Brok report, as I believe that it is an important step in the right direction.
We should therefore be honest with our partner, Turkey, and say at last that we shall have to find other ways of cooperating.
Although the Brok report does not actually put it this way, this is the logical conclusion from its contents, which are as they should be. (PL) Madam President, I am one of the authors of this report.
in writing. - (FR) Based on the report by my British fellow Member Mrs Ludford, I voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending, at first reading of the codecision procedure, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Common Consular Instructions on visas for diplomatic missions and consular posts in relation to the introduction of biometrics including provisions on the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications.
in writing. - (RO) I hope the vote I have given today will facilitate the negotiations with the United States on visa waiver and that, soon, all the Member States citizens will be able to travel freely and receive the same treatment.
in writing. - The agreement on fishing between the EU and Mauritania is definitely important for both parties.
in writing. - (PL) The European Union is once more usurping the right to be a separate state.
The report contained very minor improvements compared with the present agreement, but also retrograde elements such as an extension of the period of validity.
Faced with a choice between these undesirable alternatives, we abstained in the vote.
I welcome the continuation of the fisheries agreement with Mauritania, although it is appropriate to point out that the negotiation process was not always conducted in the most open and transparent fashion.
Despite this, Portugal has taken a reasonable stance as far as its fishing opportunities in these fishing grounds are concerned, namely 886 GT annually for Category 1 (Vessels fishing for crustaceans other than spiny lobster and crab), gaining a licence in Category 5 (Cephalopods) and retaining 300 GT for spiny lobster.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the legislative resolution of the European Parliament of 10 July 2008 on the proposal for a Council Regulation instituting a temporary specific action aiming to promote the restructuring of the European Union fishing fleets affected by the economic crisis.
in writing. - (PT) The fisheries sector has been one of the sectors that has suffered most from the current energy crisis.
The Portuguese Government is following this maxim and is, for the record, allocating about EUR 8.2 million for the decommissioning of 27 vessels in 2008.
in writing. - The negative impact of the current oil and fuel prices affects all EU citizens.
I think the result of the debate and resolution regarding the fingerprinting of Roma people in Italy should be based on two key conclusions.
I voted against the resolution of the European Parliament asking Italy to stop the census of the Roma on the basis of ethnicity, because this seems premature and I regret the fact that Parliament did not vote in favour of the motion for postponement until September 2008 tabled by my political group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Let us be clear on this: I am of course in favour of the ban on fingerprinting the Roma population, including minors, and using the fingerprints collected, since this would clearly constitute an act of direct discrimination based on race and ethnic origin, prohibited by Article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and would also represent an act of discrimination.
In all good conscience, I have decided that we should wait for the various responses expected from the Italian Government before taking political initiatives such as the resolution adopted, which could be open to misinterpretation by European citizens.
We are for a culture of integration and we therefore need to invest in practical efforts and commitments.
The measures that were recently adopted in Italy, where on 21 May a 'state of emergency in relation to the nomad settlements in the regions of Campania, Lazio and Lombardy' was declared for a one-year period, are an example of these dangerous and unacceptable measures that promote discrimination, segregation and the 'criminalisation' of citizens and populations, violating their rights, freedoms and guarantees - their most basic human rights.
in writing. - (SV) Discrimination against the Roma is a serious problem which must be countered in every Member State in Europe.
The EU has a responsibility to ensure that the fundamental rights of people are upheld in every country.
This is important in the fight against people trafficking, prostitution and social exclusion.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this resolution and I welcome the fact that the European Parliament makes a stand against this discriminatory and illegal action from the point of view of the European human rights legislation.
The fingerprinting measure is not in compliance either with the European legislation or with any other instrument guaranteeing human rights in Europe.
in writing. - Italy's actions fly in the face of every call from the European Parliament for a coherent EU policy on Roma integration.
The Italian Government is trying to condone and institutionalise such racism and discrimination.
in writing. - I voted in favour of postponement of the vote on this sensitive report, believing that it would be more appropriate to wait until all of the information requested by the Commission from the Italian Government was available to us.
While the House voted to reject such a postponement, I abstained in the final vote, not wishing to support the resolution without all the facts being available to use and having some concerns about part of the text, while also wishing to acknowledge that any heavy-handed actions by the authorities targeting one specific group in society cannot be condoned.
in writing. - The treatment of Roma people in Italy should be a wake up call to the fact that minorities in Europe are being treated in an inhuman, discriminatory and degrading manner by a populist right-wing government.
in writing. - (RO) I believe the Italian Government's decision to fingerprint citizens of Roma origin and, in particular, children, seriously infringes the fundamental rights of the European citizens.
The fingerprinting of children less than 14 years of age is done based on a form used in criminal investigations, which infringes the fundamental rights of the citizens.
I did not agree with postponing the vote on the resolution because the situation is urgent and the fingerprinting of children must stop.
We request the Italian Government to stop the fingerprinting actions for minors of Roma origin in Italy.
The Union should give an example as regards the respect for the fundamental rights and, for this reason, the Commission should investigate the situation in Italy and request the Italian Government to stop the fingerprinting of children of Roma origin immediately.
This is why I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution to stop the fingerprinting of people of Roma origin and, especially, of the Roma children, in the larger framework of "Creating a database with the fingerprints of people of Roma origin in Italy”.
As coordinator of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I should like to give an explanation of vote on my own behalf and that of my group colleagues.
As for discrimination against groups in China, such as trade unionists, there is rightly cause for concern, but criticism coming from those who want to stigmatise Italy's Roma community is a little rich. 'Remove the plank from your own eye before the mote from your neighbour's.' in writing. - (FR) I am delighted with the adoption of this joint resolution on the situation in China.
It is important to continue putting pressure on China before the Olympic Games take place in less than a month.
The reason is that there are no problems with human rights observance in Austria and Switzerland.
in writing. - I voted in favour of amendment 19 because I strongly believe that inviting the Dalai Lama to a General Affairs Council meeting to present his assessment of the situation in Tibet, and explain to the 27 Foreign Affairs Ministers the middle-way approach and his concept of genuine autonomy that should be implemented for all Tibetans within China, is to be highly recommended.
in writing. - (FI) In the resolution on the situation in China I voted for the amendment proposed by the Greens because the degree of incompatibility between the situation in China now, in the run-up to the Olympics, and the promises and public commitments they gave at the time to improve both human rights and the situation in Tibet is just as is stated in Amendment 15.
I attach special importance to the demand set out in Amendment 16 that tangible results must be achieved by negotiation between the Dalai-Lama and Chinese representatives before the Olympics commence.
The concern expressed in Amendments 11 and 12 about events in Lhasa also merit observation.
The call made in Amendment 20 for the Union and its Member States to take measures with regard to China is most well-founded.
in writing. - The way the Chinese dealt with the aftermath of the earthquake in Southwest China was an example of the progress the country has made in recent years.
I voted in favour of the resolution.
I encourage the Chinese authorities to take urgent actions in order to improve the human rights situation by pardoning all imprisoned political prisoners and human rights militants, including those imprisoned in Tibet following the protests of March 2008.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats abstained in the vote on the Brok report.
I think, though, that this report is not very expressive, and that it lacks the clear plan for the opening up of the European Union to the East that we were hoping for.
in writing. - I welcome Mr Brok's report on the Commission's 2007 enlargement strategy paper.
Our concerns about these and other parts of the report in no sense diminish our support for further enlargement of the EU, should applicant states meet the Copenhagen criteria.
For the reasons set out above, we have decided to abstain on this report.
The G8 has also taken a very clear stance, not through the introduction of sanctions, which would have damaged the civilian population in particular, but with 'financial measures' that relate especially to companies, banks and personalities of the regime in power since 1980.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, I supported today's resolution because I think that we must be tough on violence in Zimbabwe, increase sanctions and call for recognition of the Mugabe regime to be withdrawn.
in writing. - (FR) Like people all over the world, Zimbabweans want peace, democracy and prosperity.
Under Robert Mugabe, they have none of this.
The people of Zimbabwe have decided this.
However, Robert Mugabe will not come to the negotiating table unless forced to do so.
Finally, we need to plan now for the reconstruction of a future Zimbabwe: I welcome the Commission's proposal to release EUR 250 million in emergency funding as soon as Zimbabwe has a legitimate and credible government.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the situation in Zimbabwe, condemning the Mugabe regime.
The people of Zimbabwe deserve a better lot.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the resolution on Zimbabwe.
What Robert Mugabe is doing is unacceptable.
in writing. - (FI) Madam President, I voted for the resolution on the situation in Zimbabwe because on 27 July President Mugabe's reign of terror once again openly made a mockery of the views of the international community, justice and democracy.
The people of Zimbabwe have a deep-seated longing for democracy.
The situation in Zimbabwe is a matter for the whole of the international community and the community of African states and it is absolutely imperative that we recognise Mugabe's tyranny.
China and Libya do not unfortunately share the view of the international community on this matter.
I also wished to lend my support to the idea set out in the resolution that this dispute may and should have negative consequences for relations between the EU and South Africa.
in writing. - I voted for the resolution today and hope that Council will follow it up with strong concerted action.
Not only can they find themselves in physical danger there but they can also add to the instability of the situation and pressure on diminishing resources.
I join my colleagues in condemning the Zanu-PF party's behaviour throughout the elections and would also stress that the elections of 27 June cannot be regarded as legitimate.
in writing. - I deplore the situation in Zimbabwe and call on all MEPs, the Commission, Council and all national governments to condemn Mugabe and seek a way through this crisis.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my German colleague Mr von Wogau on space and security.
This approach should go hand in hand with European defence and with support for the European defence industry, particularly in the aerospace sector.
In other words, the militarisation of the Galileo project and the increasing use of the Community budget for military ends.
in writing. - (SV) I voted against the report because I believe that space should only be used for peaceful purposes.
in writing. - I generally welcome Mr Von Wogau's report on space security.
in writing. - (EL) The use of space is essential to the effectiveness of the EU's imperialist interventions.
This is the conclusion of the report adopted by the European Parliament on space and the security of the EU.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party welcomes this Parliamentary report, and in particular we support the development of an EU Code of Conduct for activities in space, along with the development of voluntary instruments which could enhance space security.
