European Authentic Act - E-Justice - Cross-border implications of the legal protection of adults (debate) Manuel Medina Ortega's report, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, with recommendations to the Commission on the European Authentic Act, Diana Wallis' report, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, concerning recommendations to the Commission on e-justice, and Antonio López-Istúriz White's report, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, with recommendations to the Commission on cross-border implications of the legal protection of adults.
Mr President, this is an initiative by Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs that aims to achieve recognition of European authentic acts.
The purpose of this initiative is to facilitate the position of consumers within the European Union.
The difficulty that this report may present is the nature of the European authentic act or public document itself, which is recognised in most of the countries in the European Union but not in others.
In other words, the person authenticating the act must in some way be a public official, a position that does not exist in some EU countries, which therefore do not have this ability.
The notarial act, under continental law at least, has a certain constituent character in that the parties express their will in it, but it is the notarial officer who performs the act.
E-justice within this Parliament, and certainly within the Committee on Legal Affairs, also chimes in with the theme that we have long had close to our hearts, that of access to justice and how we provide access to justice on a cross-border basis.
Our Committee on Legal Affairs has shared the Presidency's concern regarding the subject that has brought us together here today: the protection of vulnerable adults.
As I mentioned previously, this report had come a long way before it was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 17 December.
This amendment, which has now become Article 2 of the final report, is key to this report, since it reconciles the possibility for Member States to incorporate the Hague Convention of 13 January 2000 into their own legislation.
In addition, the report provides that in future, once sufficient experience has been gained in this field, the Commission should be called on to submit a legislative proposal to strengthen cooperation among Member States and improve the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the protection of adults and incapacity mandates.
As you know, the French Presidency has tried hard to make progress with a Europe of justice through practical projects, in order to bring the European institutions closer to our fellow citizens, and - as Mrs Wallis said just now - the Slovenian Presidency also did a great deal in this connection, and we have continued its work.
The three texts that appear on our agenda this morning are testimony to this: the Medina Ortega report on the European Authentic Act, the Wallis report on e-justice, and the López-Istúriz White report on the legal protection of adults.
Indeed, they correspond to the Presidency's desire to promote new initiatives in order not only to have new tools adopted, but also to exchange our methods, to compare our practices and to look ahead to the future.
The interest shown by this House in the recognition and movement of authentic acts in Europe demonstrates that this is an important issue in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters.
There is no doubt that this idea will have to be taken into account in the European Commission's future legislative programme.
We need to move forward gradually, but we also need to lay down an extremely clear framework.
It is possible to relax the conditions and the procedures for the mutual recognition of authentic acts because they offer enhanced guarantees.
The intense debate conducted at the European Parliament has enriched the Presidency's draft and has ultimately meant that we have ended up with a draft that has everyone's support.
The Hague Convention of 13 January 2000 is due to come into force on 1 January, between France, Germany and the United Kingdom.
It is also proof that Europe, by creating a more certain legal environment, is also protecting its most vulnerable citizens.
Mr Medina Ortega has presented us with an excellent report on the European Authentic Act.
However, thank you once again for this excellent work.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - (EL) Mr President, first of all allow me to congratulate the French Presidency for everything it has achieved to date, especially in the field of justice.
I should also like to congratulate the Commissioner.
I call on the Commission to help and to exert pressure on the Member States to sign and ratify the Hague Convention, which provides a framework for such protection.
It is therefore crucial that e-justice aims to develop the use of information technologies by the judiciary, all the more so when we consider that almost ten million European citizens are involved in cross-border civil proceedings and that this figure is likely to increase in the future.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Dati, Mr Barrot, firstly I should like to commend the efforts of the French Presidency and the efforts that you personally have made, Mrs Dati, to promote a better area of legal freedom and effectiveness for the benefit of our fellow citizens.
As you said, Mrs Dati, Mr Barrot, the idea has just been put to us in this report that we should make a considerable effort to mutually recognise authentic acts.
I am now speaking not as the rapporteur of my report but on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament with regard to all three reports.
That is to say, even if a private document is notarised in a country where authentic acts do not exist, it cannot have the enforceable value that notarial acts in continental law have, since the latter have a binding enforceable value that is completely different.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I think my group will have no difficulty, I hope, in supporting my own report and certainly that of Mr López-Istúriz White.
There is no earthly reason why with tolerance and care we cannot recognise one another's acts when they are done by contract or notarial act, but not in exactly the same manner and form.
on behalf of the UEN Group.- (PL) Mr President, we are discussing three very important reports.
As many as 10 million of the 500 million citizens of the European Union are involved in cross-border litigation.
The report also highlights very similar problems with regard to the European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters, voted on just two days ago.
Improving the way in which this network operates is undoubtedly important and will provide added value for Europe's citizens.
Last year in my own country 400 000 people emigrated to retire aboard, so it is important to make sure that they receive the same protection as they would at home.
The report we are debating today fits particularly well, I believe, with the proposals to ensure that they can continue to look after their own property and manage their everyday life wherever they live, free from exploitation and abuse.
I very much welcome Mrs Wallis's report on e-justice.
I think some of the issues we are raising in the other reports are interlinked, so it means that wherever people are in the European Union they will have equal access to justice. (RO) I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs: Diana Wallis, Manuel Medina Ortega and Antonio López-Istúriz White for their excellent reports.
This is why I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs of the three reports.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Wallis in particular for her report on e-justice because I believe that the use of information technology and new communications technologies in the field of justice will promote further the development of cross-border judicial cooperation, while also facilitating access to the judicial system for the European Union's citizens.
We will only be able to utilise the potential of new technologies in combating cross-border crime and make the judicial system more accessible to citizens on civil and commercial matters when these prerequisites are in place.
This is the only way in which we will achieve one of the fundamental aims of the European Union: greater interaction with its citizens. - (PL) Mr President, in a communication to Parliament and the Council dated 10 May 2005 and concerning the Hague programme, the Commission stipulated, as one of its specific priorities that, by 2011, it aimed to guarantee an effective European area of justice in the field of civil law, with reference to the recognition and enforcement of court rulings and the principle of mutual recognition, as these measures provided a real means of ensuring cross-border legal protection for European Union citizens.
The Commission must take concrete steps to immediately introduce a single, tailor-made, uniform system for both the enforcement and the mutual recognition of authentic acts in all Member States, which will make day-to-day life significantly easier for citizens and enterprises.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Medina Ortega, for a very well prepared document.
I would like to thank my colleague Diana Wallis for tackling this pressing issue in a very befitting manner.
But for common faceless justice - and I do not say that you are doing that in your report - no!
If I myself speak from the European Parliament to my father, who is in heaven, I can tell him that I know that justice will always be a man, his defender and a judge - not before God but before their conscience. (RO) I would like to offer my congratulations on the initiative concerning the movement of authentic acts in Europe, as this will develop further the freedom of movement of persons and commercial entities within the European Union.
It is our duty to offer every citizen the chance to have the provisions of the European Authentic Act applied without additional procedures in a Member State of the European Union, when the Authentic Act was drawn up in another Member State.
I welcome Mrs Wallis's initiative and report on e-justice, as I believe that adopting this report will ensure that Europe's citizens have access to the European legal and judicial system through the use of information and communications technology.
In order to achieve these... (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Dati, e-Justice is an important step towards ensuring access to the law, justice and the courts.
I welcome this initiative and congratulate the rapporteur and the French Presidency.
The e-Justice project was among those discussed during the Portuguese Presidency and it therefore fell to Portugal to guide the development and implementation of the pilot project, which will allow all citizens to access services in other Member States, in a simpler, cheaper and more convenient manner and in their own language.
I welcome the launch of the portal in December 2009. (PL) Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Wallis on an excellent report and to draw your attention to two issues.
Therefore, this Internet portal, also referred to as the e-justice portal, will undoubtedly assist the citizens of the European Union in contacting the European Parliament and its Committee on Petitions.
I would also like to draw your attention to another matter mentioned by Mrs Wallis in her speech, namely the fact that we must respect local laws.
Therefore, I say 'yes' to integration and mutual opening-up, but in a balanced way. (PL) Mr President, each Member State has a different legal system and different principles for the recognition of administrative documents.
We should, therefore, aim to make the cross-border movement of authentic acts as simple as possible.
I should also like to make the point clear to Mrs Wallis: this should affect all European citizens, but we should also ensure that we create the conditions for real mutual confidence to be established.
My assessment of the French Presidency's work in the area of justice is that the subjects have been practical, the decisions have been practical and our ambitions are even more practical.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Dati, ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to point out, firstly, with regard to the Medina Ortega report, that we are going to hold meetings on the recognition of authentic acts within the framework of the Brussels I regulation.
We are going to adopt a report concerning the application of Brussels I in early 2009, and we shall look into ways of reviewing the latter in the course of that year.
This Green Paper is planned for the end of 2009.
There is no question that the free movement of acts and documents must be improved, but as Mrs Dati quite rightly said, we still need to guarantee legal certainty, which can only come about if there is real mutual confidence.
If we were to adopt rules on the European authentic act, any European country could have this document and could gain this recognition, but for that to be so it would be necessary for it to be given the same recognition in the legal system in question that it has in the others.
An English legal document cannot be recognised in France as if it were a French public document, for instance, because it does not have the same characteristics.
It follows that, even beyond what we have done when the need dictates, for example in relation to security, criminal law and the fight against terrorism, we are now addressing those who need rules and dispute settlements that apply throughout Europe, because they live, by definition, in their country but also elsewhere, because they work and because they have relationships with everyone across Europe.
By creating a common system for the mutual recognition and enforcement of authentic acts the European Union will benefit in terms of time savings, lower costs and even more importantly by the adoption of simplified procedures.
It would also promote the movement of authentic acts by making them more secure.
