The mobility of knowledge and creativity forms an integral part of open intercultural dialogue.
The main driving force for all the actions in 2009 will be the educational programmes at national and European level, the Community programmes for lifelong learning, the actions linked to training and education under both the Social Fund and the other Structural Funds, and also the national educational programmes to be included in this Year.
With this in mind, I would urge Parliament and all of us to become real ambassadors for creativity and innovation - not only in 2009, but also beyond that.
on behalf of PPE-DE. - (RO) As you know, the Commission's proposal that 2009 should be the European Year of creativity and innovation is part of the initiative to emphasise the importance of various topics by associating them with individual years.
In 2009 it will be very important for each Member State to promote, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, those activities which involve young people, men as well as women, as we know that women are under-represented in science and research.
The European People's Party supports European innovation and treats the setting up of a European Institute for Innovation and Technology as a priority.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, we are still in the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, and we are thinking about the Year of Creativity and Innovation, which is a good thing, because the two subjects complement each other.
When we look at other countries, such as the United States and China, which invest far more in research and development, we can see where there are gaps to be filled here in Europe.
It often seems as if they are just words which do not appear to have a lot of content.
That is surely one factor in this area which is going to encourage the Member States of the European Union to create new added value and innovations using various incentives.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, Paul Gauguin said 'I shut my eyes in order to see'.
We must do everything to avoid wasting the opportunities and abilities that we have to create new and positive values in all areas: in technology, entrepreneurship, in finances as well as in social and other areas.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) I should like to begin by congratulating both the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur, Mrs Batzeli, on a report which had almost unanimous support with the customary exception of one member of our Committee for the entire report.
It is being carried out on the basis of concepts approved in 2007 and I believe it should be possible to draw on at least some of them to a fair degree.
It is strange case of déjà vu.
What is important in all of this is the development of education, and this includes statutory education, which should encourage creative thinking.
Thank you, Mrs Batzeli, for your report. (PL) Mr President, creativity and innovation are key factors for knowledge-based economies, and the European economy is certainly one of these.
I believe that announcing 2009 as the European Year of Creativity and Innovation will be effective in helping to raise people's awareness, to spread information about good practice and to stimulate research and creativity and, above all, will stimulate a discussion about policy and the changes that should be initiated so that creativity and innovation gain more support from companies, European institutions and Member States. (PL) Mr President, it is a rare event indeed for me to say that I agree with everyone who has spoken before me.
We have to try to create a situation where, at the end of this year, we have some report, some specific data, on the situation in individual Member States, what is missing, how can we make comparisons, because we have never made this type of comparison on the European level, not properly.
Commissioner, together with us, with the European Parliament and the Member States, you are committing yourself to an increase in creativity and innovation in Europe in 2009. (RO) We thank all those who made a Central and Eastern-European country celebrate creativity a year earlier, as Budapest is, in fact, the capital of this new European trend of creativity and innovation.
We also propose that the top two or three researchers in the countries from the two most recent waves of enlargement should go on a tour of the top five universities and research centres in Europe. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, the designation of 2009 as the "European Year of Creativity and Innovation” provides an opportunity to promote cultural, scientific and economic cooperation, the prospects that are opening up for each country to develop its own national programme for encouragement of people's creative potential.
I noticed that the debate was dominated by Members from the new Member States, which in itself is a plus and perhaps sends a positive signal that Union enlargement means that new themes and realities are viewed both from the perspective of the global world and from the local perspectives.
The European Parliament has asserted that this procedure will be a policy based on interinstitutional agreement, not only in decision-making, but also in terms of the implementation and effectiveness of the programme.
I was delighted to see the consolidation of the idea of the EIT through the establishment of its headquarters in Budapest in June 2008.
in writing. - (HU) Creativity and innovation play an extremely important role in Europe's ability to react effectively to the challenges and opportunities of globalisation.
in writing. - (RO) Diversity is one of the sources of innovation, and the EU's enlargement policy has brought new sources of diversity into Europe, and therefore new sources of innovation.
Unfortunately, though, the cost of participation in Erasmus programmes is prohibitive for many students in Romania and Bulgaria, which decreases their level of involvement.
Erasmus was created in 1987 with the aim of providing students with European mobility and the prospects of a better career.
