On 17 January, the President of the European Council - whom I warmly welcome in our midst today - came to this House and presented her programme.
The reason why that is so important is that we do, of course, know that Europe can lead the way in this area only if it can set itself ambitious targets.
This ideal of European society is founded upon values that are close to our hearts - the values of freedom, solidarity and justice.
I stressed in my speech in Berlin on Sunday that we must not allow ourselves to become indifferent to the plight of the people in Darfur. (Applause) We cannot simply shrug it off; we have to do something about it, and while the Presidency of the Council will do everything it can to get tougher resolutions accepted by the UN Security Council as a means of making progress on this front at long last, we must - if this proves impossible at Security Council level - give thought to the possibility of sanctions being imposed by the European Union, for we must act; we must do something about this. (Applause) I also made it clear on Sunday that we are aware that 25 March is Independence Day in Belarus and that we - I believe we all - wanted to tell our friends in Belarus that they too have a right to see the European ideals become reality for them, and that we will give them our deliberate support as they go down this road. (Applause) I would take this opportunity presented to me in your House this afternoon to say that we, in the European Union will make it abundantly clear to Iran that its arrest and detention of 15 British seamen is totally unacceptable.
Here too, we stand in unconditional solidarity with our British friends. (Applause) This also demonstrates that we are strong when we present a united front.
In the Berlin Declaration we turned our faces towards the future and said that there were two things we wanted to do.
The first is that we want to put the European Union on a 'renewed common basis' by 2009, and, although I know that the vast majority in your House are in favour of this - and I would like to thank you for your support - I do want to emphasise once more that an election to the European Parliament in 2009 in which we were unable to tell people that we were in a position to enlarge the European Union, to tell them how many members the next Commission would have, to assure them that responsibility for energy policy was in European hands, and that, in matters of internal security and legal policy, we were working together on the basis of majority decisions, in the manner in which circumstances made necessary ... (Applause) ...
That is why it is crucial that we all demonstrate our ability to find common solutions.
I hope that we will be able to surmount the obstacles that still hold the Commission back from negotiations with Russia - I am grateful to the Commission for putting such incredible hard work and dedication into this - for the negotiations on a new partnership agreement are, of course, of the essence, particularly as regards issues of energy security and energy partnership, which are the reason why the EU/Russia summit - to be held at Samara in Russia - is of the utmost importance.
In my Berlin speech I said that we have a responsibility to bring Europe, and our ideals, to the world and to win others over to what we believe.
That is why it is so important that we, as soon as possible, restore the European Union's capability to act, so that Europe can ensure that the people of this European Union can look forward to a secure and free future, for that is what they have every right to expect.
The human rights violations there are unacceptable.
By one of those fortunate historical coincidences, we celebrated our unity in Berlin, the city that was the symbol of a divided Europe and is now a symbol of this new, enlarged, united Europe, with 27 Member States and almost 500 million citizens.
I wish to congratulate Chancellor Merkel and the German Presidency on the crucial role they played in this great European success.
The spring European Council demonstrated the commitment to delivering results in the area of energy and the fight against climate change.
I believe this is the message from Berlin and that this message has now been translated into an equal commitment to find a solution to the institutional question before the 2009 elections. (Applause) There is another reason why the Commission strongly supports a rapid but ambitious institutional settlement.
If we are to preserve and protect those common values - those we have named in our declaration, the inviolable dignity of the individual, freedom, justice and solidarity: all those values that make us not just a market but a political community and a union - we need to reform the institutions of our community of law.
I think the political will is there and we must now produce results in that area too.
However, the commitment undertaken obliges all Member States to work in a constructive manner for a joint solution.
As President of the European Commission, it is my responsibility to call on national governments to make a special effort in the coming months and to support the German Presidency in its very important efforts to reach a solution. (Applause) Let me repeat the message that I sent to the European Heads of State and Government and in Berlin.
Let us work together - the European Commission, the European Parliament, Member States and European citizens - to take the great legacy received from our founding fathers, to take those great values into the 21st century. (Applause) Many thanks for your speech, Mr President of the Commission.
The first is that young people need to be aware of their good fortune that such things should have become self-evident realities; the second is that this vision of things must be set against the fact that the instability of the modern world - as witness the tragedies, among others, of 11 September in New York, 11 March in Madrid and, indeed, 7 June in London - makes it clear to all of us, of whatever age, that life in peace, in security, and with certain resources is not the day-to-day reality for everyone on this earth, not even in our own countries.
I cannot let this occasion pass me by without congratulating you, Madam President of the Council, and, above all, thanking you, first of all because your appearance in this European Parliament three times in the course of three months testifies to the respect you have for the work we MEPs do.
Secondly, I want to thank you because, by organising - successfully, as we know - a great European festival in Berlin on 25 March to celebrate fifty years of the Treaty, you have shown that Europe is not just about the making of speeches and laws, but can also be about emotion, joy and conviviality.
Last of all, I want to thank you because the Berlin declaration, which the European institutions have adopted, is a readable and powerful document that puts Europe back in the saddle and gives us a new perspective by proposing that an institutional settlement be found between now and the next elections, which will be in 2009.
This Constitution is not going to happen.
Thatcher, Chirac, Berlusconi: they were all EPP leaders too, but you seem to have overlooked their contributions.
The new Europe, the Europe Berlin envisages, should be one where the Union helps its citizens to grasp the opportunities of globalisation and shows them solidarity in facing new global challenges; one where democracy has the upper hand, and our values have the final word. (Applause) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Berlin summit was a time of great excitement, particularly for those who, like myself, have held a seat in this Parliament since 1989, the year that signalled the new birth of Europe.
In our complex, multicultural and multi-ethnic society, with different ideas on the concept of democracy for achieving peace, which goes hand in hand with the universal recognition of respect for human dignity, there is a need for dialogue between cultures, and in order to recognise others one must first recognise oneself, from the everyday life of individuals to that of States.
We fear that 2009 is too far off, but ad impossibilia nemo tenetur - nobody is obliged to do the impossible - even though we are so convinced of the strong and sincere commitment of the German Presidency, and Chancellor Merkel's great ability to both mediate and persuade, that we hold some hope that it may be possible to shorten this timeframe.
We are greatly encouraged, Chancellor, by the Berlin Declaration.
We also recognise your role and are grateful to you for it - although I believe that in some way it all forms part of your duties - and we are pleased to note that in this case, unlike others - I must mention energy, cars, etc. - the German Presidency has demonstrated a European sentiment that is surely equal to the situation.
I believe that the message has got through and that public opinion has understood that this 50th anniversary is a positive goalpost and that we must continue our efforts.
In any case, the EU Heads of State or Government and their sherpas have not been dreaming - and certainly not together.
This translates as meaning that the future Constitution or Basic Treaty will come about by secret diplomacy without any involvement of civil society.
The heart of the matter is, of course, that, in 59 areas, there is a shift from unanimity to qualified majority voting, that is to say from unanimity, in which each country's voters have the last word, to qualified majority voting among officials, ministers and lobbyists behind closed doors in Brussels.
Mr President, fifty years ago, the Treaty of Rome was concluded between countries in which the level of social protection was comparable and which, though rich in diverse cultures, also shared in a common civilisation.
Mr Nassauer, we all have to make a massive joint effort, and that is what we are going to do. (PT) Madam President-in-Office of the Council, speaking as a socialist and a woman, I too should like to congratulate Mrs Merkel on her Presidency.
There are now 27 Member States, whereas 50 years ago - and indeed more recently in the case of my country, Portugal - some of those countries were living under the yoke of dictatorships.
Europe has changed over the course of these 50 years, but then the world too has changed enormously, and with it the needs of Europeans.
This will be the best way of promoting social stability and of contributing towards the balance of the world.
The Berlin Declaration rightly relaunches the debate on the Constitutional Treaty and commits the 27 Member States to placing the EU on a renewed, common basis before European elections in 2009.
It cannot be denied that there are obstacles, but this is a good opportunity for the Member States to show the world and the citizens that what unites us is more significant than what divides us.
I would also like to congratulate you on having managed to include in the Berlin Declaration a binding commitment to making 2009 the date by when the European Union is to be put on a new footing.
Underplaying the role of the Member States to such an extent is a grave error.
If we want integration to develop, we must attribute greater importance to the Member States, which support integration and are not its enemies.
Please, Mr Schulz, when you speak of enlargement, do not hide behind the Constitutional Treaty, President Kaczyński or President Klaus.
I have a great deal of respect for the way you have taken on the challenge of Europe, and have done so even though the incredible expectations people had of your presidency might well have weighed down on you from the outset.
What the Berlin Declaration lacks is 26 signatures, the signatures of 26 Heads of State or Government attached to a birthday declaration, a declaration full of the patently obvious - but yours is there.
On the contrary, we must change text and context and focus on democracy and rights, listening once more to the people and to parliaments, beginning with the European Parliament, in order to rewrite a constitution founded on the right to citizenship, peace, work and the environment and then putting it to a European referendum in which the last word lies with the people. (CS) Mr President, we were told not long ago that neither the Czech Government nor the Czech President have been informed of the content of the Berlin Declaration.
In the end, what has remained is a sentence that says nothing, recommending that the EU be placed on a new footing, a sentence that will take us two years of argument to interpret.
Let us reform agricultural policy, which discriminates against the new Member States.
We have seen the development of a single market in Europe, which has offered new economic opportunities for our peoples, and the enlargement of 2004 healed remaining divisions.
I believe that these and other achievements are something all of us can welcome.
As for you, Madam Chancellor, you are, for a Frenchman like me, the Chancellor who came from over the wall, over what is now a tourist trail and was once a barrier, while you, Mr Barroso, are the President of recovered liberty, who has changed since the age of 18, when, politically speaking, you were a bit red around the edges.
Mr Duff, I would like to thank you for the contribution you made during our consultation and information process in Parliament. (IT) Mr President, Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, at Berlin the European leaders somewhat lacked the courage to point out the choices imposed on us by globalisation, immigration and the risk of losing our identity.
We do not in fact believe that the spirit of this Berlin Declaration is compatible with the idea that what is left of the Constitution should ultimately serve only to enable the work of the technocrats and bureaucrats in Brussels to be done a bit more smoothly.
Consulting one citizen and not another will result in two speeds; that must not be allowed to happen, and believing as we do that clarification of that would be helpful, that is what we would like to see. (PT) The German Presidency is seeking to push through its agenda for the EU, which it is moulding on the basis of its increasing ambitions.
That is part of Article 136 of the Treaty, which was celebrated on Sunday and serves as a preamble to the very clear legal bases available to the Commission to make proposals to improve employment and living and working conditions.
In that way, the Berlin Declaration will retain credibility. - (PL) Chancellor, first and foremost, I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that you have succeeded in leading Europe out of its state of melancholy, its sense of doom and gloom.
On 25 March, Europeans not only sang the Ode to Joy, but really felt that joy.
It also seems to me that the assertion that we are united should mean: we are united so that Europe can move ahead.
There are still those sceptics who hesitate and doubt whether we really need a timetable, and whether we really need to present the citizens with a renewed basis in 2009, as we, in the Berlin Declaration, said that we would.
Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you, Chancellor Merkel; the most important thing is that it has become apparent that we again believe in Europe and trust one another, and this trust between this House and yourself as the representative of the European Council has grown to an incredible degree over recent weeks.
I can speak for many in this House, and, in particular, for myself when I say that working together with you was a cause of great joy, and that we look forward to further cooperation with you and with the Commission.
It speaks volumes that the declaration was signed by only three people, representing the European institutions, rather than by representatives of all twenty-seven Member States.
Without the example of 1956 and of the Hungarian revolutionaries, the European Union would not have been able to develop in the way in which it has done, in what we can now refer to as our common Europe.
In order to be strong, it is also important, of course, that we be capable of clearly recognising our past and our identity.
I celebrated the 50th anniversary in Rome at a conference organised by a civil society organisation, and I would like to pass on to you one of the messages of this conference, namely, that we must indeed recognise our identity, and recognise and affirm the roots of Europe, its Christian roots.
Thank you very much, Mr Szájer, not least for your cooperation in the internal coordination, in which you had a hand. (PL) The Berlin Declaration was signed at a very important moment for the European Union.
The signing of the Treaties of Rome 50 years ago was the first step in the implementation of an ambitious idea.
The presence of twenty-seven states in Berlin reflected the impact of this idea.
The Berlin Declaration is an important symbol for Europe.
In this context, the point in the Declaration which states that the institutional foundations of Europe have to be agreed by 2009 is of great importance.
Chancellor Angela Merkel deserves praise for her significant contribution to our common success.
I believe that, following the German Presidency's success at the Berlin event, that is what we must now be working towards.
It has been said here, and quite rightly, that this Parliament, via yourself, Mr President, has made a decisive contribution to the Berlin Declaration.
We have to be realistic, without concealing the current difficulties, and persuade Europeans that the building of a strong and united Europe in the world is not merely indispensable, but represents an opportunity for each of our twenty-seven countries and every one of the Union's 500 million citizens.
If they are to be won over, we must not only offer them concrete results and tangible evidence of the EU's added value, but must also adopt a more optimistic attitude, and that is what Chancellor Merkel has done.
The debate on the treaty proposed by the German presidency should be dominated by openness and a willingness to compromise, even on such difficult issues as looking for a new and fair way of voting in the Council.
I also noticed that the Berlin Declaration lacked any reference to our Christian roots.
Finally, I would like to quote the Belgian politician Paul-Henri Spaak, in whose building we are today, and who in 1957 said: (FR) As I once said in Strasbourg, when the present times have passed, when we will all have been gone for many years and when men seek to recount the human adventure that we lived, they will - irrespective of our religious or philosophical convictions - be unable to say more than that the people of those times, of that century, lived together the immense adventure of Christian civilisation. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Madam Federal Chancellor, I feel very honoured to be able to speak under your Presidency.
I trust you will make your contribution and help all EU governments to find a solution as regards both processes and the institutions, because if we want results, we need these institutions.
As regards how to involve civil society and the general public in the debate on the institutional issue, I should also like to say that we in the Commission have been active.
We must all, then, manifest the spirit of solidarity and understand that it is only in that spirit that we can achieve an institutional settlement and, above all, respond to the great challenges that Europe has to face.
The debate is closed.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. (FR) In my capacity as a French representative of the citizens of the EU in the European Parliament, I shall start by expressing my great respect and admiration for the President of the French Republic, my friend Jacques Chirac, who, in being present at Berlin on 25 March 2007, was attending his last European summit in his capacity as a Head of State and whose actions in defence of a strong and independent France within a strong and united European Union have always been characterised by lucidity, competence and humanism.
Although disappointed that Members of the European Parliament, who represent Europe's citizens and peoples, were not involved in the Berlin Declaration, I do nevertheless welcome its confirmation of the desire to make progress with European integration, its proclamation of our values and the fact that it establishes the 2009 European elections as the political deadline for settling the institutional issues.
I congratulate Mrs Merkel, the current President of the European Union and Chancellor of Germany, my friend Mr Poettering, the President of the European Parliament, and Mr José-Manuel Barroso, President of the Commission, on the work they have accomplished.
