This is a problem that is within the competence of the European Commission, and also within the scope of its responsibility. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago an Internet website linked to Al Qaeda declared a holy war through the Internet, inviting all the Muslim hackers of the world to bombard Christian websites, especially the Pope's.
On page 6 of today's Le Monde we read about people arrested in Moscow because they said: 'Georgians, we are on your side!'.
The EU, and Parliament in particular, have an obligation to respond appropriately to this UN report.
The Neighbourhood Policy allows us this; military action would be a total failure of our policies. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 10 billion is the sum that the Italian Government has concealed and written off from its debts in presenting the national budget for 2007.
To the Italian pensioners who have worked in Switzerland and are awaiting this payment of EUR 10 billion, which the Italian Government has no intention of paying and - what is worse - which they have deleted from the budget.
The first few years of the 21st century have clearly demonstrated that in Russia the right to express the truth is a taboo for which people must all too often pay the ultimate price - their lives.
Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe and hope that Parliament and the unofficial meeting of the Heads of State or Government at the informal dinner to be held in Lahti on 20 October will be able to exert sufficient pressure on President Putin to ensure that the truth of this terrible injustice is revealed as soon as possible, and that all those who participated in it are brought to justice. (PL) Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of water shortages, which is becoming an important matter for many citizens of Europe.
Unfortunately, the constant increase in temperatures in the 25 Member States (by 0.2oC over 10 years) and a reduction in precipitation in many regions have made access to water increasingly difficult for many citizens, leading to losses in agriculture and problems in manufacturing.
This, in my opinion, is the objective that we must keep in view: a European Union that is capable of promoting democracy and the rule of law and - please allow me to say this, Mr President - a European Union that should have had the courage to send representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council to the funeral of Anna Politkovskaya, something that, in the event, it did not do. . - (SV) Mr President, you recently contended that the historic dimension possessed by the EU seat in Strasbourg cannot be viewed in the same way by certain Nordic countries that did not participate in the Second World War.
However, that is history, and we now have Aer Lingus being targeted in a takeover bid by its main rival, Ryanair.
In a way it is ironic that on the one hand we blame the EU for the current situation when in fact no blame attaches, while on the other hand we will undoubtedly make a case to the Commission's DG Competition to block the takeover, to save us from our own actions and to protect us from the consequences of those actions. (PT) Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to salute Portuguese workers and their union confederation, the CGT-IN, who will be holding a general day of protest tomorrow, 12 October, against the right-wing policies pursued in Portugal.
In my view, it is utterly unacceptable that this could be seen as, and used for the purpose of, bringing into question the principle of 'equal pay for equal work', which is enshrined in Article 59 of the Constitution of the Republic of Portugal. - (SK) Last June the European Commission developed a proposal envisaging a reduction in land areas taken up by vineyards in the European Union.
The 18 main produce types introduced by the new Member States are an issue that has still not been regulated.
