Situation in Iran (continuation of debate) We now return to the statements on the situation in Iran by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Commission.
I should like to say once again that it is not a contradiction to say that Iran is a very important country that has a vibrant society - potentially - and that we have to seek relations with it.
The fact is that it is very difficult to do that at the moment.
The problems in Lebanon are in our minds and hearts.
We know that is a problem on which Iran should be much more constructive.
Because they have never been explained, and that is the difference with some of the other countries that have been mentioned.
The second stage is where they have stopped and that is what happened in 2003.
As you know the Russian contract has a clause that states, firstly, enriched uranium will be provided by Russia and, secondly, that the burned material - that means enriched plutonium or whatever is at the end of process - will be taken to Russia, so they will not need to have enriched uranium because it is provided.
I say again that we have great respect for the country - we have a profound respect for Iran - and we would like very much to engage with it and also see them move in that direction. (ES) Mr President, tomorrow the European Parliament will adopt a resolution on Iran which will be supported by our political Group.
Political elections will take place in Iran on 14 March, in which the promises he has failed to keep will count more than those he has made.
On 12 January the director of the IAEA, Mr El Baradei, obtained assurances from the Iranians on all the outstanding questions.
We should remember Iraq and how ineffective sanctions were against that country.
Not long ago Shirin Ebadi, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, sent me an e-mail in which she denounced the serious and ever more frequent violations of human rights.
I think this, again, is something that we should welcome and should discuss this very year, perhaps with former President Khatami or with other members of the Iranian religious influence and tradition. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my opinion, also in the light of what I have heard during this debate, is still that the only path to follow is definitely that of discussion and dialogue, even if it is difficult to understand on what basis this dialogue can develop.
Moreover, in item 5 of the resolution there is an admission that we should give up on speculative political rhetoric as regards Iran.
Mr President, the Iranian nuclear programme remains the source of our greatest concern.
As a community based on values, having at the core of our values human rights and democracy, and looking at stability and security as our highest concern, we should not and cannot disregard the worsening human rights situation there, and we should do our utmost to convince our partners that it pays to respect the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to the debate today allow me to concentrate on two aspects of relations with Iran.
Indeed we share many common interests with Iran, in spite of our differences of opinion on the nuclear program or on human rights.
She told us of the success of our Erasmus Mundus and poverty alleviation programmes.
Well, let me tell you, Mr President, 23 people were executed in the first two weeks of this year, including several women.
Instead of keeping the PMOI on our terror list, we should put the revolutionary guards of Iran on the EU terror list. (DE) Mr President, as we have just heard, even here in our European Parliament there are representatives whose priority is not to modify the behaviour of the Iranian regime but to destroy that regime.
Mr President, I would like to know if anybody can give me an answer.
As Ms Beer said, if 7 000 candidates can run for 290 seats, too many candidates have already been rejected.
It is a vibrant country that has many intellectual, cultural and other depths, and we should like to see it commit itself to working with us in several areas, including energy, human rights, the Middle East and nuclear energy.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 31 January.
