Ombudsman's 2005 annual report (debate) The next item is the report by Andreas Schwab, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the annual report on the European Ombudsman's activities in 2005.
This general awareness was also observed during 2005 in the participation of citizens in the debate about the future of the European Union and the Constitution.
A particular feature of these communication activities in 2005 was a series of events to mark the tenth anniversary of the Ombudsman, directed at specific target groups, namely, civil society, academia, the press and the institutions themselves, including a reception in honour of the European Parliament on 27 September, which was addressed by President Borrell Fontelles himself.
I closed 312 inquiries during the year.
In 30% of cases my inquiry has resulted either in the institution concerned settling the case to the satisfaction of the complainant, or in a friendly solution.
One of the draft recommendations accepted in 2005 was a case in which the Commission granted ex gratia compensation to a complainant whose project it had cancelled at extremely short notice.
I am grateful to Parliament for its support as expressed in its resolutions of 4 and 6 April 2006, based on the Hammerstein Mintz and De Rossa reports respectively and concerning the first two of these special reports.
I have also revisited the question of the Ombudsman's Statute by submitting to President Borrell Fontelles in July considered proposals for revision, in response to earlier resolutions on the Ombudsman's annual report by this House.
I am delighted that the Committee on Petitions participates in the Network as a full member and was represented at the meeting of national ombudsmen that took place in The Hague in September 2005.
Next week, a similar meeting for regional ombudsmen in the European Union, with whom I have made a commitment to meet every two years, will be held in London.
It is enormously reassuring to me, both personally and institutionally, to know that in this regard the European Parliament and its Committee on Petitions are vital partners for the European Ombudsman.
The year 2005 saw a large number of complaints - the largest, indeed, ever made to the Ombudsman - and the first thing that indicates is that more and more people are taking an active interest in the EU and in the way it works.
We also, though, need more transparency if the democratic functioning of the European Union is to be guaranteed, and hence, in our report - and in saying this, I am perhaps addressing you, Commissioner Wallström, more than anyone else - we call for the 'europa.eu' Internet portal to be redesigned as a means of access to all the institutions and for a clear guide to the various European institutions - rather than a catalogue of all the European Union's activities - to be positioned on the homepage.
The Commission will continue to develop its cooperation with the Ombudsman.
I acted as rapporteur for the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 2004 and I wish to point out that, compared with that year, during which complaints rose by 53% over the previous year, in 2005 the Ombudsman received a total of 3 920 complaints, in other words an increase in the order of 5%.
The Ombudsman's report, particularly the executive summary, is, I believe, an excellent example of how to present our work to the citizens.
That is a reflection of his success in bringing his office to the notice of the public and perhaps also an indication of the inadequacies of other institutions in making clear who they are and how to access them.
I think that the citizen's right to make a complaint is a good thing.
The action of the Ombudsman in referring those cases for which he does not have direct responsibility to the appropriate institution is an excellent way of dealing with such complaints.
I welcome the Ombudsman's initiative in that regard and I look forward to debating it in Parliament in the near future. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I too should like to thank the Ombudsman both for his report and for his interesting presentation today.
There is little to say except that everything seems to be going well in the sense that our citizens are more aware of the Ombudsman's activities.
I want to centre my remarks on an issue already mentioned by other speakers, which is that if we want to be citizen-centred then we have to ensure that our citizens can make a complaint easily, perhaps via a one-stop shop.
We have the Ombudsman's very good service, Parliament's Committee on Petitions, the Commission itself, which accepts complaints, and ourselves as MEPs, who receive constituents' case-work, as well as SOLVIT and EUROJUST.
I would like to end by making it clear that the role of Parliament's Committee on Petitions in no way clashes with the role of the Ombudsman, but rather their roles are complementary.
The Ombudsman monitors the European institutions in their day-to-day work, while the Committee on Petitions plays the role of direct intermediary between the citizens and the body of Community law.
I believe that we must make an effort to promote a public debate in Europe on how close a relationship citizens have with the institutions and to ensure that those institutions act in an entirely transparent fashion.
I believe that the European Network of Ombudsmen is important, because it may be the key to providing many solutions that can prevent complaints from the citizens of Europe and, where necessary, improve the way we respond to them.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I am, in a sense, wearing two hats today.
As you said, I am speaking on behalf of the Union for the Europe of the Nations Group as well as in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, which makes me particularly qualified to speak on this matter.
He has attended over 170 meetings.
I myself was present at one of these meetings in Poland, which was attended by over 150 people who had come to see who he was, what he had to say and what message the European Ombudsman himself had for them.
There was an instance of this on 15 March 2006, when the European Parliament signed a new agreement with the Ombudsman over the heads of the committee which I chair, and which was not involved in this process.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the Ombudsman's 2005 report indicates that a growing number of citizens are dissatisfied with the European Union's bodies.
In March of last year I addressed a complaint to the European Ombudsman regarding the use of EUR 8 million to promote the European Constitution.
This funding was only available to supporters of the Constitution.
I am particularly interested in the Ombudsman's special reports.
I am pleased that the Ombudsman, in his wisdom, does not turn them away, but actually assists them.
I wish to thank all those involved again, and I hope the Ombudsman's workload increases exponentially, as it should. (NL) Mr President, the European Ombudsman's annual report reveals that a quarter of complaints come from citizens who experience a lack of transparency on the part of the European institutions.
That is why we must press on together down this road in order to be able to build a Europe in which we can all share. (Applause) (PL) Mr President, the 2005 report allows us to conclude that the European Ombudsman is successfully achieving the aims of increasing the effectiveness of his institution in the field of good administrative practice and adherence to the principles of the rule of law and human rights.
The Ombudsman must increase its efforts to provide the public with reliable information.
Paragraph 6 of the Schwab report justifiably expresses our regret about the signing of a new agreement with effect from 1 April 2006, in other words before the report for 2005 had been approved.
The Ombudsman has numerous duties and one can only hope that he has time with the staff in his department, which fortunately is constantly increasing - from 38 to 51 and 57 in 2006 - to respond to the increased number of complaints.
If, however, the Ombudsman condemns the lack of transparency in the work of the Council, we call on him in Amendment 1 - which I call on you to support - to check, not after specific complaints from citizens, but on his own initiative, the transparency with which EPSO recruitment competitions are carried out and the recruitment methods of the European agencies, including his own department.
With the permission of Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, I would like to clarify two points concerning this, which I will do in Greek, since she addressed me in Greek. (EL) Mr President, Mrs Panayotopoulos, I wish to assure you that the European Personnel Selection Office is already within the European Ombudsman's mandate and that this is a matter of particular concern to us, which we are monitoring very, very closely.
The Court and the Ombudsman are separate.
The one-stop shop idea is a very important one.
Once again, I want to thank this House for its very encouraging and very warm reactions to my report. (Applause) The debate is closed.
