Amendment of Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community (05058/3/2008 - C6-0177/2008 - 2006/0304) (Rapporteur: Peter Liese).
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, I would first of all like to express my gratitude to the Slovenian Presidency, to Parliament's rapporteur and to the Commission, who combined their efforts to reach an agreement on the inclusion of aviation in the European emission allowance trading scheme, and I know that it was difficult.
This agreement has a global scope: it concerns European companies but also companies from third countries.
That is our ambition.
To conclude, in this same spirit the text indicates that the auctioning proceeds should be used to tackle the effects of climate change within Europe and outside Europe through a whole series of measures that are set out in the text.
The inclusion of the air transport sector in the emission allowance trading scheme is an indispensable element of the European Union's overall approach in dealing with the impact of air transport on climate change.
Air transport emissions are rapidly increasing; they have almost doubled since 1990 and are expected to double once again by 2020.
It is therefore necessary to take decisive action, which is feasible only at European Union level, not at Member State level.
By including air transport in the EU emission allowance trading scheme, we are assuming this leading role, but we are at the same time stressing that we are open to discussion with our partners, which we hope will lead to a worldwide system.
The agreement on this directive is an important step forward in fighting climate change.
Madam President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have in fact doubled since 1990, and possibly even more than doubled, for the most recent figures are not yet available.
The decision to include aviation in emission allowance trading has therefore been overdue and it is good to see that we have now reached a compromise at second reading.
For this reason I would like to say something once again quite clearly: we want to see an international agreement, but realistically it has to be said that we shall only achieve this when someone enters the White House, whether it be John McCain or Barack Obama, who really takes climate protection seriously.
This gives us an opportunity to make progress in our negotiations with third countries.
I admit that with America you can leave things until 2010, but with the other countries - such as Russia and China - we need to talk things through so that our non-integrated solution does not endanger our airlines and our airports with their many thousands and millions of employees.
I am also pleased that things have been kept in balance, for we are in fact going back to the years 2004 to 2006 as the reference date for the allocation of certificates, but we have been very reasonable in setting the cap at 97% and 95% and by initially allocating 85% of the certificates free of charge, with only 15% to be put to auction.
This gives me great hopes for the forthcoming energy package that we shall be producing here in this House and then in association with the Council, and all to be done in this legislative term.
The present compromise shows that Europe is now taking climate change seriously.
The revenue should be used to combat climate change and to fund adaptation measures.
I am thinking for example of the Emir of Dubai.
For this reason we now have a compromise that is fairly realistic but, it is to be hoped, in terms of procedure is not ... (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the UEN Group. - (LV) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking Mr Liese, the rapporteur, for his good cooperation with the Council in order to achieve this fine compromise.
For years now, governments have been talking with such enthusiasm about the ETS as the great answer to ensuring that aviation makes a real contribution to emissions reductions.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Madam President, this summer may be the first without ice in the Arctic.
The agreement on including the aviation sector in the emissions trading scheme is before us for a second reading.
There is no point in restricting air transport without providing a practical alternative, or providing the time necessary for systematic adaptation. (LV) Thank you, Madam President.
The inclusion of aviation activities in the European Union's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is a logical step.
We want this decision to be made quickly and not to wait for the results of Copenhagen in this matter, and we want to achieve an international sector agreement.
I hope that we will be accepted for worldwide emissions trading for air traffic as soon as possible, and that it will not cause any carbon leakage but really reward a reduction in emissions and the rationalisation of all kinds of activities, bearing the environmental targets in mind.
If we really... (The President cut off the speaker.) Madam President, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Peter Liese for all his tremendous work on this dossier.
He has succeeded in reaching a compromise with the Member States at Council and, although it may not be as ambitious as some might have hoped for (perhaps that is the sign of a good compromise), it does deliver the framework for including the fastest-growing transport sector in the EU ETS from 2012.
The new system will apply to both intra-EU and international flights, including third-country airlines, ensuring that the competitiveness of EU airlines is secured.
We should act with prudence in these matters. (PT) Madam President, it should be borne in mind that including aviation activities within European emission allowance trading creates problems for those countries in economic difficulty, particularly where there are outermost regions, as is the case with Portugal, which has the Azores and Madeira.
By reaching an agreement on this directive the Community institutions are demonstrating their determination to adopt the concrete measures which are necessary to implement the European Union's ambitious climate change goals.
Its adoption is a positive signal for the forthcoming negotiations on the climate and energy package and the international negotiations in Poznań and Copenhagen.
The revenues from this auctioning should be used to tackle climate change in the European Union and third countries, especially developing countries.
I do not know if that also happened in the speaker's group, but in any case for us it was all very open and above board, even on an internal level.
With the report presented by Avril Doyle we again have an opportunity to adjust the cap and the auctioning level so that they are fair to other participants in the emissions trading system We need to look very closely at this in the second half of the year.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing - (GA) Since 1990, greenhouse gas emissions from EU international aviation have more than doubled and now account for 5% - 12% of the total EU CO2 emissions.
in writing. - (RO) This directive represents an ambitious initiative, by which the aviation sector could play an important role in the fight against climate change.
Also, revenues from auctioning allowances shall have to be used for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and adjusting to climate change, without giving the possibility to Member States to use such money for other purposes.
