Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament which was adjourned on Thursday, 31 May 2001.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of Thursday 31 May 2001 have been distributed.
I would therefore request that the proposals for amendments be used to check again whether this theme has now been included correctly in the final Méndes De Vigo document in all the languages, as we obviously want to avoid any misinterpretations here.
Of course, Mr Ferber, we shall certainly check this. (The Minutes were approved) Agenda The next item is the final draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
I believe that it is very important that we listen to the Belgian Prime Minister on such a crucial issue.
Thank you, Mr Barón Crespo.
Mr Barón Crespo in its favour, as long as the debate is placed on July' s agenda.
We have the whole morning for these two discussions.
Pursuant to Rule 111, I shall speak in favour of the proposal to amend the agenda in order to take into account the extremely important event which took place in Ireland, which proves to us that the cohesion of smaller nations that refuse to give up their freedom is something which must certainly be taken into account.
I believe that this is the terminology that we should use in our internal work.
The order of business is thus established.
Mr Bonde, I would, in any event, refer you to the Rules of Procedure.
I wonder whether you will also join me in congratulating our colleague, Dana Rosemary Scallon, on the marvellous role that she played in Ireland in helping to deliver a no vote in the referendum.
Mr Helmer, as you are aware, I sent a message which is not exactly along the lines that you suggested, but which expresses what I believe to be the opinion of the majority of the House.
I want to say to the Eurosceptics in this House and throughout Europe that, whether they like it or not, that decision was made in good faith.
The Irish people are a generous people.
We have accepted great support from the European Union since we joined it and we are prepared to give back a great deal of what we received.
The will of the Irish people must be respected.
The Irish people will resolve their own problems.
Any future debate here should follow the debate in our own country.
Madam President, my point also concerns the Irish referendum.
I am beginning to think that Roger and those of his political party are feeling a little bit that way since last weekend.
The tóraidhe were Anglo-Irish people who were expelled from their land on account of their religion.
I hope that Roger is enlightened now.
Thank you, Mr McCartin.
Madam President, I rise on a point of order concerning my friend Roger Helmer.
That is the result that we would all have liked.
Madam President, I should like to say that I do not entirely agree with my Danish fellow Member, Mr Haarder, in his attack on Jens-Peter Bonde, who was the campaign leader in Ireland.
Madam President, I rise under Rule 174, the right to petition the European Parliament.
The President is looking into the question of complaints to the Commission, but he said clearly this is an issue that Parliament would itself want to address.
Thank you, Mr Perry.
Madam President, Mr Joaquín José Martínez was declared innocent by a jury in Tampa of two murders for which he had previously been condemned to death.
This should give us a great sense of satisfaction, and I also hope that you will be prepared to express this on behalf of our Parliament during your visit to the Gothenburg Council this week.
Mr van den Burg, I had already intended to speak at Gothenburg on this issue, along the lines that you have described.
I would like to remind you, however, that the European Parliament' s Bureau decided that Parliament would co-organise a very important meeting, which will be held on 21 and 22 June, on the world-wide abolition of the death penalty.
Madam President, I am sorry, but something seems to have got lost in translation.
My question was very precise.
Madam President, I would like to come back to a less amusing issue than the exchange which we have heard during the last five minutes.
I do not think that it is the task of the President of the European Parliament to urge the Court to do this or otherwise.
I really do not understand the need to go back over this subject, as the matter is perfectly straightforward.
This is why it could be quite important to tell the Spanish authorities that the way in which the Spanish government deals with applications for the removal of immunity submitted to this House is also a matter of honour in its relations with the European Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is worsening.
Albanian rebels are dangerously close to the capital, the authorities in northern Greece are preparing to receive refugees and Olympic Airways flights to Skopje have been cancelled.
Thank you, Mr Alyssandrakis.
The death penalty equates to murder, and even if a murderer is killed under the death penalty, this is still murder.
This should be pointed out.
Even the lowest of the low do not deserve to be killed in this way.
I would like the European Parliament to adopt this position.
We saw earlier that a slightly more spontaneous organisation gave rise to much more lively debate than when the debates are organised by the heads and leaders of the groups.
The sexual exploitation of children and child pornography are, of course, a scandal in a modern civilisation and it is unthinkable that criminal networks and customers should go unpunished and avoid criminal prosecution by taking advantage of the lack of cooperation between countries and shortcomings in our criminal legislation.
As far as the sexual exploitation of children is concerned, given the composite nature of the crime and the international networks involved, we have included types of criminal conduct over and above those proposed by the Commission, such as facilitating, buying, selling or transporting a child within or outside national borders.
As far as punishment is concerned, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms accepted the proposal by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for a stricter criminal framework for crimes inflicted on children under the age of 16, rather than the age of 10 proposed by the Commission, with stricter punishment of at least 10 years rather than the 8 years proposed by the Commission.
We also propose compensation for victims and a host of measures to protect victims during investigations and hearings and of course afterwards, especially for disabled children.
Finally, we propose setting up registers of persons who have committed the offence, in collaboration with Europol, Interpol and national police forces, and involving candidate countries in action to combat the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
The European Union has therefore worked for a number of years to develop a comprehensive strategy to combat this trade in human beings.
The Commission proposal now aims to lay down, by means of a Framework Decision, minimum rules concerning the constituent elements of criminal acts, and minimum penalties.
I especially welcome the fact that it encompasses not only the criminal act of trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation, but also trafficking in human beings for labour exploitation.
I should like to thank all the members of the participating committees for their cooperation in achieving this result.
At the start of deliberations, such a tight schedule was imposed on the European Parliament by the Council's timetable that tremendous efforts were required to ensure that the substantive work on the draft could take place with the necessary thoroughness and level of detail.
I would therefore ask you all to vote for the referral back to the Committee on Home Affairs during tomorrow's vote.
Organised crime - and it is primarily organised crime which is involved here - is not restricted to specific regions or states.
The European Union therefore urgently requires measures in order to facilitate the cross-border prosecution of these appalling crimes.
In my view, victim protection is especially important.
Crimes against children, in their most despicable form, that is, sexual exploitation, should no longer be dealt with solely with a view to punishing the perpetrators.
With the support of the European Parliament, all these points should be included in the draft before us.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, I should also like say a word of thanks for the cross-party cooperation I had in that committee on this most important issue.
I know that there are several child pornographers who have set up business in one EU country because if they are caught they know they will get a lesser sentence in that country.
I worked very hard in my committee to make sure we also set tougher penalties for those who commit offences against children under 16.
It is important that we protect children with learning disabilities, whose mental age is often much lower than their physical age.
Anything that happens to a child in this context is ruthless.
That is why I believe that the age limit should be raised to a minimum of 16, as the harm suffered by children is just as profound whether they are under 10, or 11, 12 or 13 years of age.
I am therefore in favour of raising the age limit to 16.
The definitions of child pornography that we adopted in the women' s committee are much better.
In Mrs Karamanou' s report, the definitions are so wide that there is a risk that we will have to cover up the Maneken Pis in the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, many countries in the European Union, and particularly my own, Portugal, are experiencing cases of the exploitation of people from Eastern Europe who, having come to find a better lifestyle, fall victims to organised gangs which exploit their suffering.
Issues related to the trafficking of human beings and the sexual exploitation of children must indeed be one of the main priorities of the European Union' s political agenda.
We must step up the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography by improving the measures adopted by the joint action of February 1997 and by ensuring that there can be no safe havens for the perpetrators of sex crimes against children when we suspect that they may have committed a crime in a country other than their own.
Our Parliament' s approval of these proposals would constitute a clear demonstration of our will to wage an effective fight against these unacceptable violations of people' s dignity and human rights.
I am delighted that the Council has reached agreement on the basic principles of the proposal for a Framework Decision on the fight against trafficking in human beings, but I am sorry that it could not reach consensus on the level of criminal sanctions.
For years this Parliament has wanted clear and common legislation for combating the trafficking and exploitation of human beings, which are odious and widespread crimes.
We do not wish to be aware of it, but we only have to look at what is happening with prostitution in our countries to see what is going on.
The European Commission' s proposal to define the crime in a common manner and harmonise penalties is truly a step forward in the direction proposed by the United Nations in its Palermo protocol, and I am pleased to accept it.
The first problem, in both reports, is the tendency to be too prescriptive and interfering in the detail of Member States' criminal justice systems.
Both reports are also too prescriptive on the treatment of victims and witnesses, and fail to take differing national arrangements into account.
This will give rise to endless argument and is not a sound basis for a legal definition.
It is better to target pornography which exploits real children, not pretend ones.
I also wish to draw attention to Amendment No 38 from the ELDR, which would make access to sex offenders' registers subject to data protection rules.
Despite this, most European countries still prefer a repressive approach in practice, which first and foremost targets the victims themselves.
A structural approach is thus necessary, both in terms of criminal law and international migration policy.
That is why, in my view, Amendment No 1 is crucial and I hope that the Commission will take this on board.
My last point, which was stressed by the Council of Europe in its recommendation published in May 2000, is that the argument of consent was not relevant.
The consent or non-consent of the victim is not always relevant - in fact, it is far from being relevant.
I believe that we must be vigilant on this issue, and we should recognise that consent should not be used as an argument for those involved in trafficking to escape punishment.
I would like to thank the two rapporteurs.
Mr President, this is a very important report and a significant step forward.
Like the rest of the House, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
It is through working together at EU and international level that we can do something important for children, who must be protected from such crimes.
None of our countries can claim to be free of these threats.
None of our countries can halt these acts on their own.
The new proposal brings us a further step forward by hopefully ensuring that each Member State will take the necessary measures to guarantee that facilitating or in any way profiting from child prostitution or child pornography is penalised, including by terms of imprisonment of not less than four years.
Finally, I fully support the compromise agreement reached by our committee on Article 5(4).
The maximum penalty of not less than eight years should apply in the case of child pornography and aiding and abetting such crimes, including the exploitation of children, when they involve a child below the age of 16.
That makes it absolutely vital for the EU Member States and the candidate countries to act in close cooperation in order to combat these serious offences against humanity with all lawful means possible.
I sincerely hope that their compassionate proposals can stand the test of legislation.
I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino would like to expand on this matter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on this report, we can examine this phenomenon, examples of which seem to exist at the highest levels in some Member States, that is, at least, according to public fears.
This is the first factor.
The second factor is contempt towards children.
However, these issues do not lead us to condemn the excellent provisions in the report that has been submitted.
On the other hand, we approve the definition of extreme circumstances such as the use of children under the age of 16 years or children with physical or mental disabilities.
A particular point in the text is raised by Amendment No 26, which seeks to amend Article 8(3).
The definition of pornography is more extensive in the report than in the original text; as is the definition of the material used for child pornography or the responsibility of persons that have children in their care.
With these reservations, we support the majority of the report, as well as Interpol' s integration with Europol.
Mr President, we must congratulate the authors of the two reports, which are crucial and a credit to Parliament's work.
We would particularly like to say that these are crimes for which we should show no complacency, and that these measures must be applied in cases where the children involved are under 16 years of age, which is what we voted for in committee.
Mr President, I was in Parliament in the summer of 1995 when the appalling crimes of Mr Dutroux were exposed.
I should like to congratulate both our colleagues on their excellent reports.
The strong transnational dimension of the problem requires the establishment of high standards of Community law in relation to child sexual exploitation, standards that also apply to the CEEC countries where the problems are even greater than within the Union.
The age of consent varies between countries: 13 years in Spain and the Netherlands, 17 years in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland.
Mr President, trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of human rights which is akin to slavery.
In short, the Framework Decision to fight trafficking in human beings does reflect the political will of the Member States to tackle trafficking in human beings, but it remains to be seen whether this problem is granted sufficient priority in practice on the agenda of both national and European cooperation at judicial and at police level.
I would therefore call for periodic reports from the Council and the Commission to this Parliament, so that we can keep a finger on the pulse and can highlight in good time the need to intensify that policy.
The sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and trafficking in human beings are appalling crimes which are assuming alarming proportions.
The United Nations estimates that worldwide, around 200 million people are exploited as slaves.
Trafficking in human beings is conducted via well-organised criminal and in some cases international networks.
The Framework Decision is an important step towards better cooperation between Member States.
The harmonisation of Member States' legal provisions will establish a basis for better cooperation between judicial authorities in order to enable Europe to combat this trade in human beings.
With regard to the trafficking in human beings, for example, some accession countries have now become countries of origin, transit countries, and even target countries.
Swift measures are therefore required in these countries to combat crime in these areas and strengthen cooperation with the EU.
Where the sexual exploitation of children is concerned, our most important demand is that the legislation must encompass all children under 16 years of age, which is entirely in line with the usual definition of children in international conventions.
We are dealing with an extremely sensitive issue, an issue that is of fundamental importance to our society.
We should think carefully about the decisions we take as a European Parliament.
The European Parliament synthesises the tensions present in society.
The issue we are now dealing with, the exploitation of children, which pervades all societies from the most to the least developed, needs to be dealt with through legislation, as we are now doing, but also in general sociological and societal development terms.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I greatly welcome the content of these two reports, and also wish to thank the Commission for its initiatives to combat these appalling crimes: the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
However, I should like to draw your attention to a further point - and I am grateful that it has been included in the reports - namely the problem of minimum, rather than just maximum, penalties.
I would like to remind you that in March the Council adopted a Framework Decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings.
That decision addresses several important issues taken up in some of Parliament's amendments.
Furthermore, I would like to reiterate that the Commission will be submitting a proposal on temporary residence permits for those victims of trafficking prepared to cooperate in investigations against their exploiters.
However, we will be unable to accept those that fall within the scope of other Framework Decisions - the Framework Decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, for instance - or those whose detailed nature is incompatible with a specific instrument such as a Framework Decision.
The Commission also fully shares the objectives of the amendments on the abuse of vulnerability, on vulnerability and debt bondage, and on vulnerability, physical and mental disabilities and illegal residence.
As far as the Klamt report is concerned, I would like to emphasise that the sterling efforts and commitment of the Swedish Presidency have culminated in a basic agreement on several provisions, but sadly, no consensus has been achieved on the severity of sanctions.
Here again, we share the objectives of some of the amendments that have been put forward, but we sincerely feel that they come under the provisions of other legal instruments such as the Framework Decisions on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings.
Regarding the amendments concerned with the definition of child pornography and the offence of child pornography, we believe that the definitions decided by the Union should be as much in line as possible with the definitions taken on board by the draft Convention on Cyber Crime drawn up by the Council of Europe.
Coherence between these two instruments is, in my opinion, extremely important.
The Commission would like to highlight its position on two sets of amendments that are particularly difficult from a political point of view.
Under many Member States' criminal law, sexual exploitation is an offence when it involves a person below the age of sexual consent, as soon as the occurrence of a sexual act has been established.
This means, in turn, that the amendments setting the age limit for an aggravated offence at 16 will undoubtedly interfere not only with the systematic approaches in the Member States but also with national considerations on the age of consent.
The Commission cannot therefore agree with the relevant amendments but would be willing to consider an age limit set at a higher level than in the original proposal, that is, changing the age limit from the age of 10 to 12 years.
Secondly, as regards the amendments concerned with jurisdiction and extradition, it should be observed that the articles of the proposal are modelled on provisions reflecting the state of play in regard to specific instruments in this field.
At the same time, we are willing to consider these issues in a broader context.
I share the view of those who say that in reality the application of penal law differs in our 15 Member States.
It would seriously defeat our common aim if we were not capable of agreeing on common sanctions when it comes to trafficking in human beings.
At the Council of Ministers in May, I took the initiative for a debate on ethical aspects of livestock farming.
The purpose of the debate was to highlight the matter at a level of principle, starting from the fact that, in the future too, we will have a society in which animals are in the service of humans.
The Member States pointed out that animals are sentient beings that must be treated well.
Another of Sweden' s conferences during its presidency was Ethics and Animal Welfare 2001, to which Parliament was also invited.
The aim of this conference was to bring together representatives of industry, animal welfare organisations and public authorities and to conduct a discussion on animal welfare and ethics.
The Presidency has initiated discussion of the proposal in the Council' s working party.
The Presidency has worked very intensively on the Commission' s proposal for a new directive on the welfare of pigs.
Man is in a unique and special position and therefore also has a moral responsibility to show consideration for animals.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Swedish Presidency for taking the initiative to request this debate.
The past several months have seen a sharp rise in interest in animal welfare issues at Community level.
It is important to build up a solid consensus on the need for more action on animal welfare.
The public demand more and better information on products and foodstuffs: how and where they are produced, under what conditions and with what ingredients.
This argument should also be considered in relation to the global dimension of the trade in animals and animal products.
It is essential to share our knowledge on animal welfare with countries outside the European Union and to create a consistent approach towards the issue.
This is the first time that a broad-based international forum, like the OIE, has decided to address this question.
The Commission strongly supports this initiative and intends to actively participate in this future development.
This House is, of course, very aware of these concerns.
It is our duty and responsibility to reflect on these concerns.
There are increasing calls for more Community action on animal welfare, but we should be careful that this does not distract attention from the responsibility of all parties to promote higher standards.
However, Member States continue to have the most important role to play since animal welfare requirements are adopted as minimum standards in European legislation.
In addition, Member States are responsible for the day-to-day enforcement of Community legislation in this field.
A second qualification relates to the role of farmers and the livestock industry in general.
The vast majority clearly treat their animals in a good and humane manner.
There are a number of important initiatives already before the Council and Parliament, for example the proposal on improved welfare conditions for pigs reared in intensive rearing systems.
The presidency is very anxious to reach final agreement on this proposal.
That would provide a very positive signal of Parliament's own commitment to animal welfare.
The Commission is also awaiting an opinion expected in October from the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare on densities and travelling times.
This opinion will help shape our future policy on animal transport, which will be discussed in depth in the Agriculture Council later this month.
We have a duty and a responsibility to press for recognition of these standards both on purely ethical grounds in recognition of the need for the humane treatment of animals and in recognition of the higher costs which these standards entail for producers and consumers in the European Union.
Commissioner Byrne, I have been a Member of the European Parliament for 12 years, and we have been discussing this issue throughout these 12 years.
Mr Byrne, thank you very much for stating this so clearly today.
Happy hens in Germany will have to feel different from perky pigs in Holland or contented calves in Denmark.
Mr President, we greatly welcome the fact that the issue of animal welfare is being discussed by the Council and the Commission in the European Parliament today.
The Community's obligation to take full account of animal welfare requirements within the framework of its agricultural policy is anchored in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The responsibility for animals as living creatures falls exclusively on humans.
However, these farming conditions must be shaped in a way which ensures that animals have the maximum scope for natural behaviour.
After all, more consumer protection ultimately leads to better conditions of animal welfare.
Mr President, the treatment of animals is a question of civilisation.
I would like to thank the Swedish Presidency which, for the first time ever, has succeeded in bringing about a public debate on animal ethics in the Council of Ministers.
On 8 March, the Greens held a conference on animal welfare here in Parliament, at which, I am pleased to say, Margareta Winberg was also present.
The Council too has also stated that the transport of live animals must cease... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, there is a well-known saying that well-being is more important than welfare.
However, what is more important to us is that animals should also be accepted as God' s creatures.
Legislation on animal welfare is mostly very detailed in certain areas, but lacks a coherent vision.
I should also like to mention a second point, namely the large discrepancies in terms of animal welfare among the Member States.
For that reason, Parliament is very likely this week to make the directive on the welfare of pigs stricter but, at the same time, to present an initiative proposal on animal transport in September.
One of the most appalling things I heard in my own country came from a trader concerning the spread of foot-and-mouth disease: "They are commodities.
Like everyone else in this House, I hope and expect that the sow stalls proposal will go through on Thursday.
Those things seem to me to be enormously important.
I have asked you a question in this connection.
You stated that you need to monitor this long-haul transport in the Member States.
It is evident that the means are desperately lacking.
Nevertheless, this has led to results, for two infringement procedures have been instituted against Member States and, in three cases, there was a serious lack of animal welfare during transport.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I greatly welcome the fact that the Council and the Commission are holding this debate today.
If we examine the process regarding the cage-rearing of hens, for example, we - Parliament and the European Union - have already made significant progress.
We have a special position in respect of animals and it is only we who can accept that responsibility.
It is of course easy to put forward all these demands, but we must also remember that it costs money.
For example, if we demand that international trade must not be in livestock but in meat, we must also remember that there is a connection with the economic system in agricultural policy.
If we want to have good animal welfare and a good environment, it will not come free of charge.
Mr President, Mrs Winberg, ladies and gentlemen, I thank everybody for their contribution to this debate.
I have taken very careful note of the views expressed and will take them into account in the formulation of policy and in bringing forward legislation in due course.
Let me deal with a number of the individual issues that were raised by many of you.
First of all, there is the question of animal transport.
I expect that the scientists who advise us will also focus on that issue, maybe seeing it as even more important than the length of time over which an animal is transported, so long as the conditions under which the animal is transported are humane.
Mr Maat then asked me about the consequences for trade arising from the vaccination policy in the foot-and-mouth disease issue.
The vaccination administered is effective for only six to nine months.
If we were to vaccinate all of the animals in the European Union that are susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease, this would result in vaccinations being administered to 300 million animals every six months against seven different strains.
A really successful vaccination policy will only come about when science has developed a form of marker vaccination.
In those circumstances, the other trading blocs in the world are concerned about trading in animals which are vaccinated but may also be infected, thereby increasing the risk of spreading the infection in their own countries.
It is quite incorrect to say that different principles apply or that some discrimination operates against traders within the European Union.
They draft reports, which are published of course, and forwarded to me for consideration as to whether infringement proceedings should be initiated or not.
The present position is that infringement proceedings have been initiated against Greece and Belgium in relation to the implementation of Directive 91/628.
Furthermore, infringement proceedings are under consideration for the following Member States that did not comply with Article 8 of the directive, concerning the transmission to the Commission of their annual inspection report for the year 1999: Austria, the Netherlands and Portugal.
If there is a clear and persistent failure to comply with the legislation on animal welfare, infringement proceedings will be initiated against the Member State in question.
On the question of price and standards and taking into account consumer concern for animal welfare, I am happy to tell you that Commissioner Fischler and I have initiated a debate at European Union level, and with all the Member States, on the question of food quality and the part that animal welfare plays in that context.
We held an Internet chat last Tuesday, where we were asked in excess of 2600 questions in a period of two hours.
By any calculation that is an extraordinary response which reflects people's enormous interest in issues relating to food quality and animal welfare.
Many of the questions that were raised in that Internet chat were directed at the issue of animal welfare.
I would like to finish by quoting what Mr Whitehead said in his speech calling for a food system in which 'people matter but animals matter too'.
These are, namely, that, since 1971, when the UN recognised the term 'least developed' , the number of the least developed countries has grown from 25 to 49 today.
The removal of customs barriers in respect of the developing countries, which will help these countries, is progressing slowly.
This is a development that is creating great economic growth in the industrialised countries, but which also risks further marginalisation of the developing countries due to lack of access both to the knowledge created by virtue of this development and to the technology as such.
Consequently, in an earlier report - namely the Gemelli report - in March of this year, the European Parliament also asked the Commission to give this area greater priority, possibly as part of the transport priority.
If we bear in mind the great potential of the information technologies for the future development of our society, there is no doubt that this gap is going to increase.
That is why this report is so important and above all why it is so important that the European Union adopts a vigorous initiative so that developing countries may really be included in the wealth society.
E-europe, e-learning, e-commerce, e-business are on everyone's lips, and are increasingly setting the political agenda.
The developing countries themselves have an urgent interest in doing so, and I can only say that the response to my general report on this issue in the ACP/EU Assembly was extremely positive.
The European Commission gives its admittedly rather tentative support to one or two projects, but this cannot obscure the fact that there is still no targeted strategy to support the developing countries moving towards the knowledge and information society.
The purpose of the report before us is to remedy this situation.
Our aim must be to enable the developing countries to share fully in the opportunities afforded by the information society and utilise all available technical options for this purpose.
Also, it is, in fact, absurd to talk about technological development and the information society in countries where even the most basic education infrastructure is not in place, especially outside the capitals.
Please let us not forget, however, that people who have not had any schooling, even with the most wonderful infrastructure at their fingertips, will always be hopelessly behind.
If this gulf in technical know-how cannot be bridged, globalisation will already have failed from the start.
The PPE-DE Group would like the European Union to work to ensure that, with its help, all countries in the world are able to take part in adopting information technology and develop their societies.
If it is possible to follow such an integrated and complementary policy in the field of information technology and telecommunications, there is hope that information technology will promote partnership and reinforce all other development cooperation carried out in these countries.
Indeed, the digital divide - that is to say the unequal access to information and communication technologies among and within countries - is a reflection of existing social and economic inequalities in both industrialised and developing countries.
The report and motion for a resolution make several proposals on the role of Community development cooperation in respect of ICT.
Tasks and responsibilities can be shared with Member States; this is work in which the Commission will participate, both within the G8 and with Member States, but it will not take the lead.
Paragraphs 20 and 22 call on the Commission to play a greater role in ICT and development than seems reasonable or realistic at the present moment.
Making specific provision for ICT within thematic budget lines would not, however, be consistent with our approach of using ICT as an integral part of our work in priority areas.
The Commission has promised to submit an annual report on Community development policy and therefore proposes to cover ICT, as appropriate, in that annual report.
The philosophy of the Regulation can be summed up as follows: each Member State is obliged to control the exportation not only of its own heritage, but also of any heritage which is located within its territory, but which originates in one of the other fourteen Member States.
The forecasts are even more pessimistic if we bear in mind that, when the rich heritage of the candidate countries is incorporated into the single market, the current legislation may still be in force despite being shown to be insufficient.
It tried to do so in 1996, but, when it requested information from the Member States, it received no response from the majority of them.
We believe that this is a cultural issue, which the Council must deal with through the bodies responsible for culture in each Member State.
There must be closer police and judicial cooperation in this field between Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, since time immemorial, man has travelled in order to enhance his knowledge of other nations and to come into contact with other cultures.
I hope that the other countries will follow suit, so that the illegal trade in cultural goods can be brought to a close.
Mr President, the Commission shares Parliament's concern regarding the protection of the cultural heritage of the Member States.
I should like to assure Members that the Commission has already taken measures aimed at improving administrative cooperation between the Member States with a view to protecting their cultural heritage.
