This decision, which, provisionally, has put an end to five years of negotiations and more than seven years of diplomatic efforts, has led to great uncertainty within the multilateral framework of the WTO trade negotiations and, furthermore, it raises a problem with regard to an informal time limit, which is more political than chronological: the forthcoming expiry of the mandate of the Trade Promotion Authority, granted to the President by the United States Congress to allow him to negotiate in global terms.
What we have to see is how we can move on from this crossroads and how we can put the process back on track.
There have been a series of contacts and bilateral meetings during August and I hope that the Commissioner can tell us about any opportunities for progress.
I therefore believe that it is important for the European Parliament to speak out and to support the possibility that we can continue with, put back on track and renew the objective of achieving a Doha Round for development and also to support the Commission – which has not had much of a holiday in this regard – which we hope can continue working to conclude this Round.
This will be the first chance to review at ministerial level what happened in Geneva in July, to discuss our respective positions and to assess the possibility of how and when we can move forward.
If one puts all that together it amounts to a major new market access package for competitive agricultural exporters such as the United States, Australia and other members of the Cairns Group.
However, the United States has also proposed an increase in what it is allowed to spend in other categories of trade-distorting subsidy, while rejecting the idea of directly reforming those subsidy programmes so as to ensure that they no longer distort trade.
If one adds together the three types of proposed trade-distorting support that the United States wants to keep, one actually arrives at a potential new ceiling of USD&#160;22.7 billion, which is more than the United States currently spends.
All sides should realise that a realistically ambitious and achievable outcome, far from being a ‘Doha-light’, would actually yield deep-seated structural changes in farm policies and create new trade flows in goods and services on a scale unmatched in any previous trade rounds.
Even more importantly, they risk losing out as a result of a weakening of the multilateral trading system.
In particular, we will keep our promises on Aid for Trade, and we will maintain our efforts.
The answer is that our commitment to Doha will remain paramount.
Nothing can replace the WTO.
There is no doubt that any erosion of confidence in the multilateral trading system as a whole would in the long term also critically affect that dispute settlement system.
Bilateral and regional deals are therefore not an alternative to multilateral negotiations, but rather an add-on and a complement that helps to address in greater depth a reduction in tariff and non-tariff barriers, as well as establishing disciplines in areas in which WTO members have decided – at least for the time being – not to negotiate collectively within the multilateral system, be it in relation to competition rules, government procurement or the labour dimension.
Some are already in progress, while others will be launched when the conditions are ripe.
Mercosur, the GCC and Central America are in the first group and we are also looking at Ukraine, India, Korea and the ASEAN countries as potential partners for new initiatives.
Let me conclude by saying that I and the Commission remain firmly committed to a successful outcome of the multilateral round and that I want to work closely with you in this House to achieve that goal.
The Commission will also shortly present soon two communications – one in October on external aspects of our competitiveness in Europe, and one on trade relations with China.
These will tackle other key issues of our future trade policy.
As a team I believe we should continue to work together in the future as well as we have done in the past – for Europe’s sake, but also for the benefit of the global economy and in particular for the most needy developing countries. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there can be no doubt that the costs of the failure of the Doha Round negotiations are high and will increase in the event of a definitive breakdown.
Secondly, from the undermining of progress in certain sectors of activity which are especially important to developing countries.
The European Union maintained a constructive and responsible position.
It tabled noteworthy proposals and abandoned many of its objectives right from the start of the round.
Consequently, any return to the negotiating table depends on flexibility on the part of other leading trade partners if we are to envisage a balanced result.
The commitment to a multilateral trade system makes a decisive contribution towards security, transparency and the stability of international trade.
Consequently, the successful completion of multilateral trade negotiations should remain – as the Commission and the chairman of our committee emphasised – the supreme choice, the supreme priority on the Union's agenda.
At the same time, we must strengthen supplementary strategies of bilateral and cross-regional relations with other important partners.
The stability of the global trade system calls, in my opinion, for new dynamic impetus to the link between commercial interdependence and joint responsibility between the European Union and the United States of America and this link between interdependence and joint responsibility must be verified.
With Mr Barón Crespo before me and his country's victory over Greece in the World Basketball Championship in mind, I would suggest that we look on the outcome of these negotiations so far as time out rather than a definitive breakdown. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the suspensions of the Doha Round negotiations is first and foremost the breaking of a promise to adjust the balance of trade rules to benefit developing countries.
The suspension already potentially threatens the multilateral system as the main framework of trade negotiations and a return to more imbalanced bilateral negotiations that will act to the detriment of the poorest, and in particular the smallest, countries, as you pointed out, Mr&#160;Mandelson.
Furthermore, it will leave the multilateral system in place, which will not disappear, though the idea was to begin to reform it and make it more compatible with the objectives of development and with the other rules of the international community: namely the need to take on board the objectives of public health, the environment, and tomorrow – we hope – the social dimension of globalisation.
The main losers of this suspension of the round of negotiations will be developing countries, and, of those, the least advanced countries in particular.
I welcome the fact, Commissioner, that you are simply announcing that you are once again going to set forth in search of peace, to meet again with the G20 and the United States and to attempt to find ways to return to the negotiating table.
Especially since Hong Kong, nine months ago, no progress has been made, and in July, negotiations were postponed indefinitely.
Failure to reach a global trade agreement increases the risk of ever more countries resorting to bilateral or regional agreements, which, in any case, puts poor countries in a weaker position.
The American Congress recently applauded the tough stance adopted by the US negotiators.
Meanwhile, what is termed the Hong Kong must remain intact in full.
Whether or not an agreement is reached, the EU must not back out of its intention to abolish export subsidies by 2015.
The tone of this compromise resolution is voluntaristic and positive.
It confirms our belief in a multilateral approach of trade policy despite everything, based on the honest conviction that when the Doha Development Agenda fails, there are unfortunately no winners, only losers. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the Doha round has failed, and what you, Commissioner, are presenting us with today is a rehash of what caused it to fail.
The market access that you offer in return for access to the developing world’s markets for industrial products and services, destroys their infrastructures and the fragile development of their own industries and trades, while denying agriculture here a chance of existence, even though we need, as a matter of urgency, to produce food.
It follows that quality and qualified market access are what is needed to enable the countries of the developing world to enjoy our price levels and standards and to develop their own economies.
That is a quite different approach from a desire, above all else, to open up markets in order to exchange bigger trade margins, for there can be no reciprocity then.
No agreement will ever be reached if our way of negotiating never rises above this, and I say that as one who is fanatical in support for a multilateral system.
The Americans can defend their interests better if they are not tied down by multilateral agreements.
If the same standards are applied to all categories of countries as regards reduction of tariffs and the opening-up of their markets, then that may be no more than equal treatment, but it is not just.
The developing countries have little to gain from such a gesture; in fact, the EU already allows free access to 50 least-developed countries as it is.
In Hong Kong last December I witnessed Korean farmers fighting for a livelihood which is currently being threatened by transnational grain corporations, who are bargaining under the guise of endeavouring to help developing countries.
As I fear that the developing countries will be footing the bill for this suspension, I would call on Commissioner Mandelson to monitor the interests of those countries both multilaterally and bilaterally.
The objective of the WTO negotiations, as we know, was to improve the position of the developing countries, and all those involved had to do their bit: Europe in the area of import tariffs for agricultural products, the United States in the shape of internal support to farmers, developing countries, such as Brazil and India, with regard to access to their markets for industrial products, and suchlike.
I am pleased, though, that the Commissioner has expressed his commitment to the developing countries more than once, and I will hold him to that if I may.
We cannot change the facts, and that is why it is important to look to the future, particularly that of the developing countries.
During the negotiation round, agreement was reached, in principle, about a number of items that are very important for developing countries, which include, as they have already been mentioned: aid for trade, no import duties for the poorest countries, trade facilities, as well as special and differentiated treatment.
This House has been there through every twist and turn of the negotiations; it has seen how difficult it is to conduct them on a multilateral basis, and how difficult it is, too, to understand what is meant by a modern trade policy and trade strategy.
Sometimes, though, I take a rather sceptical view of our own self-criticism and our understanding of the changes that have come about in the world.
On the one hand, it is certainly easy to criticise the Americans – and there is no shortage of reasons for doing it – but it is also important that it be mentioned that there is, in developing countries too – Brazil being one of them – and for reasons that Members have already addressed, scepticism about agreeing with the WTO.
What is also lacking is an understanding of the fact that the EU’s Member States have taken up very different positions as regards the challenges of globalisation.
Some of our countries are very open, because they can afford to be, while some, however, are in difficulties because they got around only very late to introducing reforms and transforming themselves.
What I do think needs to be done if we are to talk in terms of a modern trade policy is for this House to be fully consulted, not just when we are called upon to agree to the outcomes of negotiations, but at the outset, when such negotiations are being considered.
The Commission, the Council, and this House, meeting in Stuttgart, have already negotiated a statement, and that involved this House being consulted either fully or to a considerable degree.
I would recommend to you that we do the same thing again, and hope that you can agree to this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the indefinite suspension of the Doha Round creates serious risks for our global economy.
It threatens parity and prosperity for the developing world, jobs, growth and security in Europe, and the future of the multilateral trade system itself.
The ‘Everything But Arms’ initiative shows that the EU can do good, but we can and must do better before the US mandate expires and, with it, our opportunity to eradicate poverty and distribute fairly the benefits of globalisation. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the results so far achieved during the Doha Round and the outcome of the TRIPS agreement on access to medicinal products are having disastrous effects on the living standards of millions of human beings.
The real reason for the suspension of the WTO talks was that it was impossible to reach an agreement among the six main nations, which were determined to defend the interests of their agribusinesses; the other 143 countries were excluded from the negotiations.
The European Parliament cannot look the other way when negotiations which are so important at multilateral level and which had offered such great hopes for more organised, transparent, free and fair trade are suspended.
We would like to point out, however, that a failure of the Doha Round would be a failure for international trade and for the multilateral system, since it would jeopardise the achievements such as tariff and trade preferences and would lead to a multiplicity and overlapping of rules, thereby making companies’ lives more difficult.
The very future of this organisation is at stake; the WTO could be greatly harmed by this crisis.
The European Parliament must continue to play the role that has been assigned to us by seriously and rigorously monitoring the situation that has been created and promoting a solution to the current impasse for the good of everybody, but above all, as others have said, for the good of the least-developed countries.
We must continue to fight to maintain a multilateral international trade system with clear, transparent and binding rules, in which all countries, and particularly developing countries, can participate fully and from which they can benefit.
In a nuanced world like this one, we cannot apply the same yardstick to every state.
However much we may cherish development policy – and I, too, am in favour of it – we, in this European Union, also have an obligation to our own citizens.
Since we lament the failure to involve the public, let at least their representatives have the right to be present at negotiations and consulted – if no more than that – while they are in progress, for it is we, at the end of the day, who have to explain them to the electorate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when the Doha Round ground to a temporary halt at the end of July, we had already taken small steps towards fair trade.
At the same time, does he not share my view that a frontloading measure of this kind could also help get things back on track for the least developed countries?
Do not let the fight against poverty become the victim of deadlocked negotiations.
The situation is extremely serious, because governments have shown themselves to be incapable of managing world trade for the common good, and worse, incapable of setting a development timetable.
Lastly, given the inability of our political leadership to find common ground on international trade, I should like to suggest that a Parliament initiative take place without delay under the auspices of the world interparliamentary union and the European Parliament.
Many of us believed that they were doomed from the start, specifically because the EU gave too much too soon, while the US gave very little at the beginning and remained dogged in its position.
The price for EU agriculture and for EU consumers in terms of food supply is enormous – you have outlined it to us here this morning: downsizing by USD 20&#160;billion a year.
It is a backward step to a world of unequal and exclusive bilateral deals: deals that are already strong-arming many poor countries into accepting lesser terms on market access and intellectual property rights; deals that are leaving the poorest countries out in the cold.
Aid for Trade cannot substitute for delivery of the Doha Round, yet, in the intervening period, it remains an important tool to meet the technical and logistical challenges that these countries face in bringing their goods to the world market.
In New Zealand, farmers screamed when their subsidies were abolished.
Yet New Zealand farmers are now amongst the most efficient in the world, in fact forcing other trade blocs to put up tariffs and barriers to their products.
In other words, this would be at complete variance with our objectives, which are aimed at realigning the rules of international trade in favour of the developing countries.
There can be no doubt that our basic objective must continue to be the successful completion of the Doha Round negotiations.
This will be in the interests of the European Union and the Member States.
However, this success cannot be achieved at any cost, nor can it be achieved with unilateral concessions on the part of the European Union.
I believe that the time has come for us to answer a crucial question of strategic importance: can the institutional structure of the World Trade Organisation, as we have known it since it was established in 1995, serve the strategic objective of the European Union for a democratic, multilateral trade system?
I fear, on the basis of our experience to date and given the failure of the Doha Round negotiations, that it cannot do so.
The World Trade Organisation currently generates more crises than it can resolve.
That is why I consider the priority for an initiative to be taken on the part of the European Union for a major ambitious democratic reform of the World Trade Organisation to be of strategic importance, just as I consider the need for the European Union to submit an integrated strategic trade policy for the development of bilateral and regional trade relations to be of strategic importance.
Today, regional and global correlations of not only commercial but also political strength are being shaped and the European Union must not get left behind in this major strategic venture. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is a real risk of the longer-term suspension of the Doha talks again resulting in a multiplication of bilateral free trade agreements, and, while there is no doubt about the fact that the poorest countries of the world will lose out as a result of this, it will also become more and more difficult to defend workers’ interests.
I am a new Commissioner and do not know what has happened in the past or what precedent has been set, but I feel instinctively that the information-sharing, consultation and dialogue I have with this Parliament and with the Committee on International Trade is very strong.
There are different developing countries with very different interests and very different needs.
Our job is primarily to ensure two things: firstly, that all developing countries benefit and gain from these negotiations and, secondly, that the weaker, more vulnerable and less-developed among them receive the greatest direct assistance, not least in terms of capacity-building, Aid for Trade and the putting in place of a full duty-free and quota-free system that enables them to access rich world markets.
In other words, we operate a system of proportionality: proportionality vis-à-vis what we expect developing countries to contribute and the effort we expect of them in bringing these negotiations to a conclusion, and proportionality also in terms of what we give and how we support and underpin their development.
The countries that are in greatest need and have least to offer are quite rightly those which are, and will remain, our priority in these negotiations.
It is important to stress this because, unlike some of those who have spoken, I passionately believe that a good Doha deal can contribute to development and to fairer trade, through the way in which we operate special and differential treatment between developing countries, the way we allow carve-outs for commitments to developing countries to protect and enable the development of infant industry, the way we provide for longer implementation periods for developing countries so that they can prepare for change and, in particular, the way that we grant special access to the least-developed countries and attention to their capacity needs.
What is important is to have not just access for developing countries to the markets of the developed world, but also much greater access for developing countries to the markets of other developing countries.
Let us remember that fact, whilst also reminding ourselves of what we can do better in the future.
The greatest and earliest gains for developing countries will come from increased trade opportunities with other developing countries.
This was a commitment we had already made, assuming, of course, that we reach the end of these negotiations and that other countries act similarly in eliminating the components of their export subsidisation.
We have reformed our common agricultural policy because it was right to do so for our own purposes and needs, as well as for the needs of others within the international trading system.
However, others are more vulnerable to that than we are in Europe.
It also means that we now have a problem with the following debate.
The debate is closed.
I have to tell you that I was very happy to fulfil the request of my fellow Commissioner, Mr Frattini, to replace him, at least at the beginning of the debate, because this is a very important subject and one which is close to my heart.
I also want to tell you that the Commission is firmly committed to the Daphne programme, which sets out to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women, children and young people.
During that period its success has been widely acknowledged.
It has served to finance a great many projects which have helped to achieve progress in the fight against violence.
The attachment to Daphne felt by Parliament and many sections of civil society is reflected in their suggestion that the Commission should stop presenting Daphne measures and action to prevent drug abuse under the same programme heading.
Although Daphne II runs to the end of 2008, it is essential that Daphne III be adopted by the end of the year so that the new forms of action provided for by the proposal for a decision, as well as the budget appropriations, which are much higher than in the past, can be used right from the beginning of next year.
I am looking forward to today’s debate. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, the Commission’s original proposal was that Daphne should be a joint programme for combating violence and both educating people about drugs and preventing the abuse of them.
To date, however, it has been possible to use Daphne I and II to fund only some 17% of the good proposals that have been submitted, which is a demonstration of how enormous demand is, and it is for that reason that the Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality is calling for additional resources.
The first is that Europe will attach greater weight to the campaign against violence and refrain from conflating it with other aspects.
We continue to demand a European Year against violence against women; it is something that has been being called for for a long time, not least in Daphne I and II, and we are being persistent and consistent in continuing to do so.
I will take this opportunity to ask that all forms of violence, without equivocation or exception, be targeted.
I also thank the Commissioner for his support and his words this morning.
There has also been a concern to specify that violence prevention should be aimed not only at young people, women and groups at risk, but also at newborn babies: cases in which babies are mistreated or actually abandoned are growing exponentially and are often associated with situations of psychological and social deprivation.
In conclusion, I hope that Daphne may be allocated greater resources than at present in the mid-term budget review; we are counting on your efforts as well, Commissioner, to achieve that. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, we must acknowledge that, with today's independent report, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, in proposing the special programme to combat violence against children, young people, women and high risk groups, is correcting in the right direction the proposal for a decision on the overall programme which, in addition to combating violence and animal reactions between human beings, also promotes drugs prevention and public information as part of the general programme entitled 'Fundamental rights and justice'.
The rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Gröner, the chairman of the committee, Mrs&#160;Záborská, and all the members determined with sensitivity and almost unanimously the target of protection from violence, namely the most vulnerable groups of our fellow Members.
The majority of the committee's amendments develop the conclusions of the evaluation of the two generally successful previous programmes, namely Daphne Ι and ΙΙ.
Given that funding of Daphne ΙΙΙ is, in our opinion, satisfactory within the framework of the agreement on the financial perspective, we must expect the results of actions to be spectacular and to eradicate violence from civilised European society, not only by 50%, as the rapporteur proposes, but if possible in its entirety, with systematic work and cooperation on the part of the authorities, local agencies, organisations and civil society.
The positive results are also expected through transparency in connection with the involvement of non-governmental organisations, which must take valued action and guarantee their positive contribution to healing the wounds of violence.
We hope that the success of the new programme will safeguard the viability of the programmes once their funding ends and that we shall thus be able to ... &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I should like to start by congratulating Mrs&#160;Gröner both on her report and on her constant efforts aimed at strengthening this programme.
I should like to stress that the Commission was right not to merge the Daphne ΙΙΙ programme with the drugs programme, a position that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and Mrs&#160;Gröner have firmly stood by.
In the European Parliament, the name Daphne stands for an important initiative.
Ten years ago, in the late summer of 1996, Europe exploded with the knowledge of what came to be known as the Dutroux affair.
The discovery of the bodies of a number of missing girls in a town in Belgium raised serious questions about what we do to protect women and children from those who abuse or exploit them for profit.
But, as we all know, our society is characterised by a systematic devaluation of the things women say, do and decide.
It is the Commission that runs the Daphne project, but in this House it is Lissy Gröner who should receive praise and support when we discuss the ‘reborn’ Daphne initiative.
Of course, there is still a long way to go before we reach the necessary zero tolerance towards violence against women and children.
The long-term importance of the Daphne initiative is the way it can affect grassroots organisations, deeply embedded in all Member States of the Union.
In bringing this about, this House has sent out a signal and re-emphasised the need for the programme to combat violence against women, children and young people to remain independent.
Human rights are an entitlement for all human beings of whatever gender, and neither culture nor tradition can excuse the violation of women’s fundamental rights.
We would like to see the Commission produce a free-standing directive and thereby demonstrating that it attaches the highest political priority to the campaign against violence.
It is important to us, too, particularly at a time like this, when the women’s rights campaigner Seyran Ateş has been forced by vicious threats to give up her lawyer’s practice in Germany, that we should put the spotlight on the violations of migrant women's human rights, and affirm that there will be, for them, ‘zero tolerance’. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Gröner, for an excellent report and for the committed way in which she has tackled the issues involved.
I would also like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality for their committed approach when it comes to the fight against violence against women.
If we are to fight violence against women, we have to banish these myths that it is ‘them’ or ‘others’ or ‘addicts’ that abuse women and children.
This is one of the reasons why the Daphne programme must be split into two separate programmes – one programme especially for the prevention of, and fight against, violence against women and children and another for the prevention of narcotics abuse and for providing information in that regard.
These are both social problems that need to be solved, but they require different measures if they are to be so.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left gives its full support to this report.
It is also important in order to highlight the fact that this slave trade is another example of the violence to which women and children are subjected.
Women who live in abusive relationships live with this physical and psychological torture 24 hours a day.
There is no reason to make a distinction between public and private life.
This would be a positive step if the intention were to carry out a genuine investigation into the problem of drug addiction and violence, as well as their prevention, instead of a self-centered perception of the problem and the failure to perceive the real causes for these social ills.
Violence is a serious problem and, as with other disorders, the most effective means of combating it is to eliminate the causes and risk factors.
These include neurobiological indicators as well as traits such as selfishness, hostility, impulsiveness, irritability, anhedonia, low intelligence, poor responsiveness of the brain to stimuli, as well as a lack of respect for values and antisocial behaviour.
In the EU, one in five women suffers what is referred to as domestic abuse, that is, violence perpetrated by her husband or partner.
The Daphne Programme should channel its efforts into the fight for the woman’s right to information, protection and punishment for the perpetrators of the abuse, and should help to change certain mentalities and barbaric customs that sadly still exist in many countries governed by Islamic law. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am delighted at this measure.
I have been pleased to hear during this morning's debate in this House that many Members have mentioned a need that I wholeheartedly endorse: we have to move towards a European Union directive on violence.
The time has come to harmonise legislation on this subject and, until that happens, the Commission should use the tools that they say they are preparing and straight away set out a very clear-cut, rigorous position on the policies that the Union and its Member States should apply, so that we can take a clear stand on these issues.
It is also very appropriate that the report asks that the programme pay particular attention to certain groups of women, such as refugees, emigrants, women living in poverty, disabled women and elderly women, as groups exposed to a greater risk of violence.
It is also very important that the report proposes including the definition of the legal basis for combating violence against women amongst the sections providing European added value.
At the same time, concrete objectives must be set, such as reducing the number of victims of violence and people trafficking by half over the next ten years.
The Daphne programme has been an important instrument in helping to raise awareness of and to combat violence against women, children and young people.
In Ireland, as elsewhere, violence against women is a very significant problem, with statistics from different reports indicating that one in four women have experienced some form of sexual violence in their lifetime.
I should like to mention some of the proposed amendments and my particular support for them.
I am pleased to see that in Amendment 14, along with other vulnerable groups, women with disabilities were specifically mentioned as being particularly vulnerable to violence.
It is therefore crucial to ensure that measures are put in place to protect those suffering multiple discriminations.
Outreach services need to be put in place so that these women and children can access the necessary services and be protected from violence.
Finally, I would like to give my full support to the promotion of the European Year Against Violence Against Women: awareness-raising is crucial. &#160;&#160; Madam President, a year and a half ago, Spain was in the vanguard of Europe in terms of combating male violence against women, when it approved an integrated law against such violence.
Nevertheless, so far this year 51 people have been killed as a result of this scourge, of this kind of violence.
The Daphne Programme can help prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and protect the victims, an area that must be strengthened.
The efforts many have made to take action against forced prostitution and human trafficking at the time of the World Cup have not been rewarded with constructive action by the parties involved.
It is hoped that this House and the Commission, in coalition, can persuade, and possibly compel, Member States, NGOs and citizens to respect the rights of fellow human beings in order to reduce exploitation of this kind.
Thanks to the close and good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, what was originally a two-part Community programme – combating violence against women and fighting against drugs – has now been divided.
There is much to do in this field.
I see this as a first step towards being able to achieve the same in Europe, but to do so requires us to agree on just how unacceptable and heinous this situation is. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the mere fact that we are talking about violence against women in 2006 shows that we are in decline.
Today, in 2006, we have more prostitution of women than we did 50 years ago, after the war.
I would particularly like to highlight the campaign against people-trafficking, in particular against the trafficking of women and children, which calls for a high degree of vigilance and a great deal of work in view of the need for extended networks and for the financial resources required to that end.
I would also like to mention the anti-stalking law that is now in place in Austria, the object of which is to address the issue of psychological violence, something that is not yet taken seriously. &#160;&#160; – Today, we are once more discussing the fight against violence.
In Europe alone, every fifth woman is a victim of violence, the consequences of which can be measured in the damage done to their physical and mental health and to that of their children and family members.
The defence of these rights require the cooperation of law enforcement and judicial authorities as well as the joint action of Member States and of the European institutions.
Many women and their children have their lives ruined as a result of violence and, especially, threats of violence.
Violence against women and children is a special problem that requires special initiatives and special solutions.
Parliament’s proposal focuses on the outrages that take place day in and day out in domestic settings and on changes that will force the national parliaments to take a stand on these serious issues.
The principal objective of the EU’s activities to counter violence is to prevent and combat all forms of violence in order to completely eliminate this form of crime that is also a serious violation of human rights.
We must provide women with the means and resources required to escape a reality which, year after year, kills hundreds of women from all countries of the Union.
Violence against women and children is a violation of basic fundamental rights and, furthermore, we must not forget that this violation is all the more serious when it affects certain groups, such as minorities and people living in poverty or the disabled.
The Spanish Government has implemented a law against gender violence, with a clear commitment to combat this social scourge.
It is a question of politeness, Mrs&#160;Kauppi, to be here not only for your speaking time, but also to listen to others. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to make a point of order about working to the agenda.
Of course I understand that I cannot use my speaking time now, but I really regret that the Sittings Secretariat informed Members so late that the debate would continue and not end at 11.30, as it was supposed to.
Your name came up on the screen, as did other Members’ names – such as that of Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg, for example.
I cannot help that.
That applies to everyone who was absent from the Chamber when I called their names.
I called five or six people who were not here today and so they could not speak.
However, we cannot do that today as we have to vote on the report.
In general, I sincerely appreciate the way in which Parliament and the Commission have worked on the Daphne programme in recent months.
I am very pleased that there is general agreement today in that respect and that it will be possible to focus more seriously and more emphatically, with about twice as much funding as was provided in the past, on the issue of preventing and reacting to all kinds of violence that affect children and women.
In particular, I believe that the Commission is not only ready, but also very happy to continue cooperating closely with Parliament on implementation measures, in the sense of keeping Parliament continually informed about how the Daphne programmes are being allocated and about the concrete results of the programmes and projects that are actually financed.
There is an important topic that I heard mentioned by a few Members during the latter part of the debate, which is the role of the Member States and the role of Europe.
There is a need for Europe to speak out loudly against any form of violence that increasingly affects women and children.
We must be careful not to exclude other kinds of violence, but in what sense?
In the sense that, if the draft text makes reference just to certain kinds of actions for which Daphne may grant funding, we risk excluding other forms of violence for which Daphne should also provide funding.
I would prefer a more general wording, which covers prevention and reaction to all kinds of violence, without specifying some and therefore without the risk of excluding others.
One particular amendment concerns the European Federation for Missing and Sexually Exploited Children.
A proposed compromise amendment, Amendment&#160;72, confirms the possibility of funding this federation, but it adds another organisation called ENOC.
I am grateful to everyone who has taken part in this debate, and I am ready to continue to cooperate with you on these issues. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Commissioner Mandelson decided to speak for 28 minutes instead of the 12 or 15 minutes maximum.
We must clarify such things in the relationship between Parliament and the Commission.
You can rely on our cooperation. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; – The Daphne Programme has delivered considerable progress in the fight against violence against women, young people and children.
A vital instrument for raising awareness and for introducing good practice, Daphne has made it possible to enlist the help of NGOs while raising public awareness of forms of violence long considered taboo.
Quite apart from these results, which must be consolidated and boosted by increased funding, this is concrete proof of the added value of action taken at European level, which reminds us that the original idea of Europe is that of a political group founded on fundamental values such as the protection of vulnerable people.
The Commission, Parliament and Council have failed to agree on the legal basis in various areas.
I should like to urge the three parties to desist, in future, from thrashing these choices out in court, but instead to arrive at a solution together.
The main thing is that clear policy is adopted on the choice of legal basis.
I should therefore like to call on the Commission and Council, together with this House, to arrive at a clear procedure for selecting legal bases.
That is something that can only benefit the quality of legislation. &#160;&#160; Madam President of the Republic of Finland, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, the European Parliament, which always advocates that there should be more women in politics, is delighted to be able to welcome you to this House today.
Your re-election at the beginning of this year, Madam President, was a significant way to mark the centenary of women’s suffrage in Finland, the first country in the world to grant women the right to vote.
On behalf of all of the Members of this House, I would like to pay tribute to your personal commitment in many international fora, to which you have contributed with your experience and influence in the service of causes that are of the greatest possible importance to us Members of the European Parliament.
You have also done a lot of work on sustainable development and on respect for human rights and the rights of minorities, something which is also highly topical in certain countries of the Union today, unfortunately.
History has brought us responsibilities in the Middle East, a region that has suffered another war and a region in which our Union is going to try to restore peace.
History has presented another Finnish Presidency with the opportunity to give new impetus to a policy that is no longer an emergency response to an exceptional situation, but rather an everyday and permanent response to a structural problem that will become increasingly serious.
Furthermore, you in Finland are in the vanguard of research and innovation: you have been able to transform your production structure in order to move on from old industries to new pioneering activities in the field of communication and knowledge.
This is a live and controversial issue within European debate, and I have no doubt that Parliament will have much to say about it.
It is facing too many issues in need of solutions for us to allow ourselves to take a nap while we wait for others to decide for us.
The directly elected Members represent an important part of the democratic process both in the European Union and in its Member States.
The Finnish Presidency wants to work very closely with the European Parliament.
This week several of the ministers in our Government will be here, ready and willing to engage in debate with you, and I believe that the discussions will be very useful.
The importance of European cooperation and integration to promote peace, stability and prosperity in our continent is obvious, and the results are striking.
The European Union’s international role has strengthened significantly in recent years.
The EU is a visible and important actor in matters ranging from development to crisis management.
More and more, global threats to security are not of a military nature.
That is why we try to promote multilateralism and reach international agreements to combat the threats and dangers that are common to all of us.
International crime is a great concern to us all.
Close cooperation between Member States to combat the threat of terrorism is vitally important, as is effective cooperation with third countries.
The European Union’s security strategy is based on this premise, which has been adopted by the United Nations.
In October a joint sitting will be held for both Ministers for Trade and Ministers for Development with the aim of achieving a strong commitment on the part of the EU to the World Trade Organisation’s ‘aid for trade’ recommendations and their speedy application in practice.
Questions of human rights are a delicate issue.
The European Union’s human rights policy must nevertheless be founded on exactly the same rules in different parts of the world.
In Europe, an important partner for us is the Council of Europe, whose expertise we should be able to exploit more effectively.
A report by Luxembourg’s Prime Minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, contains excellent proposals for closer cooperation between the two organisations, but we have to work to implement the contents of this report.
Both acting to prevent conflict and crisis management itself have become more important than ever for the Union.
When I was Foreign Affairs Minister for Finland, my Swedish colleague, Lena Hjelm&#160;Wallén, and I launched an initiative to develop the EU’s crisis management capability, though we certainly did not dare to hope for such a speedy development.
The initiative was adopted with the Treaty of Amsterdam and today the cornerstone of the Union’s fast evolving crisis management policy is military and civil development and their successful coordination.
For example, sending an EU crisis management contingent to the Democratic Republic of Congo to support the UN has already proven necessary, as when the results of the first round of the elections were made known violent clashes erupted.
The EU is already now working to reform the country’s security sector.
The European Union is also working hard to resolve the difficult situation in Darfur.
There are thus ever-growing expectations with regard to international action on the part of the European Union.
A unified Union is a strong player, as the situation in Lebanon has demonstrated.
The EU has been active in endeavouring to find a political solution, first in establishing UN Security Council Resolution 1701 and now in its comprehensive implementation.
The Union’s determined action has strengthened confidence in the EU as a peace-broker in the region.
The Member States of the European Union have taken a major role in the UN’s extended UNIFIL operation, which lends support to the frail ceasefire and attempts at establishing lasting peace in the region as a whole.
The Member States were able to take some decisions that were very tough in the international context.
This way the parties involved will have much greater confidence in the operation’s success.
To improve the country’s difficult humanitarian situation, the total amount in aid granted by the European Commission and the Member States is now more than EUR 300&#160;million.
The conference in Stockholm late last week on the humanitarian situation in Lebanon, and in the Palestinian territories too, was a real success.
The amount of aid given and the number of new aid commitments have been substantial.
In addition to granting direct humanitarian aid, the Union must play a major role in the reconstruction work and in repairing the damage done to the environment.
We will also be raising this issue during the forthcoming UN General Assembly session.
Representatives of the EU have demonstrated initiative in the negotiations on Iran’s nuclear programme.
Iran must comply with the UN Security Council’s resolution and now actually seize the opportunity for genuine dialogue.
The United States of America will be a key partner for the EU in this, not forgetting the other permanent members of the Security Council.
The fate of Russia and that of the rest of Europe have been interwoven for centuries.
It is good that the EU should be aiming for a common view on energy, even if choice of energy sources is the business of the individual nation.
This energy dialogue between the EU and Russia must be built on trust.
After all, we know that current energy resources are not limitless.
The EU must also aspire to broadly based cooperation with Russia in the area of the environment.
I also believe that when the Northern Dimension is reorganised as a joint policy between the EU, Russia, Norway and Iceland it will make for closer relations between us and these partner countries.
Union enlargement has enhanced stability and security in Europe and has benefited all the Member States economically, the old ones as well as the new.
I think that the European Union must be open in the future to all European countries that meet the conditions of membership.
Developments in the countries of Central Europe, in Turkey, in Croatia and in the Western Balkans are a clear indication of the power of the EU membership perspective as an incentive for reform, although, of course, the fundamental aim of the changes must be each country’s desire to improve the ordinary lives and security of its own people.
You know very well that in June the European Council held a debate on the Union’s absorption capacity.
The result in the end was that no new membership criteria should be set, but the existing criteria should be strictly adhered to.
It is in the interests of both the European Union and the countries that aspire to membership that accession to the Union should only occur when the applicant country can assume responsibility for the obligations that come with membership and fulfil the conditions of membership.
On the contrary, cultural diversity is a source of Europe’s richness and strength.
Varying political views are a natural part of Europe.
You and your political groups are a unique example of political party cooperation that extends across national borders.
This has been a long speech, and I know that we all have a busy autumn ahead, both you in Parliament and us in the country to hold the presidency and the other Member States too.
This week Finland is hosting the ASEM Summit between the EU and Asian countries.
ASEM has already in practice developed into a form of cooperation between two regional groups and working with an integrated Union has also encouraged countries in Asia to engage in the closer two-way coordination of preparation for issues to be discussed.
I believe that it has become clear to all of us that ‘Global Challenges – Joint Responses’ is a principle and objective that we all share, and it is also ASEM’s motto.
To conclude, I would like say that there were two good reasons for my journey here to Strasbourg.
I will confess to you the other reason: I also intend to pay a visit to the Council of Europe.
I must tell you that I have rarely seen the Chamber as full as today, and that too is a sign of the European Parliament’s interest in the work facing the Finnish Presidency.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. &#160;&#160; We will now continue with voting time. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, what is at issue here is the funding of the programme.
However, when I look at the end result, I would propose that we vote for it, because the key issues for me have been voted through.
The main items for me are important.
This is because, in our judgment, the proposed aid should not be funded as part of the agricultural budget since it does not have the character of an agricultural subsidy but, rather, constitutes regional aid. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many positive aspects in the Stubb report on multilingualism in our institutions.
Although this report considers ‘multilingualism’ a ‘key feature’ of the EU, its overarching perspective is one of budgetary restriction, argued on administrative grounds, which may undermine this right enshrined in the Treaties.
Of course, it remains open to groups of MEPs to find other ways of working, this already happens and I would expect that process to continue and expand.
It is also right to state that citizens are entitled to communicate with the European institutions in all the official languages of the Union.
The fact that all of this costs money is a normal price to pay for European democracy to function properly.
Moreover, the fact that the average interpreting cost in the EP is higher than that in the Council or the Commission is also attributable to our forced monthly move to Strasbourg, where local resources are limited, so that Parliament’s interpreting costs in Strasbourg rise by 13%.
The cost of being able to do this increases because of Strasbourg.
The European Parliament is the only parliament in the world which has no say over where it sits.
This has to change once and for all. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by Mr de Grandes Pascual on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a seven-year multiannual funding for the action of the European Maritime Safety Agency, providing it with substantial financial resources for carrying out its new duties, which involve: combating accidental or deliberate pollution caused by ships.
Finally, I unreservedly support the appropriations proposed for the establishment of a satellite imaging service which must support the Member States in their fight against illegal dumping and accidental oil spills. &#160;&#160; The June List supports EU cooperation when it comes to cross-border environmental issues.
The important activities that the rapporteur proposes be allocated to the Agency can better be taken care of outside the framework of the Agency.
These activities are defined as being additional to, and in support of, the work done by coastal countries in the fight against, and prevention of, marine pollution.
Of similar importance is the creation of a new imagery centre, proposed by Parliament, to help identify illegal spills and discharges, which will improve the speed and effectiveness of the response.
I have been in constant communication with the European Commission regarding these controversial transfers and it is aware of the strength of local feeling in Fife, as well as the very grave risks to the local environment.
I urge the rapporteur and the Commission to press for an early conclusion to be reached by the sub-committee assessing the risks attached to pollution from hydrocarbons. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wanted to explain that our objection to Amendment&#160;68 on street children was not to this category per se, but to the categorisation of victims, which is something that the Commissioner emphasised.
What I have just said concerns the amendments to the Gröner report. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by my colleague, Mrs&#160;Gröner, on the draft legislative resolution, at first reading, of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing for the period 2007-2013 the specific programme ‘Fight against violence (Daphne) and drugs prevention and information’.
The European Union must, in a politically visible manner, improve the way it fights all forms of violence, particularly against women, children and adolescents.
In the humanist civilisation that we are building, physical, sexual or psychological violence, including the threat of such acts, and the arbitrary deprivation or restriction of freedom, in public or private life, are a violation of the fundamental values of the Union, which include the right to life, to security, to freedom, to dignity and to physical and emotional integrity.
It represents an obstacle to the safe, free and fair exercise of citizenship.
Preventing and combating violence against children, young people and women, and protecting victims and groups at risk (Daphne III) require a separate programme.
It is necessary to inform, and raise awareness among, the citizens regarding the problem of violence, for example by promoting the European Year against violence against women in 2007.
The rapporteur had proposed that this figure be increased to EUR&#160;120&#160;million, although she also voted in favour of our proposal, which led to its adoption.
Accordingly, the Daphne III programme has a better chance of helping to prevent and combat violence perpetrated against children, young people and women, and to protect victims.
These actions also have very serious consequences for the psychological and social development of whole families and communities.
Unfortunately, violence is still an everyday occurrence in all the Member States of the European Union.
So far, the joint action taken to prevent and to speak out about this problem, which has often been marginalised or viewed as shameful, has merely been the first timid step in the fight against violence.
In order for the Daphne programme to be successful, it must be visible to the citizens.
In addition to actions such as providing support and assistance to non-governmental organisations, institutions, organisations and associations, we also need to conduct effective campaigns to sensitise public opinion to the problem of violence and in particular to the problem of human trafficking involving women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation.
With this in mind, the initiative for a European Year of Combating Violence Against Women deserves our strong support. &#160;&#160; Naturally, the June List wants to play its part in the fight against violence against women, but this report would mean that the EU would have a legal basis from which to interfere in the Member States’ most sensitive areas, namely legislation and preventative measures against violence.
The current Member States do not share a common point of view in these areas, while their legal cultures also differ.
Parliament’s proposals contain too many unclear terms whilst at the same time explaining to the Member States how they are to conduct the fight against violence and the oppression of women.
National programmes in this regard should be the primary means of countering this important social problem as national governments and parliaments and local agencies are best placed to have knowledge and understanding of the issues at stake.
I fear that combining this problem – which in itself calls for joint and differentiated treatment – with other areas may endanger concerted and effective action on the part of Europe.
At the same time – partly as a result of past expansion and partly in view of the expansion still to come – one of Europe’s least often addressed social crises is the social protection and integration of the Roma.
These groups as a whole already suffer from considerable oppression, but it is the Roma women and children who are particularly in danger, for they are daily exposed to the threat of violence.
To illustrate the humanitarian catastrophe linked to illegal migration, it should suffice to say that over a good decade and a half more than 5&#160;000 people lost their lives in the Mediterranean migratory wave, within which, of course, the weakest groups are once again at greatest risk.
I should add that among society’s most marginalised members, the gravest danger is the horror of forced prostitution and sexual coercion, which are often linked to various forms of organised crime such as human trafficking and drug trade.
Member States also need to recognise that genital mutilation constitutes a particular form of violence against women with short-term and long-term detrimental effects on their health, and that the main victims are members of minority communities.
In order to achieve the objectives of this report, I agree that clear and credible targets are required, such as halving the number of people who fall victim to violence and human trafficking over the next ten years.
In this context, I have tabled a written statement (39/2006) to illustrate a new system, based on a differentiated Childkey SIM card, designed to protect children who use the Internet and mobile telephones, because it allows providers to determine whether the user is a minor or an adult and to filter calls, blocking any that are anonymous or undesirable. &#160;&#160; – Daphne is a nice name for the European programme aimed at combating violence against women and children.
It is a programme that will soon be ten years old and that has enjoyed some success, with more than 350 projects funded, mainly through NGOs involved in this field.
There are a number of weapons at our disposal in the fight against these barbarous acts: draconian legislative measures, zero tolerance, listening to the victims and awareness-raising campaigns.
The appearance of the PNVD alone, a Dutch political party in favour of child pornography and sexual relations between adults and children, is testimony to the failures of our system and speaks volumes about the reforms that need to be carried out.
In ten years, the Daphne budget has increased fivefold and now totals EUR&#160;25&#160;million per year.
In my own country, we have in recent years, had to deal with many instances of unacceptable physical, sexual and psychological violence perpetrated against children, young people and women.
Authors such as Chris De Stoop have shown us the coarse reality of human trafficking and forced prostitution.
The Daphne programme provides an important tool in fighting against violence.
In Scotland the ‘zero tolerance’ campaign highlighted that as many as one in three women had been affected by domestic violence.
This is why I immediately corrected my final vote in the roll-call on the legislative resolution, using the procedure intended for this purpose.
All of us within the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality have every reason to be proud of our work and to congratulate ourselves on our close cooperation on such an essential issue. &#160;&#160; The aim of the proposed directive on passenger car taxes presented by the European Commission is to address the significant disparities in car taxation in the EU Member States and the environmental pollution caused by emissions from personal motor vehicles.
The European Commission proposes to lift registration fees for passenger cars and replace them with taxes, which would include a CO2 tax element in the tax base.
For this reason, and also because the proposal would introduce a new tax in Slovakia, thereby increasing the tax burden on Slovak citizens, I have abstained from voting on the proposal. &#160;&#160; In matters relating to decisions on taxes, the Member States of the EU have the right of veto.
We would see it as a positive thing if the Member States of the EU were able to agree on cooperation in relation to taxation on vehicles that minimises the impact that transport has on the climate and leads to a more efficient internal market.
Carbon dioxide emissions by cars are more likely to be less voluminous in new cars.
Car makers are now conscious of the need to reduce emissions and use the latest technologies.
Income from car registration in Malta and Gozo is comparatively very high whilst the road infrastructure is the worst in the EU.
The problem of carbon dioxide emissions is especially acute in commercial and public transport vehicles. &#160;&#160; I have voted in favour of the report in order to send out an important signal concerning the reorganisation of taxes for the benefit of the environment.
It is not the right of Ireland or any other Member State or indeed the Commission to decide upon the tax policy of Member States.
If it abolished VRT Irish motorists would have to bear the costs of its abolition by paying a 20 cent increase in&#160;the price of petrol or diesel, or an increase from EUR 400 to EUR 900 in their annual motor tax.
Our decision to abstain on the final vote does not imply that we are opposed to the requirement for urgent measures to improve the environment.
Firstly, because of the federal question; this harmonisation undermines the tax sovereignty of the Member States and their political power in the area of transport.
Lastly, this strategy affects the value of used cars and the increased competition may have economic and social repercussions.
However, this tax only concerns private cars, which represent less than half of the CO2 emissions which are attributable to transport vehicles.
To crown everything, this directive will impose new taxes in countries like France, where taxation is already so crushing that car users feel like they are being milked like dairy cows, and also that they are being made into scapegoats.
It is essential to make citizens responsible and to develop tools to evaluate our effect on the environment.
The Greens have voted for this project as the first step towards a CO2 tax.
Whilst the EPLP believes that this is an extremely important opinion that raises many relevant points in trying to develop a Europe-wide solution linking to pollution to consumption, the EPLP believes that taxation is a matter of national competence and therefore cannot support aims at harmonising taxation at an EU level to reach these aims without full unanimity.
The so-called reduction in initial prices will be cancelled out by a differentiated pricing policy on the part of the automobile industry and fluctuations in VAT.
The new underhand tax measure to the detriment of the workers will at the same time impose the principle of pollution tax, given that the criterion for annual passenger car taxes will be their emissions.
It is not one of the functions of this House to facilitate group consultations between a vote and a final vote, particularly not when they involve Members who are obviously incapable of making their own minds up.
While I am not familiar with the relevant Rule, I am sure you will be able to find out which one it is, but I have to say that I also think it unprecedented that you should then decline to permit a point of order to be made about this.
I would also like to say that your conduct of the vote has been highly partisan and unworthy of a President of this House, and that, too, should be noted in the Minutes.
I believe that your actions show that this House resembles more than anything a karaoke parliament, in which the pretence is maintained of adherence to democratic rules, whilst not every Member, contrary to what is written, is equal before the law or treated equally in this House.
This is the first budgetary procedure under the new financial framework.
I am convinced that both institutions share the same objective – to agree on the 2007 budget by the end of the year.
Before I present the draft budget adopted by the Council in more detail, I would like to recall the main principles that guided the Council’s decision-making.
The Council thereby reconfirmed its belief that it is very important for general budgetary discipline to be observed at EU level in the way it is at national level.
In its efforts to exercise impeccable and disciplined financial management, the Council has made a detailed analysis of the needs in all policy areas.
Having taken stock of previous budgets, and having thoroughly examined selected activity-related reports, absorption capacity and the real requirements for 2007, the Council finally decided on a controlled increase in payment appropriations in the draft budget.
The Council’s first reading is thus in no way based on cuts made across the board.
In fact, we examined a number of activity-related reports by the Commission, which covered all areas of policy in the budget.
The commitment appropriations under subheading 1a have barely been cut, as the Council believes that competitiveness and responding to global challenges is very important.
The Council also proposed two new pilot projects under this subheading, one of which concerns the learning triangle, and the other of which concerns the reliability of the supply of energy to the Union.
The Council will also approve the statement on pilot projects and preparatory action.
Under the new interinstitutional agreement, both budgetary authorities must state their intentions regarding the pilot projects or preparatory action.
The Council’s draft states that there are four special areas for priority action in the European Union in which the Council believes pilot projects or preparatory action should be implemented.
The Council cut payment appropriations by EUR 425&#160;million in those budget lines that relate to the completion of the programmes that were begun prior to the year 2000 and the programmes for the period 2000–2006, taking account of the current rate of implementation for them.
With respect to the new programming period, the Council did not make any reductions and, furthermore, issued a statement saying that it thought it was important that the Commission should quickly approve the action programmes and projects proposed by the Member States.
The Council, however, stated that agricultural expenditure and expenditure relating to international fishing agreements should be re-examined in the autumn on the basis of the Commission’s revised communication.
The Council raised payment appropriations under heading 4 for cross-border cooperation and reconstruction in Iraq because of their political importance.
It approved the amount proposed in the preliminary draft budget for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, which also meets the stipulations in the interinstitutional agreement.
With regard to heading&#160;5, administrative expenditure, the Council adopted an overall view.
The Council believes that it is very important to recruit new staff, in consideration of enlargement in 2004 and future enlargement too.
In connection with heading&#160;5, I would also like to remind everyone of another statement by the Council, which concerns the recruitment process connected with the 2004 round of enlargement.
The Council is especially concerned about the way recruitment has slowed down this year.
I hope that Parliament will support our intentions here and thus also our statement.
My assumption is that these latest demands made in respect of administration must also be capable of being applied to the Union’s institutions.
The EU institutions are no different from other organisations.
Nor should we ignore the fact that the European Parliament and the Council need to think about the future and examine the Union’s global challenges in the budgetary procedure in 2007.
Finally, I want to say that I am confident that our main objectives will be realised, that we will finalise the budget for the financial year 2007 in good time and that it will be adequate though not excessive.
We know that this is only the first phase of the budgetary procedure, and that there is still a long way to go before the 2007 budget is finally adopted.
I am confident, however, that we will be able to look at the matter from all angles so as to reach a final agreement, one that is acceptable to all parties and, above all, to the public.
Thank you for that invitation, Madam President-in-Office, which enabled us to establish contact as a small group, which then became a bigger one for the first reading of the draft budget in Brussels in July.
As the budget rapporteur for the House, I should like to make four comments on this particular occasion: one general comment and three specific comments.
The first, general, comment is that since this is the first year in the financial perspective we need to think of it in terms of being a strategic base, because in this particular year we will be setting in motion a number of ideas or ways of doing things that will reverberate over the next few years up to 2013.
As stated in particular in Parliament’s resolution on the Annual Policy Strategy adopted earlier this year, we need in Europe as a whole to be able to adapt more quickly to the phenomenon of globalisation, which is changing the global economy and changing the orientation of our priorities to one of ‘policy for results’ – as the President of the Commission has explained.
The first of these elements is the document produced by the Commission, the budget forecast alert, which shows how expenditure is being implemented across particular budget lines for a particular year.
The second specific issue is the question of priorities.
We are all aware that we have less money available under the financial perspective than we had sought in the final negotiations earlier this year, and that it therefore behoves us to look at the priorities across the different sectors.
When it comes to the vote at first reading I suspect that Parliament will be following the priorities set out by Mr Böge, its rapporteur on the financial perspective.
That is what we are expecting for areas of research and innovation, into which we understand that the Council, in the form of the Member States, would like to invest more money, but of course there is never quite that much when it comes to the final budget.
We rejected those when we discussed them at first reading in the Council, and it will take a great deal more discussion before we can come to any agreement on what to do as regards staff resources for the Commission.
In the Committee on Budgets, as stated with regard to the annual policy strategy, we are looking to bring those two processes together and to have the budget decision and the legislative decision in December, followed by a clear statement from the Commission as to what the legislative programme for the Union is, so that everyone would know what it was – not just us in this House but people all over Europe.
In order to round off what our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Elles, has said, I would like to mention a few of the problems which we will face in 2007.
This problem of comparability became acute when the geography of the European Union changed in 2004/2005.
However, it still exists and I agree with the view that if spending on Bulgaria and Romania is not separated, a full comparison between the annual budgets will not be possible.
The second issue, which is the most serious, was highlighted by Mr&#160;Elles, and is as follows: to what extent should the first year of the new financial perspective encourage us to not reflect so much on the form of the budget but on the budget priorities, namely how much continuity and how much change there should be in this first year of the new financial perspective?
This is a very strong mandate and a very strong principle which will inform the first reading of the 2007 budget in the European Parliament.
That was likely to have been the main reason for the point of departure being so low this time around.
Spending was already below 1% of GDP in the initial draft by the Commission.
The Council made further cuts of the order of 1 billion 757 million euro, which creates an extraordinary gap between the 2007 budget and the limits defined in the financial perspective for that year.
In our opinion, this is not enough to fund the aims of the European Union.
The implementation of next year’s budget is also a matter of quality and motivation in terms of administrative procedures, and in this respect we are very rigorously examining and analysing the Council’s approach to the issue of employment and salaries in the European Commission.
We accept the European Commission’s warning that the cuts in salaries which amount to over EUR 50&#160;million will make recruitment, particularly from the new Member States, virtually impossible.
The Council has not denied this strongly enough, and therefore the problem will be raised in the first reading in Parliament, as it is not only a question of proportionality in terms of employment, but also a problem of efficiency and motivation for the administration which is facing new challenges.
A sign of these differences was, for example, the fact that no common statements were made by Parliament and Council.
Of course, we also have time to agree the 2007 budget.
For me, and this is my final point, it was very important to receive Minister Wideroos’ assurance which, while only verbal, is based on what was jointly included in the interinstitutional agreement, that is, that she will undertake to do all that lies within her power to ensure that the new financial regime will come into force on 1&#160;January 2007.
Today I should like to concentrate on presenting to Parliament the Commission’s evaluation of the Council’s first reading.
I should like to confirm that we very much appreciate Parliament’s attitude and the way it has worked on the 2007 budget, especially the method which is to be used by the rapporteur in respect of cost-benefit analyses and impact assessments of all proposals from the Council and the Commission.
From this point of view, there are two elements and two separate problems.
Mr Lewandowski has mentioned that in the 2007 budget the new Member States have been given 800 posts, but the EUR 56 million for salaries has been reduced.
The Council would like to speed up recruitment at the Commission, yet recruitment at the Commission will not be speeded up at all; the Commission will not recruit at all in 2007 if this proposal is maintained.
That means somebody here is not telling the truth.
The second element of the budget which completely surprised the Commission was that the Council intervened in the annual budget procedure by coming forward with a multiannual approach, practically politically reopening the interinstitutional agreement which all three institutions signed in May.
It is a seven-year approach to administrative costs and expenditure – a period of time which will cause the Commission to lose a minimum of three directorates-general, and will upset the geographical balance which, in line with the wishes of the Council and Parliament, the institution is supposed to keep in mind.
In addition, the structures and human resources necessary for achieving the new policies that the Council and Parliament have called for, including the new financial perspective, will not be forthcoming.
We were therefore surprised by the Council’s attitude, which is not based on impact assessments or cost-benefit analyses: it is based solely on arithmetic.
You will receive two notes on the 2007 budget and on the proposal for 2007-2013.
I should like to call on all those involved to be prudent, to make significant progress in respect of impact assessments, and to achieve whatever is necessary for all Community programmes to be fulfilled. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr Proinsias De Rossa and Mr José Albino Silva Peneda, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on a European Social Model for the future [2005/2248(INI)] (A6-0238/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, this own-initiative report, prepared jointly by myself and Mr Silva Peneda, with the essential support of our respective staffs, is a very important contribution to the ongoing debate about the future of Europe and the role that Europe’s social model can play in re-energising the unification of our continent.
There are no doubts these days that the creation of the European Union has been a very effective and successful peace process.
This success was not based on a dog-eat-dog approach, but on a social contract which ensured that working people would share in the wealth created, and their dependence on society generally would also benefit through the provision of universal public services.
We are now into a new period – an unprecedented revolution in technology, in the age structure of our population, and in the globalisation of capital, where there is a growing need to create a transnational democracy that is capable of effective governance of those new phenomena.
This report is a restatement that Europe’s core values of equality, solidarity, redistribution and anti-discrimination, care for the young, the old and the sick through universal public provision must be defended in the necessary reforms already under way; that our social model is not an obstacle to competitiveness and growth but is, in fact, a necessary ingredient if we are to deliver the kind of decent European society that our citizens clearly desire; and that the concept of ‘flexicurity’, pioneered by my colleague Mr Rasmussen in Denmark, can help facilitate reforms by preventing people from tumbling into poverty as a result and can, if properly tailored to each Member State’s needs, be an important tool in the process. &#160;&#160; . – I should like to begin by saying that the EU that we know today was founded on an ideal, the main objective of which was winning and maintaining peace.
In half a century, Europe has, on the world stage, become a byword for peace, democracy, freedom, solidarity, prosperity and development.
We are talking about peace that is rooted in freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law.
Let us compare the European social model with other situations: an example close to home was the great swindle of the totalitarian Communist experiments, which for decades deprived many Europeans of their right to freedom, for most now happily regained.
The brutal reality of Islamic fundamentalism today is a further example of a movement far removed from the core values on which the European social model is based.
This report deals essentially with values.
Globalisation, technological development and demographic change are the main factors behind the difficulties faced, to a greater or lesser extent, by the social protection systems in the different European countries.
This is why we have placed major emphasis in the report on the Member States implementing the Lisbon Strategy and on the need to complete the internal market.
The general guidelines of the reforms that must be implemented and that have been highlighted in our report are indicative of reformist thinking firmly rooted in the core values of the European social model.
It is therefore important to us that Parliament affirm that the reforms that need to be carried out to the different social protection systems must not under any circumstances affect the core values on which the European social model is based.
Parliament’s decision on the content of this report will thus be of relevance beyond the Union because it will be a political affirmation of the defence of values that are important not only to Europe but also to the world.
The Heads of State of the European Union have repeatedly confirmed their commitment to European values and the development of European social models.
We have to show our support for European competitiveness and higher levels of employment and, furthermore, combat poverty and exclusion.
We have to make sure that the systems for social protection are sustainable in the long term and at an adequate level.
It is vital to the future of a social Europe that the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment is assiduously put into effect.
One of the objectives of the Finnish Presidency is to reinforce the basis for economic growth in Europe.
Although the conclusions relating to the potential for economic growth and the sustainability of public finances may well be less positive, a long-term, proactive policy of reform is essential.
The job market debate is a fundamental part of the European social model.
The Finnish Prime Minister, Matti Vanhanen, and the Commission President, Mr&#160;Barroso, will host an extraordinary tripartite Social Summit in Lahti on 20&#160;October.
The Commission has just presented a communication on the subject of ‘decent’ work.
The report makes a useful and thought-provoking contribution to the debate launched at the Hampton Court European Council in October 2005.
Most importantly, though, it once again emphasises the significance of social Europe and the need to protect and develop the European social model.
The technical implementation of those values may vary, of course.
When we speak of values, we speak of something worthwhile; in other words, if we are convinced that there are values at the heart of the European model we are saying that we are willing to channel our efforts into protecting and developing those values.
It exists where we have a set of values that have been adopted by the individual Member States.
Europe cannot be competitive without being socially strong.
It cannot be competitive without a social policy.
I should like to thank Parliament for its proposals, which I wish to sum up in one word: modernisation, or perhaps a better word would be improvement.
We need to modernise in order to be able to preserve high-quality education and health systems, and to deliver decent employment and decent pensions for all.
The Commission and the Member States have launched the process of modernisation and the reforms as part of the re-launched Lisbon Strategy.
I wish to thank the rapporteurs, in this regard, for highlighting the importance of striking a balance between the economic dimension, on the one hand, and employment and social protection on the other.
This legislation will support economic change and the implementation of measures to protect our values and quality of life, conferring the authority to monitor compliance with Community rights and providing a budget which is vital for supporting the Union’s economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Most of the proposals in the report bear a striking similarity to the Commission’s current activities.
These include activities relating to demographic change, which will be addressed in the proposals contained in the Green Paper on demography that I should like to introduce in October.
Additionally, we have activities relating to services of general interest, which the Commission will address in a communication to be completed by the end of this year on the basis of Parliament's report.
There is also similarity in the activities arising from the Commission communication of June 2006 entitled ‘A citizens’ agenda delivering results for Europe’, in which the Commission undertook to carry out, in 2007, a thorough assessment of the reality of the European Community and to launch a programme geared towards an approach to rights and solidarity, which will also examine the possibility of establishing a list of rights for Europe's citizens.
Lastly, I should like once again to thank the rapporteurs for their report, which looks to the future and which makes some useful proposals.
The Commission will respond to it in the coming months in the context of the main initiatives to which I have alluded.
The European social model is founded on the idea that it is possible to link up political democracy, economic efficiency, economic effectiveness and solidarity. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, previously the entire sector of social expenditure was viewed as an incidental matter, as a matter of redistribution.
The Finnish crises of the early 1990s were overcome by investing in people, in a similar fashion to the Danes during the time of Bishop&#160;Grundtvig.
Lifestyles should diversify, because where we gamble on cheap labour, such as in the Asian economies, there is dwindling choice and the range of opportunities for economic growth also diminishes. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am grateful to Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa and Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda for their work and the report on the European social model.
I am pleased that the input of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality has been taken seriously and is also reflected in the report.
Despite this, women are often still absent from the labour market, and, for that matter, feature far too infrequently in the social model.
Women are often the first victims of a badly-functioning social system.
I am against a model thought out in Brussels that must, by hook or by crook, be implemented across Europe.
That is also reflected in the report we are discussing today, and that is why I am in favour of the report by Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa and Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, when you look around in society and talk to people, you can tell they are worried about the consequences of globalisation and about globalisation itself, and that there are concerns, due to persistent unemployment in some Member States, about being affected.
They can see the adverse effects the demographic development has, and that makes people, also in the discussion about the European social model, very reticent.
The central question is whether the social security systems, which are very different but are all based on certain values, can deliver what was promised when they were first set up.
I am very glad that two fellow Members, Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa and Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda, have, despite their different political backgrounds, managed to draft an excellent report which can serve as a basis for future discussion.
I am extremely grateful to them for this.
At the heart of the European social model is the need for economic development, for without that we cannot give, or guarantee, social security.
There are different models and our model is different from the others in that it is based on a social market economy and, in fact, also on Christian social teaching.
I am grateful for the many sound recommendations in this report. &#160;&#160; , . – Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the two rapporteurs, who have worked very well together.
My response is that, while it is true that our social systems are different, they also have a great deal in common and it is that commonality which constitutes the European social model.
We therefore have to create sustainable pension systems.
We must, however, also ensure that we create a working environment that makes it possible for people to remain in the job market for longer.
As far as globalisation is concerned, there are two ways to go.
The first of these is to copy the economies of our competitors, China and India, namely in terms of wages, labour market conditions and the like.
Then we can develop our social systems in such a way that they become a productive factor in the work of bringing about change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in recent months on the growing political integration of Europe, with its ups and downs, we have often said that Europe needs to give people a better idea of its project, its purpose and, I would say, its indispensability: the Europe of results, conceived by us specifically to give people a real key to understanding its .
This must be accompanied by research into what Europe must become, so that we can tell Europe’s people clearly whether the future of Europe – and not just its past history and that of the 20th century, which we all know and have lived through – will still have this priority, this distinguishing mark that has characterised the diverse models and systems in the various Member States.
Clearly – I must say this to those who fear that Brussels will decide everything: what, how, and with a single model – clearly, evidently and indisputably, the competence and responsibility for social policies lie with the Member States, and decisions on how much and what kind of revenue to spend on our social systems, depending on whether the emphasis is more on social security or education or reparation, must be made at a national level.
We have to start here, with a common approach to lay down certain guidelines, precisely because our national social systems are faced with the worst challenge of all: economic and financial compatibility.
The citizens also want to know this, when they make their political choice, when they also make, or refuse to make, the economic choices that we shall ask them to make for the sake of higher employment or some other reason: they will ask whether these social rights are in any case a distinguishing mark of all the welfare systems that the various countries will be implementing. &#160;&#160; .
If what is termed harmonisation in the economy is to be regarded as the most obvious thing in the world, then the EU ought also to say ‘yes’ to harmonisation measures in the social sphere, starting by bringing taxes into line and then moving on to debate minimum and basic incomes and the citizen's wage, and then saying 'yes' in particular to the harmonisation of the pension system.
The report emphasises deep structural reforms that in practice will lead to the collapse of public social security systems, thereby casting aside the main weapon at our disposal for protecting social inclusion, for combating poverty, unequal distribution of income, job insecurity and unemployment, and for promoting the dignity of those in work.
In this way, the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are seeking to continue the policy of pandering to Europe’s captains of industry and the interests of the large economic and financial groups, opening up new business areas and placing a significant proportion of pension system funding in the hands of private profit.
As my colleague, Mr&#160;Andersson, rightly pointed out, there is not just one single model, but a variety of different ones.
The one thing they all share is the necessity for solidarity between all peoples within the individual countries and across the European Union.
The idea of protection for those who are most vulnerable within our society is at the very core of what the European social model should be about.
When you look down through the list of issues and areas that need to be covered, of course there are always difficulties that will arise, whether it is with regard to long-term unemployment, youth unemployment, female unemployment, social welfare provision, protection with regard to access to housing, access to education and training, or more recently the demographic situation and the pensions crisis that is looming before us.
One area of ongoing concern is the need to ensure the link between economic performance and the generation of wealth, which must then be utilised for social protection.
You cannot have one without the other and when we speak about raising taxes, you can have the highest taxes in the world, but if you do not have companies employing people and paying taxes, then you cannot provide social protection afterwards. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, this report covers ten diverse fields, practically all EU areas, from peace and security to human rights and from Lisbon to Laeken.
The captain gathered us together imploring us to have more team spirit.
By the same token, it is no use the rapporteurs gathering us together to vote for a European social model.
Recital O of the report specifies that the Constitution should reflect the concept of the social model – covering the same ground.
This report emphasises the role of the Member States and their competences, especially their role in securing jobs leading to economic growth and prosperity.
One year ago I remarked in this House that one of the central features of the EU was that each Member State could bring to the table its best practice to share with all the others.
However, when I said this in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs during the working time directive debate and tried to contribute some best practice from a Member State – the UK – I was firmly told by that rapporteur: ‘We don’t want you dumping your ideas on us’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a year ago British Prime Minister Tony Blair addressed this House and asked a vital question: what sort of social model is it that delivers 20 million unemployed across the EU?
The European social model is well meaning, it is compassionate, it is meant to do good and yet it has created a regulatory and fiscal climate which is deterring enterprise, destroying wealth and undermining competitiveness.
If we want to achieve the Lisbon objectives, if we want to face up to the challenges of globalisation, if we want growth and jobs and competitiveness and prosperity, then we have to start to dismantle the European social model. &#160;&#160; The European social model faces significant challenges, related primarily to the changes in the economic environment and social transformation.
In order to succeed in doing so, it is clear that structural changes within the European social model are also necessary.
I am convinced that greater cooperation and joint European consensual positions are necessary on the major political questions.
Last autumn, during the British Presidency and in the run-up to the extraordinary summit at Hampton Court, members of my own government were saying two contradictory things about the idea of the European social model.
On the one hand they said there was no such thing as a European social model – we have 25 different national social models – while on the other they said that if there was such a thing as a European social model then it was a continental phenomenon and a millstone around the necks of a number of Member State economies.
Mr Helmer has reminded us of what Mr Blair said in this House.
In fact, a number of ministers have said the same thing, and are obviously reading from the same script - i.e.
If Mr Helmer was listening to the debate then he would have heard an answer to that assertion from Mr Blair, because this report nails those lies.
The very first substantive paragraph underlines the point that we indeed have a European social model which reflects a common set of values based on the preservation of peace, social justice, equality, solidarity, the promotion of freedom and democracy and respect for human rights.
The report makes the point that far from the model being a burden or a millstone, social policy should be seen as a positive factor in the European Union’s economic growth, not only by increasing productivity and competitiveness but also by generating social cohesion, raising living standards for citizens and ensuring access to fundamental rights and freedoms.
The report also recognises what a number of people have said, which is that there is a clear need to modernise and adapt the model to respond to the wide range of challenges we face: demographic and technological change, globalisation and so on.
The rapporteurs also stress that reform and modernisation of the model must preserve and enhance the values associated with it.
What a number of continental countries are trying to do is to engage in that reform process through consensus, while preserving the underlying values of the European social model.
One final point: I regret that the PPE-DE Group has tabled an amendment to paragraph 23 aimed at removing a specific reference to the need for the Commission to bring forward a framework on services of general interest.
I very much hope that amendment falls, because had we had that framework the Services Directive itself would have had a far easier passage.
We still need it and I hope the Commission will heed the call for it made in the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, intervention by the European Union is too often experienced by our fellow citizens as an intrusion into their daily lives.
In fact, our fellow citizens demand a Europe which responds to their urgent and practical concerns, but only when it is the institution which is best placed to do this.
In this sense, a social Europe is one priority among many.
As we already did with the Services Directive, all of us have to work together, and as urgently as possible, in order to define this framework, starting for example with the adoption of texts on working hours, on services of general interest and on the status of European mutuality. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is a pity that this report on a European Social Model for the future does not get us much further on.
As I see it, the main challenges, not least for the EU’s internal market, are the abolition of poverty, the removal of social divisions, and energetic action to protect the climate.
I represent a country where there are people who in the past participated in dealing with the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, and now these people need help.
The second group consists of people from Latvia as well as other Baltic countries and eastern European countries who, as a result of occupation by the USSR, were sent to concentration camps.
If we now speak of the European social model, and of solidarity, then I think this model ought to include additional social protection for these groups, protection that is supranational in nature and should not be left as a burden for just one country to bear – countries that are already in fact, the poorest states in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we must admit that we really have messed up on the question of the welfare state.
We therefore need to look facts in the face.
Forty years ago, when I was a child, we went to work in the fields in the summer and there were 50 people for two decares.
We need to realise that we made a mistake when, ten years ago with the world trade agreements, we failed to take this parameter into account, namely their cheap products which are today drowning the market and keeping our products off the shop shelves.
We need to tell European citizens the truth: that we will be unable to make the Chinese into Europeans and that, unfortunately, we shall have to make the Europeans into Chinese. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please allow me to speak about the European Social model from the point of view of a citizen of a new Member State.
The Postcommunist model is characterised by the absence of any model at all, where supermarket staff work until ten in the evening, even on the first of May, or work twenty-four hours a day for 200 euros per month.
This is why the creation of a new social model, common to the whole of Europe and its implementation at least on a basic level is above all in the interests of the citizens of the new Member States.
Unfortunately, it is in the new Member States that we see the biggest divergence between quality of work and payment for it.
Sadly, it is in the new Member States that there are the least jobs available and those that do exist are of a poor quality, the pay most often ranging between 200 and 500 euros per month, while the cost of living is almost on a par with the rest of Europe.
Unfortunately, it is in Poland, in the country of the trade union ‘Solidarność’, that we have the most poorly protected workers’ rights in the whole European Union.
The European Social Model should aim to increase confidence in European institutions, especially on the part of the poorest citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, two Members of this House, from different political groups, have joined together to draft a report on the future of the European Social Model, and the result has been worth their effort.
The European Social Model defines the unity of values, but also the diversity of the national systems.
The values by which we are guided include solidarity, social justice, access to education and health services, but the manner in which they are put into practice is left to the Member States, with their different models, whether Nordic or Anglo-Saxon, Continental or Mediterranean.
The systems must become more dynamic, and must no longer be as rigid as they have been.
What I find praiseworthy in the report is the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, which continue to provide most jobs and traineeships, along with 'flexicurity', the innovative approach combining flexible labour markets, modern labour organisation, security and social protection.
Both the national parliaments and the social partners need to be involved in it.
The second is in paragraph&#160;23, which includes an urgent demand – originating from Mr&#160;Stephen Hughes – for a framework directive on services of general interest, in flagrant contradiction to the current state of negotiations.
This is a very positive report, because the big political families in this Parliament and the enormous majority of Members have managed to carry on working together on a joint approach and commitment.
Mr President, I shall end by saying that I am certain that our reformed model has a future, but this certainty is accompanied by another: not even the economic Europe will have a future unless its social model is respected. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly, I should like say that I do not like the fact that the two largest parties prepare joint reports as a matter of principle.
I know others have mentioned this, but I would not like it to be thought, if this report is passed, that we want to work towards a one-size-fits-all European social model, instead of respecting the diversity that we have at the moment.
Common social objectives, yes; a common social model, no. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome this discussion.
The first is that a social Europe is at the heart of this project.
The second is that it is simply a matter of creating economic resources and that a rising tide will lift all boats.
The reality is that social Europe has been very much a ‘frill’ or an ‘add-on’ to the broader game plan of this Union.
And, is it any wonder that there is such a glaring gulf between the European citizen and the European Union, when the policies we pursue disenfranchise people.
I very much hope that this report will serve as a springboard for the much deeper discussion and analysis that we require. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, experience clearly shows that the European economic model is unsustainable, significantly so in fact.
The European social model is an exercise in high-minded populism and operates in debt across many countries.
The current populist social system is certainly a vote winner for politicians, but it will not bring future prosperity for our citizens.
It is merely a temporary bonus resulting from economic efficiency. &#160;&#160; It is widely accepted here that there is no single social model in Europe, but rather that we have 25 models.
Similarly, there is an understanding that social policy falls under the jurisdiction of the Member States.
I attach importance to the fact that this report highlights some common fundamental values and objectives of European social models, such as equality, non–discrimination, solidarity and general access to education, health care and other public services.
For our citizens these are the essential ingredients of a successful economy and also of an equitable society.
Social policy is not an economic burden but a positive aspect of the economic growth of the European Union since it generates social cohesion, raises living standards and guarantees fundamental rights and equality.
Social policy is an important factor in social peace, political stability and economic progress.
It is precisely this issue which is addressed in this report as it calls for the reform of economic and social systems so that they can address the challenges of demographic changes, globalisation and the rapid pace of technological development.
Naturally, the European Union is playing an important role here by coordinating various efforts for the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, preparing common guidelines for growth and employment, and ensuring a certain degree of coordination in the field of social security.
Every Member State of the European Union is seeking the most appropriate model and this report is a suitable incentive and basis for change in the social models of the Member States.
I should like to thank both rapporteurs. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their work.
With this report, supported by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs – I want to emphasise this – we make a great step towards the definition of a European social model: a balanced combination of economic necessities and the imperatives of social justice.
Too many Europeans suffer from the fact that our Union does not protect them, does not protect their public services, and it does not pay sufficient attention to the consequences of globalisation.
Many fear threats against the most basic structural elements of their social model.
In the face of this suffering, our responsibility is of course to guarantee values, but also to prove our willpower through concrete measures.
On the contrary, our identity and our strength contribute to the excellence of our working standards of production.
This report shows that, beyond our differences, we have a common attachment to a society which is not solely organised by the law of the market, but by solidarity and redistribution and by the protection of our fellow citizens, that is to say our human capital, the most rich and important capital we have.
Europe has shown that social security, protection against life's risks and the right to retirement for everyone have been the ingredients of a recipe that is good for citizens, good for society, good for the economy, and one which will remain the path to follow for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are dealing with a very important topic, although I am sure that we have not dealt with it thoroughly enough and will have to return to it again more than once in the future.
Nevertheless, I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the rapporteurs and the results of their work.
These are the most significant conclusions that I think we should draw from this very important debate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the co-rapporteur, Mr De Rossa, talked about the need for a ‘decent society’.
When he spoke he referred to the need to reform the social model.
I have tabled an amendment, with the help of a dozen or so colleagues from different countries, to insert into Amendment 1 on recital F the phrase ‘modernisation and reform’.
The good news is that Mr Hughes has confirmed to me this afternoon that the PSE Group will support that phrase.
I am curious and dumbfounded that some of my colleagues on the left in the GUE/NGL Group also seem to think the report is irrelevant, but perhaps that is a reflection of the point I made that the dividing line between left and right is changing in this modern world of ours and that it is not that there are no differences but that the lines are shifting.
At the centre of the relationship between the people, society and the State we need to place the concept of subsidiarity, by means of which all Europe’s citizens can express their own freedoms guaranteed by non-oppressive institutions.
Social solidarity needs to be promoted, so that social progress and increasing wealth are governed by respect for the dignity of every individual and by the help that social groups can provide for people in difficulties.
European businesses also form part of this design, because full employment is a cornerstone of the social model; small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly important as the backbone of a system combining economic entrepreneurship with the solidity of the social fabric, working towards a new European social model that, through a diversity of forms and of organisational systems, promotes the well-being of everyone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report that we are debating today on a European social model for the future, in relation to which I would like in particular to acknowledge the consensus that has been achieved between the two large political groups – and I would like especially to mention Mr&#160;José&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda and also Mr&#160;Proinsias&#160;De&#160;Rossa for their efforts – is good news, since it is destined to contribute to solidarity, greater social cohesion, greater quality of life and a more sustainable future for Europe’s social security systems.
There is no doubt that the Europe of the citizens to which we all aspire requires more and more coordinated policies that allow us to tackle the new challenges that we face every day.
Full employment, temporary work, youth unemployment and women’s unemployment require an ambitious employment policy, which promotes the stability and security of jobs.
Without prejudice to the attitude of the Spanish Socialist Government, which has raised false expectations and has therefore helped to aggravate this serious problem, this situation affects the whole of Europe and hence requires cooperative and effective measures on our part.
I believe that it is important that we consider a European immigration policy, and it is important that we say so today, when we are talking about the European social model, because the phenomenon of immigration is going to have a great impact on the European social model throughout Europe.
I believe I can sum up my opinion as follows: the voices disapproving of the European social model seem to be very much in the minority, while a majority spoke in favour of the European social model as a significant factor in our lives.
The same is true of the European social model.
This is because work, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard today, is more than just a job; it has a clearly defined ethical character and it is precisely this ethical activity and ethical solidarity which underpins the social model, a fact which came through clearly during the debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, I will note the outcome of your vote with interest, and as I have already indicated, many of the approaches and positions already drawn up by the Commission more or less tally with what has been discussed here.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda and Mr&#160;De&#160;Rossa, for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The reform of the European social model is today at the heart of the debate in Europe.
The Union must meet its citizens’ expectations and answer the spreading concerns about employment, the current low growth rate and the need to reform the social protection systems.
The rapporteur wisely underlines that it is time to call for EU-wide renewal of the social dialogue while deepening cooperation and exchange of best practice through the enhanced open method of coordination as the key policy-making instrument in the fields of employment, social protection, social exclusion, gender equality in the labour market, pensions, and healthcare. &#160;&#160; – It is undeniable that the European social model was a crucial factor in the rebuilding of democratic Europe during the post-war period and that many millions of people have benefited from its success.
Reform is all the more necessary in light of the increasing number of relatively new factors of social concern such as the unsustainable nature of pension systems, long-term unemployment, unemployment among the young and unemployment among those with qualifications.
For the mission to succeed, it is necessary to see economic competitiveness and human security as mutually interdependent elements that jointly create the conditions for a life of human dignity.
We wish to express particular thanks to the authors of the proposal for having formulated the statement in such a way that the new Member States can also identify with it.
The reform of the social model is but a tool and not an end in itself; it is a tool for meeting the new challenges presented by a multinational Europe and by globalisation and the information explosion.
The statement considers the need to avoid the poverty trap that threatens the new Member States in particular as a serious question weighing on Europe's conscience.
The Europe of which this statement speaks cannot acquiesce in a poverty trap that will swallow up future generations. &#160;&#160; I wish to congratulate the rapporteur for the deep and thought-provoking analysis regarding social Europe.
Although economic growth and increased competitiveness are indeed preconditions for safeguarding the achievements in the social sphere, these in themselves can no longer raise up those social groups which have fallen behind or are unable to keep up with or even participate in the ever-accelerating competition.
The creation of new jobs can, in the absence of suitable guarantees, still lead to the trap of exploitation.
On the contrary, it preserves and even heightens differences.
The preconditions for reducing these inequities are the major social support systems, and above all making high-quality education accessible for everyone.
Yet even the victory of those groups that are competitive is a Pyrrhic one: the glaring differences and ever greater decline destabilise society, tearing apart its connective tissue.
At the same time, even squeezing wages down to the lowest possible level will not make a socially discontented society attractive to entrepreneurs.
If the actions which we have targeted to address it do not bring about results, then the change will have very unfortunate economic and social consequences on a global scale in the future.
In order to achieve this target in the period from 2008 to 2012, we have taken various measures at Community and national level.
Many of these measures are provided for in the first and second European programme on climate change.
The scheme covers approximately 50% of carbon dioxide emissions in the European Union.
It covers approximately 11&#160;500&#160;000 undertakings and industrial and other installations and today constitutes the biggest gas trading scheme in the world.
The success of the Community trading scheme is of major significance because it will be able to form a base and we aim to use it as a core scheme in order to create an international greenhouse gas trading scheme.
This is one effective way of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases globally and, in particular, for us to help ensure that developed countries such as the United States, the number one country for greenhouse gas emissions in the world, accounting for one quarter of all carbon dioxide emissions, contribute to this reduction and, of course, for us to also find any which way that is acceptable to developing countries, which are also emitting more and more greenhouse gases.
I must emphasise that there can be no doubt about the European Commission's determination to maintain and improve this scheme in order to achieve the reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases required in order to stabilise concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere.
Last spring, the undertakings covered by the Community scheme, in keeping with their obligation, notified their emissions of carbon dioxide verified by independent auditors and, for the first time, we have a cohesive set of real values audited by independent agencies of emissions of carbon dioxide in the European Union.
The results of the 2005 audit show that undertakings complied to a satisfactory degree with the basic obligations which derive from the trading scheme.
The scheme infrastructure is operating smoothly.
Secondly, market-based mechanisms are a success and the Community emission allowance trading scheme appears to already be bearing fruit.
Thirdly and perhaps most importantly, the Member States can – and must – expect the sectors covered by this scheme to make a much greater contribution towards reducing emissions, especially if it is borne in mind that the European Union as a whole is not yet on track to honour its undertakings on the basis of the Kyoto Protocol.
The remaining Member States have not yet notified their national plans to the Commission.
As you will understand, the Commission cannot make any material comment at this stage.
As far as our more general approach to this matter is concerned, I shall be clear: the Commission will use every political and legal means at its disposal to ensure that national plans comply both with the commitments made within the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and with the actual data on verified emissions for 2005.
More importantly, the Member States with the worst performances must distribute fewer allowances in relation to the first trading period.
If the Member States fail to send the information requested of them, the Commission will examine the possibility of taking further action.
As with all new schemes, emissions trading has also experienced growing pains in its initial stages.
A huge project is now underway to draft other national allocation plans.
This is clearly stated in the Emissions Trading Directive adopted by the Council and the European Parliament three years ago.
In the spring this year we gained a lot of valuable experience from the reports on emissions data for 2005.
If the scheme is a transparent one, we are in a better position to ensure that market data is available to all players in a coherent and coordinated form at the same time.
In parallel with the process relating to the allocation plans, the Finnish Presidency will be launching a review of the Emissions Trading Directive.
The PPE-DE Group fully supports the emissions trading scheme and our objectives under Kyoto and agrees with the need to keep downward pressure on every one of the 25 Member States to meet their targets in relation to greenhouse gases, as agreed under Kyoto.
The theory is good, but the practice has been awful and has not matched the theory at all.
The idea was that at the end of each year the amount of carbon dioxide actually emitted had to match the amount of emission permits a company surrendered to its government.
That resulted in absolutely no downward pressure to reduce emissions and in a very volatile carbon credit market that fluctuated from EUR&#160;31 per tonne down to EUR&#160;8 per tonne and back up to EUR&#160;16 per tonne.
Our group has put its heart and soul into bringing this directive about, and that is why it is important that it works well.
It is good to know that the Commission is on the case, but disappointing that only nine countries are ready on time.
Secondly, I think that Member States have been too generous in their recent allocations, and that is why the Directive on emission allowance trading has had too little effect.
Another political problem that particularly catches the eye is the windfall profits which electricity companies have made.
All too often these plans are coming in late and they are coming in lax.
The Commission has got to be fair, but it has to be tough.
However, I will use my speaking time to point out another issue, namely that of market distortion.
The German power market is already completely dominated by four companies.
You made another point: why do we do this – to put a price on CO2 or in order to have investments in efficient technology?
Commissioner, you bear a great responsibility at the moment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on emissions trading plays an important yet dangerous part in the issue of the Kyoto agreement.
Although emissions trading was intended to be one of the principal instruments in meeting this challenge head-on, it has to be said that the results achieved to date from its initial stage are not really convincing.
The national allocation plans – including those approved by the Commission in the first phase – were not really ambitious, and what really did, of course, annoy businesses in the countries with fairly ambitious plans, was that the criteria for the grant of emissions certificates varied to a very considerable degree, so that, for example, a steelworks or a chalk plant got far more emissions certificates in one country than in another.
These disparities were not merely a consequence of the burden sharing required by Kyoto; in some cases, they had been exaggerated, and that, of course, resulted in competition being distorted.
As far as the next stage is concerned, the objective must not be – as it was in the first – that emissions trading should work more or less; on the contrary, it must work well.
What I would like to know is how the Commission or the European Council can ensure that the national action plans are rigorous, that our Member States are required to meet the Kyoto Protocol's requirements, to comply with our own laws, and prevented from buying their way out of their obligations? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I would like us to take another look at the allocation plan submitted by Germany, and the reason why I want to do that is that Germany will, next year, be assuming the Presidency not only of the EU Council, but also of the G8, both of which presidencies are crucial in terms of climate protection and energy policy.
It is Germany that will be in charge of the preparations for next year's – 2007's – next major UN meeting, and it will be in Heiligendamm that landmark decisions will be taken.
On the contrary, it is even now plain from the way in which certificates are to be allocated that certain major energy suppliers in Germany are going to use this trading of emissions as no more than yet another justification for price increases of the kind we have experienced already over the past year.
That I regard as disgraceful and absolutely indefensible in terms of the ongoing debate about the climate.
If the EU wants to do as it should and, in future, once more play a leading role where the protection of the climate is concerned, then the German state – which will, after all, bear vital responsibility for Kyoto and the post-Kyoto process – must be urged to mend its ways. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to welcome the Commission statement on the greenhouse gas allowance trading schemes.
Climate change is having a major economic and social impact.
The Commission therefore has a huge responsibility to safeguard and strengthen the credibility of the trading scheme and we call on it to take the necessary initiatives to safeguard the new scheme from any such distortions.
I propose, in the run-up to the evaluation of the second national plans for 2008-2012, that the European Commission take the necessary measures in order to prevent Member States from granting excessively generous emission allowances to certain undertakings.
Until now, EU action has encouraged Americans who want their own country to be involved in global climate protection, but if we betray our commitments under Kyoto, that will be a victory for the opponents of climate protection in the United States and elsewhere.
The Commission must now show determination and insist that the Member States of the EU comply with the key criteria in emissions trading.
Unfortunately, one of the first Member States where the government has already bowed to the demands of a polluting company in the first phase of emissions trading is Finland.
Firstly, with regard to these levels of emissions, we should not draw over-hasty conclusions after just one year: we definitely need to examine the issue over a period of more than a year.
As has been said in this debate, the Member States are now engaged in allocation planning for the next phase, and, in addition to those countries whose proposals are already with the Commission, around 10 others have already published their own plans and are in the final stages of dealing with them at national level.
The other Member States have not yet got quite so far, but I am very sure that they are making progress.
It has been mentioned here that there are flaws in the emissions trading scheme, and accordingly it is very important that the Commission now evaluates its viability very thoroughly and from different points of view.
Before I continue, I should like to assure Mrs Doyle that this discussion was not used as a cover by the Commission, for the simple reason that it was Parliament and not us who asked for this debate.
Also, concerning my failure to mention that Ireland submitted a National Allocation Plan, I have it in my papers.
Looking further ahead, concerning the review, I am now preparing a high-quality review of the European Union emissions trading scheme to identify improvements to be made beyond 2012.
Later this year, following the adoption of the European Union emissions trading system review report in the coming weeks, the Commission will activate a stakeholder group under the auspices of the European Climate Change Programme to intensify the debate on the review.
So, no one can say that the emissions trading system has failed.
In 2006, the monthly trading volume has increased steadily, with volumes of 80 to 100 allowances in a busy month.
Another reason could be the very mild winter that we had in 2005, which reduced the cost of heating, and – perhaps the main reason – the companies participating in the system were over-optimistic about their business growth and over-estimated their emissions, while the Member States were complacent in accepting their figures.
But, during the second trading period, we have made it quite clear to all Member States that the 12 criteria of the directive should be kept, especially for those countries that did not contract to achieve their individual quota target, which will contribute to the overall target for the European Union.
I am going to be tough but fair with Member States regarding the national allocation plans and am very glad for the support for this approach that has been obvious from your contributions today.
At the same time, all stakeholders should engage in the process of improving and expanding the European Union scheme, so as to secure a global carbon market that can deliver the emissions reductions necessary to tackle climate change.
As far as the lifting of internal border control is concerned, new Member States are evaluated by experts of the Member States and of the Commission, whether they fulfil, amongst other preconditions, the high Schengen standards of external border control.
In January 2006, the evaluation of the non-SAS related of the new Member States started, and a first assessment of their preparation will be available for the Council in December.
With respect to illegal immigration, the Commission outlined the areas it considers to be future priorities in a communication which, as you know, was adopted on 19 July.
The communication in particular explores how to further secure external borders, for instance by introducing intelligence-led ‘e-borders’ management and addresses the possible creation of an automated entry-exit system, the issue of regularisations and the need to tackle employment of illegally resident third country nationals.
This mechanism, that will strengthen the solidarity between Member States and the Community, will allow Member States which face extraordinary obstacles in controlling their external borders to make use of the expertise and manpower of border guards of other Member States on a temporary basis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the events of recent days appear to be demonstrating that the European Union is not prepared for waves of immigrants from areas close to the Union.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the accession of Bulgaria and Romania next year, we will have a new European Union sea border on the Black Sea, that there are States on the Black Sea such as Ukraine, Moldavia, Russia, Georgia, Armenia and Turkey and that that sea opens us up to the whole of Asia.
We decided then that every national measure to regularise illegal immigrants must be preceded by a European consultation that permits the rotating Presidency and the European Commission to give their opinion on the impact of such a regularisation measure on the other Member States.
They have, however, posed us a problem that the European Union should be concerned about.
As for workers’ freedom of movement, there are of course references in the accession treaties for Romania and Bulgaria to the possibility of extending, for a transitional period, the freedom of workers to go to other European Union countries.
The European Commission’s argument, as regards the ten new countries that have been members of the Union since 2004, is that there is no longer any danger of an invasion by workers, and we have published a communication in that respect.
Hence comfortable or even record levels of crude oil or petroleum product reserves in important consumer countries such as the United States tend to reduce the perception of risk by a vast majority of operators in global oil markets.
Before the end of 2006, the Commission intends to put forward a document on smoke-free environments, which will discuss the way forward to tackle passive smoking in Europe.
In conclusion, we will present every possible aspect in the paper which will be published soon – before the end of the year.
However, in the meantime we will look at how to improve our existing legislation to ensure that we also have the legal competence to classify ETS as such as a carcinogen. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, in view of the fact that, in any given year, 10&#160;000 people in Europe lose their lives as a result of passive smoking, I am sure you will understand why I am not particularly happy about that statement.
All these arguments help us to move in that direction.
Member States can do it and other international organisations can do it, so I do not see why the European Union should not be able to do it as well. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I wonder whether you saw in the press this week – certainly in the British press – reports of a plan by a German entrepreneur to start smoking flights from Europe to Asia.
Given the recent messages from Germany regarding promoting a smoke-free environment, I am hopeful that they will look into that and that special legislation will come into force in 2007. &#160;&#160; – Although none of us want to live in a world in which everything is forbidden, I do believe that smoking – and passive smoking in particular – are examples of a situation in which our own actions are harmful to others.
However, for the European Community as a whole, the Commission will await the outcome of the consultation process before deciding what steps to take.
As I said in my hearing before the committees in Parliament, my target would be to have a smoke-free Europe and to protect all citizens from passive smoking, not just in some Member States.
If we really want to achieve benefits for all we have to go for full smoking bans.
In the same year in Greece, there was a significant increase of 54.55% in the number of small and medium-sized Greek businesses which declared bankruptcy compared with 2004.
This survey formed the basis for the Commission’s Best Procedure project 'Restructuring, bankruptcy and a fresh start’ in 2003, which focused on the two issues of to what extent national insolvency law was an obstacle to an enterprise’s continued existence and to its making a new start, and what effect the blemish of failure has on the prospects for success of a business making a new start after failure and on the culture of entrepreneurship in general.
The outcomes of this project were presented in a report intended to support the trend in European policymaking towards changes in the legal framework of insolvency legislation.
In response to a number of positions adopted in the ‘Entrepreneurship in Europe’ Green Paper, the Commission, in 2004, expanded the Entrepreneurship Action Plan by including in it a priority measure on business insolvencies with three specific objectives.
The only thing we can do is, as I have explained to you, to ensure, by way of cooperation, coordination and the sharing of experience in the Member States, that better legal framework conditions can be created.
As I told you, there are some countries in which this has already happened, while others are still in the process of doing so, and in some of them the situation is still unsatisfactory.
What I can tell you today is that we will give particular attention to this issue during the preparation of the next annual report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, with particular reference to those countries whose insolvency laws still amount to an obstacle to growth and employment. &#160;&#160; I have to start by admiring the Commission's capacity to answer detailed and difficult questions on SMEs in Greece.
The Commission is quite firmly determined to do everything in its power to ensure that the services directive is adopted in the form on which a compromise has been reached with your House. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, when large firms go bankrupt, it is often the case that many small ones see their bills go unpaid.
The proposals put forward by the Commission for a modern industrial policy are specifically intended not only to make the fullest possible use of European industry’s potential for employment, but also to extend it still further.
There is, then, a quite direct connection between employment policy and industrial policy.
Contrary to one point of view that was formerly to be heard in Europe, we are, today, more than ever convinced that this goal will not be achieved without a strong industrial base in Europe, that is to say, industry that is strong, high-performing and competitive.
I would also like to bring to your attention certain aspects of our policy that have to do quite specifically with the connection between industrial policy and employment policy.
I would point out to you that the Commission is currently working on a policy intended to remedy the skills shortages in Europe, improving the content of jobs and improving employment opportunities in numerous sectors, specifically in information and communications technology, machine-building, the textile and leather industry and various areas of raw materials production and manufacturing industry.
As you can see, considering our industrial policy in complete isolation from employment policy would be a quite artificial distinction to draw.
I likewise do not see any incompatibility between competition policy and employment policy.
With competition in mind, it must not become difficult to recruit new workers.
If we look at the economic reality in Member States with a particularly high proportion of service industries, we see that many of the activities of the services sector have been contracted out by industry, but are exactly the same in substance as before.
Our argument, therefore, is that, without a strong, efficient industrial basis, it will not be possible to carry out the expansion of the services sector that would be necessary to solve the employment problem by this means alone.
As the House knows, the Commission has put SME policy in its rightful place at the heart of our economic thinking, as it is they, rather than large enterprises, that are the decisive force in Europe, and what they need is to be given more freedom and more responsibility for their own affairs.
Madam&#160;President, in the interests of time, I would perhaps suggest I provide the honourable Member with the full version of my answer, which details all these initiatives, and I am also willing to provide any further information required. &#160;&#160; I want to thank the Commissioner for his reply, and even though he said it would take him longer to put all the measures together, I am still encouraged by his response.
They can be seen in the policies of Member States, and even in the European economy.
That means that the gap is beginning to close, and I hope that this trend will continue.
Indeed it is not without significance that though you promise us a recital in written form of some examples, you have not been able today in your substantive answer to give a single example of realistic cutting of red tape.
Secondly, we have transformed legislative methods and introduced the compulsory complete impact assessment, which in itself brings a considerable improvement in the quality of ongoing legislation.
I know of a case of two companies – one large and one small – in the same programme, where the large company is audited at the end of the programme and receives its grants in advance, whereas the small company has to have an annual audit, at its own expense, and receives its money in arrears.
Since Malta’s accession to the EU in 2004, thousands of European citizens have been outraged by the decision of the Maltese Government to allow hunting in spring.
MEPs have since been pushing the Commission to ban spring hunting in Malta, the derogation being incompatible with the EU Birds Directive (79/409/CEE(1)).
They are birds that have survived the winter and numerous other hardships and are going to the sites where they reproduce.
The Maltese authorities have sent us the relevant data for the 2004 spring hunting period.
Having established this, the Commission started legal proceedings against Malta in July 2006 for infringement of the Birds Directive on the grounds that it had permitted spring hunting of these two species.
As far as veterinary and hygiene rules are concerned, the Commission took swift and effective preventive measures in October 2005 based on the existing framework of veterinary legislation.
This expert opinion is expected in October 2006.
As regards the protection of biodiversity and wild birds, the Commission, following the Council last December, commissioned a study in January 2006 to examine the efficacy of Community regulations on the trade in wild species of flora and fauna.
The competent scientific committee of the European Union with which all the scientific authorities of the Member States of the European Union cooperate is responsible for examining imports of wild species of flora and fauna.
The study we have commissioned will cover from a broad perspective the issue of the efficacy of these regulations for the protection of species of wild flora and fauna, with the emphasis on wild birds.
Account will, of course, be taken during the preparation of this study of the conclusions of the report published by the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the European Group for the Animal Survival Conventions. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that reply, Commissioner.
Since 1992 the US has imposed a moratorium on all CITES-listed birds unless it can be scientifically proven that they are harvested in a sustainable way.
We have more or less the same result by having species considered separately.
However, the results are more or less the same because the United States has a lot of illegal trade and we also have illegal trade.
If we introduce a permanent ban for birds we will have to consider how and why they are treated differently from all other species, like corals and reptiles, because we have a comprehensive policy.
The United States has a different approach to this.
The amount of seized and confiscated birds in the European Union may have recently decreased because of the current temporary ban on all imports.
We permit the importation of only those birds that are not in danger of extinction. &#160;&#160; The Commissioner mentioned that he was concerned about birds threatened with extinction.
It has to be extended until the end of December, and will perhaps be extended into next year, depending on developments in avian flu.
In this particular case the United States is following a different policy, though the result is perhaps the same.
We should remember that we must act in compliance with the law and meet our obligations under the CITES Convention and we cannot do otherwise if a vote is taken.
I could perhaps say in one sentence that the Commission has sent a warning letter as regards the presumed incorrect application by the Spanish authorities of the amended directive on the impact of public and private works on the environment in the case of the project to construct the M30 orbital road in Madrid.
We are currently evaluating the reply given by the Spanish authorities and will shortly be completing this evaluation. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, in view of the response issued by the competent Spanish authorities, I hope that the European Commission will make a quick decision.
I would like to say the following: the Commission’s letter of notice made it very clear that, in the Commission’s view, the content of Directive 85/337, which makes environmental impact studies for this type of public work essential, had not been respected.
I would like to say that the Commission opened this investigation after you asked a question on the issue.
We came to the conclusion that the M-30 ring road project was not subject to a proper impact assessment pursuant to Council Directive 85/337/EEC on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, in particular with regard to some of the subprojects into which the M-30 ring road project is divided.
The project was split into 19 subprojects.
The Commission would also mention that the Alevi community experiences difficulties in terms of recognition of places of worship, representation in relevant state bodies as well as in compulsory religious education.
Our programme team responsible for the implementation of the regulation should be operational as of this month.
The first projects envisaged for implementation encompass, inter alia, actions in the field of solid waste, energy, local infrastructure, business support and other very concrete measures.
The proposed Direct Trade Regulation submitted by the Commission to the Council in July 2004 – over two years ago – is still before the Council.
The Commission supports efforts of the Finnish Presidency to secure a speedy adoption of this trade regulation in order to fulfil the EU’s commitment of April 2004.
It is a badly-kept secret that the accompanying measures have largely centred on the question of the Port of Famagusta.
In reply to the question by Mr Matsis, the return of Varosha has been linked in the past to the UN-led talks on a comprehensive settlement of the Cyprus problem.
Therefore it is up to the parties involved to decide whether to keep this issue within the framework of the comprehensive settlement or to discuss it separately or to find a way to include it in both concepts.
We expect a constructive spirit from all parties.
That is almost word-by-word what the Council and Member States decided in September 2005, in the well-known EU declaration of the time prior to the opening of accession negotiations.
Our aim is to avoid a possible train crash because it is in no one’s interests for EU-Turkey relations to be seriously damaged.
At the same time we are working very hard to unblock the situation concerning direct trade and to get all parties committed to resuming negotiations on the comprehensive settlement to reunify Cyprus. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you spoke a moment ago of the stalemate in this situation.
Our view on how to end the economic isolation of the Turkish Cypriot communities is very clear: we want to execute the financial assistance programme now and we want to facilitate a solution for direct trade, possibly with accompanying measures.
The counterfeiting of medicines is the most amoral of all forms of counterfeiting as, of course, there is no complicity at all in the purchase on the part of the buyer, who gets into debt only to end up killing his children.
We need, however, to do something for those countries that do not have all our advantages.
The world is, in fact, unprotected.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have all the means required for taking action.
Imagine there being just one similar case in Europe and what our media would make of it.
I should like to inform you, Commissioner, that, on behalf of the European Parliament and with the help of my fellow Members, I shall exercise my right to follow up this matter.
The Commission is taking action on this at two levels.
A recent study in the Community revealed that, within the European Union in the last five years, 27&#160;counterfeit medicines have turned up in legal distribution channels and 170 in illegal distribution channels.
For its part, the Commission, together with the Member States, the European Medicines Agency and international partners, is investigating what measures will be necessary in future to protect public health.
The Commission communication on a customs response to latest trends in counterfeiting and piracy that was issued recently addresses the problem of counterfeit medicines, and recommends specific measures to combat this growing threat.
In the experience of the customs authorities, a large proportion of the counterfeits are transported through the EU and are often destined for developing countries.
The fight against imported counterfeits is particularly difficult in that they often enter the EU in small quantities, and customs authorities have to detect the illegal goods in a very large number of small consignments.
The Commission therefore supports the initiatives of the World Health Organization to combat counterfeit medicines.
The results of the work of this taskforce will benefit all WHO members, including developing countries.
The third issue is the idea of an international convention against counterfeit medicines.
Most participants, including the Commission, were of the opinion that an international convention is not, at present, the most effective means of combating the growing threat from counterfeit medicines.
In addition, developing countries often lack an adequate legal framework.
By giving this definition and through his stance, he made it clear that counterfeiting can affect both patented and generic medicines.
In developing countries, medicines intended to treat diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/Aids are being counterfeited.
The measures to enhance intellectual property rights are good and are suitable as part of the strategy, but do not tackle the problem at its roots.
It is important – and I should also like to thank Commissioner&#160;Verheugen for stating this so resolutely and specifically – that we assist the countries concerned in building their capacities for producing safe medicines in, and importing safe medicines into, their own countries. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I too should like to thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Cornillet, for having opened this crucial debate.
We are all of one mind in saying that pirate medicines – and I am in complete agreement with what Mr&#160;Cornillet has stated – are a scourge that kills, above all, of course, in the least developed countries.
Unfortunately, this potentially lethal counterfeiting is not widely known about and, in the majority of cases, goes almost unremarked.
We are a long way here from the spectacular legal actions – recipients of much media attention – that have been brought by the manufacturers of luxury products and that, in a number of cases, have also been transferred to higher courts – actions that, it has also to be noted, have not met with much success.
Worldwide, one antibiotic in three and one medicine in ten are counterfeit.
At worst – as I said – they kill, especially when it is a question of medicines used in the case of mortal diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis or AIDS.
In China alone, the hub and empire of counterfeiting of every kind, 200&#160;000 people were dying each year after having been treated with pirated medicines, including in a number of hospitals administered by the Chinese Red Cross.
Mr&#160;Cornillet referred to them at length: the absence, still scarcely remedied, of any real will on the part of national governments to combat this scourge; the absence, too, in many countries of legislation that might genuinely act as a deterrent; the ridiculously low cost of these counterfeit medicines; and, above all, the poverty to be found in the countries concerned and the fact that the most vulnerable population groups, which are crying out for accessible medicines, find it impossible to gain access to health systems.
In a debate such as this, no one claims to have the solution, or at least a ready-made one, but a responsible policy needs to be proposed, given the urgency of the situation.
In April, while denouncing all forms of counterfeiting before this Assembly, Commissioner&#160;Frattini took a tougher stance in terms of sanctions against Europeans and developing countries.
The European Union must take the lead and, in close cooperation with the WHO, put a global strategy in place to combat this scourge effectively.
Certainly, judicial and police coordination needs to be set up and sanctions put in place, but people also need to be informed and, above all, warned.
The priority is, therefore, to encourage the development of public health policies in the countries concerned, as well as to encourage the establishment of states governed by the rule of law.
In other words, swallowing medicines is not the only route to good health.
It is therefore also through policies of prevention, information and education and by relying on the practical knowledge present in local communities that attempts might be made to solve the problem and not merely through putting dozens of substances on the market at prohibitive prices.
In conclusion, I think that, in the fight against counterfeiting, we have to begin by strengthening existing measures and coordinating them better.
Then, we must above all help the developing, or poorest, countries to establish viable states and to put public policies in place covering all health problems and not only that of access to medicines. &#160;&#160; – I have received six motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bowis, for his excellent report.
It is almost a year since the Commission presented its Green Paper on improving the mental health of the population.
The Green Paper was also a response to the WHO ministerial conference, which involved all EU Member States.
The Green Paper presented mental health as a central part of overall public health and a key determinant of quality of life in the European Union.
Perhaps this is one of the basic messages to emerge from the consultation process and from the report and resolution, namely that tackling social inclusion and the stigma attached to mental health problems is a key factor in our efforts to deal with this whole question.
Because of the stigma attached, people who suffer from mental health problems do not admit to them, do not seek help.
I hope to present a Commission White Paper on mental health during the first quarter of next year presenting a strategy and proposing a framework for sustainable cooperation between Member States, policy fields and the relevant stakeholders.
I am firmly of the opinion that what we need most in order to promote positive mental health in the community and encourage social inclusion is dialogue, consensus-building and more importantly, action.
Colleagues, 450 million people in our world live with a mental disorder.
It almost certainly means that we are labelled, patronised, despised, feared and to a greater or lesser extent segregated in society, within our family, at work, at play and even within our health and social services.
In a perverse reversal, we can hide but we cannot run.
That is why I welcome what has been achieved, firstly by a sequence of Council Presidencies – starting and culminating now with the Finnish Presidency – and by the Commission, where this Green Paper was drafted and will be driven through to active policy-making in the coming months.
A service that does not gain professional, public and political support fails patients and their families doubly.
We all contribute to the stigmatisation of people who, if they had a physical problem, would receive our sympathy and support.
We have legislated against discrimination for people with disabilities.
Perhaps we need to do so for people with mental health problems – both those in hospital and those in the community.
I want to be sure that if I, my wife or a member of my family has this problem in due course, as one of us is quite likely to, then I want a system in which they are hugged rather than rejected, loved rather than forgotten; a system in which it is not the case that they do not know people or do not know where they are; a system in which they are not within blank, cold, alien walls.
In my report I quote those words of Stefan Heym from Alexanderplatz in 1989 East Berlin: (In these last weeks we have regained our power of speech and learnt once more to walk with our heads held high.) The stigma of mental health is as repressive a regime as East Germany was.
Some progress has been made for some people with some disabilities.
Fortunately, there was a real sense in the committee that this must change, that priority must be given to approaches to treatment that enable people to achieve remission and recovery, as well as to inclusion, the prevention of mental illness and the promotion of mental health.
As we work through the process of formulating a European mental health strategy, the most important question we should ask ourselves is: will this make someone’s life better?
It amazes me that we can write a whole strategy without ever mentioning the words ‘spirit’ or ‘spirituality’.
When we consider suicide, then we see that getting it right can even be a matter of life and death. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality has held a passionate debate on the mental health strategy.
The second point is a strong emphasis on a wide range of approaches with regard to the need for prevention and for users and local services to be actively involved at all levels in the global strategy, and even more so in the area of prevention.
Hopefully, though, we are making headway. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you will allow me first of all to congratulate my colleague, Mr&#160;Bowis, who has done a remarkable piece of work on a particularly important subject that affects us all, since a quarter of all Europeans will have mental health problems during their lives, with all the considerable repercussions that these will involve for those close to them.
Poor mental health was supposedly just a difficult patch people went through, or not even that.
The ageing of our populations ought also to give us pause for thought as it is, unfortunately, accompanied by an increase in mental illness.
The European Union may develop its measures to prevent poor mental health, but it must also help researchers confront this phenomenon in order better to understand the factors that affect mental health, particularly during early childhood, to manage patients’ progress more effectively, to promote the most suitable medicines available and to support efforts directed at training health care professionals.
An adult is not cared for in the same way as a child or adolescent.
We realise that we must develop community-based services as an alternative to permanent care institutions, thus solving the issues of human rights in a modern way.
Another problem facing modern medicine, in relation to the treatment of mental disorders, is that symptomatic treatment merely eliminates the symptoms but fails to provide an effective cure. &#160;&#160; The issue of mental health is not a new phenomenon, but it has been discussed a lot lately in Europe and the United States.
The effort to improve the economy and prosperity of our regions has brought about a change in working conditions.
In addition to the medical dimension of the issue, it is necessary to recognise the economic consequences of the population’s deteriorating mental health.
Countries in Central and Eastern Europe, including Slovakia, have undergone significant changes, and their citizens have had to adapt to a changing working environment, acquiring new skills and habits in line with those of Western Europe.
They have had to re-qualify and manage new, more sophisticated procedures very rapidly, which has had a negative impact mainly on middle-aged and older employees.
I believe that it would be far more efficient to restructure the existing agencies, including those agencies that deal directly with issues related to mental health. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank both the Commissioner, for an excellent Green Paper, and Mr Bowis for his report, which has added even more to what was an excellent standing start.
Your particular interest and feeling for this subject is inspirational to many of us here.
Therefore, raising awareness, changing attitudes and, above all, exchanging best practice is an enormous contribution we can make here to this most important area.
The figures are startling: 18 million people across the EU suffer from severe depression; 58&#160;000 of our citizens commit suicide every year – roughly equivalent to two or three small towns in any rural area being obliterated every year.
Ten times that number attempt suicide.
Depression and anxiety disorders, including stress and eating disorders, are the most common mental health problems experienced.
We need to encourage early intervention and ensure that, if possible, as was suggested by my colleague Mr Bowis, we look again at legislation on discrimination to see if we can include discrimination against those with mental health problems as part of that package.
Ignoring this problem and not providing the facilities and treatment that are needed costs Europe three to four per cent of our GDP per year.
Mr Bowis has thoroughly and successfully addressed all the important issues concerning a strategy for mental health in the EU and my group fully endorses his report.
Firstly, the fact that mental ill health is extremely common.
It is estimated that approximately 100 million EU citizens will be affected by it during their lifetime.
The brain, like other vital organs such as the heart and the lungs, is susceptible to disease, which results in malfunction.
A malfunctioning heart will give rise to cardiac disease.
The World Health Organisation describes mental health as a state of wellbeing in which the individual realises his or her abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully and is able to make a contribution to his or her community.
The emphasis attached to this issue in the report is an indication of the seriousness of the situation.
The prevention of mental disorders, psychotherapy for children, adults and families, the treatment of nervous disorders and the promotion of mental hygiene are all the more important since we know that real mental disorders such as psychoses can be treated but not cured.
It is worth remembering that, in the field of psychiatry, there are no medicines that can cure in the strictest sense of the word and that those that do exist were discovered by accident.
However, if we dedicated more funds to the work of psychologists and psychotherapy, we could save money on medical consultations for treating the body and on healthcare spending as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, according to the World Health Organisation, mental health is necessary to the wellbeing of individuals, societies and countries and must be addressed globally on a new basis, from a new point of view which creates new hope.
The families of sufferers, which provide material and moral support to their members suffering from mental health problems, fall victim, together with the persons in question, to the negative consequences of the stigma and of the discrimination which accompanies these illnesses.
Consequently, if the objective of prevention and cure of human illness is a very serious priority, then the corresponding objective relating to neuro-psychological illnesses is the top priority if we wish to prevent the quintessence of European society from being eroded and breaking up, especially as this society includes in its composition many elderly people who, as we know, are vulnerable to neuro-degenerative illnesses.
Poor mental health indicators, such as high suicide rates and numerous cases of violence and abuse, especially alcohol abuse, are not unusual in such countries.
There is obviously a lack in the community-based services that should be a part of healthcare and social infrastructure.
Some new Member States have already taken the first steps towards implementing provisions that are compliant with EU principles.
Lithuania has drafted a mental health policy that will be presented to Parliament for approval this year.
Lithuania has also initiated the project 'Child and adolescent mental health in an enlarged European Union: development of effective policies and practices'.
This project was supported by the Commission and has attracted 18 participant countries and 34 associate partners. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased to speak on this timely and well-considered report and I congratulate the rapporteur.
Firstly, I agree that the added value of a Community strategy on mental health is primarily in the field of prevention and awareness-raising and that any proposals from the Commission should involve partnership and consultation with all relevant parties.
In Ireland, suicide is the most common cause of death in 18-24 year olds.
That is the point at which we go round in circles because what brings on illness is a mistaken philosophy of economic competition and what is required to treat it is investment, which is something prevented by this same philosophy.
It is not the intention of this report, on which I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Bowis, that the EU play an active part in the health field.
One thing is certain: social changes are also needed in order to prevent these illnesses.
I am thinking here mainly of the family, which gives people the opportunity to rest and recharge their batteries.
It is a problem that affects a growing number of people, particularly the young and, to an increasing extent, ethnic minorities.
Economic analysts estimate that poor mental health costs the citizens of the European Union around three to four per cent of GDP, mainly as a result of falling productivity and early retirement.
That is why it is vital to draw up and adopt, as a matter of urgency, a directive on mental health and the protection of the civil and fundamental rights of people suffering from mental health problems.
The pilot programme of the European Association against Depression has already achieved a 25% decrease in the number of suicides and suicide attempts by young people.
Adopting a single, coordinated European Union policy in the field of mental health will allow us to create the appropriate conditions for the harmonious development of public mental health.
It will help people to learn to cope with difficult situations, conflict or stressful conditions and to form better interpersonal relations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, this afternoon we discussed a smoke-free Europe.
One of the main problems regarding mental health is that it is taboo in all societies, and we should ask ourselves why this is the case.
Secondly, mind and soul lie at the heart of our humanity; they are something that defines the essence of humanity.
According to a study by Deutsche Angestellten-Krankenkasse, a German social security institution, there was a 70% increase in the number of psychological conditions in the workplace between 1997 and 2004.
The World Health Organization (WHO) states that, whereas in&#160;1990 the three leading causes of global disease burden were pneumonia, diarrhoeal diseases and perinatal conditions, by&#160;2020 the leading causes will be ischaemic heart disease, depression, anxiety disorders and traffic accidents.
Mr&#160;Bowis detailed that very well in his report.
Our thinking should be oriented mainly towards target groups, to enable us to arrive at a solution and thus prevent the European engine grinding to a halt and the plug being pulled. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have nothing but gratitude for the Commissioner for the Green Paper, and even more so for Mr&#160;Bowis for the important work he has done.
Cooperation between the different care institutions is still lacking, and the sector is facing a serious lack of funding.
I am therefore delighted that our rapporteur was prepared to approve a few important additions in this respect.
I wish the Commissioner every success in this. &#160;&#160; First of all I, too, would like to thank Mr&#160;Bowis for the opportunity to speak on this very important topic.
At the same time, we must face the fact that just as desk jobs are bad for the back, or the use of chemicals increases the incidence of allergies, so stress, the information overload and the lack of stable reference points in our society make it more difficult to preserve mental health.
For this reason I welcome the fact that the Commission has taken the first steps towards a Community strategy for improving mental health.
In my country, Hungary, at the peak of the suicide wave twenty years ago more than 45 out of every 100&#160;000 people died by their own hand, a statistic with which we shocked the world.
According to the figures of the World Health Organisation, in 2000 the worldwide suicide rate was 16 out of 100&#160;000, which represented a rising trend over the last half-century.
There were years, not that long ago, when there were fewer fatalities in Europe caused by road traffic accidents than by suicide, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned.
Many families are left to their own devices, without effective outside help, when one of their members faces serious problems.
This situation must be changed, and it is for this reason that I am in support of all those amendments which explicitly state that specific attention needs to be paid to the mental health-related problems in the new Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, first of all I should thank my colleague, Mr&#160;Bowis, for the work he has done.
With the right resources, school healthcare units and children’s clinics are in an excellent position to identify problems in children and young people and provide help at an early stage.
While, for example, in my country mental health problems have become more common in young people, statistics show that the parents of one in five children work untypical hours.
Support for a child from parents and the family creates a basis for good mental health.
If there is no intervention in young people’s mental health problems immediately, and if no attention is paid to easing the situation regarding access to help, the price paid will be just too high.
Successful policy and successful psychotherapy have one thing in common: both require a great deal of openness, honesty, patience and commitment.
The WHO defines health as a state of complete physical, mental and social wellbeing.
I would like to show some possible ways in which we, the European Union, could help in the field of prevention, ways in which we could reduce the burden of suffering of those with mental ill health, could recognise the early stages of the illness in time and could thus prevent the onset.
We have the opportunity to call on our national governments to do more than before.
The focus here is on prevention.
Numerous Members have already referred to various forms of modern mental illnesses.
Within this framework, I should like to emphasise that particular account must be taken of the gender dimension, both in research and in preventing and addressing psychoses.
Research has even shown that various particular biological conditions and, more importantly, social circumstances affect women.
The gender dimension must be also taken into account in the education of and information for nursing staff.
Generally speaking, society and the families of people suffering from mental illnesses suffer because, in many cases, women with psychological problems are dealt with as people who are over-sensitive and not as sufferers needing special care and attention.
In other words, we must also protect sufferers and their environment, because that will also make the environment more suitable and more trustworthy in the role that it is called on to play in addressing the problems of the people within it.
The serious psychological problems they face must qualify for both our development and our humanitarian aid and, in general terms, aid to reconstruct areas, because the reconstruction of areas requires above all reconstruction of the human psyche. &#160;&#160; .
This is a very positive signal for the Commission going forward, because throughout the general consultation process, the parliamentary process and the process of consulting the Member States, similar levels of support have been expressed for these efforts.
Amongst other things, it is very important that we promote cooperation on mental health between Member States, between stakeholders and between different sectors.
When we had a similar debate here on the gender aspects of health, I said that our policies from then on would take into account the gender aspects in all our health initiatives and in the various areas of research, promotion, prevention, care, treatment and rehabilitation.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank John Bowis for his very comprehensive and detailed report on improving the mental health of our citizens, that is, the European Union’s mental health strategy.
One of these is our attitude to people affected by mental disorders.
Unfortunately, even some Members of the European Parliament indulge in this kind of behaviour.
In countries with a high unemployment rate, this problem particularly affects disabled people.
That is why I strongly support initiatives to ensure non-discrimination in the treatment of those affected by mental illness and the social integration of people with mental disorders.
These actions are particularly important because good working conditions have a positive influence on mental health. &#160;&#160; Europe is facing major threats to public health: cancer, heart and vascular diseases, diabetes, asthma&#160;...
Mental illness also belongs to this list, though.
The Member States are responsible for national health services and systems.
In order to promote and support cooperation between the Member States in the area of mental health, and to remove inequalities between Member States, it is a good thing for the Union to be taking action in this area by, for example, joining forces, promoting coherence and creating a platform.
Parliament has done this for the simple reason that, together with legal practitioners – EU lawyers and judges – we are of the opinion that further steps towards common principles of civil law are needed in order to render many European legislative provisions such as the -Commerce Directive feasible.
That is a crucial point as regards later decisions on all the options for what becomes of this frame of reference.
Another prerequisite for a frame of reference is that, in principle, the network continues to function and is still operated, as the Commission has done up to now.
As rapporteur on this issue for the Committee on Legal Affairs, I can say that all the political groups agree in principle on this subject, and that an overwhelming majority of this House is in favour – something I have seldom experienced elsewhere.
As we know, the three Commissioners dealing with this issue – Commissioners Kyprianou, Frattini and McCreevy – are currently considering, or have recently been considering, how the work should be taken forward.
The reason we have deliberately put this oral question – together with the corresponding resolution, which you may have been able to read already in draft form, and which will undoubtedly be adopted by a large majority in this House on Thursday – on today’s agenda is to emphasise clearly once more the strength of Parliament’s support for this project.
There has always been very close cooperation and mutual support between the Commission and Parliament on this issue up to now.
I am working very closely with my colleagues Mr Frattini and Mr McCreevy on this issue.
The truth is that the Commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter, but it will take a final decision soon.
I have also had an opportunity to discuss the issue in the various committees.
While the Commission can take into account the CFR work when drawing up new legislative proposals relating to contract law issues, it would not be useful or necessary to delay future contract law related legislation until all discussions on the CFR have been finalised.
The Commission will continue to keep Parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way, in particular through the Parliament working group.
I would like to conclude by thanking you for Parliament’s encouragement and support for our work on this important issue. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, European contract law is certainly such as to favour regulation of the internal market.
The advantages that economic agents are expected to gain in terms of legal certainty and a reduction in the cost of transactions very much depends on the clarity, predictability and stability of the rules.
European contract law must be based on the demands of the economic world and on an assessment of its needs.
That being the case, the responses to the issues raised by this oral question must permit greater familiarity with the content of the common reference code.
Selection of the legal base for an instrument dedicated to contract law must proceed from a political choice regarding the objectives concerned, rather than precede such a choice.
It is therefore vital that the Commission clarify the objectives of the work funded since 2003 by the European budget and place the European Parliament in a position to give an opinion on practical proposals.
It would be unthinkable to give companies the ability to apply European contract law, as devised by a working party, in place of directives and national rights without Parliament and the Council having approved its content on the basis of a very thorough legal and economic impact assessment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am very pleased that the oral question has given us the opportunity today to find out about the provisional state of affairs, at least.
As Mr&#160;Lehne has already mentioned, there is a very broad consensus here on the fundamental issues, particularly on the development of Community acquis in the field of consumer protection having now begun, and on attempts being made at some degree of harmonisation.
I ask myself what form civil law could take without a body of evolved case law to build on in this field, and how we could create precise regulations that were acceptable to all.
It is paragraph&#160;6, in particular, with which we take issue, and I hope that we are able to find a wording for this specific point, too, that clearly reveals the broad general consensus that exists on this issue in other respects. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree that point six is very important, partly because there are six Members here at the moment.
I remember Polish parliamentary debates that ended at three o’clock in the morning and I never imagined this to be possible in Strasbourg.
We are awaiting the European Commission’s decision on the Common Frame of Reference.
The point of this legislation is to enable ordinary Polish, Czech, French, Danish and other citizens of the European Union to make use of this right.
We take note of, and indeed, we take into serious consideration Parliament’s position on this issue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
