&#160;&#160; The first item on the agenda will be a statement by myself; 70 years after General Franco's coup d'état in Spain, on 18 July 1936.
As you know, a group of 200 Members signed a request for an oral question to the Commission and the Council explicitly calling for a debate on condemning the Franco regime on the 70th anniversary of General Franco’s coup d’état.
As I told you two years ago, I belong to that generation – like many of the Spanish Members here – and my personal relationship with the past inevitably determines my memory.
That coup d’état did not just lead to a long and cruel civil war in Spain, therefore, but it also put an end to that hope for Europe that André Malraux had spoken of.
The war in Spain was not just a war and it was not just Spanish.
A war between Spaniards would not have lasted so long, however, simply because our own forces would not have allowed it.
From 1936, Europe’s future participants in the Second World War came into direct or indirect conflict with each other during the Spanish civil war.
I would like to stress that our position is essentially based on full support for the values of reconciliation and of overcoming a past tragedy, which were the values that inspired the transition to democracy and which led to the 1978 Constitution.
On a day like tomorrow, a 5th of July 30 years ago, the President of the Spanish Government, Adolfo Suárez, took on his job of taking our democratic transition forward.
We must not change our attitude, and many Spaniards believe it to be an historical mistake to try to promote a second transition today, as if the first one had grown old and obsolete; it is an historical mistake to unilaterally destroy the essence of our Constitution of harmony; it is historically foolish to introduce the debate on the right to self-determination in Spain, the creation within Spain of new nations that have never existed; it is an historical mistake because it moves us away from the harmony we have created.
The civil war was not just a Spanish civil war.
The youth of the 1930s were a glorious page in European and world history, travelling to Spain to defend democracy of their own accord.
The famous American writer Arthur Miller once said that in the 30s the word Spain was an explosion.
If we can take stock of the situation here in this House 70 years later, then I would draw your attention to the fact that since direct elections were introduced three Presidents of the European Parliament have been Spaniards: one conservative Christian Democrat and two Social Democrats.
Spain, which should have been one of the founder nations of the European Union, found itself against the will of its people separated from the rest of Europe for half a century.
Europe should make a point of remembering that, if Spain has been able to close this dramatic chapter in its history by consensus, then it is through reconciliation and peaceful dialogue.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Spain in 1936 is above all a lesson for us Europeans or, rather, four lessons.
As in Munich in 1938, this attitude turned out to be one of the great errors of that period, affording one of the great lessons that we need to learn from it.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union must profit fully from all of these four lessons.
First of all, the forces of the 1936 Putsch only managed to overcome the Popular Front with the decisive assistance of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany.
In conclusion, there is one final reason why the Spanish tragedy has a European dimension: this is the unparalleled surge of international solidarity to which it gave rise among the workers and the common people, as well as among the most eminent European intellectuals; a solidarity strikingly illustrated by the International Brigades, composed of 40&#160;000 volunteers from around fifty countries.
An atrocity or a tragedy on the European continent is commemorated in the history books for every single day going back over 227 years.
Whether we are talking about Potsdam, Hungary, Gdańsk, Siberia, Spain, Portugal or Ireland, those who have tried to impose their will on others have always failed, because the very essence of our humanity is the desire to be free to ensure that we can live and interact with others.
Rather than criticising or pointing the finger and saying that this tragedy was more dramatic, more damaging or more influential in European politics than others, let us agree that it happened and use it as an example.
Most people remained passive when democracy was threatened and, in many places, displaced, until other courageous people put a stop to Nazism and Fascism.
Many people active in resistance movements found their way into the political parties and also the movements that I have represented in this House for 27 years.
I also wish to remember a young academic who travelled all around the country in order to create the first Danish resistance movement, while the government cooperated with the German occupying power.
After the war he became a government minister and took part in the European Movement’s great congress in The Hague in 1948, when the Council of Europe and European integration were got under way.
For many years he was President of the European Movement and a Social Democratic member of the Danish Parliament.
I would say thank you to those who displayed personal courage and died for our freedom. ‘El pueblo unido jamás será vencido’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that today, throughout Central and Western Europe, we have democracy, civil liberties, private ownership and tolerance is due to the fact that Communism did not take hold on our continent, although it could have.
In Eastern Europe, a dam against Communism was created by the victorious battle of the Poles against the Bolsheviks in 1920 and the decisive resistance of Catholic Poland against enforced Soviet dominance.
The fact that Communism did not take root in the West is largely thanks to the victorious civil war fought by traditional Spain against Communist governments.
Although it came to power democratically, the Spanish left behaved in a similar manner to the left in Bolshevik Russia, where the main target of attacks was the Church.
Thanks to the Spanish right, the Spanish army, its leaders and thanks to General Francisco Franco in particular, the Communist attack on Catholic Spain was thwarted.
The presence of figures such as Franco, Salazar or De Valera in European politics ensured that Europe maintained its traditional values.
We defend our ideals with our own convictions. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank everybody who has taken part in this debate and I would like to thank the Members who have attended it, in particular those who are not Spanish, for the interest they have shown in this historic event, which was undoubtedly a tragedy.
I would also like to point out that we have been accompanied in the public gallery by people whose historical memory has brought them here. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - the recommendation, by the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 (09077/2006 – C6-0192/2006 – 2004/0163(AVC)) (Rapporteur: Konstantinos Hatzidakis) (A6-0224/2006), - the recommendation, by the Committee on Regional Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1164/94 (09078/2006 – C6-0191/2006 – 2004/0166(AVC)) (Rapporteur: Alfonso Andria) (A6-0226/2006), - the recommendation for second reading, by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Social Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1784/1999 (09060/4/2006 – C6-0188/2006 – 2004/0165(COD)) (Rapporteur: José Albino Silva Peneda) (A6-0220/2006), - the recommendation for second reading, by the Committee on Regional Development, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Regional Development Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1783/1999 (09059/4/2006 – C6-0187/2006 – 2004/0167(COD)) (Rapporteur: Giovanni Claudio Fava) (A6-0225/2006), and - the recommendation for second reading, by the Committee on Regional Development, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European grouping of territorial co-operation (EGTC) (09062/2/2006 – C6-0189/2006 – 2004/0168(COD)) (Rapporteur: Jan Olbrycht) (A6-0227/2006). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a Greek I am, I think, entitled to say that today we are at the end of a marathon run of debates and negotiations which started not in 2004, when the Commission submitted its proposal for the draft general regulation, but much earlier, in 2001, when we started the first debates on the future of the Structural Funds for the period 2007-2013.
Parliament was present throughout this procedure and set its seal on the debates and negotiations: on the initially unofficial consultations we had with the European Commission, on the third cohesion report which followed and on the interim report on the regulation voted through last summer.
Parliament sent out a double message in all these debates: firstly, that the European Union needed a credible cohesion budget; I think we were one of the powers that overturned efforts by certain parties to limit the budget for the new programming period.
In January, we started negotiations in order to influence the final outcome, following decisions by the European Council, and to incorporate some of our basic positions.
I would like to highlight the constructive attitude both of the European Commission and of Commissioner Hübner and of the Austrian Presidency in these negotiations and to thank both sides for cooperating with the European Parliament.
Despite the Council's initial resistance, monitoring committees will also be attended by environmental partners, non-governmental organisations and other bodies which represent civil society.
In other words, we achieved what we have for years referred to as the 'greening' of the Structural Funds.
There is a strong legal basis for not causing any further environmental damage via the Structural Funds.
At the same time, we strengthened urban policy.
The Member States are obliged to have more specific forecasts for towns.
This obligation includes submitting a special list of the towns selected in order to address the relevant problems.
However, further delay would also mean a delay in starting programmes, which would be a bad thing for the regions and the poorer Member States.
Consequently, the major challenge which we all face, especially the Commission, the Member States and the regions, is to ensure the regulation is now applied correctly.
There are challenges both for the old Member States, which must not repeat past mistakes, and for the new Member States, which must not repeat the mistakes of certain old Member States in connection with the take-up and use of funds.
The European Parliament spoke with one voice at the negotiating table with the Council and the Commission, going beyond political affiliations and countries of origin, and thus succeeded in having a greater impact on the results of the negotiation, helping to significantly improve the initial structure of the provisions.
Thanks to the combined efforts of the three institutions, this morning’s vote will mean that Europe has access to new legal instruments that are vital for strengthening solidarity and economic and social cohesion.
With regard to the regulation establishing a Cohesion Fund, for which I am the lead rapporteur, I should like to highlight the importance of the increase in the budget, for which Parliament fought, from EUR&#160;18&#160;billion for the 2000-2006 period to slightly more than EUR&#160;61.5&#160;billion&#160;for the next programming period.
This is in response to the recipient Member States’ great financial needs in the environmental and transport sectors, with special attention paid to sustainable development, through a form of balanced yet flexible distribution, that is to say, one that is capable of adapting the way in which the Fund is used to meet the needs of each Member State.
I should like to mention just a few of them that concern both the regulation establishing a Cohesion Fund and the general regulation, for which Mr&#160;Hatzidakis is the rapporteur and I am the shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group.
I am satisfied regarding these two points, although I would have liked a precise reference to have been made in the main body of the regulation on the Cohesion Fund too.
Finally, as regards the regulation on the European Regional Development Fund, for which Mr&#160;Fava is the rapporteur and I am a shadow rapporteur, I look very positively on the inclusion of the reference to the issue of public security in the context of the convergence objective, as a guarantee against Structural Fund-related expenditure processes being infiltrated by organised crime.
To conclude, I should like to add to what Mr&#160;Hatzidakis has said and call on Parliament to support the entire package of regulations under discussion today by voting in favour of it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the process leading to the adoption of the new regulation on the European Social Fund is worthy of Parliament’s support.
At first reading, we tabled 84 amendments to the Commission’s original proposal.
Of these amendments I should like to highlight one point: the Commission’s original version established a range of measures that were the target of funding but whose actions varied as to whether the region benefiting from the funding was a convergence objective region or one that came under the competitiveness and employment objective.
I oppose this regional difference in principle, on the grounds that, when it is put into practice, it will lead to the creation of a two-speed European Social Fund, and will enshrine a form of indirect discrimination of workers benefiting from the Fund depending on the region in which they work.
Other significant amendments on which the Council and the Commission ultimately accepted our proposals concerned the use of money from the European Social Fund to fund the activities of the social partners.
I have always opposed the Commission’s original proposal and suggested a more flexible yet tighter alternative solution that would earmark a suitable amount of resources from the European Social Fund for measures to strengthen the capacities of the social partners, albeit specifying that these activities must relate to training, network integration measures and stepping up social dialogue.
On this point too, both the Commission and the Council have accepted our point of view.
Following the normal procedure for a second reading of this new regulation, we ran the serious risk of the essential legal bases that would enable the Member States to use the European Social Fund appropriation from 1&#160;January&#160;2007 not being in place in time.
These points were as follows: strengthening the role of social integration, commitment on the part of the Member States to support priority actions, commitment on the part of the Member States to promote measures in the area of innovation, commitment on the part of the Member States to support transnational and inter-regional actions, and making an appropriate amount of money available for the training and networking of the social partners.
Mr President, globalisation and technological and demographic evolution have led to far reaching changes to a number of areas of life in our societies.
The most important political issue going forward is how to decide the direction of these changes and, in this regard, I admit that much of what is contained in this report is the result not only of hard work but also of detailed reflection on values that largely sum up my view of politics as a public service.
Lastly, I should like to express my gratitude for the excellent spirit of cooperation shown throughout the process and to Mr&#160;Špidla, who is in the Chamber today.
We have worked alongside the Commission and the Council to ensure that this journey is swiftly concluded, but also, I repeat, to improve some sensitive points that we regard as important in the way in which our regions and our local authorities will use the Structural Funds.
I should like to quickly point out our contribution on some specific points.
We believe that the consultation procedure is a great school for democracy and, above all, a great resource in terms of responsibility: extending the scope of responsibility in the management of the Structural Funds is one of the major political challenges facing the European Union.
Enlargement has widened the gap that exists between various geographical areas of Europe, and we felt it important to bridge that gap and to strike an economic and social balance among all of the countries of the European Union, preventing the risk of a two-speed Europe.
Instead, we have concentrated on the quality of a few objectives and made sure that quality comes before quantity, and we have done so, too, on the basis of the experience that each of us has committed to memory.
We have held on to the principle of additionality: the Structural Funds are a form of added value, they must not substitute for the current, normal expenditure of the Member States, of the State.
In that sense, we must focus more on quality issues regarding this expenditure, as a form of added value.
The European Parliament’s contribution has been a practical one, including on a number of specific points, insofar as it has paid particular attention to environmental issues, to sustainable development, to urban policy, to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the European economy, and to security, too.
We are only partly satisfied, Mr&#160;President, because, as you and all of my fellow Members will know, we do not believe that the budgetary resources are sufficient for the challenge we are facing, in spite of the enlargement and in spite of the proposal by the previous Commission, a proposal that is perhaps more generous and more in keeping with the needs of this enlarged Europe of 25.
I feel it is worth stressing the European Parliament's sense of responsibility yet again, as other Members have done.
We all remember the heated debate on the role and significance of cohesion policy in the European Union for achieving the aims of the Lisbon Strategy, as well as the attempts to limit cohesion policy gradually, and even to renationalise it.
Today we are discussing these matters as if they were in the past, but it is useful for us at the European Parliament to remember that implementing the principle of solidarity through cohesion policy, amongst others, is an integral part of the functioning of the European Union.
In line with the terms of the Treaties, social and economic cohesion policy can be implemented with the aid of common financial resources.
During the current programming period, joint cross-border activities form part of the Community initiative Interreg.
Experience of Interreg activities shows that cross-border initiatives undertaken jointly by local and regional authorities in several Member States are of great importance to them, as they create cooperation networks and build mutual trust.
The new programming period should take advantage of this positive experience.
Initiatives typically associated with Interreg have therefore been included in the main stream of cohesion policy, within the framework of Objective III.
That is also the source of the innovative idea of creating a new legal instrument that would support all border-region, transnational and interregional activities.
Work on the regulation has been an example of consistent progress towards compromise solutions requiring many concessions and difficult decisions.
It is worth emphasising that the proposed solution guarantees Member States full control over the creation and operation of the EGTC.
Most of all, it is a way of expressing our appreciation to all those who have, for many years, been building a truly European, decentralised form of international cooperation.
As a rapporteur from a Member State that joined the European Union during the recent enlargement, I had the opportunity to get to grips with the complexity of the legislative process.
Talks on the cohesion policy regulations have taken two years of hard work on the part of the various institutions.
If Parliament’s plenary today votes on the package of regulations in accordance with the recommendations of the committees, the reform of the cohesion policy and the implementation of the new programming period can go ahead as planned at the start of 2007.
The European Parliament has had a key part to play in deciding the content of the Union’s new cohesion policy.
In the various ways in which it has approached the issue, Parliament has particularly stressed the importance of matters which are crucial for the public and civil society, such as partnership, paying attention to environmental values and the participation of disabled people in the implementation of programmes.
Most of the amendments that Parliament has proposed have been taken into consideration in today’s debate on the regulation proposals.
Besides the adoption of the regulations, we also need Community strategic guidelines on cohesion policy before the legal basis for implementing the programmes is finalised.
I trust in the willingness of the various parties to cooperate, and I hope that the fruitful patterns of cooperation with the European Parliament will continue.
Parliament’s Committee on Regional Development completed its report on the strategic guidelines back in May.
In such a case, the Commission can adopt the Single Programming Documents so that they can start to be implemented in early 2007.
Having the Community strategic guidelines on the regulations and cohesion come into force will be the most important regional development goal during the Finnish presidency.
The European Parliament has worked with great determination and flexibility in the reform of cohesion policy.
At the same time it has been possible to hold negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement, the regulations and the strategic guidelines.
I also wish to thank the preceding presidencies and the Commission and Commissioners for their valuable work in carrying out the cohesion policy reforms.
The Committee of the Regions and the European Economic and Social Committee are also to be praised in the way they have advanced the cause by raising issues that were close to the regions and the people.
Secondly, we appreciate your contribution to setting up a new architecture and also new instruments for this policy.
You have insisted on establishing a more ambitious territorial cooperation objective.
That objective has a considerable and clear European added value, in particular in the context of the enlargement of the European Union.
I am sure that the increase of 4% in the financial resources available for this objective of reinforcing transnational and interregional cooperation, which had suffered the most substantial reductions in the European Council decision of December 2005, will help us to be more efficient and more effective in bringing European regions across the continent together.
In addition, I would like to thank you for your support for developing a unique instrument designed to overcome the problems encountered by Member States, regions and local authorities in undertaking cross-border, transnational or interregional cooperation actions, whether funded by structural funds or not.
For the first time ever, the EU will provide an adequate legal framework for enhanced cross-border, interregional and transnational cooperation.
Thirdly, I appreciate your role in ensuring that cohesion policy will apply to all regions and Member States and that it will contribute to more and better jobs and faster economic growth.
In this context, I am also very happy that you welcomed our efforts to create new supporting instruments such as ‘Jeremy’ and ‘Jessica’, which will bring in new partners and expertise from European financial institutions.
Let me use this opportunity to express my personal thanks to the rapporteurs, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Andria, Mr&#160;Silva Peneda, Mr Fava and Mr Olbrycht, and to say how much we appreciated the role Mrs Krehl played as rapporteur for the Financial Perspective and her work on the Community Strategic Guidelines.
Let me also thank Mr Beaupuy, without whose commitment the urban dimension would probably not be so prominent in our new policy.
It was a pleasure to work with Mr Galeote, Chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, whom I thank very much for his commitment.
He always maintained a very constructive and cooperative spirit and we shared the same principles and priorities throughout the negotiations.
Jointly we have managed to avoid a policy based on a system of double standards in the application of the rules on the eligibility of non-recoverable VAT and in the application of the principle of total eligible cost as the basis of co-financing.
We will not have two distinct cohesion policies for Europe, one for the old and one for the new Member States.
You have shared our insistence on the need to strengthen the partnership principle.
We have jointly reinforced the role of NGOs, local and civil society and the environmental partners in our policy.
With your support we have also strengthened the provisions on non-discrimination and sustainable development.
However, there are a number of items where we failed fully to convince our Member States of their added value.
I am thinking here of the concept of a Community reserve, of our intention to render the urban dimension of our policy mandatory and of Parliament’s idea of recycling the potentially unspent resources allocated to cohesion policy.
As requested by Parliament, the Commission has prepared a joint declaration in which the Commission commits itself to presenting an assessment of the budgetary execution of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the 2007-2013 programming period, including the consequences of the implementation of the decommitment rule.
The Member States will then formally present their national strategies concerning how they propose to use cohesion policy, after which we will discuss in detail the operational programmes, with final adoption by the Commission.
We have already received the draft national programmes from 21 Member States.
We are gradually completing the preparation of the new 2007-2013 generation, but we have to think long-term to ensure that cohesion policy will continue to support convergence and the economic and social modernisation of Europe.
Today, almost two years after the Commission’s proposal, you are set to vote on the package of regulations on cohesion.
Thanks to your efforts and support, this is a well-balanced package that represents genuine reform.
The European Social Fund (ESF), which celebrates its 50th anniversary in 2007, will retain its role.
It will continue to be an instrument providing direct support to individual citizens and as such a key element in bringing the Union closer to the citizens.
The funds, and in particular the ESF, must also, however, promote the Community's priorities much more clearly than before.
During the programming process, the Commission will come to an agreement with the Member States and the regions on the main priorities and goals, which will be fully compliant with the relaunched Lisbon Strategy.
Thirdly, support for human capital will enable the ESF to contribute significantly towards creating a knowledge-based society.
Support for an educated, qualified and adaptable work force, and for innovation, is key if we are to increase employment, productivity at work, growth, social cohesion and social security.
Furthermore, also thanks to Parliament's staunch support, this regulation prioritises improving institutional capacity in the convergence regions and countries eligible for cohesion fund support.
I strongly believe that this priority will play a central role in improving the effective functioning of public administration, thereby raising competitiveness and in turn strengthening the development of sustainable jobs and support for social inclusion.
I should also like to point out that the ESF is also tasked with reducing disparities in terms of employment at national, regional and local levels.
The fund will from now on play a key role in equality between men and women and equal opportunities, by means of special projects and the implementation of these principles in all areas of life.
These practical steps help people to develop socially beneficial measures and show how the Fund leads to the sharing of the values on which the European social model was founded.
The ESF will also provide special support for the social partners in the convergence regions.
Thanks to Parliament, the current wording is totally unambiguous, which is something I welcome.
Furthermore, I should like to thank Parliament for its active support in ensuring that special provisions on partnership are contained in the new general regulation.
This is a key principle that applies to all the funds that we are talking about.
This principle enables civil society actors to be involved at every stage, namely social partners, civil society, non-governmental organisations and equal opportunities organisations.
Accordingly, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs under the chair of Jan Andersson, which has provided the Commission with a great deal of support.
In the coming months, the Member States will submit their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes to the Commission.
The Commission will do all that is necessary to ensure that discussions with the Member States achieve a balanced result in line with the priorities of the Community policies and with the shared interests of Europe's citizens.
In our opinion, we focused mainly on how to take the needs of disabled people into account in terms of implementing projects funded in part by money from the structural funds.
We also called for the broadening of qualification criteria for funding within the framework of ‘regional competitiveness and employment’ in terms of the level of education available in a given Member State.
Not all our recommendations have been accepted, of course, but that is the way of parliamentary business and compromise, which are the basis for decisions in a Community as diverse as the European Union.
Mr President, I would like in particular to congratulate the four rapporteurs for the regional Funds, and not merely out of courtesy, but because they have done an excellent job, with tenacity and skill, the result of which has been the incorporation of many amendments into the final text, of which the Council has already expressed its approval.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the discussions in the Council last December on the financial perspective and now on the Regulations on the funds, we have begun to fear that certain governments wish to call into question the most visible and successful of the European policies: the cohesion policy.
We are not making cohesion policy for human capital, as the European jargon has it, but we are making policy for people.
That means we must put people at the centre and hence in fact greatly strengthen the social aspect.
That means we can say with a clear conscience that the Lisbon Strategy is at the heart of our cohesion policy and the people of our Union really do have opportunities for the future.
Mr&#160;Manninen, as rapporteur for the strategic guidelines, I and my colleagues will do all that we can to see that we are able to keep to this ambitious timetable and adopt these policies in October. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs&#160;Hübner, Mr&#160;Špidla, Mr&#160;Manninen, ladies and gentlemen, I can testify to the vigour and richness of the exchanges of the last few months and the last two years, which have resulted today in texts that my colleagues and I think and hope will in a moment be adopted by the European Parliament by a very large majority.
I would like to stress that, throughout this debate, my group has given the greatest possible attention to the need for these texts to be effective.
As Mrs&#160;Krehl has just indicated, the Structural Funds are a testimony of solidarity with the most disadvantaged regions, so that they can attain an average level of prosperity.
Allow me to list three conditions – at an educational level and in terms of providing spurs to action and, if I may say so, tempting incentives - that are necessary if this preparation phase is to succeed.
We really must develop this communication strategy, and the document that you have just published takes this approach.
The Member States, the regions and the different actors which are in the process of preparing projects must really have a good knowledge of different practices in order to be able to prepare their projects properly.
You know - and with good reason - that within the Structural Funds it is possible to have recourse to technical assistance funds.
We have noted in the past that a portion of these funds was not used, or was used badly.
From now until the end of 2006, and throughout 2007, the technical assistance funds must be used in order to prepare worthy projects.
I regret of course that, as my fellow Members have pointed out, certain Member States have recently refused to recycle funds that cannot be used within the specified periods.
It was above all Parliament that ensured that cohesion is and remains the real objective of the Structural Funds, because anyone who puts economic and social cohesion at risk strikes at the very heart of the European Union’s ability to integrate.
Suddenly, at the end of the negotiations, a list appeared in the documents which tied the Member States down to using the Structural Funds to implement the Lisbon Strategy.
The actual purpose of the Structural Funds, to bring about cohesion between the regions and pursue their sustainable development, suddenly became merely incidental.
I think it is scandalous not only that Parliament was bypassed when the earmarking list was put in the documents without consultation, but also that the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, should itself sacrifice economic and social cohesion in violation of those Treaties.
Finally, I would like to welcome Commissioner Kallas’ transparency initiative.
As regards the Community budget, regional policy should be an instrument of much-needed, fair redistribution, which will at the very least reduce the detrimental impact of the internal market on the economically least-developed countries and regions.
Consequently, we must adopt a critical stance as regards this General Regulation on the Structural Funds, which translates into legislative terms the Interinstitutional Agreement on the amounts, the objectives and the implementation rules of the Structural Funds for 2007-2013.
We also object to aspects such as the subordination of Cohesion Policy to the objectives of the so-called Lisbon Strategy, with the inclusion of the objective of allocating at least 60% of funds in the convergence regions and 75% in the other regions towards funding projects laid down in the Lisbon Strategy.
I should lastly like to lend my backing to Mr&#160;Henin's remarks about certain cross-border regions, such as Hainaut in France and Belgium, which has differentiated access to the Structural Funds.
This marathon, Mr&#160;Hatzidakis, has required a lot of effort but has resulted in a reasonable compromise.
We have to be aware that time passes rapidly and that individual Member States need time to prepare their legislative systems in order to be able to make use of these funds before the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective comes into force.
Member States need to coordinate these activities with their national strategic reference frameworks.
Union resources are used in conjunction with the financial resources of individual Member States themselves, as well as the financial resources of regional and local authorities.
It is worth remembering that around 27% of the population of the European Union, namely 123&#160;million people, live in areas where the GDP per capita is less than three quarters of the European Union average.
Of course we also need to face the challenges of globalisation, competition, science and technology as well as dealing with the demographic crisis, an ageing population, a growing number of disabled people and immigration.
Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the need to monitor the legislation adopted and, if necessary, to respond rapidly.
This is the best way of bringing Europe closer to its citizens. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, today’s debate sees the end of a 14—month-plus process of negotiation on general rules on drawing resources from the funds.
Fortunately for the new Member States, it is not only Parliament that is unfairly divided into new and old Member States; this also applies to the Council, which has incorporated this compromise into the new rules.
The long and, here in Parliament, fruitless 14-month negotiation process has only served to demonstrate how matters in the EU would turn out if we adopted the European Constitution with a majority decision, indeed a decision that is valid here.
One of the most important changes, which also reflect the outcome of the December 2005 summit on the Financial Perspective, must surely be the eligibility of non-recoverable VAT where there is private cofinancing.
It seems to me that the less than generous nature of the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013 has not prevented us from improving the legislative instruments of this reform – reform that is essential for us, as European Socialists, because it is the expression of solidarity between regions.
Our work has made it possible to emphasise the necessity – as indicated by Mr&#160;Beaupuy a little while ago of supporting sustainable urban development in our regions.
Besides the weakness of the budgetary foundation for this reform, allow me to tell you two disappointing facts.
This is cause for celebration, but it is regrettable that eligibility only exists in countries that joined the Union after 1&#160;May 2004.
This period was fixed at seven years by the Commission in its initial proposal and confirmed by the vote of this House, and, in view of recent events, particularly the job losses in Europe caused by relocations, I would ask the Commission to reread the report on relocations, adopted by this House in March. &#160;&#160; The Regulation on the European Grouping for Territorial Cooperation has undergone many amendments in the debates on the package of cohesion legislation.
Understandably, this is a new-generation legal instrument that can support the initiatives for regional cross–border partnerships that are restricted by the diverse nature of national legislations.
However, the final answer to the question as to whether this is an appropriate way to stimulate geographical cohesion can only be delivered by practical experience.
The new groupings introduced by the Regulation will in all probability be built around areas of specific common concern.
We have reason to believe that supplementary budgetary resources will make an important contribution to the territorial cohesion of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Cohesion Fund is an ideal way of putting across one of the European Union’s most important basic principles, solidarity between Member States, to people where they are.
I very much welcome the fact that this support is more geared to sustainable development and that sustainable urban transport, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies are considered key sectors.
I welcome the Fava report and the Olbrycht report and thank all the rapporteurs.
I particularly welcome the efforts to strengthen the social and environmental aspects of the regulations.
In dealing with these funds, we have generally fought hard to ensure that the role of NGOs is strengthened and that greater account is taken of the environment and to stress the importance of access for those with disabilities.
In welcoming the report by Mr Olbrycht on cross-border grouping of territorial cooperation, I want to stress that this will be of tremendous benefit to border regions and to divided countries such as my own.
Structural funding should be Community-based and Community-driven, with all sections of the Community fully involved in the process.
In my own constituency, we can learn a lot from how other countries empower local communities and local democratic structures.
In Ireland, they will be particularly important in border counties and in the north-west region, which have experienced deprivation, under-investment and unemployment. &#160;&#160; May I inform the House that there was not a problem with the interpreters this time.
I believe that the compromise achieved for the Cohesion Fund and the large ERDF projects during the transition stage, applying the n+3 principle, is insufficient and must be retained beyond 2010 until 2013.
I therefore do not agree with the opinion expressed in Parliament’s report on the Cohesion Fund regulations that the n+2 principle should be applied to all funds, including the Cohesion Fund.
It must be taken into consideration that the new Member States lack the practical experience and human resources for managing such projects, and therefore the n+2 principle will be difficult to implement.
Both these policies are aimed at increasing economic growth and employment competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the last time I saw a printed copy of the budget for the Structural and Cohesion Funds for the period 2007-2013 it stood at EUR 336&#160;billion, with a precise allocation budgeted for each of the 25 Member States plus the next two in the queue, Bulgaria and Romania.
At the same time, as the European Union, we have to face the challenges of globalisation.
I welcome the fact that the European Social Fund, as the Commissioner reminded us, places emphasis on education and on doing away with inequalities in employment.
I myself have two minutes, and I am grateful to those who allowed me this time.
Regional policy is vital for the new Member States, as we know.
This implementation must, of course, take place, but it need not necessarily be uniform: the regional priorities must be as variable as the barriers to development.
It is vital for regional policy to be visible to and popular with our fellow citizens, in order to avoid further disappointments when they are asked about the future of the Union: in simple terms, we need them to feel involved in the progress of regional development.
Removing territorial differences, supporting infrastructures and the economic and social development of our peoples and regions have been the basis of this work.
We in Parliament incorporated significant changes into the regulations that implement this policy and that have considerably improved its content in terms of the environment, accessibility for disabled persons and the participation of civil society.
We have recognised the differences between regions within the territory of the European Union: rural regions, urban regions, islands, outermost regions, regions with falling populations, etc.
Indeed, I agree with Mr&#160;Hatzidakis that they have all run a marathon.
In particular I want to mention partnership, which is crucial because it involves civil society, environmental partners and NGOs working in close cooperation with all the partners.
This is a practical demonstration of how Europe can be brought closer to its citizens by involving citizens in the planning and implementation of the programmes, although I agree with Mrs Kallenbach that this must be real, rather than apparent.
This is a practical example of how Article 13 can be translated into action. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today represents the end of a good piece of work by this Parliament, a good piece of work by the Commission and a rather less good piece of work by the Council, in particular a number of Member States within it – sadly, my own among them.
This is not the package we wanted, but there is more in it to like than dislike.
This package takes us forward and my group will be supporting it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the structural policy of the European Union, as applied today, has limited results because, basically, it is the expression of the social policy of the economic model of free competition derived from the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies.
Enlargement in 2004 brought with it an urgent need to change the current criteria for granting appropriations, in order to take account of the increase in social and economic divergences between the 25 Member States.
Let us not forget that the European Commission of the Europe of the 15 looked mainly to satisfy the wishes of the old Member States when it came to how appropriations were apportioned and how the contributions of each Member State were calculated.
However, the most important issue which the new proposals fail to address is a change in philosophy of the Structural Funds, from their current auxiliary function to a means of really promoting social and economic development, so that they can become real tools for social policy and for rectifying inequalities between countries and regions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, by taking the floor in the debate on the regulations on structural fund spending, I would like to draw your attention to three serious omissions relating to the matter.
Firstly, the appropriations for commitments under section 1B, namely spending on growth and employment, are over EUR 30&#160;billion less than was previously proposed.
Secondly, the dispute within the Council, which went on for many months, led to a serious delay in the adoption of the Financial Perspective.
This has contributed to the fact that we are only discussing regulations on the structural funds in the second half of 2006.
Thirdly, this delay will mean that the so-called Community strategic support framework will not be drawn up until the autumn of 2006 and the national strategic reference frameworks, prepared by individual Member States, will only be drawn up in 2007.
This situation will mean that the procedures for programming resources from specific funds will be significantly delayed.
Unfortunately, as a result, 2007 will to a large extent be a wasted year from the point of view of making good use of structural funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, all these packages are basically dead letters unless we relax the Maastricht indicators.
In this context and as a&#160;citizen of Slovakia, a new Member State in the European Union, I&#160;realise the great importance of structural assistance given by the economically strong Member States to the new members.
In particular, I&#160;am pleased by the fact that the agreement between the European Parliament and Council supports the measures proposed by new Member States, also known as the N+3 rules, which address issues such as VAT and housing.
This is a good and long overdue solution, as evidenced by the fact that all MEPs from the new Member States voted for these proposals during the first reading in this House.
In the economically stronger regions, we support regional competitiveness.
We must all know, and we want to know, precisely what European taxpayers’ money is being used for.
Parliament must back the Commission in this sensible initiative, because structural and regional policy can only be successful if we use European money in a controlled and targeted way for the most pressing problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Špidla, Mrs&#160;Hübner, the fact that the Commission and the Council have accepted most of Parliament’s amendments on Social Fund reform really shows how well this House has worked.
That we have also in the end reached a good compromise on all the points in dispute also shows how well the Austrian Council Presidency conducted the negotiations.
However, there also needs to be a closer link with European employment strategy, and social exclusion must be curtailed.
In view of the 20&#160;million unemployed and 68&#160;million people living in poverty in the European Union as a whole, particular attention will in future also be paid to the integration of socially disadvantaged groups.
However, a sound general education is a basic prerequisite for good vocational training, and for that reason money from the Social Fund may now also be used to reform education systems.
Acceptance has been higher where the social partners have been tangibly involved in the development of employment programmes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the legislative reforms pertaining to the Structural Funds have had a satisfactory outcome.
As the member representing the northernmost country in the committee, I tried to ensure in particular that the sparsely populated regions in the north of Sweden and Finland would achieve an equitable position.
The committee reached a position which supported the idea of drawing a parallel between these northernmost regions and the peripheral regions.
Cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament ensured that a solution on financing would be reached that would safeguard the position of the sparsely populated regions in the subsequent financing period.
In the future we will have to ensure that this support remains as permanent as the natural conditions which are the basis for it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of a further redistribution of the funds, on the basis of recommendations that our rapporteurs have tried to optimise, particularly at a time of budget shortages, regarding the distribution of resources and main aims.
Enlargement means a greater number of less developed regions to support and therefore fewer resources than before for the less developed regions in those countries that joined beforehand.
Despite the partial acceptance of some proposals, the objective of supporting regional policies based on competitiveness, employment, environmental protection and support for the disabled seems sufficiently focused.
I shall vote in favour of redistributing the funds because, in spite of everything, the regional and social development funds and the cohesion fund still represent an opportunity for Southern Italy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, following the long months of endless negotiations on the financial perspective, we now have a definitive proposal for a regulation on the structural funds.
I should therefore like to commend the rapporteurs, especially Mr&#160;Hatzidakis and Mr&#160;Olbrycht, who led the most difficult part of the discussion, for their efforts, for their helpfulness and for their ability to take on board the interests of all those taking part.
I personally believe that if the people are to identify with the EU, they need to be made fully aware of the contribution in the individual Member States.
Ultimately, these are our cities, and they have a better idea of what activities and projects should be supported for the end users’ benefit.
I am afraid, however, that the urban dimension and the partnership principle will be upheld only on paper.
In the case of the Czech Republic, I know how unwilling the State is to invite our cities to take decisions on the form that operational programmes will take – and this applies to the regions too.
I therefore believe it would be beneficial for the Commission to analyse the extent to which the urban dimension is achieved in the individual Member States. &#160;&#160; The dream of Robert Schumann and Jacques Delors is coming true.
In the spirit of subsidiarity, regions often use cross-border cooperation to carry out their normal business.
With Romania and Bulgaria joining the EU in 2007 and Croatia joining later, this cross-border cooperation will take on an even greater significance for Hungary.
For Hungarian communities living close to Hungary, but outside its borders, a Hungarian population of several million people who live in Romania, Slovakia and other neighbouring countries, joint developments have a significant impact on the transformation of borders into virtual boundaries.
The historical regions where the peoples and nations of Central Europe have lived together for centuries are being restored.
Economic necessity is reinforcing cohesion between the nations living in the common European family.
Cross-border cooperation in Europe is a logical and good solution for establishing reasonable cooperation between the multifaceted civil organisations and local authority and government bodies in various locations, and for the extension of the principle of equal opportunities.
It is also up to us to promote the projects that provide the greatest added value, and, in particular, to give them greater transparency in order to show our fellow citizens what Europe is doing for them.
When we call for more money, it is because many of us are convinced that the Europe we are building is not only a Europe of peace and cohesion following enlargement, but also the most appropriate area today to combat the effects of globalisation, by promoting not only growth but also employment for our fellow European citizens. &#160;&#160; []&#160;…and thanks to having good rapporteurs, we have managed to catch up.
These benefits are now available to all Member States.
Openness is particularly important in countries that had been controlled by a single-party system for decades, in order to avoid even the semblance of the governing parties continuing the management and money allocation practices of the previous single party.
If required, we will be ready to make it even better. &#160;&#160; I would like to join my colleagues too in welcoming the constructive cooperation of the Council and Parliament.
In fact, competitiveness and social cohesion can only be seen as joint goals, which is why we are Europeans.
Declaration 30 of the Treaty of Amsterdam acknowledged that the structural disadvantages suffered by the islands should be compensated for by means of specific measures in favour of those regions, with a view to integrating them into the internal market under the same conditions as the other European regions, improving their access to continental markets and creating a territorial, sectoral and temporal balance in their economic activity.
Nevertheless, in this case, once again, the specific measures necessary to compensate for the natural, structural, geographical and permanent disadvantages suffered by these island regions have not been taken.
It is precisely the permanent nature of these problems that makes these specific measures necessary in order to alleviate and correct the inevitable extra cost of being islands.
We are not talking about granting privileges, but about compensating for the obvious difficulties faced by our islands. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by commending the hard work of our rapporteurs and fellow Members who have made it possible to improve the Commission's proposal from the perspective of partnership, non-discrimination and, above all, balance between the regions of the old and new Member States.
Finally, I find it regrettable that the Council has decided to earmark the appropriations of the regional policy for the Lisbon objectives on a massive scale, and, what is more, that they did not really consult Parliament regarding the classification of the spending.
We must remain vigilant, to ensure that the operational programmes in our regions are sufficiently flexible to take account of structural investments, which are still necessary, and of social solidarity.
Finally, I would remind you that, whilst this reform must, of course, contribute to the objectives of competitiveness, it must, above all, contribute to economic, social and territorial cohesion. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, with today’s decision, Europe has decided to invest in a cohesion policy that is rich in prospects, by allocating EUR&#160;308&#160;billion to objectives relating to convergence, social cohesion and the promotion of territorial cohesion.
In the European Union of 25, 123&#160;million people, equivalent to 27% of the total population, live in regions with a pro capita GDP of less than 75% of the Community average; of these, two-fifths live in regions belonging to the old Member States.
Cohesion policy helps distribute the benefits of European economic development, by anticipating change and helping areas that are in difficulty, often for structural or geographical reasons.
This cohesion policy helps limit the negative effects of globalisation.
One can only support the recent reform of the Structural Funds, those crucial instruments of cohesion policy, because it leads to more efficiency, transparency and accountability.
The management system has been simplified, with the introduction of differentiation and proportionality in the context of sound financial management, in line with the requests for simplification made by the main actors of cohesion policy: the Member States.
The new reform is based on the Lisbon and Gothenburg priorities: employment and research, innovation and sustainable development.
There are, in fact, countless new elements, such as the creation of three new objectives: reducing the number of Structural Funds, strengthening the partnership, allocating more financial resources to islands and regions with geographical handicaps and protecting ‘phasing-out’ regions, which will soon no longer be eligible under the convergence objective. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today’s debate is the culmination of two years’ work on structural fund reform.
Today we can say that, following difficult negotiations concerning the Financial Perspective and the entire legislative package on cohesion policy, we have achieved a good compromise.
For the years 2007 – 2013, nearly 36% of the European Union’s budget has been earmarked for structural funds.
Although we already have a legal framework and earmarked funds, we still need the wholehearted commitment of our national and local governments in order to make the best use of the unique opportunity we have created together to foster regional development in the EU.
The Social Fund now concentrates on globalisation and on improving people’s employability.
It can help with getting them access to work, with the prevention of unemployment, with extending working life and getting more people – women and older people in particular – into working life. &#160;&#160; Cohesion policy could be a symbol of a European mentality, because it is based on open solidarity extending to every region of Europe, especially if the funds are accompanied by regulations that allow even the poorest regions of Europe to use the development opportunities provided.
Two years ago ten new Member States joined the European Community, typically with poorer regions.
The regions in these countries have followed a different development path to those in our Western Member States.
Although, as we heard today, transparency and the production of results will take centre stage over the coming years, not least in the debate on the mid-term review of 2010, what the European people want is for Europe to become visible and tangible.
I have a question for Commissioner Hübner: can she produce additional initiatives on behalf of the public, as regions and cities have just done?
The new programming period is difficult.
A third issue worth mentioning is the environment, sustainable development and security.
All these factors will bring the European Union close to the people, as a means of helping them, and they will be an opportunity for making the relationship between the public and the European Union a closer one.
The delegations also refused to make any statement on the matter.
As I understand it, Parliament and the Commission are to make a joint statement on this issue.
On the contrary, the Lisbon objectives, once properly implemented, will ensure that special regional features are taken into account and that in the future too, effective cohesion policy will be pursued.
First of all, I would like to say that the process that has brought us to this stage of preparation for the next generation of cohesion policy clearly proves that the Community method works and that the European institutions have the capacity to find the consensus that is needed.
Secondly, what I see today is that we have a policy for the whole territory of the European Union, a policy adapted to the challenges of globalisation, of enlargement, of increased diversity, consistent with the principle of equity, adaptable to very different regional contexts and responding to the needs of territories and cities.
We will keep them in mind, both whilst negotiating the programmes and during the implementation process.
Fourthly, I am sure that the Members of the European Parliament will play an active role in promoting this policy in their constituencies, through dialogue with citizens and with all partners.
I feel that the main priority at the moment is to pave the way for the most effective practical implementation of Europe’s structural and cohesion policy.
We must also hold a dialogue with the citizens that is as open as possible, and develop as far-reaching a concept of partnership as possible, which in effect is what has been emphasised and put forward in the proposals.
The vote will take place in a few minutes’ time. &#160;&#160; – The regions are the building blocks of Europe; cultural differences and the promotion of regional diversity are among the main characteristics of the Union.
I am therefore pleased that more than one&#160;third of the Union’s budget has been allocated to the Structural Funds for the new 2007-2013 period.
It is actually the small-scale realities in Europe that drive the market, and the idea of strengthening competitiveness and involvement at this level, by promoting the partnership between public, private and non-governmental actors operating at a regional level, can only foster economic recovery, and that would benefit the Union overall.
I hope that the regions will take up this challenge and be able to transform the suggestions and resources provided by these institutions into definite plans for economic and social development, aiming above all at full employment and at the intelligent, sustainable use of the abundant high-quality human, artistic and natural resources that are available to us. &#160;&#160; The structural funds are essential for ensuring that the enhanced prosperity engendered by the single European market is spread move evenly and that less prosperous regions are helped to catch up.
The creation of a market at European level implies a European responsibility to ensure that all regions benefit.
My own constituency of Yorkshire and Humber has benefited immensely from the European structural funds.
Although the accession of the new Member States has meant a re-focusing of these funds, I am delighted that the new package agreed for the next seven years will continue to see a continuation of this funding for Yorkshire and the Humber at a substantial, albeit reduced, level. &#160;&#160; I would like to express my support for the Commission proposal on establishing a Community legal instrument in the form of the European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation.
I am convinced that this new initiative will make cross-border, interregional and international cooperation easier and more efficient.
I hope that the regulation on establishing a European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation, which represents nearly two years of legislative work, as well as the common position drawn up by the Council and the excellent reports drafted by Mr&#160;Olbrycht and adopted by the European Parliament will allow us to achieve this goal and create a model for European integration based on solidarity and harmony. &#160;&#160; – The European Council in December 2005 laid the foundations for the programming of the Structural Funds until 2013.
I would like to emphasise this almost completely steady figure, which is due to the eligibility of the French overseas departments for the convergence objective and to their status as outermost regions, at a time when all regions in mainland France, and many regions in the EU, have unfortunately seen their aid cut considerably.
France, Spain and Portugal managed to get a specific allocation created to take account of the additional costs associated with the disadvantages of the outermost regions.
I find the lack of visibility of this new measure in the general regulation regrettable.
I am therefore glad that the European Union is now negotiating with the United Nations and has signed a supplementary protocol guaranteeing that in future joint measures will also be taken with other countries beyond the European Union to combat smuggling.
I therefore backed the European Union’s signing of the supplementary protocol because it creates a further weapon in the fight against smuggling and thus also against organised crime. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my declaration relates to the second subject area, namely traffic in human beings.
As in the case of the smuggling of migrants, the European Union also signed an additional protocol on trafficking of persons.
The United Nations protocol gives us a new instrument of international law, enabling all states affected by the problem to adopt more appropriate measures than hitherto in their efforts to combat human trafficking.
There needs to be effective cooperation in the fight against organised crime, by means of, for example, harmonising definitions of individual offences in the different national legal systems, mutual legal assistance and joint investigations.
The international community took a major step forward with the adoption of the United Nations Convention Against Organised Crime, ratified by 121 countries, plus the European Community, which is the first legally binding global instrument designed to combat criminal networks.
I welcome the fact that Portugal is one of these countries and hope that the other seven Member States that have yet to ratify it will do so at the earliest opportunity.
The aim of human trafficking is sexual or economic exploitation, and it thus constitutes a modern form of slavery, showing complete disregard for the basic right to human dignity.
It will be difficult and expensive to combat this scourge, because the traffickers' networks are often international, and they benefit from the disparities between national laws and from loopholes in the coordination system.
I voted in favour of the Council's proposal on the conclusion of two additional protocols to the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organised Crime, because they strengthen the coordination and harmonisation of procedures.
The fact that these people are victims, and the rights related to that fact, need to be better recognised and applied; we need to systematically put forward measures to provide legal, material and psychological aid, and grant temporary residence permits or provide repatriation assistance.
Those victims who have the courage to denounce their traffickers deserve particular protection, because they often live in constant fear of reprisals. &#160;&#160; – Each year, almost 800&#160;000 tonnes of car batteries, 190&#160;000 tonnes of industrial batteries and accumulators and 160&#160;000 tonnes of portable batteries are placed on the market in the European Union.
Despite this, only six Member States have so far implemented a national collection system with a view to recycling used batteries.
I am in favour of the directive on which we are going to vote, which aims precisely to set up a system of this kind throughout the EU by 2008.
The main points raised in this report cover the most important measures of reducing the harmful effects of battery waste.
The report requires Member States to ensure that manufacturers design appliances in such a way that spent batteries and accumulators can be readily removed, and that appliances be accompanied by instructions containing consumer information.
The capacity labelling of all portable and automotive batteries and accumulators will be introduced no later than 12 months after the date of transposition of the directive.
The 'producer must pay for disposal principle' is a part of the EU mindset.
Stop dreaming up new ways to increase the cost of producing anything.
The common position falls short, however, on areas such as the promotion of the quality of work, and a more proactive contribution towards reducing income disparities and social inequality with the objective of genuine economic and social cohesion.
It is a position that continues to reduce the scope of application to policies closely related to the guidelines and recommendations in the context of the European Employment Strategy and the Lisbon Strategy, which we know has served to exacerbate inequalities and to promote the deregulation of the labour market.
Hence our abstention. &#160;&#160; I voted for Mr&#160;Silva&#160;Peneda's report.
Three quarters of the amendments tabled by our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs were accepted by the Council, acting by a qualified majority, and then by the European Commission.
The Austrian presidency of the Council played a vital role in securing the compromise; once again, its good work has borne fruit.
It has breathed life into the concept of 'flexicurity', working for flexible labour markets while defending social security and winning the approval of people in employment as well as those affected by unemployment.
The European Social Fund contributes to economic and social cohesion and is compatible with the new Lisbon Strategy.
The ESF is to develop into a guarantor of quality that supplements national programmes effectively rather than replacing them.
This report has paid particular attention to enabling a greater number of disadvantaged and underdeveloped regions to catch up with those which are more developed.
The regional competitiveness and employment objective also remains a central element of regional policy and a high level of available resources will be concentrated on those priorities.
The Commission will make a statement on the abuse of Structural Funds by organised crime. &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of Mr&#160;Hatzidakis's recommendation laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, and I was pleased to see that the new generation of programmes will be able to start in early 2007, which is vital for the continuity of activities in the Member States.
I nevertheless find it regrettable that, following the agreement on the financial perspective, the funds allocated to the structural policy for 2007-2013 are below the initial demands of Parliament and the European Commission.
With regard more specifically to the regulations, Parliament can take pride in the fact that a number of its demands have been taken up by the Council, in particular greater consideration for disabled people and sustainable development.
In addition to additional funding for the outermost regions, a maximum cofinancing rate of 85% of eligible expenditure has been provided for.
Most importantly, special transitional – and more beneficial – arrangements have been laid down during the phasing-in stage of the new Regional Competitiveness and Employment objective for the autonomous region of Madeira.
I shall therefore be voting in favour of this recommendation. &#160;&#160; Although I regret the fact that, on 17&#160;May 2006, the European Parliament validated the next Financial Perspective for 2007-2013, we now have to come to terms with the meagre sums that emerge from it if we are to define the role and determine the size of the Structural Funds for the next few years.
With this in view, I am delighted with the clarity of the way in which European regional policy has now been constructed, focused as it is on three new objectives that are more coherent and more easily identifiable.
I am also pleased that the significant reductions in the level of funds now available to the EU will not have disastrous consequences for the outermost regions whose specific handicaps, as well as their underdevelopment, make it crucial for them to receive the aid supplied by Community instruments designed to promote solidarity.
In this way, the outermost regions will remain eligible for such aid in terms of the ‘Convergence, competitiveness and territorial cooperation’ objective (formerly Objective 1).
The additional specific allocation of EUR&#160;35 per inhabitant will also enable us in part to meet their needs.
Finally, the objective of ‘European territorial cooperation’ will enable the outermost regions to extend the work already done on developing synergies with neighbouring states in the Indian Ocean and the Caribbean.
This will undermine effective economic and social cohesion, real convergence and the redistribution effect of the Community’s budget.
There has been a significant shift in the objectives of the Structural Funds, whereby the accent is placed on competitiveness and on business interests, in line with the neoliberal Lisbon agenda, at the expense of cohesion.
There are three reasons why the increase in the Structural Funds which, between 2007 and 2013, will represent 35.7% of the European Union’s budget, that is to say EUR&#160;307.9 billion, is a sham as far as France is concerned.
Although more than 16% of Brussels’s budgetary revenue comes from French taxpayers, the proportion of European regional expenditure allocated to France keeps on falling and has been reduced from 10% in 1994 to less than 8% today.
European regional policy is, above all, an economic sham.
In other words: - the resources available have been reduced from 0.41% for the period 2000-2006 to 0.37% for the period 2007-2013.
Thus, the lost appropriations, which are expected to be high, will return to the national budgets of the richest Member States, at the expense of the poorer states and regions; - it accepts clearly weakened financial support, both for the 16 regions which will fall victim to so-called 'statistical convergence', which include three Greek regions (Attica, Central Macedonia and Western Macedonia) and for the 12 'natural convergence' regions, which include two Greek regions (Sterea Ellada and the Southern Aegean); - it agrees to the extension of the n+2 rule to Cohesion Fund projects, which will cause additional difficulties and losses. &#160;&#160; These funds should only go to the very poorest parts of Europe.
This is unacceptable. &#160;&#160; – The framework decision on the Structural Funds is being used by the ΕU and centre-right and centre-left governments in order to speed up the objectives included in the anti-grassroots Lisbon Strategy, strengthen competitiveness and increase the profitability of capital, which is being promoted through capitalist restructurings and by striking at the wage and social rights of the workers.
While social and regional inequalities are worsening in the EU, the weight of the Structural Funds in its budget for the period 2007- 2013 is being reduced from 0.41% to 0.37%.
It should be borne in mind that this rule, imposed by Germany in the previous Financial Framework 2000-2006 on the remaining Structural Funds, involves a cut in the funds not already implemented within two years (three years).
This clearly runs counter to the objective of the Structural Funds.
As far as the latter is concerned we have had this experience in Northern Ireland for many years and it has worked.
On the ICBAN board there are twenty members, only three of whom are now from the unionist community.
If this discrimination continues then ICBAN funds must be frozen until there is total fairness. &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of two reports that are aimed at reforming the EU’s Structural Policy.
These amendments also called for special account to be taken of the specific situation of small and medium-sized ship owners.
Unfortunately these amendments were defeated.
Therefore I voted against the final report because I believe that in many respects the Commission’s original proposal was better suited to lowering maritime transport costs, without endangering the reliability of services. &#160;&#160; Maritime transport represents approximately 45% of the European Union’s external trade in terms of value and almost 75% in terms of volume.
Applying the general rules of competition law to international tramp services and cabotage does not in reality present any problem as these activities are already deregulated and operate on the basis of fair competition.
It is abolishing the exemption, granted in 1986, of liner conferences from the competition rules that, alone, has been the subject of genuinely bitter discussions between all the players in this sector.
Though there are now 25 Member States, the UK this year will contribute one eighth (12.4%) of the total budget revenue of £83 billion required to fund the EU in 2006.
The difficult achievement of an agreement on the financial perspective 2007-2013 by the European Council in December 2006 and the Commission’s proposals do not make the Union’s funding transparent, since it appears that we are getting further away from the principle of budgetary equity which currently underpins the Member States’ contributions to the Union’s operations.
The debate on own resources, against the backdrop of the prospect of a federal Europe, will probably be one of the thorniest political issues to be faced in the future.
Nevertheless, in the immediate future and in view of the current deficiencies in European finances and those of the main net contributing Member States, I wonder whether the time has come to set up a great European investment loan in order to fund all of the major infrastructures (space, motorways, high-speed railways, communication technologies, ports, airports, and so on) which are necessary for economic development and social progress. &#160;&#160; We have today voted against Mr&#160;Lamassoure’s report on a Council decision on the European Communities’ own resources.
While it is important that a budget process that is more efficient and transparent be created for the EU, we reject any notion of future tax-levying by the EU on the likes of energy, VAT or corporate income. &#160;&#160; I have chosen to abstain in the vote on the report on the proposal for a Council decision on the system of the European Communities’ own resources.
As problems and opportunities become more and more cross-border in nature, the European Union is becoming an ever more important forum for solving such problems and best exploiting such opportunities.
In principle, I am therefore in favour of a new system of financing for the Community.
On the other hand, I do not believe that the current contributions from the Member States, which are more a reflection of the ability to negotiate rebates than of what the Member States see as the needs within the EU, should be replaced by a new form of own resources based on energy, VAT or corporate income, as proposed by the Commission.
Clearly, simplification and greater transparency are things that I welcome. &#160;&#160; Over and above the political agreement on the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013, the negotiations that took place at the meetings of the Council on 15 and 16&#160;December 2005 confirmed the need to change the own resources system.
At a time when European integration appears to have stalled – due in particular to the tendency to take refuge in national self-interest and to the disjunction between the people and the Community institutions – the non-transparent nature of this bargaining and the fact that each Member State wishes to view the budgetary issue solely in terms of its own particular interests have highlighted the urgency of providing ourselves with a clear and unambiguous own resources system that, as far as possible, extricates the EU from current contingencies in relation to national budgets.
It is vital that the European Parliament, as the representative of the nations, take part in this process.
Mr&#160;Lamassoure’s report, which is being put to the vote today, is part and parcel of this process, and its conclusions – which tie up with a large proportion of the concerns expressed above – are along the right lines, designed as they are to bring about a Europe that is in control of its financial resources and closer to the people.
Even though I should have liked the possibility already to have been mentioned of a European corporate tax as a new own resource for the EU, I have therefore voted in favour of this document. &#160;&#160; The Lamassoure report is basically about the EU bringing about a situation in which it has comprehensible own resources that match its aspirations and that do not depend on contributions by the Member States and its doing so, of course, between now and 2008 and without waiting for the multiannual programming of the budget to come to an end.
With its powers in the commercial sphere, the European Union has had properly coherent resources that have genuinely been its own, namely customs duties.
We feel that a fair system of own resources must be based on GNI and on relative wealth of each Member State, whereby the budgetary contribution effort should be the same for all citizens right across the EU.
The basic problem remains intact, however.
Everyone knows that, as from 2014, Brussels-centred Europe will be doomed to increase its budget and to create a European tax.
Behind the smoke and mirrors, the Lamassoure report’s talk of own resources raises the political issue that has been dragging on since 1951 and that concerns the actual emergence, by way of a single market and then a single currency, of a political state.
What the euro did not do and what the Constitution failed to do, because the nations woke up to what was happening, taxation is set to do between 2014 and 2019.
Although the plan is warmly welcomed by certain Member States (notably Austria and Luxembourg), others remain nervous about an instrument intended, nonetheless, to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
In this context, the EU urgently needs to reform its funding system.
I therefore welcome the fact that Parliament has managed to introduce an interim review timetabled for 2008/2009 into the negotiations on the latest financial perspective 2007-2013.
The guiding principle behind any reform should be the financial independence of the EU in relation to the Member States’ current transfers, and the strengthening of the European character of the budget.
The biggest financial multinational, Citibank, alone had that amount in assets, which demonstrates the power that the financial sector wields in the real economy.
The real aim of what is referred to as consolidating the financial services sector is to consolidate the internal market for financial services and to integrate the financial markets, with a view to scrapping the barriers to the free movement of capital that still exist, and to encourage company mergers and acquisitions, in sectors such as banking, to enable them to compete in the globalised market.
The gradual financialisation of the real economy has not only led to significant job losses, it has also helped to turn the real economy into a parasite economy by diverting manufacturing investment, and to encourage financial, and subsequently economic, crises due to the extremely volatile nature of the financial markets and the speculative bubbles that they create.
This casino economy has only increased the profits of the major brokerage firms, especially in the banking sector.
We endorse many of the proposals in the Szejna report on developments in and prospects for company law, in particular, the need to apply better regulation principles, the necessity to take account of the needs of SMEs and the importance of developing best practice which respects the different traditions and systems of Member States.
However, there are a number of proposals that we cannot support, as they would introduce additional EU regulations in areas where there would be no demonstrated benefits to the evolution of an effective internal market for financial services.
We therefore voted against Paragraph 3 and Recital F. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to explain my vote on the Lucas report, which in common with the other MEPs from the Czech Civil Democratic Party (ODS) was a vote against.
Air transport has undergone rapid development over the past 40 years, which has led to a 40%-plus fall in emissions and noise.
The extension of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to the aviation sector may be the best way forward to limiting these emissions and to ensuring that aviation, like all other sectors, contributes to reducing harmful greenhouse gases.
The most important issue moving forward is to examine the effectiveness of the technical design elements for the policy to deliver its full potential for environmental and economic efficiency, while also giving special attention to the situation of Ireland and other isolated territories, which are so particularly dependent on air transport services, both capital and regional areas.
Consequently, a competitive market between air transport operators is necessary for Ireland’s economic competitiveness. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Conservatives would like aviation to be included in the European Emissions Trading Scheme.
We regret the fact that the Swedish Government has chosen to implement a special arrangement for flight taxes in Sweden.
A separate system means that we risk achieving a lower total reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and, what is more, at a significantly higher cost than is necessary.
The dramatic reduction in the price of flying in Europe is a basically positive development that has brought prosperity, freedom of movement and interaction between people.
Nevertheless some of her proposals, for example the immediate introduction of kerosene tax on VAT or all intra-EU flights or the establishment of a separate emissions trading scheme for aviation, have neither been costed nor impact-assessed.
In the case of Gibraltar, a particular complex of geographical and political isolation has been caused by the attitude of the Spanish authorities.
Although aviation fuel has become increasingly efficient in the course of the last 40 years, total fuel consumption has at the same time increased because of the large growth in air traffic.
A situation must be prevented in which aviation emissions become a long-term major contributor to climate change.
This new sally against climate change should not, however, be engaged in at any price.
The system to be put in place must not penalise our European airlines in the world market, and any unfair competition with other forms of transport should also be prevented.
This would allow the airlines to cooperate with the national and EU authorities to apply rules that meet their aims of achieving the highest possible environmental standards without unduly penalising EU travellers and, if they are operated on flights into and out of the EU, operators would pay no more than their non-EU competitors.
I also welcome the inclusion in this proposal of internal flights and flights starting or finishing in the EU, and the creation of a single European airspace, which will make it possible to cut down on air routes.
Nevertheless, I believe that the attention must be paid to the special case of remote, outlying regions that are difficult to access, and therefore highly dependent on air transport.
I am therefore only supporting the report because the amendment providing for special attention to be paid to the outermost regions and remote regions has been adopted.
The measures proposed in this report, especially emission charging and emission trading licenses, strike me as an appropriate way of addressing the problem of the influence of aviation.
Another important proposal in the report is the inclusion of internal flights and all flights that start or finish in the EU, with a view to preventing market imbalances.
The report also proposes that a single European airspace be set up, which will make it possible to cut down on air routes, given that more direct flights will involve less gas emission.
I also support the principle of the inclusion of aviation emissions in the Emissions Trading Scheme and hope the Commission will come forward with a workable proposal.
I support the principle of inclusion of aviation emissions in the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and support the call for the Commission to come forward with workable proposals.
I abstained on some paragraphs in this report which were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully worked out. &#160;&#160; More than a year ago, together with 13 of my Belgian fellow Members in the European Parliament, I signed a petition in La Libre Belgique, asking the 25 Heads of State or Government to go beyond the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol.
It is not a question of imposing taxes indiscriminately but of bringing to an end an imbalance that does not sufficiently encourage the aviation sector to invest in the new technologies, with the environment being the first to suffer.
Some of this report contradicted the very workable proposals of the Commission and as such made little sense. &#160;&#160; Although the objective of reducing the climate change impact of aviation, notably by reducing CO2 emissions, is much to be commended, I think it vital for our Parliament to take account of the situation of the most remote regions of the EU.
If removing the aviation industry’s exemption from VAT and introducing a tax on kerosene were to become real options, the effect on the economies of the most isolated regions, as well as on the mobility of their populations, would be disastrous.
I abstained on some paragraphs in this report that were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully costed or worked out. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mrs&#160;Korhola, on the compromise reached with the European Council on the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council in the field of information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters.
I am pleased that wisdom has been applied to this difficult issue, the legal complexity of which has greatly delayed its political adoption.
Adoption at third reading is, in the end, a success for the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Commission statement on the economic and social consequences of business restructuring in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, record profits on the one hand, plant closures and relocations on the other.
It is a discussion about the future of employment in Europe.
The great social question of our time is how many people's prospects will be ruined by this competition; to put it another way, the great social issue of our time is the future of our jobs.
We are all well aware that Fortress Portugal, Fortress Germany, Fortress Poland or Fortress Europe is not an option in the open world of the 21st century.
Once production has gone, research and development will follow.
A policy for growth and employment must be a policy that creates a favourable business climate for all companies.
We can however pursue a policy that creates external conditions which make it possible and attractive for companies to do their work, to expand, to invest and to create jobs in Europe.
Thirdly, an active industrial policy that keeps industry in Europe is more essential than ever before.
I hope Parliament will understand why, on the issue of future exhaust-emission standards, I argue against a policy of ‘head down and charge’ and in favour of formulating proposals that we can put on the table when the time comes, secure in the knowledge that our high standards are technologically feasible and that they will also be affordable for most people.
Another thing is that an active industrial policy does not stop at the borders of the old European Union but encompasses the new Member States too.
They will, however – and this is the salient point – establish new production facilities where demand for their products is greatest.
Enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, bear a great social responsibility for Europe, and that must become apparent across the board.
Corporate decisions to close or relocate plants are decisions taken by companies, and no government and no European Union can overrule them, whether in the case of Azambuja or in any other case.
These include the key issue of dialogue between management and labour, for example.
When a plant is to be closed or relocated, this dialogue must include the following question: what has the company done to give its redundant employees a new future, for example in terms of training, further education and industrial retraining?
European tax revenue is meant to be used to stabilise plants in European locations, not to axe jobs. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current process of industrial restructuring is largely the result of globalisation.
The first remark one is led to make is that this new era has helped to reduce poverty around the world.
It is worthwhile continuing to promote the free movement of goods, commodities and persons, if only in terms of economic growth, which many countries around the world are enjoying in a sustainable way.
In the draft report on the European social model to be debated here in September, we will urge the EU to adopt an attitude towards third countries with high economic growth that promotes democracy, freedom, respect for human rights, environmental protection, social justice and regulation of the labour market.
It will be Europe's responsibility, in our view, to play a key role in striking a balance between economic growth and the search for decent social and environmental standards in the emerging world powers.
The next steps are contained in the Lisbon Strategy.
As regards the manner in which to proceed, I should like to reiterate that I still believe that it would be a very good idea to strengthen the Commission's role in implementing this strategy.
This is an extremely important point, because if we want to win over the citizens as regards the European project we cannot allow feelings of loss of hope and confidence to take root in certain regions outside the main population centres.
The right way forward, on the other hand, should be based on the competitiveness of the European economy, which depends on balanced public accounts, effective education and training systems, justice that works promptly, competitive tax systems, greater flexibility in the labour market and major incentives for research.
Parliament should be channelling its efforts into discussing and defining policy instruments that could help increase competitiveness and regional and social cohesion in the EU.
There is no disputing that we must remain competitive and that rationalisations are part of this effort, that productivity growth is necessary and that, if higher productivity leads to job losses in one company, these must be counteracted by the creation of new jobs elsewhere or in the same region through innovative investments.
In the course of my political career, as the mayor of a German town, I experienced the cold, calculating way in which companies played off national, regional and municipal administrations against each other when it came to investing in locations.
We live in an economic world in which major funds buy large companies, de-list them as quickly as possible in order to reorganise them as quickly as possible and sell them on at a profit as quickly as possible.
Accordingly, the way in which the European economy is restructured will determine the future social cohesion of Europe.
If we do not halt this trend and return to what we did successfully in the second half of the 20th century, namely combining economic growth with social security, we shall forfeit the social stability of our European societies – and social instability is always at the root of political instability, which leads in turn to a loss of security.
In that, Parliament stands united: across the political parties, across the European countries there is support for the European social model and the support of the workers and the unemployed.
That is the starting point for the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats in Parliament when addressing the challenges presented to us by industrial restructuring and globalisation.
Otherwise, in ten years we will have all our jobs in China or other nice regions outside Europe.
We are for cooperation, education and economic growth, but they should be brought about with social and environmental responsibility.
There are a number of issues where we need European politics, not only to keep but to create new jobs all over the Union.
They help prepare for a labour market in transition where few jobs can be guaranteed for life.
Secondly, it is about strengthening European industry to be competitive in the 21st century.
By giving access to an even greater internal market supporting European research and innovation, we open new opportunities that will eventually create new jobs.
Thirdly, to accomplish that, we need strengthened social dialogue addressing issues of change such as the need for companies to facilitate transition for those losing their jobs, and environmental rules for sustainable economic development.
I have also read in the press agencies that the Commission declared that the restructuring and relocation process carried out by Opel was considered to be above-board and was in keeping with the rules of the various European funds.
I actually believe, and your intention was clear, that there is not really much point in Parliament and some of our fellow Members repeatedly criticising, month after month, global capitalism or total capitalism: we live in a world in which competition is becoming tougher and tougher and in which the future of the car industry is undoubtedly determined more by Renault-Nissan-GM alliances such as those announced, than by processes about which we are speaking today.
That being said, if we do want to have a role, I, for my part, should like it if you were able to respond, as Commissioner and as the person responsible for these issues at the Commission, to four precise questions: Question one: we have always championed the idea of the European Works Council and industrial relations observatories when it comes to anticipating this kind of change.
At this time, workers from Opel Portugal, part of the General Motors group – and we salute those workers via their delegation here in this Chamber – are going through terrible anguish, as they follow this debate with great interest and hope that they receive from Parliament and the Commission the kind of solidarity that they have had from General Motors workers from EU countries such as Sweden, Germany and Spain, whose futures are also under threat.
Whilst news appears in the media about talks between businesses in the car industry involving General Motors and others, the Opel Portugal workers, their families and the people and local and regional authorities of the Azambuja region and surrounding areas are living under the threat of unemployment and hindered development that may lead to closure.
This situation is all the more dramatic given that we are talking about a country in which unemployment and poverty are on the rise.
Community aid must be contingent on long-term agreements on employment and local development.
This process has serious social and economic consequences.
This is particularly visible in the new Member States where whole sectors of industry have disappeared.
In Poland, for example, light industry and, to a significant extent, the car manufacturing, electronics and mining sectors have disappeared, and with them jobs.
The progressive globalisation of production and the liberalisation of markets have resulted in a further deepening of economic and social divides.
This begs the fundamental question: what relation does the policy of the EU authorities in the field of enterprise bear to the basic principles of the European Union, such as European solidarity, equal opportunities, sustainable development or human rights? &#160;&#160; Mr President, may I start by thanking the Commissioner for his wise and thoughtful comments in introducing this debate and, in particular, for putting the main emphasis on people, because that is central to the subject we are discussing.
The second important point to highlight is that the answer is not protectionism, either by countries trying to put up barriers or within companies trying to protect old jobs when the market has moved on.
I believe that, as MEPs, we should not have this kind of debate every time a major company closes or downsizes, so that we politicians can show that we care – even though of course we do – and can be ‘seen to be doing something’ in each individual case, highlighting named individual companies.
I also believe that the greatest form of job security any individual can have is in the skill set they can develop, and that is where our priorities should lie.
Investment in people by countries is also the most important investment that countries can make.
If we get that right, we will go a long way towards managing the challenge of change. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my focus, and that of my contribution, will be on the main aspects of restructuring.
I also know from past experience that, as Mr&#160;Schulz has mentioned, GM has not always been good at conducting social dialogue, an example being its relations with its factories in Germany and Sweden, when it played the workers in the different countries off against each other.
There are, however, also successful examples of restructuring where new jobs have been created and regions have been able to survive and even progress, with longer-term employment.
I do not have a high regard for companies that do not themselves have some form of long-term plan of how they are to tackle global competition successfully and that only take subsidies in the short term before then leaving the region in question.
In addition, participation is needed, by which I mean participation by the most important asset that companies have, namely their staff.
Employees are companies’ most important resource and should not merely be given information and consulted when changes are being made.
There is also a need to demonstrate social responsibility from very early on and to train staff so as to be able to meet the long-term challenges of the future and for the regions, as it is often companies that play a large role in regions where there is a need to demonstrate social responsibility.
We can, as Mr&#160;Jonckheer said, strengthen works councils and the directives concerning these.
I believe that we need framework agreements between industries and trade unions at the European level in order to be able to manage the changes that will come in the future.
Restructuring is something that we have to live with, but it can be made a success if employees are allowed to participate actively and if the companies involved demonstrate social responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth pointing out that we are talking about real people, who are also listening to us and who therefore require practical responses.
The opinions expressed by this Parliament were very useful.
In all of these cases, as in the case of Terni, we can and must help.
We must also intervene so as to prevent all of this from happening again, that is to say, to prevent multinationals – which, I might add, garner profits and even enjoy public funds, including European ones – from using Europe by directly pitting one country against another country, workers against other workers.
Granting more powers to workers and trade unions will also help us to build up an idea of what kind of development Europe must have.
I believe that those who want to integrate Europe must recognise that the unity, rather than the division, of European workers is a vital asset when it comes to building this united Europe and that it is therefore not dumping, but the upwards harmonisation of rules and rights, that represents a firm commitment for this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is no coincidence that my colleague, Mr Bushill-Matthews, and myself have asked to speak in this debate.
The other day I went to speak at a school in Coventry and I said to the children: ‘You know where that Blockbuster video store and that supermarket are?
BMW – the owners of that plant, a German company – is investing GBP 250 million to make a new car there and we thank BMW for that.
An engine that was made in Brazil is now going to be made in Birmingham, in my constituency.
It has been there for a long time.
We have been involved at Longbridge, where 5000 people were made redundant.
While he has experienced redundancies and restructuring, I myself have been made redundant three times due to economic developments and restructuring in the Nord Pas-de-Calais, in France.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament is in favour of a policy enabling businesses to create jobs, to modernise and to promote economic development.
Europe must demonstrate its European social model.
That is the reason why we have worked collectively and why more than 80% of us voted in favour of a report on restructuring and employment, in which we state that we certainly need to provide for a form of support, but that we also need to enlighten Europe about what we are and about what we do.
We voted in favour, by a very large majority, in an effort to say that, if Europe provides economic aid and public money and if it becomes clear at any given time that a form of ‘subsidised tourism' exists, then that money must be reimbursed.
In the case of General Motors today, as in many cases of restructuring, Europeans are awaiting a strong response from the Union.
Mr&#160;Barroso gave us this response by calling on the new Finnish Presidency to embody the Europe of results.
Well, the Europe of results starts here, in this Chamber, with a strong signal sent out to the employees who are currently in difficulties.
My second question is this: is it wise to limit the recovery to five years?
The amortisation period for equipment is usually 10 to 15 years.
One final point: if we intend to pursue a genuine structural and regional policy, a far closer link must be forged between the company’s need for support and the beneficial regional impact of such support. &#160;&#160; – General Motors is making thousands of European workers redundant.
Last year 9&#160;000 jobs were lost in Germany.
This year 900 job losses have been announced in the United Kingdom, and more recently the closure of the Azambuja factory in Portugal, which has been in operation for decades and where 1&#160;200 people work, was announced.
The closure of the Azambuja factory affects us all as it could be another stepping stone towards the dismantling of other General Motors factories in the EU and the subsequent relocation of those factories to the east – to Russia and to Asia.
Faced with the changes that have taken place, and that are still taking place, within national and European industry, Europe has the problem of managing industrial restructuring processes, which have an extremely serious effect on workers and on the various regions.
This is my answer: ‘The topic of the future is how to manage these processes’.
They range from the case of General Motors to that of so many small and medium-sized enterprises right up to what is taking place, for example, in the Eaton factory, in Piedmont, a business in which the restructuring process and the failure to comply with trade union agreements are seriously threatening jobs.
I should like to highlight one final aspect: it now seems entirely clear that the issue of restructuring requires a review of the Community instruments available.
I hope that Parliament as a whole and the Commission can adopt a common position on this. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Azambuja situation is alarming.
We know that General Motors has had strategic difficulties and that it has called for Renault Nissan to step in and help with the management.
The resolution that we have tabled confronts General Motors with its European responsibilities, and states very clearly what is happening in Azambuja.
The resolution that we tabled is a step in that direction. &#160;&#160; – The situation to which previous speakers have alluded is very real for the workers of General Motors in Portugal.
Businesses receive Community and State aid and incentives to set up in a given region and country, and then relocate, flying in the face of the rules of conduct in place, without any compunction or respect for the hundreds or thousands of workers, and often whole families, who are laid off at the drop of a hat.
The easy quest for maximum profits and the phenomenon of globalisation cannot justify the economic and social tragedy of the weakest links in the business chain.
This is an international fund geared towards a small number of redundancies and countries on account of the changes happening in world trade.
In order for us to be in a position to set an example to the world, we have to begin to demand compliance with the European social model and respect for human rights, and to do this differently. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make two more brief remarks.
With regard to the individual case that has featured so prominently in the contributions to this debate, namely Azambuja, the allegation that the company is making enormous profits on the backs of its workforce and the European taxpayer would be rather hard to substantiate, for the days when General Motors recorded profits are long past, both in Europe and in other parts of the world.
Secondly, there is clearly agreement in this Parliament that structural change is inevitable, and there is also agreement here that it must not be meekly accepted like sunshine or rain but that something can be done when structural change occurs – and indeed something must be done, because people’s well-being is at stake.
The vital thing that a modern economic policy can do now is to shape structural change in such a way that people are not left by the wayside as its victims.
That is precisely the aim of our policy.
The debate is closed.
The report we are going to debate next relates to those measures, approaches or policies that may have a positive effect in terms of resolving the employment situations faced by workers belonging to industries that close or relocate.
Innovation is the key word; innovation is the concept that could offer us a possible solution to the problems that were being discussed in the last debate and others or, alternatively, take us further away from that solution.
Life-long training, flexible training, training that enables people to adapt to the new needs of the market, are absolutely crucial if we want a society in which there are genuine opportunities for everybody at all times of change.
In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must be very aware of what we are facing.
Others are behind us, others have been successful for a long time, but European society, or a large proportion of European society, licks its wounds constantly, it complains constantly, with the paradoxical result that those with the most wounds are the ones that end up in the worst situation.
The Commission would like to get to the point at which the capacity and readiness for innovation are understood as a leading political, social and economic principle of the European Union.
We have put innovation at the centre of our strategy for growth and employment for good reason: because a non-protectionist economic order, one that is based on freedom, can only succeed by means of innovation.
That is precisely what we are doing, and on two levels.
On the level of the European Union we have recently set out a great number of initiatives, all of them aimed at promoting innovation: from the subsidy rules that as was specifically requested earlier in the debate are specifically directed towards innovation, through to the general financial tools for setting up new and innovative businesses, all the way to means to enhance the use of intellectual property and to develop capacities for research and development.
I am very confident that this Finnish Presidency is especially suited to advancing the theme of innovation, because Finland is a prime example of how an innovation policy that is willed, focused and intelligently carried out can achieve the extensive modernisation of a country, making it competitive on an international level.
The promotion of technological research and the acquisition of scientific knowledge are the major challenge facing Europe in the 21st century.
This finding could very soon be proven in the following four lines of action: - by constantly upgrading the infrastructure of and action by educational institutes and research centres, given that the driving force behind development is the acquisition of knowledge by man; - by disseminating scientific knowledge in the field of production, by redefining both the infrastructure and workers' skills and qualifications; - by applying a policy to increase jobs and to redistribute income fairly, given that high productivity and poverty result in recession and unemployment; - by fundamentally reducing working times, so that workers can regain their creative spirit and redress the balance lost between work and family life.
The technological revolution presents two diametrically opposed economic and social prospects: on the one hand, the creative challenge and, on the other hand, the threat of extended inequalities.
The first point concerns research.
It has to be said that things are moving too slowly in this area, which, as the Commissioner was highlighting, ought to be a priority for the future of the European Union.
My second point concerns the role of universities in research and the brain drain.
There is an urgent need for the European Union to stem the brain drain effectively and to put in place all appropriate measures to attract excellence to EU soil.
There is also an urgent need for the Member States to make better use of the European funds allocated to them.
Research and innovation are an integral part of the success of the Lisbon Strategy, as is collaboration between science and industry, in other words a knowledge-based economy.
Mrs del Castillo Vera’s report, on which I congratulate her, and the European Commission’s proposals accurately highlight what we lack in Europe.
We need to increase funding for science and new technologies in all countries.
There is, however, another key to the success of the Lisbon Strategy, namely a real single market for goods, labour, services and capital.
In spite of the Lisbon Strategy’s objective of turning Europe into the most dynamic, knowledge-based region in the world, Europe constantly limps behind the United States and Japan when it comes to research and innovation.
I think that, in this report, we have put our finger very precisely on those areas in which Europe fails to live up to its own objectives.
Those businesses too must also be innovative and become better at exploiting new market opportunities for new products and at devising new business processes that make better use of employees’ potential.
I am particularly pleased about the integrated access to labour market and education policy, since it is only by combining businesses’ conditions for innovation with social, labour market and education policy that we can create space for employees’ creative potential.
It is estimated that the EU must attract and train between 600&#160;000 and 700&#160;000 new researchers in order to fulfil our research needs, and this figure does not take account of many older people’s withdrawal from the labour market.
Last of all, I should like to point out that, in our innovation strategy, we should, in my view, incorporate sustainability in relation to both the environment and social inclusion.
In this area, Europe clearly has a head start, which can in itself help ensure that we achieve the goals we set in the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, you have spoken on the theme of innovation.
We are asking the Commission to define a responsibility to report on how innovation potential is being measured.
The correct way to proceed, however, would be to adopt those points that will find a broad majority in this House: for example, if we were to promote business enterprises in Europe in such a way that failure in business were to become a genuine possibility, one that we could recognise and accept - as we can see in Anglo-Saxon countries.
We should introduce measures to prevent the best researchers and innovators from leaving Europe, and we must create infrastructures so that European researchers can once again be at home in Europe, since there are indeed many researchers in the world who would gladly move back to Europe.
Lisbon is not dead, but I would prefer Liverpool, since the Liverpool Process would mean that we could be three-nil behind at half-time in the Champions League Final and yet still win.
The team is Europe, and we all need to combine our efforts in order to succeed.
I would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;del&#160;Castillo&#160;Vera on her excellent report and thank her for her open and inclusive attitude to drawing up this proposal.
If we want to create stable employment, if we want to instil a new culture that favours innovation, then it has to be instilled in the thousands and thousands of SMEs throughout Europe.
The report therefore recommends that particular attention be paid to this point, in order to ensure the participation of small and medium-sized businesses and in order to achieve the necessary change in the field of innovation.
Secondly, I would like to point out that innovating also means opening up.
This report, however, refers to area after area in which the EU has thus far failed in research and development.
The report highlights factors of significance in changing this situation.
This means freedom for individual researchers, but also freedom for state and regional aid for research and development.
I support the idea put forward in the report that future research must prioritise the environment and sustainable development.
This, together with the exploitation of female skills in research, could mean the difference between success and failure. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, in an age of innovation continual further development and research are necessary, since trusted technologies become out of date all too quickly.
It is known that for many years our work in research and development lagged far behind that of the frontrunners, USA and Japan.
The low proportion of graduates in technical and scientific disciplines, combined with the brain drain towards competing economic systems that offer the temptation of self-led research should give us cause for concern, as should the problems that our universities have in retaining qualified lecturing staff.
We will also, finally, have to stand by our small and medium-sized enterprises, with which the greatest potential for innovation and job creation ultimately lies.
If we fail to do this, these small and medium-sized enterprises will reduce their research and development activities, because they will be unable to take advantage of our complicated EU investment programmes. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I welcome the Commission's new approach in examining European research in conjunction with what is happening in innovation.
Allow me to congratulate Mrs&#160;del&#160;Castillo before commenting on two points which, in my opinion, could strengthen the momentum of innovation in Europe.
Because small companies are especially innovative, often more innovative that big companies.
Despite all the fine speeches, we still do not invest enough in European research and development.
Actually, the problem is that the differences between the Member States are enormous, and the speed at which things travel varies greatly.
Several special Union programmes, such as Descartes or Aristoteles, have increased the mobility of researchers, but there remain barriers, which actually drive researchers overseas.
By its own example, Finland has shown that it is possible to build competitiveness founded on research and innovation based on a welfare society. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank Mrs&#160;Pilar&#160;del&#160;Castillo&#160;Vera for the initiative shown in raising matters which are so important for Europe.
I would like to stress that information is a fundamental factor which Europe can exploit to increase its international competitive advantage.
Providing resources and ensuring a competitive environment is the best way for the EU to help improve scientific research potential in Europe because it is not only ineffective for Member States to implement such programmes on their own, but it is often too expensive.
The EU should more effectively combat the brain drain by offering its best USA-bound scientists better scientific research conditions and funding.
Although, generally speaking, each state is responsible for encouraging increased and improved investments, in striving for a common market, the EU should contribute to these efforts with funds from its own budget, and thus, stimulate the more rapid development of scientific research and innovations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur, who has addressed the key points and who spoke, in her speech, of an improved climate.
I believe that the climate of creativity goes even beyond the climate of innovation.
In 2000, the Council launched a prestigious idea, and, five years later, it has to be said that nothing has come of it and that the budgets have not taken account of the will of the Heads of State or Government to increase the research appropriations.
So, above all, let us do our work.
Firstly, the need to create a single market that is attractive to researchers.
I would finally like to stress the proposal to strengthen the Structural Funds intended for research and innovation.
The Structural Funds have been reinforcing R+D structures on the basis of a territorial distribution of resources by means of convergence criteria.
It is therefore important to promote coordination between the different Community R+D programmes with the fundamental instrument of regional development policy: the Structural Funds.
Mr President, those are the three points I wished to stress of a document that may be very useful in our future work. &#160;&#160; To begin with, allow me to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;del&#160;Castillo, for her report capturing the entire scope of the issue of development in the area of research and innovation and suggesting quite a few ideas for how to improve the current situation.
In my contribution I would like to emphasise the very important role of the implementation structures that may significantly influence the future success of European support programmes in the areas of research, development and innovation, including the Seventh Framework Programme and the Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation.
If my information is correct, the European Commission, namely the DG for Enterprise, is working on a&#160;new, more effective model of business support networks – Euro Info Centres and Innovation Relay Centres – with the aim of reducing administrative burdens.
It is envisaged that these networks will be restructured through the development of consortiums at the NUTS I or NUTS II level.
On the other hand, I would like to urge you, Commissioner, in implementing these steps, to take into account the need for close interaction between entrepreneurs, research centres and universities, on the one hand, and intermediary institutions on the other.
The establishment of consortiums through a shared network of Euro Info Centres and Innovation Relay Centres will encourage comprehensive and flexible service provision, while fulfilling the original aims of these Centres and generating much needed synergism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;del&#160;Castillo&#160;Vera, on her report.
I should like to broach two subjects: the issue of building the European research area and the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Building the European research area means building the single market for that most precious of commodities: knowledge.
If we want to fulfil the Lisbon Strategy, then all of the actors involved, in the public and private sectors, at regional, national and Community levels, will each have to make a contribution through complementary and synergistic measures, and develop systems that are not merely political but consistent and mutually compatible.
As regards small and medium-sized enterprises, many sources attribute the fall in productivity, and therefore in the productivity of the Italian economy, to the fact that there is little innovation in Italy.
This negative attitude is linked to the small scale of our businesses, which have an average of four employees, but, although the phenomenon is particularly serious in my country, it also concerns most of Europe.
Finally, I call on the Member States and the regions, while acknowledging research and innovation as a top priority, not to lose too much time in transposing the legislation and in starting to implement the various programmes and actions, because time is precious when it comes to innovation. &#160;&#160; We, Hungarians, are proud of the fact that during the last century we gave the world about a dozen Nobel prize winners.
However, they were not from another universe, just from a different continent, Europe.
It was the better research conditions and greater recognition which made them take the knowledge they had acquired in their homeland to the United States.
The report tabled before us correctly states that this lagging behind is due, on the one hand, to the fact that Europe is not producing a sufficient amount of research results which can subsequently applied in the business sector.
The gap between theoretical knowledge and its practical application is seriously holding back Europe's competitiveness.
The other reason for lagging behind is still the lack of resources.
Achieving the target of allocating 3% of the EU's GDP to research by 2010 already seems like an illusion.
In Poland, this has been influenced by the fact that many branches of industry have been taken over by foreign companies which have their research institutes, design offices and laboratories in their own countries.
In fact, our industrial research base has been shut down in recent years.
Research results have not been effectively translated into streamlined production methods and services or innovation.
Inventors of new ideas and patents have also had difficulties in gaining measurable profits.
Other problems have included the blocking of possible competitors from the European Union by international corporations such as Microsoft with the aid of patents, limited budgetary resources and the restricted financial resources for military research.
Secondly, we should limit the monopolies of international companies which use their patents to block European competitors.
Thirdly, any large company should have to use their profits to create a technical progress fund for streamlining and innovation.
Small and medium-sized enterprises, however, could focus their resources with the aid of organisations such as chambers of commerce. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, innovation, research and growth constitute the biggest challenge for the European Union as a&#160;whole.
I therefore appreciate the optimism and efforts of the rapporteur, who has tried to identify new ways of meeting Lisbon Strategy goals in this report on her own initiative.
Member States are expected to play a special role in promoting investment in research and innovation, while facilitating and broadening public and private sector partnerships, particularly those with universities.
These businesses in particular need support in the area of innovation and research, as they underpin the growth of services and markets based on new technologies.
In fact, we imposed upon ourselves a target of 3% of GDP.
We are now saying that this is a difficult target to reach, and the countries – I shall conclude here – the countries which benefit from structural funds should dedicate part of this sum towards the achievement of this goal. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the rapporteur very aptly described the most important premise of the Communication.
She sees in it a new stimulus for the principle behind the Lisbon Agenda, which many Europeans still view as the European Union’s ‘trademark’.
The ten new Member States staunchly support the creation of increasingly more attractive operating conditions for modern research centres in Europe.
There are clearly certain concerns, justified by the fact that there are still visible legal and administrative barriers for scientists from Central and Eastern Europe wanting to participate in this research.
The fact that the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has accepted the amendments tabled to the report is therefore all the more welcome.
In the rapporteur’s report, we even find a proposal to take particular account of the specific situation of micro enterprises and small enterprises.
This kind of new economic policy should create new opportunities for flexible choice of economic instruments that ensure, in accordance with the message emerging from our debate, continued growth in employment. &#160;&#160; Madam President, six years after the start of the ten-year Lisbon Strategy, it is still difficult to call the European Union the most dynamic economy in the world.
Catching up with the United States or Japan still remains an ambition, a dream.
The European Union has earmarked only 1.93% of its GDP for scientific research and development, whereas the USA has allotted 2.59% and Japan 3.15% of GDP to this field.
Low investment in research and development, as well as a lack of sufficient support for innovation, will not increase the potential for growth and employment in the European Union.
That is why it is extremely important to guarantee the appropriate budgetary resources for aid instruments to small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme or the JEREMIE initiative.
As well as fostering entrepreneurship and stimulating innovation, we must also continually invest in scientific development.
The rapporteur, whom I honestly congratulate on the composite presentation of her report, therefore justifiably points out that, despite the fact that the European institutions recognise the vital importance of promoting research and innovation, the European Union as a whole is still failing to make adequate use of its potential, either in terms of human resources or in terms of funding capacity.
National reform programmes do of course all recognise as a challenge policies on research, innovation and their applications.
For financing, it is not as important, in my opinion, to achieve a maximum target in terms of percentages as it is to reform public research systems, in tandem with the restructuring and the promotion of the efficacy of university scientific institutions and research programmes and, in general, with the spreading of interest in knowledge and research to renewed education systems and to effective lifelong learning programmes.
Facilitating joint ventures between the public and private sectors and cross-border cooperation are equally important investments for more research and the successful dissemination of innovation.
Within the framework of regional convergence in technological pioneering and development and the completion of the single job market, I consider that it would be a good idea to promote the participation of small and medium-sized companies in European technology platforms.
All the speakers described the situation very well.
We must begin to invest more in basic research, and we have to expand the scope of public funding for research and development.
In particular, she has brought our attention to three areas of weakness: the generation of new knowledge, cooperation in generating and using new knowledge, and funding.
We must bring negotiations on this research programme to a close as soon as possible so that we can start implementing it in time.
Secondly, EU–level measures can encourage individual Member States to take their own measures.
I therefore urge the Commission to follow carefully the action taken by individual states and give public prominence to examples of successful states or successful practice.
Thank you! &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; This own-initiative report on the implementation of the Lisbon programme comes at the most appropriate moment now that we are on the eve of finalizing the negotiations on the new Cohesion Policy legislative package.
As some Members know, I was born in and I live in the city of Valencia and I would therefore like to begin by expressing my sincere condolences and solidarity to all of the families of the victims of this tragic accident and wishing all of the injured a speedy recovery.
Europe's aspiration must be to remain a great industrial power and it must not be content simply with developing the services sector, whose future is often intimately linked to the existence of a solid industrial base.
We are not talking today about a policy of subsidies for great industrial dinosaurs; that model represented a bottomless pit for public resources and hindered the creation of new opportunities for creating stable jobs with futures.
The European manufacturing industry is facing several important challenges all at the same time, such as enlargement, globalisation and relocations.
The present industrial structure of the European Union’s economy as a whole does not put us in the best position to confront the current process of globalisation.
This Communication recognises that the use of the different industrial policy instruments needs to be adapted to the context and the specific characteristics of each individual sector.
The Commission also proposes seven new extremely important cross-sectoral policy initiatives: increasing the protection of intellectual property rights and combating counterfeiting, the creation of a high-level group on competitiveness, energy and the environment and support for access to new markets for our products in a fair and reciprocal fashion.
This new approach must seek consensus, involving key agents, social interlocutors and Member States in the process of political decision-making at an early stage.
Training and flexibility are precisely the Union’s most important resource and competition parameter.
We are talking about competition based on R+D, on innovation, quality and design, on infrastructures, on new ways of organising production and on investment in pioneering sectors.
I would like to end by stressing the need to increase the transfer of knowledge and the application of the results of research to new products and processes.
We are, then, united in our opinion that Europe must and will remain a strong location for industry.
Manufacturing industries directly employ 34&#160;million people in Europe and produce three-quarters of all the goods exported by the European Union; more than 80% of all expenditure on research and development by the private sector in the EU comes from industry, and of course a large proportion of all services depends upon it being strong and competitive.
Indeed, we in Europe have no reason to feel ashamed.
The competitiveness of European industry is outstanding in many areas, and it is not as if we had fallen behind in this sector.
There are some areas in which competition has become harder and where we are having difficulties, but in an astonishing number of areas Europe is a world leader and also a leader in terms of technology.
When we tabled our proposal on industrial policy for the 21st century, we agreed that we must not fall back into times of state control, bureaucracy and interventionism, but that we need to enhance the conditions for industrial activity in Europe to such an extent that Europe remains, or becomes, an attractive location for industry.
This implies a definite renunciation of protectionism and state intervention, but also a firm offer of help in promoting and developing more competitiveness.
I would in particular like to point out that some of the horizontal initiatives that the Commission proposed last year have in the meantime become very important topics, for example, increasing capacity for innovation, defending intellectual property rights or also access to third markets a major topic that is currently being discussed in the Doha round.
I would in particular like to draw your attention to the importance of better lawmaking for modern industrial policy.
I should also like to reiterate that the purpose of the current review of Community law is not to reduce any standards, for example, less environmental protection or less consumer protection; instead, it is intended to make the rules as effective and as modern as possible, in order to reinforce the competitiveness of our businesses.
In some Member States we already have a qualification problem, and part of the unemployment in Europe is due to the fact that certain qualifications are not available where they are actually needed.
On this issue, too, further coordinated activities will most certainly be necessary on the part of the European Union and the Member States as well. &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, I hope this debate will make the Commission pay greater attention to the importance of the various industrial sectors in the EU, and to its vital contribution to the creation of wealth and jobs.
Importance must be attached to the most vulnerable industrial sectors and to the consequences of the liberalisation of world trade, which are already being felt.
There can be no continuation of a policy of negotiations within the World Trade Organisation that overlooks the various industrial sectors, jobs with rights, regional development and economic and social cohesion.
I wish to emphasise the need to protect the workers whenever manufacturing companies are restructured, including ensuring that the workers are kept fully informed and given a decisive influence throughout the process. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, I would first of all like to thank Mr&#160;Calabuig&#160;Rull for his fine and result-oriented cooperation, and would also like to thank the Commission, in particular Commissioner Verheugen, as the proposal submitted by the Commission is most serviceable, indicating a new direction for industrial policy.
Our group supports the draft resolution of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy; we helped to produce it and it reflects our own opinions.
The Commission does not have sole responsibility: the Member States themselves are also responsible for many areas, and they must discharge these responsibilities.
For us, modern industrial policy is a means to ensure that Europe remains an attractive location, and to safeguard competitive conditions in the context of globalisation.
Industrial policy therefore forms the basis of, rather than a hindrance to, efforts towards opening up new markets in the services sector.
Industry, characterised by high quality standards and technological advances, was and still is the motor of economic development in Europe, and all measures concerning the environment and climate protection must be judged in terms of energy policy, to see whether they contribute to improving the framework conditions.
Even the old industrial sectors can thrive and be competitive if there is financial support for their modernisation.
For example, training and innovation can help procure a good workforce for the future.
However, competitiveness has also been sustained through untenable means, such as mass layoffs and sudden moves in production.
Employees in companies are flexible, and in many countries very flexible indeed, but the lack of any protection in non-manual work acts as a brake in an innovative society.
An economic system is solid if it enables all of its production sectors to grow economically and if it is able to provide these sectors, including traditional production sectors, with ever stronger and more robust injections of technological innovation in processes and products; if it is able to introduce huge amounts of research, diversification and the ability to keep up with new developments, thus maintaining our position in the world market and defending the size of Europe's balance of trade.
Two new developments have been highlighted by the rapporteur and by the other speakers, which I too would point out: finally, after years in which it seemed that the sectoral approach had been largely surpassed, we are beginning to realise once again that we need to understand what is really taking place in the strategic sectors in our Europe.
We are well aware that, in order to tackle the global market, we must equip ourselves with more and more resources and give impetus to the Commission's work, too, as we have seen done for the textile sector and other sectors.
Yet, all of my fellow Members from the various countries of Europe know that what struck the textile sector, that is to say, that kind of whirlwind of extremely low-cost production originating from certain parts of the world, may strike yet other production sectors that are important for Europe.
We therefore call for an effort to be made along these lines; we call for the Globalisation Adjustment Fund, too, to take account of this aspect relating to sectoral restructuring, to the ability to help workers retrain for new jobs and to the professional skills that are of use to an integrated system that is able to innovate, as my fellow Members have also said.
Next, I should like to refer to small and medium-sized enterprises: we all know that Europe's production structure is based on the reality of these businesses, which is not only a reality in terms of production but a reality that revitalises the regions and gives impetus to regional policies.
We see one problem with this as being that democratic controls are being weakened in this field, and another as the virtual lack of any say whatever in these high level groups for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ 50% of all workers in the processing industry.
Where industrial businesses in Europe have failed in recent years because they were unable to innovate, that was certainly not always due to poor policies, but down to the fact that certain business leaders have completely failed to recognise their workers’ potential for innovation, or the need to innovate at all. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, on the face of it, this report contains a number of sensible ideas: it talks about the crucial role of industry in a modern economy, even though, for years, the myth of a post-industrial society focused entirely on services has prevailed.
It calls for the negotiations conducted within the WTO to take into account the specific characteristics of each sector, or the specific problems of each Member State, which is something of a cultural revolution but which will never be applied by the Commission, for which the European Union represents a single entity.
The report is very sparing in its criticism of unfair competition and counterfeiting, against which Brussels fights so half-heartedly.
The remaining speakers will have the opportunity to take the floor this evening. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0312/2006).
Setanta has now emerged as a viable competitor and will be able to exercise both commercial and pricing pressure on the former monopolist BSkyB.
In a market where at least two players are present, individual operators will have to consider carefully whether they can continue to raise prices for their packages without losing customers.
The Commission also notes that English football fans who last season wished to watch more than the 88 live matches offered by BSkyB in its basic sports package also had to sign up for a second subscription channel from BSkyB, Prem Plus.
The concept of two separate subscription channels is therefore not a novel one for football fans in the UK. &#160;&#160; This is quite an exciting question for some of us.
This is not really an issue of dealing with monopolies, because we support the Commission on this prime objective.
One of our principal objectives was to end BSkyB’s longstanding monopoly concerning the broadcasting of live Premier League matches and I think that this objective has been achieved.
In particular Setanta has now emerged as a viable competitor to BSkyB and will be able to exercise commercial and pricing pressure on BSkyB.
The sale of the live TV rights to two rival broadcasters already provides consumers with a greater choice than before.
It is far too early to say whether the level of competition that this has introduced will be enough.
As the honourable Member is aware, not all the competition problems have been resolved, nor would I want the decision to be used against national authorities or courts should they wish to intervene further.
However, I also believe that the result of the Premier League auction will have beneficial effects for English football fans in both the short and long term.
British sports fans will now have the opportunity to view a significant number of the live Premier League matches and other sports through Setanta, which offers seven channels at the moment, including, for example, live Scottish football, live European football and live rugby.
The arrival of subscriber television in the life of citizens has radically changed its social role.
The Commission has followed this line in applying EC competition rules in individual cases and this approach has been confirmed by the European courts.
I said that not all competition problems have been resolved, nor would I want a decision to be used against national authorities or courts should they wish to intervene further.
The Commission intends to submit a proposal to the Council shortly, requesting authorisation to negotiate with Montenegro a Stabilisation and Association Agreement based on the negotiating directives of 3&#160;October 2005, which concerned the former State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.
Both countries, Montenegro and Serbia, have a concrete European perspective, like the other countries of the western Balkans.
Here the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is the first stepping stone, while the ultimate goal of this process is EU accession at a later stage, when each of the countries is able to fulfil the necessary conditions.
The Commission will intensify its monitoring of developments in Montenegro, which will now have to face, on its own, all the responsibilities of its relationship with the European Union, including implementation of the European Partnership and the need to substantially strengthen its administrative and institutional capacity.
Montenegro, like other countries in the region, will benefit from assistance under the forthcoming pre-accession financial instrument as of 2007.
I am delighted to hear the Commissioner say that the Commission is considering opening an office in Podgorica.
The primary duty of the European Commission office in Montenegro will be to promote European integration and to promote the relationship between Montenegro and the European Union.
Thus indirectly it will certainly help to facilitate such economic and social development, including the development of tourism activities that will benefit the country and citizens in time.
We have to emphasise substance more than schedule when we talk about accession negotiations or the pre-accession phase as now faced by the Republic of Montenegro. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, I would just like, once again, to ask you to make it absolutely clear that Montenegro has exactly the same prospects for accession as all the other countries in the region under the Thessaloniki Declaration, and that, with particular regard to the issue of minorities, Montenegro has an exemplary policy in this domain.
The honourable Member raises a very critical question.
They concern all the countries of the region and we are stressing the need for minority rights to be respected in all the countries in that region, as well as in other candidate countries.
That is mentioned in our report, which will be presented next autumn, most likely in October or November.
As regards the level of negotiations with Serbia, until recently we had negotiated with Serbia and Montenegro at two levels, on the basis of the twin-track approach, with the State Union on the issues that fell within the competence of the State Union and with the two republics on the issues that fell within the competence of the two republics.
Once the Council has adopted the new negotiating mandate for Montenegro and the modified mandate for Serbia, we can continue the negotiations on the basis of this consolidated result – in the case of Serbia, of course, once it is cooperating fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Ensuring fair competition on the energy market is of decisive importance to healthy European economies.
As you are aware, inspections are carried out under Articles 20 and 21 of the EC regulation and form a normal part of the Commission’s enforcement activities in the competition field.
In general, inspections are carried out because the Commission has reason to believe that the companies concerned may have violated the anti-trust rules established in Articles 82 and 81 of the Treaty.
Article 28 of the regulation prohibits the Commission from disclosing information acquired during an inspection, except in limited circumstances.
The Commission is also carrying out a sectoral inquiry into competition conditions in the EU gas and electricity markets.
This is a distinct exercise from the individual investigations and inspections to which the honourable Member refers, but the extensive information about the functioning of the energy markets that is gathered during the sectoral inquiry will of course help to inform any enforcement action taken by the Commission in individual cases.
The main preliminary findings of the sectoral inquiry were published in February 2006 and identified a number of existing barriers to competition.
For example, national wholesale energy markets are still highly concentrated, with few new competitors entering the sector.
There is also far too little integration between the national markets.
The Commission is also conducting a review on implementation of the European regulatory measures in the energy sector.
This work is being led by the Commissioner in charge of energy, Mr Piebalgs, and the Commission will report to Parliament and to the Council at the turn of the year.
That report will also reflect on any further action that is needed to complete the integration of Europe’s energy markets.
With your permission, my additional question will also be of a general nature.
My question is: will competition policy instruments be sufficient to resolve these problems in the future, or does the Commission feel that it may be necessary to set up a European energy regulation body, which would obviously deal primarily with cross-border transactions?
I have explained to the honourable Member that the Commission has already initiated a number of investigations where it appears that anti-competitive behaviour contributes to the problems identified by the energy sector inquiry.
The Member will certainly conclude that we will take measures when we can see that there is something rotten in the state. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, at the moment, energy trading, and particularly energy imports, generate high profits at international level.
However, this does not and must not prevent us from ensuring that there is an integrated, competitive market within the EU.
We will continue to monitor the issue of the prison conditions in Russia, including the situation of those two gentlemen. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, many thanks for that very detailed reply.
I would just like to follow up by asking whether the Commission Representation in Moscow has already got in contact with the families of the prisoners, or whether it could do so.
Secondly, the prisoners have clearly been subjected to unjustified punishments that also contravene Russian law: penalties that could extend their sentences and imprisonment far away from their homes are both contrary to Russian law.
I would be pleased to take up the issue you raised in your second question, namely whether the penalties lengthening their sentences and imprisonment too far away from their families are too severe.
We will happily take that up. &#160;&#160; – Do you not see a connection between the examples of contempt for the freedom of the media, the restrictions on civil society in the new Act on NGOs, the human rights violations in Chechnya and the conditions under which these prisoners are being held?
Recently Anatoly Yermolin, a deputy in the Russian Duma, spoke in the European Parliament and reminded us of the attack on Mikhail Khodorkovsky.
It will do so with a view also to considering whether the EU as a whole should raise this matter at the next round of human rights consultations. &#160;&#160; – It was, of course, the dispute about Mr&#160;Khodorkovsky that was the ultimate trigger for the current energy policy situation, since it was by nationalising the energy sector and creating a monopoly in it that President Putin exerted pressure.
The practice of hostage-taking constitutes a serious threat to the population.
Sadly another minister, the Deputy Minister for Electricity, Mr Raad al-Hareth, was kidnapped this morning with 19 bodyguards.
I know that the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, which came into being in September 2003, brought out a manual which is being published this year.
This agreement should adopt a strategic approach to the relationship and it should emphasise that respect for common values represents an essential basis.
Those principles should be anchored and then we can fine-tune these questions in sector agreements and take a very concrete approach. &#160;&#160; During yesterday’s meeting with the Finnish Government in Helsinki, Mr Barroso said that a free trade agreement with Russia is possible.
Of course, this depends first and foremost on the WTO.
It is certainly a mid- to long-term goal, that is clear. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, you described the situation as regards Russia in a great deal of detail, and I am very grateful to you for that.
Furthermore, this notion has not been the subject of the kind of remarks suggested by Mr&#160;Tarabella, whether during the preparation of the text by the Commission, during the discussions on the directive at the Council or here, in the European Parliament.
In that case, a registration certificate is immediately issued to EU citizens, on presentation of their identity cards or passports and of proof that they fulfil the conditions attached to the right of residence.
After five years of continuous lawful residence, EU citizens obtain permanent right of residence, which is no longer subject to any conditions, and, if they should request it, the host Member State must send them a document attesting to this right.
To conclude, as the same Directive 2004/38/EC also stipulates, the Member States, acting in accordance with their legislation, shall issue to their citizens an identity card or passport indicating their nationality or, as the case may be, renew such documents.
That will set in place the conditions necessary for reaching our goals in the interim period before the entry into force of the Constitutional Treaty.
However, the Commission can confirm that it is on the whole ready to contribute to the debate on the use of the bridging clauses as shown by covering this matter in the political review of the Hague Programme presented on 28 June.
Initial reactions from the vast majority of Member States have been very positive, and it came out from the informal meeting of Foreign Ministers of 27 and 28 May that most Member States endorse the Commission’s approach as anticipated in the communication of 10 May on the future of Europe.
This determination to make progress was confirmed by the June 2006 European Council conclusions, which call upon the incoming Finnish Presidency to explore, in close cooperation with the Commission, the possibility of improving decision-making and action in the area of freedom, justice and security, on the basis of existing treaties.
The Commission is convinced that Parliament will help to stimulate this debate as usual in institutional matters.
I am convinced that it is a matter of the utmost importance for the Parliament and a unique opportunity to bring freedom, security and justice matters closer to the citizens, thus increasing the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the legislative process.
You will probably know that just yesterday the Prime Minister of Finland confirmed, at our meeting in Helsinki, his full determination and the determination of the Finnish Presidency to hold further discussions, starting with the informal Council of Interior Ministers, which will take place in Tampere at the end of the September. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Frattini.
One such example is an initiative concerning a minimum standard with regard to procedural rights, where we are still in a stalemate after two years of discussion precisely because of the unanimity system.
Again, for example, when we talk about cross-border police cooperation, we are still blocked after 18 months of very difficult discussions because of unanimity.
The needs of all people with disabilities are taken into account in all Community policies in order to achieve equal treatment.
In terms of other programmes, the Commission’s disability action plan contained in its Communication COM(2005)604 outlines what has been done with respect to all people with disabilities in the European Union.
Concerning the possible competence of the European Union under the third pillar, there is currently no EU legislation governing the status of disabled persons in prisons.
That is mainly due to the fact that any action on judicial cooperation in criminal matters that aims at approximating rules applicable in Member States is, according to the available legal basis, conditional upon the requirement that such an action is necessary to improve cooperation between the Member States.
There is, for example, a project presented by Austria, Finland and Sweden on the transfer of prisoners.
I will consider, together with my colleague Mr Špidla, how measures undertaken or planned in this area of competence could be supported and complemented by measures that can be taken under the third pillar. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to ask a general question.
There is an important article – Article&#160;12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union – which envisages the right to freedom of association at all levels, in particular in trade union matters.
Freedom of association must therefore always be respected.
My question was included on the list.
Article 4E of Law 3388/2005 (Greek Government Gazette 225, 12 September 2005) extends this exemption to include legal persons governed by private law in the broader public sector.
The subject is extremely complicated, in that it involves different areas of Community law.
I too would like you to tell me if this is an invention of yours today or something you are being accustomed to, something you have the right to do because, if it is, then we too have no need to carefully monitor the order of questions in order to be ready to come and listen to the Commission's reply.
In the meantime, we have adopted a new communication concerning guidance on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services.
In this communication we have announced the adoption in spring 2007 of a report that will examine the situation in all Member States, of course including Ireland. &#160;&#160; Would the Commissioner agree that at this time, when migration throughout the European Union is increasing, implementation of the posting of workers directive is crucial in order to ensure that there is no race to the bottom and that migrant workers are not exploited by unscrupulous employers?
You know perfectly well, honourable Member, that the Commission gives strong encouragement to all states – let us say the old Member States of the European Union – to open their labour markets to the new Member States of the European Union and their workers.
I do not wish to comment on what the Prime Minister has said; but I will say that the Commission envisages that countries must recognise – even if after a transitional period, which we hope will be brief – that the citizens of the new Member States of the European Union have the right to free movement. &#160;&#160; The point I would like to raise with the Commissioner relates to the whole question of the transposition and implementation of directives.
One of the problems with the refusal by Member States to implement or transpose directives is the Commission’s tardiness in taking punitive action against such Member States.
I hope you all have a good break and, to those who will have the chance to watch an exciting football match this evening, I would ask you not to get too excited about it, as there can be only one winner. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mr&#160;Calabuig&#160;Rull on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on a policy framework to strengthen EU manufacturing – towards a more integrated approach for industrial policy (2006/2003(INI)) (A6-0206/2006). &#160;&#160; Mr President, in reality, in all of the debates on reports that have taken place today, we are discussing the same thing.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question that European industry is currently facing a process of globalisation of the economy that is making competition conditions increasingly tough.
Nevertheless, jobs in certain European industrial sectors, in particular SMEs, are under threat as a result of structural problems that must be tackled.
Furthermore, our specialisation indices differentiate us from our main competitors and make us vulnerable in a series of sectors.
Political and cross-sectoral initiatives are of course necessary in order to improve the conditions for this sector, in the fields of research, training, innovation, patents, access to third-country markets, combating unfair competition practices when they take place and reciprocity in external trade.
The manufacturing industry in the European Union, which accounts for a fifth of production, employs some 34&#160;million people; and three-quarters of exported goods are manufactured products.
The European Commission has recently published a document stating that there is evidence of serious distortions of the market, for example in the footwear sector in China – and, I would add, not only there – and the document speaks of direct state intervention in the management of businesses, specially favourable tax breaks and interest-free loans.
I request that this principle should underlie European policies, starting with international trade policies, especially when there are confirmed cases of unfair competition and counterfeiting. &#160;&#160; The challenges of the global economy also apply to European industry and need to be solved quickly.
These are matters of competition, common market regulation and social and economic cooperation.
In truth, we need a new approach to industrial policy.
With national and corporate competence, EU industry is expanding sectors, which use medium and high level technology and low or medium qualified labour, and therefore, is becoming less competitive when compared to countries with growing economies.
However, the implementation of a new approach requires long-term action.
However, the results of this possible reorganisation will be of use to those companies which have transferred production or to countries which do not see a future for industry in the EU.
This is demonstrated by the Commission's anti-dumping research, which aims to take into account the interests of businesses that have transferred production beyond the EU.
Nano sciences and nano technologies: their role can be decisive for all sectors of European industry and this should be borne in mind. 4.
Finally, I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur on the seriousness with which he approached the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it would be a tragedy if Europe confined itself to developing only the services sector.
As we all know, in today’s environment there is an intertwining of different sectors, be they manufacturing, services or trade.
The document states that the manufacturing industry in Europe provides employment for 34 million people and 20% of EU output.
In fact, in my own country – the smallest in the European Union – the relative percentages are even higher.
I believe that countries that are less rich can attain the 3% threshold we have set by using part of the Structural Funds themselves, which would lead in the direction of cohesion.
Like the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, I acknowledge that local specialities and characteristic products and workmanship are the life-blood of the European manufacturing sector.
The promotion of each country’s specialities in terms of human and material resources will thus enable us to tackle the low level of certain competencies in Europe and the drain of know-how and skills away from the regions where they belong.
Europe’s very strongest industry is to be found in those areas and in those companies that are active throughout the world.
It is against this background that I would like to state that there are three important points to make when we debate the future of European industry.
The first point is that competition is the best basis for innovation and for new industrial structures.
Secondly, it is important for us to ensure that we open the way for the next generation of companies, be they in the manufacturing industry or the services industry, which will in any case come together in the future.
This says a great deal about what we have to do before the various free trade negotiations and the WTO negotiations.
We have spent years debating our budget for the years leading up to 2013 and have worked it out in very precise detail.
We debated the Basel II package, which is now being implemented in Europe, although not elsewhere.
This ought to be a major consideration as we look to the future. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Only since an additional protocol to the Mannheim Convention entered into force in December 2004 has the mutual recognition of ships’ certificates been possible, and, in fact, the most important aspect of the new directive is the introduction of a standard ship’s certificate for inland waterway vessels within the EU.
There were still a few problems with the inclusion of sports boats of between 20 and 24 metres in length, which might well fall within the scope of both this directive and the so-called sports boats directive, No 94/25/EC, although this latter directive governs trade in sports boats and is, then, an internal market directive regulating the access of sports boats to the market.
The revised directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels goes further than what is laid down in the sports boats directive only where safety considerations on inland waterways make this necessary, and so it does not contradict its provisions.
The Community legislation harmonising the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels dates back to 1982.
Our proposal, which dates back to 1997, therefore has three objectives: Firstly, to update the technical requirements with a view to bringing the safety of vessels in line with technological progress; Secondly, to make it possible in the future for the Community certificate to be recognised for navigation on the Rhine; Thirdly, to establish a comitology procedure for regularly adjusting the technical requirements in the future, in the light of technological progress and of the development of the rules in force on the Rhine.
This matter remained at a standstill for a long time within the Council because of the issue of admitting vessels with Community certificates to navigation on the Rhine.
The future validity of the Community certificate on the Rhine will promote competition and will create genuinely fair conditions for river transport within the internal market.
As for the amendment adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we support it, and I am delighted that a compromise has been reached among the three institutions.
I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to assure you that the Commission is aware of the anxieties expressed by some owners of large recreational craft in certain Member States.
The text that you will adopt will make it possible for the majority of these concerns to be addressed.
Unlike Directive 94/25/EC, which provides for market access for recreational craft in the Community, the new directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, for its part, provides for safety of navigation on all waterways.
Finally, the directive permits a number of derogations for existing recreational craft.
I would add that Article&#160;7 permits those Member States whose inland waterways are not connected to the waterways of other Member States to depart from all or part of this directive.
A happy outcome is worth waiting for, and our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, thanks Mrs&#160;Sommer, the rapporteur, for the valuable work she has done.
At first reading, and in the Common Position, this House and the Council made various amendments.
Like the rapporteur, to whom I am most grateful for her report, I, too, take the view that these amendments are generally acceptable and add to the original Commission proposal in a reasonable way.
I hope that the specialists will find a solution to the possible discrepancy between this directive and Directive 94/25/EC, and I strongly support the amendment to that end.
I hope that this stage will make a positive contribution to improving transport on inland waterways. &#160;&#160; Mr President, passion for football, which has become a global and European passion tonight, offers me the opportunity to express my passion for Europeanism within the context of the transport sector as well.
As the partner of a German, I well remember the admiration I felt when I saw the Rhine some years ago, because until then I had heard talk of river motorways, and I had even worked in that field, but I had never known what they were.
I am therefore delighted as a European that this debate is finally coming to a successful conclusion, thanks to Mrs&#160;Sommer and also to my colleague Mr&#160;Stockmann.
This will make it possible to harmonise river navigability, in terms both of social safety rules and of environmental rules, including the proposed non-reduction in those countries where that danger exists.
It only remains for me to express my hope that my city, which in 2008 will hold the international Expo on this very issue of water and sustainable development, can implement projects to restore the navigability of the River Ebro, amongst others, as a collective means of passenger transport, and naturally to promote its use for sporting and tourism purposes.
Mr&#160;President, I wanted to say these few words of thanks to all those Members who kindly contributed to this excellent piece of work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I do not want to spend a great deal of time reviewing the lengthy process whereby we worked out what we want, which involved us in two first readings and various proposals from the Commission over a period of six years.
It has become clear to me that we MEPs are production line workers, and certainly many people have been working on this one.
I am also appreciative of the good work the Commission has done as a mediator, particularly that done by Mr&#160;Salvarani – since both he and I are being kept from watching the football today, I am grateful to him for being here – and not least for the Council’s willingness to compromise.
Before second reading, the Committee on Transport and Tourism made some important changes.
Thirdly, the cabin crew were, right up to the last minute, raising with us their concerns about the upgrading of their status, and I believe that our amendments do justice to that insofar as it has a bearing on safety.
Indeed, many investigations conducted in the wake of accidents have identified crew fatigue as one of the factors contributing to these accidents.
The amended proposal of 2004 entails, on the other hand, cabin crew being certified on the basis of minimum requirements, as happens in the United States and as the employees concerned, together with part of the industry, were demanding.
It is true that the Council has had great difficulty in reaching an agreement, as a result of the Member States' very different points of view.
However, the Council finally succeeded in reaching a compromise on a common position at the end of February 2006.
The Commission does, of course, accept this position on the part of the Council, which is willing to adopt the main elements of Parliament’s proposal.
On certain points, relating in particular to the flight and duty time limitations of cabin crew, we simply need to carry out a scientific and medical assessment before reaching a decision on the matter.
Since the Council adopted its common position, our three institutions have been working intensively to reach an agreement at second reading.
The common position has been clarified and improved thanks to the amendments tabled by the European Parliament, and I am particularly grateful to Mr&#160;Stockmann for this text.
The Commission, in agreement with Parliament, feels it necessary to assess the consequences in terms of safety and fatigue of the provisions concerning flight and duty time limitations and rest periods.
The second improvement concerns the scientific and medical assessment of the provisions relating to flight and duty time limitations and to cabin crews.
On that basis, the analysis period can actually be reduced to two years, Mr&#160;Stockmann, as Parliament is proposing.
The Commission will issue a statement to shed more light on the nature of these studies, particularly in relation to the conduct and training of cabin crew in emergency situations.
Finally, my third point is that the Commission proposal is designed to lay down minimum harmonised safety standards, at a high level and applicable throughout the Community.
The Commission agrees that no aspect of this regulation should lead to a reduction in the highest safety standards, where these already exist.
The Commission therefore has no difficulty in accepting the amendments that reflect these three principles and therefore supports the compromise amendments, that is to say Amendments&#160;19 to 25.
On the other hand, the Commission does not support Amendments&#160;11, 16 and 17 because they overlap and because they are, in fact, covered by the compromise amendments.
The same is true of Amendments 12 to 15 and Amendment 18.
They concern technical amendments to various parts of the annex which are, in fact, going to be regulated by the comitology procedure provided for in this regulation.
The object of this regulation is to at least make these rules more closely approximate, and that is an aim that is, as far as I am aware, supported by all the groups in this House, so we can content ourselves with making changes in a few areas, for example to the rules that put crew on freight flights at a disadvantage, where changes really do have to be made.
If we do not lose sight of the fact that the regulation is intended to do no more than make air travel safer, then I am sure that passengers will, in future, be able to expect comparable technical safety standards, irrespective of the airport in the European Union at which they embark on their flight.
We have witnessed the very difficult development of this draft regulation, firstly with the report by Mr&#160;Simpson - who is not present in this Chamber, but to whom we must pay tribute - and then with the extremely careful and shrewd work of Mr&#160;Stockmann, who has made it possible today to conclude the regulation.
I believe that Parliament, as you said, Commissioner, can pride itself on having given this draft regulation a respectable social complexion.
One problem remained to be solved, which might have appeared of secondary importance: the human factor certainly refers to the flight deck crew, but it also refers to the cabin crew.
That is why 37 of us Members from different political backgrounds – I pay tribute to Mrs&#160;de Veyrac – acted in what may be regarded as an untimely fashion and tabled a number of amendments aimed at clearly and explicitly integrating subpart O into the scientific assessment and revision work.
I believe that, thanks to Mr&#160;Stockmann’s mediation, these amendments finally convinced people that a compromise was possible and persuaded the Council to accept it without going any further.
Consequently, if the compromise amendments, as they were drafted this week, are adopted – I am thinking of Amendments 22, 25 and 19 – then, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, there is no longer any reason for us to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by 37 Members.
Although it is certainly true that we have been working on it for a long time, we are now close to an agreement that can enable us to raise safety to a high standard and make competition between airlines more honest.
The possibility that we now have of concluding a compromise and to start out with a Europe-wide regulation constitutes an opportunity that we must seize whatever else we do.
The consequence of that was that pilots’ flying times and the working conditions of cabin crew were open and controversial issues for our discussions in the committee.
It has to be said, though, that there was no discussion in the proposal of the problems posed by shift work and the fatigue – that is, the physical and mental effects of irregular working hours – which does, of course, have effects on safety.
It is now up to them – and they will bear responsibility for this – as to whether working conditions, where they are better than what was proposed, improve, get worse, or remain unchanged, and whether, where bad working conditions still prevail, they can at last catch up. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the policy of the European Union also functions in the aviation sector on automatic pilot, strengthening the competitiveness of the monopoly aviation companies in order to increase their profits.
We really consider that aircraft inspections by organised engineers in accordance with Part-66 (Aircraft Maintenance Personnel Licensing) need to be restored. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur Mr&#160;Stockmann for his very good work in finding a compromise between many and highly divergent opinions.
I believe that the most important matter for those present, chiefly members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, is to reach agreement after six years of work on that version of the reading that is also acceptable to the Council.
To procrastinate on amendments and regulations setting technical requirements and administrative procedures in such a fast-growing business sector as aviation is, I believe, no longer permissible or forgivable.
One of these is the safety of aviation as a means of transport, and one that is in increasing use every day.
I would like to thank Mr&#160;Stockmann for the truly excellent cooperation from which we have benefited and for the high-quality compromise that we have now reached.
For this reason, the review after two years is very important.
We must therefore also contribute to achieving high safety levels and high levels of competence for cabin crew, and we are doing this through the compromise.
As a final point, the agreements in place differ between Member States.
I think it important that those Member States that have better legislation or collective agreements should not be forced to fit in with a lowest common denominator.
He deals with a very broad and important subject which concerns the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation.
The need for a detailed approach is demonstrated by the document itself, which consists of around 480 pages.
The legislation deals with the issue of certificates, limitations on flight time and staff duties, as well as vital rest times for staff.
Moreover, the regulation deals with the question of meteorological conditions and guidelines on procedures to be followed in the event of limited visibility or other dangerous situations.
There is a clear attempt to maintain where they already exist, and to introduce where they are not yet entirely compulsory, unified principles and criteria for action and implementation of the appropriate technical conditions in order to guarantee the highest possible level of air transport safety.
It is therefore necessary to harmonise operating regulations relating to commercial air transport.
It is also important to ensure that EU regulations are respected in all Member States and that carriers and airline operators from outside the EU and which fly to EU Member States be obliged to respect them unequivocally.
This allows me to state that the compromise solution proposed is responsible and to the point.
In this context I support the compromise solution achieved and call for it to be adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Michael Ende did not give his ‘Never-Ending Story’ a proper ending, and we, in this House, have done markedly better.
Finding a solution seemed difficult, but we have almost found one, thanks to the passionate and joint work of everybody and to the European Parliament’s will to approve a complete text, with essential aspects for safety, aimed at people, pilots and cabin staff and with requirements on training, professional recognition and strict respect for flying and rest times, which must be regulated and harmonised in order to fully guarantee safety, without delay, in a sector which is growing exponentially and which is fully open and competitive.
We therefore welcome this prior commitment tonight, which will become a first step in consolidating the European citizens' confidence in the civil aviation sector.
It also represents a mandate for the European Air Safety Agency to exercise responsibility, and we hope that the agency will soon apply all of this Parliament's recommendations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Stockmann, for the outstanding work he has done in negotiating a more than satisfactory agreement with the Council and the Commission.
Firstly, this agreement concludes a matter that has been on the table for six years, and it is a good thing to thus be able to avoid the conciliation procedure and a further delay, even though six years is far too long for an area like air safety in which it is crucial to act quickly.
Secondly, the amendments on which the Council and the draftsmen came to an agreement take up the bulk of the requests that we made to the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
That seems important to me, especially when it comes to the non-reducing clauses, which guarantee that this text will be unable to bring about a reduction in safety in the Member States in which the standards are higher than the basic standards featuring in the regulation.
Together with Mr&#160;Savary and a number of our fellow Members, we have tabled two amendments relating to the concerns expressed by this profession.
I am delighted to observe that the compromise amendments take account of these remarks and I am convinced that the regulation thus amended is a coherent and balanced text: I hope that we adopt it tomorrow by a very large majority.
There are various reasons why this ‘EU-OPS’ regulation represents an important milestone in the history of air safety: the amount of air traffic in Europe is continuing its constant upward trend; European airspace is one of the most overloaded of the areas in the world through which aircraft pass; and, if the safety of air passengers is to continue to be guaranteed everywhere, then the further development of uniformly high standards of safety is a matter of urgent necessity.
Pilots from certain EU Member States will have the pressure taken off them as a result of the new framework conditions established by EU-OPS in respect of limits on working and rest time, and that in turn will improve passenger safety.
As regards controls, we have two levels of these: those managed by the European Aviation Safety Agency, which are designed to see whether the European rules are being applied properly by the Member States, and those managed by the Member States.
Mr&#160;President, I hope that this text will be adopted by a large majority and will thus make it possible to improve air safety in Europe, to guarantee fair competition and to make it easier for staff to move around within the Community.
I wish to thank Parliament once again for its contribution. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The consent of Member State of transit and of destination is assumed after a reasonable deadline.
It further takes fully into account the opinion given by the European Economic and Social Committee on 9 June 2005, as well as the informal discussions held at the Council and in Parliament during 2005.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Seppänen, for the excellent report he prepared, which has received the strong support of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
It enhances certainty with regard to the Community uniform procedure which is applicable to the control of shipments of radioactive waste and nuclear spent fuel.
During the drafting process, I thought it was important for us to insist that it should be written into Union legislation that each Member State should have the right to ban the importation of nuclear spent fuel for disposal.
The European Parliament endorsed the adoption of the Joint Convention at one point, and Euratom is a party to it.
The members of our committee supported the rapporteur on this.
Taken as a whole Mr&#160;Seppänen’s draft report enjoys the support of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but we will reject the substance of the amendments that were, contrary to our original agreement, resubmitted, and we do so on the basis of Articles 31 and 32 of the Euratom Treaty, which have to do with health and safety.
I want to express my thanks to Mr&#160;Seppänen for his willingness to meet us halfway, and I believe that we can very largely agree to the report in its present form. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s proposal on the directive concerning the control of shipments of radioactive waste is balanced and takes account of many of the suggestions made by Parliament during the debate on the previous proposal.
I commend this attempt to update the previous directive and to clarify it from the procedural and terminological point of view.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament is therefore substantially in agreement with this text and would like to compliment Mr&#160;Seppänen on his report and his contribution.
We shall therefore vote against the Greens’ amendments.
The amendments submitted in this report undoubtedly significantly improve the Commission’s latest proposal and certainly constitute an important improvement to the original directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
One of the most noteworthy contributions made by the rapporteur in substantially improving the Commission’s position is his stance in firmly establishing the right of every country to prohibit foreign nuclear spent fuel from being finally stored in repositories in or on its soil.
The exact definition of nuclear waste and nuclear spent fuel is still not entirely clear, so that some nuclear waste may, depending on its intended use, sometimes be regarded as nuclear spent fuel and vice versa.
I am positively convinced that the responsibility for resolving the problems with nuclear waste should generally be accepted by those countries that dump these problems on the world.
The way in which EU Member States now ship their rubbish to such countries as Russia, only for it to be there stored under grossly unsatisfactory conditions, is nothing short of scandalous.
This directive focuses only on Member States which are active participants in the production of nuclear energy and on those that accept the waste.
That should be respected, both in terms of accepting waste and in terms of the risk of waste being transported through our waters.
In committee we have achieved a broad majority consensus on drawing up the amendments necessary to improve the Commission’s proposal, which we believe the Council is prepared to accept.
In particular, I would like to stress the new system for notification and authorisation of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel which I believe maximises the use of the automatic consent procedure, which was originally stressed by the European Economic and Social Committee as an essential element for the proper functioning of the internal market.
Furthermore, the amendments voted for in committee fully conform to the proposal’s initial objective, which is to bring the legislation in force into line with the Joint Convention of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Let us hope that the House is aware that what is to be voted on tomorrow is not a question of ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to nuclear power, but rather a proposal to make the transport of these substances safer. &#160;&#160; I would like to congratulate the draftsman and stress that the directive being debated is important for each country in the European Union, especially those operating nuclear power stations.
This could also be a priority for the EU’s 7th framework programme for research. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, France stirred up a wave of indignation when it classified the shipment of radioactive waste as an official secret.
As recently as 16&#160;May 2006, a member of French civil society was kept in police custody because he was in possession of an impact study concerning the EPR project's ability to withstand a disaster involving the loss of an airliner also classified as an official secret.
By adopting, with vague words, the French idea that 'information regarding shipments (…) is handled with due care and protected against any misuse’, Parliament’s Committee on Industry, Research and Energy is in fact proposing to institutionalise official secrets at European level.
We know that burying is not the solution when it comes to managing nuclear waste.
Furthermore, going along with the proposal to delegate the management of nuclear waste to third countries – Ukraine or Russia for instance – is irresponsible.
In the meantime, the acceptable solution – and this is the response that I wish to give to my fellow Members from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - consists in storing the waste within nuclear power stations.
In fact, nuclear energy lies behind a good 30 per cent of the electric power generated by 154 reactors in Europe.
When confronted with these figures, the opponents of nuclear energy, and indeed members of the public as well, raise concerns about nuclear waste.
The time is now ripe to amend the existing 1992 Directive on the Supervision and Control of Shipments of Radioactive Waste and Nuclear Spent Fuel in line with the development of contemporary society, which is exactly what the Commission proposal does.
Moreover, the rapid development of technology today facilitates the re-use and material recovery of as much as 96 per cent of all highly radioactive waste.
For this reason, I support the proposal for the harmonisation of nuclear spent fuel management procedures, regardless of which procedures will be used in the coming period.
I firmly believe that this document deserves our support.
Bearing in mind the health and safety of Europe's citizens, we must keep nuclear legislation up to date.
First of all, it ensures the close monitoring of radioactive waste and of the spent fuel, which is now being re-processed, without the application of unjustified restrictions and bans.
Secondly, it guarantees citizens' safety, without imposing, in exchange, a disproportionate burden on economic operators.
However, the latter also means that apart from jointly refining the legislation providing a stable basis for safety, it is also necessary to ensure the effective operation of the national authorities that constitute this framework, so that every citizen in the European Union can enjoy the greater safety offered by the new directive.
All the above is vitally important for the future of Europe's energy supply too, because we should be aware that the success of this complex operation is also the key to ensuring that people have confidence in nuclear energy. &#160;&#160; () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to thank the Commission for taking this initiative, for it is timely that it should give some thought to the essential things in the European Union, among them safety standards and the extreme risks involved in this technology, and that there should be awareness of the fact that the currently existing safety standards differ to the utmost degree and are, in many cases, in need of better monitoring, of, that is to say, what is termed a peer review or of some other means whereby they may be reviewed objectively and transparently.
As I see it, the question arises of what the position is in this area as regards consultation between the Commission, Parliament, and the relevant Member States, or of what is going on as regards the new strategy, according to which the Council’s nuclear working group is, in effect, seizing powers exclusively for itself and treating our other partners in the European decision-making process in a manner that has no place in the present time.
I should like to thank Mr Seppänen again for his excellent report, which has the support of a strong majority in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
That is the answer to the question that arose during the debate.
I strongly believe that we need as much transparency as possible when we deal with energy issues.
That also applies to nuclear energy. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
