We call on the Commission to provide us, in subsequent reports, with a more specific toolbox in order to promote such talks, and we invite the Commissioner and the Council to meet with us every three months.
Among these internal factors are the reforms in several countries in the euro zone in recent years, the budgetary consolidation efforts and the response of European economies to the significant increase in oil prices, which is more efficient than many expected.
These three priorities, which are set out in the report, will also be included in the Annual Economic Report that I will present to the Commission on 22 November, which this year focuses on the operation of Economic and Monetary Union and, in particular, of the euro zone, in the light of the eight years of experience that have been accumulated.
With regard to the application of the inflation criteria for the enlargement of the euro zone, which we have debated many times in this House recently, I refer to what has been said so far.
I am entirely in favour of dialogue with this House on the operation of the euro zone.
Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the opportunity presented to us by this debate in plenary to review together the operation of the euro zone at a time when, as you have said, the outlook in certain areas is improving, yet when all agree that the potential for growth is not fully realised and when our economies are handicapped by an exchange rate that makes euro zone exports difficult and leads some of our businesses to contemplate relocation in order to produce their goods in the dollar zone.
From this point of view, the report is valuable, and I believe that we must also congratulate our fellow Member Mr García-Margallo on the spirit in which he approached it.
One final word, Commissioner, to reinforce what has been said by several others on the subject of exchange rates: we need more economic policies and economic leadership in this area.
The European Commission (according to the EC Treaty) and the European Central Bank are both applying different criteria of price stability to the euro zone.
Based on the methods of the European Commission, the stability of prices in the euro zone is established by considering more than just the rate of inflation of the euro zone countries and, therefore, it is impossible to eliminate uncharacteristic inflation factors.
In 2003, a clear majority voted against participating in it.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, in our discussion of the 2006 annual report on the situation in the euro zone there are two points I would like to make.
The first is the much lower economic growth rate and higher unemployment in the countries of the European Union, and in the euro zone in particular, than in the USA and in the emerging markets such as China and India.
Economic growth in the euro zone will in 2005-2007 be almost half of that of the USA, while unemployment will be almost twice as high.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, growth in the euro zone has been the lowest in the world for many years, as it was in 2006 as well.
One is that the tax revenues that are now coming in must actually be used to reduce deficits, and we demand this in paragraph 5 of the report.
The ECB lags a long way behind global standards.
I hope we will have a debate in my country that will make it possible for us to join them and other euro countries in the years to come. (DE) Mr President, I am glad that the Commission has produced this report and that it is committed to observing what happens to the euro zone, but equally glad to be able to say that Mr Juncker's presence here today means that there will be a contribution to our debate from the person who has the responsibility of speaking on behalf of the euro zone's members.
That is why I believe that we have to make the effort to do what is now needed, namely to make smart investments in the euro zone.
Sooner or later the people of Europe are going to get restless with a system that keeps them permanently in the economic slow lane, while denying them any democratic say in how it should be run. (SK) I would like to welcome and support the proposal by the opposition in the European Parliament concerning the 2006 declaration on the anniversary of the euro zone.
The relative share of energy-intensive and raw material-intensive output in many of these countries is greater than in the euro zone.
The current approach to assessing inflation criteria is, therefore, inappropriate and may in the long run diminish the chances of new Member States gaining entry to the euro zone, even if they comply with all other requirements. (HU) Mr President, first of all, I congratulate the Commission and the rapporteur for their consideration of this difficult subject.
I believe that our conclusions point in a single direction.
The Commission has a political responsibility as well in this regard.
However, the subject of this debate is the economic performance of the euro zone.
Perhaps the time has come to evaluate the results of this policy and to consider whether dismantling public services, deregulating the labour market and cutting public expenditure really is a sustainable way of driving growth in the euro zone and in the European Union.
The value of the euro rises and we are all delighted.
Of the 500 million people in Europe of 27, 100 million people are living below the poverty line.
Only then will the euro zone have a future characterised by growth. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, it gives me great satisfaction to announce my support for the European Commission's presentation of the first annual report on the situation in the euro zone.
Unemployment rose to 13 million, and the situation with public finances got worse, rather than improving.
The need for this has been demonstrated in numerous reports and studies, including the Shapiro report and the high-level report made under the chairmanship of Wim Kok.
According to our predictions, between now and 2008, five million jobs are going to be created in the euro zone.
If any of you still have any doubts, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the Commission, and in my opinion, as the Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, we need to enhance bilateral dialogue between the Commission and Parliament on these matters.
Nevertheless, I should like to tell you that I attach importance to this debate because Parliament's thoughts are not only important in themselves, but they also sustain the debates within Eurogroup, which I chair, assisted, inspired, driven and spurred on by the Commissioner for Monetary Affairs, my friend, Mr Almunia.
As regards growth, if we look at it in perspective, it is probably stronger than we think at present and is, at any rate, stronger than we thought six months ago.
The euro has protected us, and it has even protected countries that expressed some misgivings about Europe when it came to their approving the Constitutional Treaty.
The application of real convergence criteria would make the new Member States' accession to the euro zone a very distant prospect.
There you have a few comments that I felt it my right to make, while I apologise for not having been able to reply to all of the speakers, as I usually do; I had to reply briefly because I was not present when the speakers, with the commitment that characterises this Parliament, took the floor.
Written statement (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) (FR) Even though the report by my excellent colleague, Mr Garcia-Margallo y Marfil, puts forward some very interesting analyses and proposals on the euro zone, I regret the fact that it does not raise the issue straightaway of the development of the euro from a technical currency to a political tool benefiting growth and employment.
The monetary policy conducted by the European Central Bank (ECB) seems to be at odds with reality: the exchange rate should normally be strong when there is strong economic growth and should depreciate when there is weak growth.
