European Council meeting (8-9 March 2007) (debate) The next item is a report by the European Council and a statement by the Commission (European Council meeting, 8-9 March 2007).
I shall do so gladly, and may I say at once - although it has just been remarked that we are too ready to sing our own praises - that, from the point of view of the Presidency - from my point of view - this was indeed a successful Council meeting.
As you know, the Spring Summit focused on energy and climate policy.
The EU has committed itself unilaterally and independently to reducing its emissions of greenhouse gases by 20% compared to 1990 by 2020.
This is an ambitious target, and reaching it will require major efforts on the part of all Member States.
We have promised to reduce these emissions by as much as 30% over the same period, provided that we are joined by other industrialised countries and economically advanced developing countries.
Energy consumption within the EU is to be reduced by 20% compared to projections for 2020 through greater energy efficiency; and, crucially, the share of renewable energy in overall energy consumption is to be increased to at least 20%.
We shall adopt the same joint, fair approach when it comes to dividing up the European target into national targets as we did when we agreed on making the target for renewable energy binding.
As I see it, it is more important to pay tribute to the Action Plan as a whole in this House, and also to emphasise - besides the targets I have just presented - above all the strategic decisions that have been taken in the following fields, for example: the structure of the internal energy market, security of supply, international energy policy, energy research, and new energy technologies.
The Spring Summit traditionally takes stock of the Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs, and the most important thing is that the renewed Lisbon Strategy is taking effect.
For this reason, the European Council decided last Friday to further reduce this deficit to 1% by 2009.
In particular, we want to see a 25% reduction in the administrative burdens - red tape - arising from EU legislation by 2012, and the Member States have been invited to set similarly ambitious national targets over the next year.
The EU is on its way to developing a modern, sustainable climate and energy policy.
The Heads of State or Government have shown that Europe can assume a leading role in important global issues.
The Commission is obliged to the Council and the German Presidency for the far-reaching, bold objectives set at last week's European Council.
We are also obliged to you for the unambiguous signal you have given the rest of the world, which has received great attention worldwide: namely the signal that we in Europe are serious about the fight against climate change, the development of a common energy policy and the preservation of our competitiveness.
A particularly important result of this Council was the fact that it proved those people wrong who said that a Union of 27 Member States would no longer be capable of action.
It is now expected that, in the next two years alone, seven million new jobs will be created in the EU and we shall come very close to achieving the original Lisbon objectives of 2000.
The fact that European integration and a common European economic policy are the answer we have been looking for to the question of how to preserve our competitiveness at global level should feature much more prominently in national policy debate.
The call made by the European Council for Parliament and the Council to make even greater use of impact assessments in the future is important.
I am very much obliged to the Council for supporting the Commission's objective of a 25% reduction in the administrative burdens on European enterprises arising from European legislation by 2012.
The strength of the decisions lies in the fact that we have succeeded in closely interlinking climate and energy policy.
We shall continue to dismantle the remaining barriers to renewable energy and to energy efficiency in all industrial sectors, with a view to achieving a 20% share of renewable energy in overall EU energy consumption and also a share of biofuels of at least 10% by 2020.
We have proposed that the highly developed countries agree to collectively reduce their CO2 emissions by 30% compared to 1990 by 2020.
In addition, the EU has already committed itself to reducing its CO2 emissions by at least 20% by 2020.
The Council's targets give our industry a clear framework, and also investment security for years to come.
We know from the latest Eurobarometer survey that European citizens are well aware that a change of course is essential.
I could add more examples, such as the French 'Pôles de Compétitivité', the Dutch Standard Cost Model or tax reforms in some of the new Member States.
Thank you. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Mr Steinmeier, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, a summit is usually followed by long-winded conclusions in which we have to dig deep to find ambitions that are supported by the 27 Member States.
The commitments have been made, but we still need to divide up the joys and the burdens, and I should like to wish the Commission much success in this arduous task.
As European partners, we have a duty, in unison, to bring maximum pressure to bear on our global partners in order for them to join us in this ambitious, but above all necessary, chapter.
For the majority of our group, there is room for nuclear energy in the energy mix, even though we, just like the European Council, fully respect the principle of subsidiarity in this respect.
The crucial question, as Commissioner Verheugen was also right to point out, remains how we can get Europeans more involved in this whole Lisbon process.
I would therefore urge the Presidents of our three political institutions to give those 500 million Europeans, who hope for a prosperous and social future in a pleasant living climate for their children and their grandchildren, a place in the Berlin Declaration, to give them renewed confidence and faith in the added value of our common European project.
The 27 Heads of State or Government who managed to work together successfully at the weekend took a decision that points the way ahead, but I shall leave the detailed description of this up to our group's experts in their speeches.
This allows me to concentrate on noting that what we need - namely to make the public understand that this is not just a club of layabouts - is really feasible; and that the EU not only describes the great challenges, but defines and decides on the necessary answers and hopefully also implements them in practice.
The continent that contributes least to the pollution of our environment - Africa - is the one that suffers most as a result of climate change.
Yet we cannot make demands of them unless we set a good example ourselves; and that is the historic step that was taken at the weekend.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I was not quite sure when Matthew (Matthäus) was mentioned whether it was not perhaps a reference to Lothar Matthäus.
However, there is no cause for complacency just yet, because you still have the much more arduous part ahead of you.
Climate policy in Europe must now therefore be followed by climate diplomacy from Europe, because on its success the overall success of the enterprise ultimately depends.
Bureaucracy requires better legislation.
The proposals that Commissioner Verheugen has made are right and it is also right that they have been adopted.
I would also like to thank the President of this House for the positive, hands-on role he played at the summit - our thanks, Mr President.
The summit has been a success and sends an important signal to the rest of the world in two respects: it is a signal of our unity, and a signal of our organisation's pragmatic, forward-looking approach.
The Union is sending out a clear signal that we want solidarity, and that we want the future of our organisation to be based on a unified approach to the question of the security of energy resources.
The summit has also sent out a clear signal on climate change.
It is right that the European Union has set itself ambitious targets on an issue of such paramount importance to the future of Europe.
To finish, I would like to highlight the fact that the first summit of the now further enlarged European Union has also shown that enlargement is not a problem.
As a Pole, I would like to point out that recent enlargements of the European Union, both that of two-and-a half years ago, and the latest one, are a common success for us all.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an obvious connection between the preceding debate on the Berlin Declaration and this one, since the Europe of results must be able to act and it will not be able to do so very effectively without a constitution.
Mr President, we acknowledge the fact that the German Presidency led the Council to adopt quite clear, visible commitments on emissions cuts and renewable energies and to reject the pro-nuclear offensive from President Chirac.
Mr Verheugen, I do not think that that constitutes a big, bold effort because, if we kept to our commitments on fair energy efficiency and renewables, that would already cut emissions by 24%.
The EU is once again its own worst enemy, pushing to one side its own studies which conclude that a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is needed to actually prevent irreversible global warming and with it up to 86 000 additional climate-related deaths per year in the EU.
The difference between 30% and 20% can be summed up as whether we are going to use the opportunity to avert a climate catastrophe or whether we are going to carry on regardless.
The problem is that the wrong political course has been adopted and that the decisive initiatives are not actually being taken.
Now, the Council has again shown that it is possible to take major decisions even when all the Member States have the veto.
On our own, without the major climate culprits, India, China, South Korea, Japan, Australia and the United States which are responsible for almost half of global greenhouse gas production, we will hardly be able to make progress in the battle against climate change.
The fact that the EU is running away from its own citizens tells us all we need to know about its worth and value as we approach the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, which, of course, spawned this insatiable lust for Brussels domination and control. (DE) Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his report.
The focus was on energy and climate policy.
It is a fact that generating one kilowatt-hour from nuclear energy produces 15 grams of CO2 whereas generating one kilowatt-hour from brown coal produces 970 grams.
I certainly believe that at the end of the day the success of the German Presidency will be judged on whether it is possible, in international negotiations with the United States, Russia, India and China, to convert this European benchmark into an international standard.
Now we have got to live up to that package and that is not going to be easy.
It showed it could act decisively on a key issue that our citizens care about.
I hope that, when we come to celebrate our hundredth birthday, future generations will look back at last week's summit and see it as a turning point, when the EU began to work together, tackle the big issues of our times and regain the confidence of its citizens.
Mrs McAvan, you of course may well live to see our hundredth birthday. (DA) Mr President, the result of last week's summit was an historic breakthrough.
Is that not the case, Mr Verheugen?
If we stand shoulder to shoulder in Europe, we shall also have the opportunity to achieve a worldwide agreement on climate policy embracing hesitant countries such as the United States and the rapidly developing countries in Asia such as China and India.
The EU has got its optimism back, and that is crucial if we are to get the Constitutional Treaty back on track. (LV) Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you. (DE) Mr President, Mr Steinmeier, this euphoria is to some extent justified, but at the same time here and now is exactly the right time and place to consider whether there is anything underpinning these noble aims.
It does mean, though, that the Council is prepared to reduce by 30% only if the other developed countries pull their weight in achieving this goal, yet a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases worldwide by 2020 is necessary in order to be able to ensure that the increase in temperature does not exceed 2°C.
In reaching agreement on cutting EU greenhouse gases in this way, the Council has shown leadership on probably the most important issue facing our planet, that of the threat of climate change.
I want to underline that new, smart, green growth could and should be a new dynamo in the Lisbon process, as Commissioner Verheugen said himself, and as you also underlined, President-in-Office.
The European Union has taken on the mantle here of an evangelist seeking to alert the rest of the world to the dangers of climate change and to bring about a post-2012 international agreement involving at the very least China, India and the United States.
They do exist in Europe, however, if we pool our resources across all 27 Member States, our diplomats and our politicians and our businesses in a concerted campaign to change minds and secure success.
That is our task and it is going to need all our resources.
I therefore welcome the summit's commitment to a 25 % reduction in EU-imposed red tape by 2012, and I hope that will be met.
Most attention has been given to the summit commitments on energy efficiency and renewable energy; admirable targets for energy saving have been set.
However, I hope that any new legislation will be sensitive to local circumstances.
There are 100 million Europeans living below the poverty line.
Mr Steinmeier, I should like to put a concrete proposal to the German Presidency, and I appeal to it with conviction.
The first is that, if we do not want this new social approach to go unheeded, it must be accompanied by an action plan, by the re-launch of the European social agenda, and perhaps even by a Council that is dedicated - as the last one was to energy- and renewable energy-related objectives - to the implementation of these social objectives.
Europe means freedom, solidarity and innovation, aims which our energy policy should also pursue.
I would like to point out that the countries that recently re-joined Europe after a long period of separation are poor countries which do not have the capacity for the 3 x 20 programme.
That is why we anxiously await the declaration of 25 March.
After last week's successes, it would be disappointing if we came up with a vague declaration that did not talk about Europe's successes or mention the great advances of the last 50 years or, most of all, did not sketch out this great goal of the European Constitution. (FI) Mr President, I will use the time allotted to me discussing the Berlin Declaration.
In other words, it must clearly define what our common European goals are. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to say how surprised I am at the intensity and high level of many of the discussions on achieving real CO2-emission reductions.
In my Member State I am given the impression that the climate catastrophe could be brought under control if we drove a little more slowly, replaced our light bulbs and planted three trees every time we went on holiday to Africa.
However, this is only the tip of the iceberg.
On the other hand, the bilateral agreements between the European Union Member States and third states in the field of energy should be conceived in such a way as to work in favour of the enhancement of our common energy strategy.
This spring, the European Council has proven that there is a light at the end of the tunnel.
I would therefore call for a report to be produced annually by the Member States to the national parliaments and by the Commission to the European Parliament about the results of implementation.
I remember, however, the Lisbon Summit of March 2000, at which the European Union set itself the target of becoming the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010.
Wind energy must be developed, but its impact is very limited; we cannot rely on it: there is no electricity when the wind is too weak, or when it is too strong.
Mrs Merkel wants the European Union to pioneer the fight against global warming.
Hypocritical, too, is the fact that Mrs Merkel wants to combat CO2 emissions while at the same time enhancing her policy of having electricity generated by coal-burning thermal power stations, when we know the disastrous effects that this has on the environment.
Hypocritical, lastly, Commissioner, is the fact that you expect industry to make an effort when the German Presidency protects big-engined cars that consume too much energy and emit too much CO2.
It must be stated clearly, however, that the summit held on 8 March actually precedes a very important debate on the Constitution.
We should therefore ask ourselves whether the agreement reached in the field energy has given energy and courage to all those who want to take the difficult decisions about the future of Europe, or whether in fact the opposite has happened.
Our governments and our prime ministers, however, are not giving us a great deal of help in communicating this message about the fundamental importance of the internal market.
This could be done between now and the next summit and it would make the biggest single improvement to the internal market, without us having to do any more legislative work.
Thank you very much, Mr Harbour.
And the citizens of the European Union will see that it is good, that it is in the spirit of the third millennium. (CS) Mr President, it is a good thing for Europe that the Council has adopted the energy action plan for 2007-2009.
The energy sector is also less competitive and therefore less efficient than it ought to be.
Now of course the same questions are being asked about 25 March.
I have mentioned energy research; I have mentioned strengthening our energy relationships with third countries, and of course this also applies, Mr Verheugen, to the ambitious target for renewable energies.
We need to keep an eye on how energy and climate policy develops in important countries such as the United States, China and India.
I simply want to say that the opposite is true, and I am saying this for Europe, I am saying it for our national German policy, and I am saying it in particular for our G8 Presidency.
The European Parliament will do all it can to ensure that we are successful together.
The debate is closed.
The conclusions of the Council clearly state: 'To enable the next three year cycle of the renewed Lisbon Strategy to be prepared, the European Council invites the Commission to present an interim report in Autumn 2007 with a view to its proposal for the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Jobs (2008-2011).
in writing. - (HU) In the past few months, more and more people in Hungary too have been worrying about global climate change.
It would be a grave error, however, to forget that global climate change is not the only source of environmental threats.
If we want a more humane future for ourselves and for our offspring, we must take action for an environmentally friendly, healthy and sustainable future.
We are especially pleased that nine Member States, among them Hungary, provided great momentum for this positive trend by signing the declaration advocating further development of a social Europe and promoting its role.
in writing. - I welcome the statement made by the Commission setting ambitious targets for reduction in carbon emissions by 20% by 2020 and for the increasing use of renewable energy forms.
Climate change is a global issue and we will need to work together to reduce global warming, not only within Europe, but with North America and Asia.
I believe that these targets are achievable, but they need to be regularly monitored.
Member States must also be responsible for providing detailed action plans of how they will meet these targets.
For it is really no use setting the proportion of renewable energy at 20% of the EU's total energy consumption by the year 2020 if it is not compulsory for each and every Member State.
in writing. - (EL) The decisions taken by the European Council in March are yet further irrefutable proof of the role of the ΕU as a mechanism for promoting the choices of capital.
Instead of taking measures to protect the environment, measures are being taken to protect companies and strengthen the monopolies.
For this reason I consider the decision to set targets of generating 20% of our energy from renewable sources and achieving a 20%-reduction in CO2 emissions in the EU by 2020 as imperative.
