(1) &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, yesterday some colleagues will recall that during the vote on the Herzog report I suggested that the President look at Rule 130a.
To make voting easier, however, these amendments had been arranged in blocks.
In particular, I should like to welcome the maintenance, with some additional flexibility, of the existing levels of qualification, which have already played a central role in the operation of professional recognition at EU level.
It is the social group most concerned with care and protection, most in need of clear-cut rules to be respected.
Each State independently and legitimately organises, in keeping with its own social and historical traditions, educational courses and lays down its own rules for entering the various professions.
The services they provide are not the same and often cannot be compared with each other, nor can the principle of competition easily be applied to the sector because, over and above price, a professional service is primarily the result of intellectual creativity which stems from both the cultural background and a lively intellect.
The British system should not be exported but harmonised with other systems for the purpose of achieving a level playing field within the Union.
The proposal is based on the following assumptions: recognition of five levels of qualification, initial continuous training, the free movement of professional services and not of pieces of paper; consultation with the professions; the thresholds proposed by recognised bodies; compliance with authorised national structures, whether bodies, colleges or associations; pro-forma registration; equality of rights and duties; legislative certainty; the elimination of bureaucratic red tape; the mutual recognition of professions exercised in individual States and, where necessary, at levels higher than corresponding qualifications; compliance with insurance, social security and trade union rules.
I hope that everyone views this from a European perspective and not from a lobbyist’s position. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission has chosen a horizontal approach that carries the danger that all professional qualifications will be lumped together.
Under the Commission’s proposal, any supplier who is lawfully established in a Member State will be allowed to provide services in another Member State on a temporary basis for 16 weeks in a year, without needing any authorisation or being subject to any controls.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs would also like to be sure that persons who, because of national regulations, are highly qualified professionals are not disadvantaged by comparison with those who have a low level of qualification but the same job title.
We should be talking about the protection of vulnerable individuals: simple procedures, yes; riskier procedures, no.
In Britain, if you go to your doctor's surgery, you expect the nice new doctor from Italy or Lithuania or wherever to be qualified, and you assume that the proper checks have been made as to his or her integrity and experience and to ensure that the name does not figure on any blacklist for professional or other malpractice.
Hence, we were horrified to realise that the original proposal would have allowed any professional to go to any other EU country and practise there for 16 weeks without any authorisation, checks or vetting.
It struck out the 16-week provision, it added Article 152 as a legal basis for the directive, and it called for the setting up of a European database of professionals who have been struck off in one Member State, so that they cannot practise in another.
More importantly, patients and our constituents in every Member State will be grateful if these safeguards are maintained. &#160;&#160; .Mr President, the Commission has repeatedly confirmed the need to establish a knowledge-based Europe geared towards the market of European citizens, a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based Europe which also promotes quality training and education, particularly by guaranteeing the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and diplomas as a concrete and tangible proof of European citizenship.
There are, however, I repeat, certain outstanding matters and problems that must be resolved and, as the Committee for Petitions and I myself believe, over and above any statement of principle, effective action is required – as happened, for example, in the case of consultation – with a view to establishing effective measures to control and promote resources for the purpose of embracing the different Community provisions governing the legal systems of the Member States and maximising the potential of the Community system itself for the recognition of professional qualifications and academic diplomas, with a view to making that system more transparent, responsive and accessible to the persons concerned.
It is important to emphasise the crucial role that this particular piece of improved legislation will play in our overall strategy for the internal market.
Clearly the cross-border delivery of professional services by people whose qualifications are mutually and unimpeachably recognised, in a manner that addresses the issues of quality and consumer protection raised by a number of my colleagues, is an absolutely indispensable part of that move forward to complete the internal market.
I and a number of my colleagues on this side of the House feel that keeping the five distinct levels of professional qualification and the definition of them is important.
Europe's engineers want to work on a mutual recognition platform, but they do not want one imposed by this Parliament working in one particular direction.
My colleagues and I will therefore be putting together a package of amendments that allows engineers to develop their own platform.
It is in fact something we urgently need in order to create clarity and legal certainty throughout the European Union.
I myself have tabled 50 amendments on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats and Socialists with a view to turning a good intention into a good directive.
At the same time, with consumer interests in mind we want to help to ensure that high-quality services can be offered everywhere.
The result of those consultations is embodied in amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The Commission proposal states that people need to have worked for two out of the past ten years.
At the same time, this is an indirect but clear intervention in the education systems of the Member States, despite the provision to the contrary in the Treaty of the European Union.
As far as the content of the directive is concerned, we would point out that, on the pretext of simplifying recognition procedures, the minimum preconditions set for access to scientific professions safeguarded under the law are much lower than those which already apply in numerous countries in the European Union and in Greece.
Every Member State is obliged to allow any foreign national or local to pursue their profession, provided they have a diploma accepted by another Member State for the pursuit of that profession, irrespective of the standard of the diploma.
Even vocational experience or practical exercise can, according to the directive, be equated to a three-year or five-year course.
For Greece in particular, the directive intervenes indirectly and creates in order to bring to a close outstanding education issues on which there is acute confrontation and controversy on the part of the interested parties.
Thus, for example, Articles 12 and 13 and certain amendments impose vocational equivalence between graduates of liberal studies centres which have signed contracts with foreign universities and graduates from Greek universities, even though these studies are not recognised as higher studies in Greece.
In common with most other colleagues who have spoken in the debate, I think this directive is going in the right direction and that we should all be pushing it as well as we can towards a conclusion.
If we can bring together the whole body of law concerning recognition of professions into a single coherent package, that is in itself a good thing in terms of the quality of the laws that we produce in this Union.
As a lifelong provider of a kind of professional training, as a professor of law, I would be the last to disparage the importance of on-the-job, in-practice training as well as the importance of the kind of work that I have spent a lot of my time doing classroom teaching, tutorials and so on.
It has been said that it is important in the single market to have free movement of labour to provide services.
I strongly support the direction in which we are going and hope we manage to get home to port at the next plenary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the purpose of the Zappalà report is very important in that, through mobility, which of course depends on the mutual recognition of qualifications, we are giving workers more opportunities within the framework of the single European market.
These diplomas are not recognised by the State and the social problem of thousands of people is escalating.
We have raised this matter with the Commission in the past, both I and honourable Members on the left, excluding Mr&#160;Alyssandrakis, and the European Commission was perfectly clear on it.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities said likewise recently in the Neri case, which concerned a similar matter in Italy.
However, because the problems of the Greek education system are dragging on, I tabled an amendment which was approved in committee, so that European diplomas could be recognised as soon as possible, without needless legal obstacles and without Greece being condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and so that reputable European universities could open annexes in Greece under a regime of legal certainty, in order to raise the level of courses through competition and put a stop to student migration.
It makes sense in the light of this change to adopt our amendments and I hope that this will become clear, Mr President, during the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we need to bear two guidelines in mind when deciding whether or not to accept the proposed amendments.
The first is that it will be much easier for the liberal professions to move around than it has been to date, especially for those who exercise regulated professions.
The aim here is to develop the internal market and the service sector, which is lagging behind.
As regards the cross-border provision of services in particular, I think that amendments which set terms and conditions in order to prevent infringements should be accepted.
Listening to the debate on these issues, you often get the feeling that every country has the world’s best education system.
Nyland’s worker protection district has always opposed his doing so, and I believe that many of you are surprised that there are such problems between Finland and Sweden, two countries that nonetheless have a very great deal in common with each other.
As we heard earlier, our group will support the Commission’s proposal in many respects.
I am, however, pleased to see that regulations concerning language requirements are being introduced that are more precise than those put forward by the Commission. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like firstly, of course, to congratulate the Commission on this proposal – and its team, which has had the patience to discuss each of the amendments with all of us.
I believe that the division between the free provision of services and freedom of establishment according to the sixteen weeks criterion was very difficult to justify.
We must find a balance between freedom of movement and guaranteeing the quality of service, as well as fair competition between the people exercising a profession within a Member State and people who come from another country to exercise it.
Patient health and safety must be paramount, but it must not be an excuse to block the free movement of professionals.
I know that Commissioner Bolkestein is sensitive to this issue.
It makes no sense to have barriers to free movement, but I hope that the final directive gets the balance right between allowing and encouraging the free movement of health care professionals, plus automatic recognition of rights for more than 50 categories of medical specialist – in particular much-needed cancer specialists, and continuing to safeguard patient health and safety. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the new directive calls for a uniform, transparent and flexible regime for the recognition of professional qualifications in order to facilitate the free movement of qualified persons within the enlarged European Union.
It is based on the existing general systems directives and aims to consolidate 15 directives into one streamlined and simplified piece of legislation, which hopefully will clarify issues of interpretation.
As regards the architecture profession, however, I would like to draw attention to the issue of Recital 21.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has voted through an amendment tabled by Lord Inglewood which would recognise surveyors as being qualified to design buildings.
My original amendment on this issue at committee stage was not adopted, but its wording could provide a solution to this major problem.
I share the concerns expressed by the Irish presidency and others that the timescale proposed under Articles 5 to 9 of the directive are simply not achievable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the original purpose of this directive was to simplify matters, to ensure as part of the ‘SLIM’ programme that the number of European legal texts should be reduced as far as possible and that they should be made easier for the citizen to understand.
The fact is that most of the complaints received were not about the regulated areas but about those areas that were not regulated, that is to say, the areas not covered by the sectoral directives.
We need to ensure that the professions are qualified to the highest standards so that, within the Member States, professional persons are accepted on the basis of the qualifications they possess.
I believe that, in doing this, we are making a major contribution to Europe and providing a service for its citizens.
I also believe that communications between different European countries is determined at this level: the intellectual professions have been throughout history – not just in Italy but in all countries – a major reference point in relation to a country’s standing.
Nevertheless, this is an important contribution to the Constitution and to European citizenship. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the Lisbon objective of becoming the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based society by 2010, this is not just a question of economic and industrial policy but above all a question of education and training.
In my address today I would like to go into one aspect in particular, namely the equality, in terms of level and conditions, of the professional qualifications of service providers and for freedom of establishment.
My second point concerns facilitation of cross-border service provision.
In any case, formal control of qualifications by host Member States is not compatible with a real facilitation of cross-border service provision.
On the Kauppi Report on mutual assistance, the Commission made this proposal in response to the report of the Council's Ad Hoc Group on Tax Fraud.
The group had indicated that the base directive, which dates from 1977, was in need of modernisation in view of the increased tendency for businesses to be organised in several Member States and for individuals to exercise their Treaty rights of free movement.
It makes it possible to carry out simultaneous tax checks in a number of countries where a multinational business operates, and it allows decisions and instruments to be notified outside the country where the tax is owed, so that enforcement proceedings may be pursued.
Those are my initial comments on the Kauppi Report.
The Commission welcomes the decision of the European Parliament to draw up a report on the future of hedge funds and derivatives.
These subjects, as we all know, are extremely important.
Several Member States have already introduced a regulatory regime for hedge funds to encourage such undertakings to set themselves up under their jurisdiction.
On this basis, it would seem appropriate to discuss the potential benefits of an EU-wide regulatory regime for hedge funds.
However, in contrast to hedge funds, which are not covered by European legislation at the moment, derivatives are already dealt with in a number of texts in different contexts such as, for example, accounting, ICITS, market abuse, investment services or banking legislation.
The Commission committed itself in Oviedo in April 2002 to examine specifically the issues of derivatives and hedge funds after the Enron scandal.
Those experts groups may raise these two issues, among others, upon the first report scheduled for April 2004.
In keeping with its normal practice, the Commission has based its proposal on Article 95 of the Treaty, which means that the codecision procedure applies to this proposal.
The most recent case concerned two Commission proposals on administrative cooperation in the field of VAT and an amendment to Directive 77/799/EEC, where the Council has recently re-consulted Parliament on the change in legal basis.
Parliament rejected that request on 2 September 2003.
Since we anticipate that the Council will also change the legal basis for the present proposal, the rapporteur sees no reason to change or re-evaluate her position at this juncture and we therefore propose that the Commission draft be approved in full as proposed on the basis of Article 95.
There has been a huge increase in interest in this type of investment in recent years, especially in the United States, where affluent and moderately affluent investors have discovered them.
This interest has now spread to Europe, especially as many of these funds, because of their willingness to sell short and leverage their results, have performed well in absolute terms over the last three years of negative stock market performance.
Even if most of these are perfectly respectable, well-administered and managed, there is only very basic regulatory control.
We are looking for an arrangement which can provide these vehicles with an EU passport on the basis of mutual recognition.
Capital will also be attracted to our businesses and industries here in Europe, rather than in America and other parts of the world.
As has been noted, the title of this proposed directive, which will overhaul the existing mutual assistance directive, is slightly misleading, given that it will only, in effect, apply to direct taxation and insurance, indirect taxation in the form of VAT and excise duties being dealt with in separate instruments.
The thrust of this proposal is to prevent tax evaders from hiding in other Member States by establishing, on a voluntary basis, provisions for cooperation and mutual agreement in conducting tax controls.
The change of legal basis from one relying on QMV – Article 95 – to one providing for unanimous voting by the Council – Articles 93 and 94 of the Treaty – is very much in line with precedent and, fortunately, with my own government's position on tax legislation.
I congratulate him on a very balanced and informative report, notwithstanding the slightly odd decision to link these two topics – hedge funds and derivatives – in a single report, as trade in derivatives is already far more regulated in the EU than the area of hedge funds.
As mentioned in his report, Ireland has been extremely active and successful in broadening access to hedge funds.
However, a clear regulatory framework must be put in place to secure minimum protection for investors while expanding Europe's paltry 15% share of total global hedge fund assets.
SAIVs – sophisticated alternative investment vehicles, or hedge funds, as they are generally known – and derivatives have benefited over the last few years from the stock market downturn, as they did from the widening of the field of investors that the stock market experienced during the booming 1990s, when areas of investment that had previously been largely confined to experienced and qualified financial experts or fund managers were democratised as individuals and smaller groups new to the market put their money into shares at that time.
I agree that we need an appropriate EU-wide regulatory regime for hedge funds which will prompt them to locate in the EU, rather than offshore, and provide the benefits of a common European passport through mutual recognition.
However, we need to take a suitable light-touch approach to regulation in order to provide incentives that will encourage investment in funds based in the EU rather than continue to drive them offshore.
With regard to derivatives, I support the timely call for the Commission to present a report on their role on the capital markets. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the term ‘sophisticated alternative investment vehicles’ is such a sophisticated phrase that I shall replace it with the expression ‘hedge funds’.
The Socialist Group does not consider hedge funds in particular or derivatives in general to be particularly wonderful.
These instruments are to some extent useful in covering certain investment risks or risks linked to international trade.
Given, however, that all of these financial instruments are highly speculative – indeed with very limited leverage, phenomenal sums can be raised – one simply has to be careful.
Enron, Parmalat and other scandals have reminded us that sophisticated products often conceal highly sophisticated financial wrongdoing.
Because many of these funds are domiciled in offshore centres that are unregulated or barely regulated, the simplest way of countering hedge funds that wish to remain opaque would be to make it more difficult and onerous for them to obtain refinancing from banks operating in countries covered by the Basle Accords.
Olives in the European Union, however, are a good example of how the market functions if there is no control and only self-regulation.
According to a report by the Court of Auditors, producers are falsifying production figures at their pressing plants, adding nut oil to olive oil or forwarding the same oil to the EU for payment on the basis of both the number of trees and the volume of oil.
The new instruments work in the way oil is pressed from olives.
Those responsible for supervising nuclear plants are top-level technical specialists, whilst those responsible for the national supervision of hedge funds and derivatives are not.
Accordingly, there is no stock market safety factor in the market.
In the European Union, but also, for example, in Switzerland and the Balkans, we have to look carefully for joint efforts to put effective monitoring in place particularly for taxpayers who are active in various Member States.
The options provided in this directive for joint monitoring by two or more Member States are therefore of major importance.
Fiscal legislation is a national responsibility and should remain so, tax being more closely interrelated with social structure and culture within each of the Member States.
Against this backdrop, it is extremely odd that the discussion should not revolve around an effective approach to tax fraud but around the question of what legal basis this directive should have.
Now that Parliament's position was confirmed on 2 September, this proposal too risks ending up before the Court of Justice.
This would lead to unnecessary effort and expense and, above all, possibly long delays for the improved cooperation between the fiscal authorities, which is so desperately needed.
However, the EU continues to be outsmarted by professional tax fraudsters because our systems are far too complex.
If we are to do anything effective against it, we need not only more effective controls and close cooperation, but also tax laws that are easy to understand.
That is why we need a simpler VAT system that is easier to understand and where all sales in Europe are treated in the same way and not differently, so that tax fraud can actually be combated effectively.
In so doing, the institutional balance enshrined in this Treaty will be maintained, as will, more importantly, Parliament’s own prerogatives.
Consequently, administrative cooperation does not affect material tax law, which means that it will no longer be required to be subject to the legal bases of Articles 93 and 94.
Parliament has already looked into the problem of financial derivatives, highlighting the important role they currently play in capital markets, but, more importantly, spelling out the advantages and the risks involved.
The legal base is an important point.
The Commission has founded its proposal on Article 95 because it strongly believes that this measure ought to be adopted under the codecision procedure.
That is very regrettable.
The Commission and Parliament have challenged this before the Court of Justice, as they have done in other similar cases.
I am particularly unhappy that these enormous offshore funds escape our supervision and control.
While on the one hand it is important to have a liquid financial market so that the cost of money is not higher than it needs to be, on the other hand we should not allow this situation to continue unchecked for much longer.
The debate is closed.
This is especially true of a country such as Portugal where, in 1998, 22% of State revenue came from VAT and reduced rates of VAT accounted for 37% of VAT-generated revenue in the sectors concerned.
It will at least, though, allow the Member States concerned to extend a trial that demonstrated positive effects on employment and the strength of SMEs and the self-employed targeted by these measures.
The Commission has modified its proposal, in line with amendments put forward by Parliament on 4&#160;December 2003.
Interest focuses on increasing competitiveness, on harmonising the services sector with competition policy and on the cross-border provision of services, while entrepreneurship is deified as the solution to all the problems of unemployment and underemployment.
In addition, the report praises the new forms of work, part-time and temporary employment, but talks hypocritically about enhancing their quality.
The importance of the service sector as a key element in job creation can be amply illustrated in simple statistics.
In 2000, services accounted for 68.8% of overall employment in the EU, whereas in 1991, this figure was as low as 62.7%.
This would be equivalent, Mr President, to inviting illegal immigration, and, within a short space of time, to creating, in the receiving States, a situation just like the one the immigrants arriving in Europe are trying to escape from.
The whole of this document is skewed in favour of more extensive immigration&#160;–&#160;a source of cultural and social enrichment&#160;–&#160;which would contribute to the entrepreneurial spirit, to diversity and innovation, and with a positive economic impact on employment and growth (page 10).
If everything is going so well, then we wonder why the rapporteur, like the Commission, is concerned about the ‘second and third generation immigrants still facing social, economic or political exclusion’ (Recital E), and why it is necessary to take so many voluntary integration measures (many of which will only increase the number of immigrants).
The truth is that the level of immigration that we are accepting does not correspond to the needs of our economy and our society’s reception capacity.
I feel that legal immigrants can make a valuable contribution to the labour market, but the labour market situation in Member States, who are responsible for deciding on the immigration of third-country nationals as workers, needs to be taken into account.
When, at the beginning of the 90s, we granted the right to vote in local and European elections to citizens of Member States, providing that they are residing in the country concerned, this practice was based on reciprocity: a Portuguese person can vote in Luxembourg and I can vote in Portugal in the same conditions.
Integration is an essential factor in social cohesion that depends on factors such as education, language and civic participation.
The text raises important issues, such as migratory flows, improving the integration of immigrants and the need for cooperation with countries of origin.
Those Member States that require assistance in monitoring their borders must be able to obtain this following application by the responsible authorities of said Member States.
A large number of the proposals tabled in this regard should be approved.
For example, it has nothing to say about the need for Member States to actively implement a policy of tracking down illegal immigrants.
It is all very well to circulate information in the countries of origin in order to deter potential illegal immigrants, but, if a country’s policies remain lax (tolerating, for example, illegal immigrants’ occupation of churches to attract media attention), it is a waste of time and effort.
Most illegal immigrants are not ‘victims of the trade in human beings’; they have come to Europe of their own volition, in the knowledge that, in a number of Member States, they can enjoy certain social-security and other benefits – despite being there illegally.
Regrettably, certain proposals that we tabled were not approved, in particular the proposal to reject any system of immigration quotas as a response to the needs of European companies, which would be tantamount to plundering the productive strengths of third countries.
If necessary, and at the request of the Member States, it would temporarily help the national authorities secure certain at-risk sections of the external borders, without, however, usurping Member States’ competences.
I do not believe that the EU should set up a further military authority, but that, in the future too, responsibility should lie with the respective Member States.
This report thus proposes as a magic solution a common policy on immigration, on visas and border controls, in particular creating a ‘European Corps of Border Guards’, and thereby reducing Member States’ sovereignty over their territory.
Hedge funds were behind the crisis that beset Europe’s financial system in 1992 and behind the Asian crisis of 1997-1998.
Many of these funds are located in tax havens, which may also lead to money-laundering.
This report, which we must reject, is structured around promoting the action plan for financial services and seeks to stimulate and support these instruments, referring to hedge funds as ‘sophisticated alternative investment vehicles’.
As the rapporteur states, tax regimes and the lack of a single regulatory market act as a deterrent, with many Member States imposing tax penalties on investors who invest in a foreign domiciled hedge fund.
The European Parliament has acknowledged that, in light of this humanitarian disaster, swift and effective aid is important for the disaster victims.
Copyright rests on at least three pillars, but also on the enforcement and protection of rights.
These two areas must accompany copyright.
We were given a promise just under two years ago.
In the meantime, there is a communication, which apparently will be forwarded to us in the next few weeks.
They have not only been helpful, but they have greatly enriched the whole project.
We on the Committee on Legal Affairs were of the opinion that there was a need for suitable measures, as I said at the start, not only because of enlargement but actually in order to create a single European market for products protected by copyright and also by related rights.
We also propose that their activities be legitimised by democratic structures and above all also by an equitable and balanced relationship between the right-holders’ groups involved within a collecting society.
We therefore call for independent, efficient, transparent and expert control mechanisms incorporating all aspects, legal, social, cultural and economic aspects, greater transparency not only to promote competition, of course, but also to benefit all right-holders, all user groups and all consumers, and a duty, not only on collecting societies but also on users, to provide information.
This is a fact-finding paper by the European Parliament, and I think that if, when it comes to the vote today, it is adopted with a similar passion and support as it was in Committee, then this Parliament will have a foundational document on which both it and the next Parliament can build.
Sincere thanks once again to all who have helped.
Rights management refers to the way in which copyright and related rights are administered – in other words, the way in which they are marketed.
Collective rights management is generally handled by collecting societies, which act as trustees and usually enjoy an exclusive position in their respective markets.
On the specific issue of collective rights management, the draft resolution is well balanced and reflects all the issues and different interests involved.
The unanimous support which her proposal received in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market demonstrates that.
The resolution points out that the protection and collective management of intellectual property rights are important factors in stimulating cultural diversity and creativity, but recognises the important role of collecting societies as an interface between rightholders and users and therefore calls for such societies to be more efficient and more transparent.
The issues raised, in so far as they relate to copyright, are also dealt with in the forthcoming Commission communication on the management of copyright and related rights in the internal market.
In that communication, the Commission will address all issues relevant to rights management, including collective rights management, and conclude that a legislative instrument of good governance of collective societies is desirable at Community level.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted my opinion unanimously and because of the good teamwork is also able to vote in favour of the Echerer report.
Firstly, monopolies must always be exceptions to competition law and there must be sound reasons for them.
Secondly, it is in our opinion important to have transparency in collecting societies, such as showing administrative and licence costs separately in the accounts.
I therefore expressly welcome paragraph 49 of the Echerer Report with its call for efficient independent control mechanisms in all Member States.
Fourthly, my suggestion for a public register that could be accessed electronically, containing all right-holders represented by collecting societies, would make for greater clarity and improved transparency and would certainly also simplify cross-border activity and increase competition.
I ask the Commission to take the contents of the Echerer report on board in its deliberations.
Firstly, I want to thank her for quite rightly bringing this matter to the attention of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and then taking the initiative to draw up the report.
This is very much to her credit, and in this matter she has been very keen to share her insight and concerns with us and to invite us to contribute to it.
That spirit in which she approached the report is clearly shown in the quality of her work and, to echo what the Commissioner said, it is a very well-balanced document.
It presents all sides very fairly, but it does not shrink from making a number of important and sharply-focused recommendations.
That balance now is in many ways an uncertain one, because we are in such a volatile area of transition at the moment, not only with the explosion of digital content and digital distribution, and new forms of access to customers, but also with new creative works that are available for exploitation in the digital media world.
Indeed, as we move into the third generation of mobile technology, one of the major concerns about the providers of electronic communications services and they have said that to us in our capacity as Members of Parliament working in this field is that they want us to help get the framework for content delivery right and to make sure that we get the creative works out into the marketplace because they want those creative works there to stimulate their electronic communication services.
In conclusion, the key to that will be transparency of their activities so that all their customers can see exactly what package of services they are getting.
Therefore, the only instrument these creators have today are these collecting societies, which constitute employees’ unions, in order to confront the employers’ organisations, which have enormous strength.
I agree that collecting societies must adapt to the new situation, because they have arisen at national level and we are about to move on to a transnational, and even world, level.
But at least, at European Union level, we should reinforce the action of these collecting societies, so that, at this level, we can have that protection.
The European Union is going to be enriched with ten new countries which have a great cultural tradition, but in which – as a result of their recent political past – intellectual property has not been sufficiently protected until very recently.
I think that this legislation can ensure that it becomes clearer on what basis certain costs are charged, why certain costs have to be met and for whom they are intended.
The Commissioner has already indicated that 5% to 7% of the Gross Domestic Product – which is high – is accounted for by products and services that are limited, governed and protected by copyright and neighbouring rights.
I think that this problem can be solved with these recommendations if they are enshrined in legislation.
As a result of their political history, the acceding countries have never given copyright-holders any explicit protection, and this is why I think it is important to provide support on the spot.
As was said in the debate, there is a kind of tripod involved in relation to copyright and related rights.
One leg of the tripod is the copyright legislation that has already been adopted by Parliament.
As Commissioner Bolkestein said, these are monopolies, but they are in principle benign monopolies because of the territoriality of copyright.
This issue clearly brings us to the very epicentre of globalisation, to the real uncharted territory of the global village in which, consequently, instruments for regulation and protection must be increasingly international, without prejudice to the responsibility of States themselves.
These are undeniable facts of our times and regulating them is, therefore, increasingly important.
Our group acknowledges their important role as voluntary associations of authors, performers and other copyright holders, in effectively protecting their intellectual and financial interests and their intellectual property or related rights for services at home and abroad.
We also believe that, in addition to offering protection to creators, artists and others as a group in the context of related rights, by acting as trustees, these collective societies also perform a cultural function of the greatest importance, which is disseminated throughout society at large and throughout an increasingly open and pluralist world.
We cannot continue with statutes and practices that are too diverse and often even incompatible within the European Union.
These glaring discrepancies affect us all, leave our creators, artists and other agents in this key area unprotected and make us particularly weak and vulnerable in the face of global competitiveness, which is increasingly aggressive at world level and sometimes even savage and buccaneering, as we know.
That is not always true, and I believe that it should be noted, as the rapporteur notes in her report, that an association is an association, whereas an association with a monopoly, of which one is compelled to be a member by laws governing rights and duties, is a monopoly.
I, of course, compliment the rapporteur for the work she has carried out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the protection and collective management of intellectual property rights are important factors in the promotion of cultural creativity and the aim of making it possible for artists to work.
The Community must be able to strengthen artists’ confidence that their works are properly protected.
On the other hand, it is important to ensure that works are disseminated as widely as possible, because there is no art without an audience.
Often these collective management societies enjoy virtual monopoly status, which might well be justified for functional reasons but at the same time leads to the risk of abuse or defeats its own purpose with a decline in the efficiency of the society or increased costs.
These risks must be countered by means of clear rules to apply throughout the Community.
The report estimates that between 5% and 7% of EU Gross Domestic Product is earned by goods and services protected by copyright and related rights.
The collecting societies that have already been mentioned many times have a particular part to play here, especially in light of the changed market conditions that we find in the information society.
As a member of the Committee on Culture, I think it is particularly important to stress that the collecting societies are not simply a kind of protective association, but that they always have a cultural function as well, regardless of how they are organised.
The protection and exploitation of rights in intellectual property help to promote culture and cultural diversity, so the Committee on Culture is right, in its opinion, to call on the Commission to pay particular attention to this aspect. &#160;&#160; .
The debate is closed.
The Zanu-PF regime is an appalling example of the repression of an impoverished and starving people.
The economic situation in that country has sharply worsened, with the GDP falling 40% over the last 4 years, and with inflation already at 600% and forecast to reach 1000% before the end of 2004.
There have already been some reports of children dying from malnutrition, particularly in the Bulawayo area.
There will be a meeting of the EU-African Union Foreign Ministerial Troika on 1 April, and we hope that the EU will put it high on the agenda.
I also wish to note the reasons why we support this compromise motion for a resolution, which once again, like the others that we have tabled in the course of this parliamentary term, condemns the regime and which calls for sanctions to be re-imposed and for diplomatic pressure to be exerted on Mugabe that will lead to the democratic transformation of the country.
We must seek a broad coalition, which includes the SADC countries, in order to take measures and put pressure on the regime.
There is a small number of incredibly courageous people who – at danger to their own lives and, in some cases, at the loss of their lives – are trying to fight for democracy and human dignity in that country.
I hope that the Commission is able to guarantee that the EU will continue to support these courageous people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, African countries have made solemn commitments to democracy and the protection of human rights on numerous occasions: under the NEPAD agreement and the ACP-EU Cotonou Agreement, to name but two.
However, the chaos and the oppression of the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe has led to no satisfactory response from Zimbabwe's neighbours, who seem deaf to the cries of anguish from the oppressed people of that country.
The European Union's relationship with both the African Union and the Southern African Development Community has been damaged by African states' insistence that banned Zimbabweans should be included in meetings in Europe.
This not only undermines the founding principles of NEPAD and the ACP-EU relationship, but also means that major problems burdening Africa – external debt, AIDS, food security, conflict prevention, good governance and human rights – cannot be properly addressed.
African states' refusal to take the initiative on Zimbabwe means that it is even more critical that EU sanctions against the ZANU-PF regime be strengthened.
The EU travel ban against the Mugabe regime has regularly been breached in its first year and subsequently weakened to facilitate the entry of banned Zimbabweans into Europe.
The resolution before us today calls for renewal of EU measures when they expire on 20 February and the introduction of tough new sanctions.
It calls for the right of residence in Europe of those subject to the travel ban to be rescinded, for members of their families to be barred from employment and educational institutions in the European Union, for high-profile economic links with Zimbabwe that have given the regime international prestige to be curtailed, for those providing financial backing to the ZANU-PF regime to be identified, and for measures to be imposed against them.
Buch derides Mbeki’s stance on President Aristide’s regime in Haiti and President Mugabe’s in Zimbabwe.
Nothing so far – and I have to tell you that the surrounding countries are particularly susceptible to pressure.
The land reform in Zimbabwe is a disgrace.
Even the elephants are fleeing Zimbabwe in the knowledge that the national parks are being plundered, that the wild animals living in them are bereft of any protection and are being slaughtered, not only by poachers but also by people who hunt these animals out of their own desperation.
Zimbabwe was our one cause for pride, our favourite example of what development cooperation and genuine partnership achieves.
The only positive aspect that comes to my mind is that the Commonwealth, at least, has not changed its stance on Zimbabwe.
Of course one can take diplomatic reprisals against those who fail to abide by any human rights convention.
In the light of the dire political situation in that country, and as no sign of a commitment from the government of Zimbabwe to take tangible measures to remedy the situation has been forthcoming, there can be no justification for lifting or easing European Union measures against Zimbabwe.
This brings our total funding for food and humanitarian aid for the current season to EUR 85&#160;million.
This sort of support was specifically excluded from the measures taken against Zimbabwe in order to protect the population and to promote progress.
The Commission continues to provide assistance for capacity building for human rights and democracy NGOs that carry out basic human rights work and for civil society actors by enhancing their capacities to promote internal dialogue.
Finally, the Commission continues to explore all possible avenues to influence the government of Zimbabwe and is pursuing an enhanced dialogue with its neighbouring countries, and notably the Southern African Development Community and the government of South Africa.
It will support any peer pressure that the international community, and African heads of state in particular, can bring to bear on the government of Zimbabwe to improve the political, economic and humanitarian situation in that country. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
We were all shocked by the brutal murder of Monsignor Michael Courtney – the Apostolic Nuncio, and a man who had been playing a key part in the peace process in Burundi – in a road ambush on 29 December 2003.
The human rights situation continues to get worse, and so we urge the African Union and its Member States to exert every possible pressure on the FLN with a view to bringing them to the negotiating table in an attempt to seek a peaceful political settlement.
A ceasefire was brokered by Nelson Mandela in 2002 but later collapsed.
Only the National Liberation Forces rejected this deal and this group has been linked to the death of the Irish Archbishop, Michael Courtney, who was the Vatican's envoy to Burundi.
Archbishop Courtney was heavily involved in the peace process and played a significant role in bringing about this recent progress.
Unfortunately, he paid a high price for his noble and unselfish involvement in the Burundi conflict when he was murdered by rebel groups on 29&#160;December 2003.
The signing of the peace accords has reduced the violence, but the situation is highly unstable.
The FNL, which still refuses to enter into any agreements, is being reinforced by disaffected elements from the earlier rebel movements that, despite earlier agreement, continue to resist.
Those who accept the peace agreements must then give up their seats in government, and the Hutus will then be even more of a minority in relation to the Tutsis.
I am aware that these are very sensitive issues in Burundi, but it is known to be the case that the groups that agree to peace must themselves bring on board new signatories to the peace agreements at the cost of their own seats.
The people responsible must be held accountable and punished.
The rebel movement, the FNL, has denied all involvement, but nor does it support the peace process.
Burundi is a tragic country in every respect, with extensive destitution in social and humanitarian terms, a good deal of violence, especially against women, and acts of considerable cruelty involving a disregard for human rights.
The peace process is very fragile.
Many people are guilty of extremely serious war crimes.
We have high expectations of the donors’ conference later this year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of my political group, I very much welcome the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Burundi and in particular acknowledge the cross-party support for the condemnation of the brutal murder of Archbishop Courtney on 29 December 2003.
I am quite sure that Archbishop Courtney's family and many friends will appreciate the support of the European Parliament at this time.
Michael Courtney was known to many of us here in Strasbourg when he served as Observer to this Parliament.
We came to know and admire him as a man dedicated to his calling, his work and to peace.
We have lost a brave and distinguished friend and I would like to express my thanks to the Irish presidency for the acknowledgment of the life and work of Archbishop Courtney made by An Taoiseach Bertie Ahern during his response to yesterday's debate.
I am particularly pleased that Parliament's resolution recognises and appreciates the quiet and effective ways in which Archbishop Courtney had been helping the peace process and alleviating the suffering of the people of Burundi.
The military option in Burundi must be abandoned once and for all.
Initiatives by the international community, focused on obtaining a political settlement, must ensure that human rights issues are addressed at every stage of the peace and democratisation process. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are shocked by the murder of Archbishop Courtney, whom, in the five years that he was here in Strasbourg, we knew as a diplomat, pastor and also as a personal friend.
He was meant to go to Cuba this week to take up office as papal Nuncio there and help human rights and freedom of religion to prevail.
He would certainly not, though, want his murder to be the only reason for us to focus on Burundi and thereby forget that murder is a daily occurrence in that country.
The Commission calls upon the government of Burundi to find and bring to justice those responsible for this heinous crime.
For example, we made food aid available for combatants to support the ceasefire of December 2002 and used the rapid reaction mechanism to support the deployment of African Union observers in April 2003.
The Commission did not wait for the establishment of the peace support facility to prepare an emergency programme to support African Union peace-keeping in Burundi and to make available EUR 25 million for the African Mission in Burundi, keeping the peace on the ground.
The financing agreement for this programme, seeking a timely contribution to peace, was signed in Brussels this morning during the visit of the President of Burundi.
The Commission is also contributing to economic and social reconstruction.
Our rehabilitation programme amounts to EUR 48 million and focuses on economic and social infrastructure destroyed by the civil war.
As the Commission confirmed at this week's Donor Conference on Burundi, this new programme comes on top of the ongoing programmes amounting to some EUR 200 million.
Humanitarian assistance, through ECHO, will be continued in 2004, and EUR 15 million is earmarked for that.
It should therefore be clear that the Commission has the means and the intention to make a substantial contribution to the peace process and the reconstruction of Burundi. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
Today, 200 years after Haiti achieved independence, we cannot but note that it is poor, broken-down and wracked by violence as never before, and those who have seen the place first-hand can only sink into pessimism.
I have met the present President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on two occasions.
Those who had turned out in large numbers to elect him by a large majority had believed that, having been freed from the dictatorship of Papa and Baby Doc Duvalier, they would now be able to have a new life in a bright future.
Such is day-to-day political life in Haiti.
Mr Aristide carried the hopes of many, but we can all see what has happened in the meantime.
The situation is not yet ideal, but this does show that you can stay in the place with some degree of safety.
President Aristide, previously a torchbearer for democracy, and reinstated by American intervention, has drowned Haiti in the mire of the third world.
While remaining resolute, we must encourage dialogue with civil society, and request a UN mediator to reach a long-term political agreement, in order to help the Haitian people back onto the road to democracy and sustainable development. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the appalling situation in Haiti is partly attributable to the violence perpetrated by armed gangs on which the regime relies, but mainly to the abject poverty suffered by the majority of the population.
Haiti is the poorest country in the Americas; 80% of its population live below the poverty line.
We call upon the Haitian Government, the opposition and civil society to engage in a constructive dialogue, possibly in the framework of a national conference to pave the way for free and fair legislative elections.
We call on the Council and Commission to use all political and diplomatic means to encourage the Haitian authorities, opposition parties and civil society to facilitate this dialogue.
We encourage all parties in Haiti to respect Resolution 822 of the Organisation of American States and to work towards a rapid political agreement.
A key element in the resolution of the crisis is the formation of a credible electoral council.
The Commission recalls that for the last three years Haiti has been subject to appropriate measures adopted under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement.
However, the Community still provides considerable support of direct benefit to the Haitian population.
The European Union intends to remain present in Haiti and to promote a solution to the political crisis.
In a letter sent by the Commission and the Council at the beginning of January 2004 to the government of Haiti informing it of the extension of appropriate measures, the Union urges the government rapidly to translate its commitment to comply with the requirements of OAS Resolution 822 into concrete actions, which would lead to free and fair national and local elections.
The Commission is ready to provide support for elections in Haiti if they take place in accordance with the resolution.
In addition, Haiti has been a priority in ECHO's programmes, which support activities to improve vulnerable populations' preparedness for disaster.
Current funding for such projects in Haiti amounts to more than EUR 1 million.
The Commission's growing concern with the deteriorating situation in the country is reflected in the fact that Haiti is listed as one of the forgotten crises in ECHO's 2004 strategy.
Parliament may be assured that the Commission is actively promoting a solution to the political crisis in Haiti and is using the means at its disposal to respond to the urgent needs of the Haitian population. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The text of item 8, which I have also forwarded to you, should properly read as follows: 'considers that, in the area of collective exercise of rights, the enlargement of the European Union means that there is a need for suitable measures and that action may be required'.
