Iran (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Iran.
We have also been very clear in our response to what we have seen happening on the streets of Tehran.
The European Union has taken very clear positions on the situation in Iran following the presidential elections and has remained united in these positions.
We have expressed full respect for the sovereignty of Iran, but have stressed our deep concern about the post-election violence, as we would when lives are lost or rights are put at risk in any country.
Our hearts go out to the Iranians who have been injured, detained or had their human rights abused.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commission, a regime that turns on its own people and its own youth in this way loses all legitimacy, not just at home, but internationally as well.
It is therefore particularly tragic that these dramatic developments should take place at a time when the president of the United States has expressed his willingness to enter into dialogue with Iran.
The US President also believes in diplomacy.
Ever since that date, throughout the last three years right up to the most recent days, when 216 peaceful demonstrators were illegally detained and brutalised by the police, on every single occasion when there was an anti-government protest, not in Iran, not in China, not in Honduras, but in an EU country, Hungary, the same things happened: mass police brutalities, illegal detentions.
The European Union needs to maintain a united front and continue to condemn the abuses committed in Iran.
It should demand greater respect for human rights, and we also need to look at how we can help civil society, in particular those sectors that want democratic pluralism and respect for human rights for their country.
However, I do not think that it should be what is in the news that inspires what is on Parliament's agenda in terms of external policy, but rather Parliament's own sense of responsibility and its considered and coherent response, in line with its growing role in the European Union's external policy, especially in the field of human rights.
I trust that no ECR Group members here will be hypocritical enough to condemn Iran for the use of violence in elections when David Cameron is among the sponsors of Unite Against Fascism, an organisation of far-left criminals which routinely deploys intimidation and violence against nationalist dissidents in Britain.
Thirdly, we should do everything to ensure that the solutions for Iran are peaceful and political, and that means that we should support those Iranians who want fundamental changes in their country, changes which will mean that Iran will be governed by those who win fair elections, and Iran itself will cease to be a threat to world security.
The leader of the Iranian opposition in exile, Mrs Rajavi, has said that what has happened in Iran is the beginning of the end of the regime.
Soon we will face a new test - on 29 July - with the elections in Moldova.
Tehran is entitled to a nuclear programme used for peaceful purposes, but it is also obliged to restore the confidence of the international community that Iranian nuclear activity is exclusively peaceful in nature. (EL) Mr President, I should like to express my deep regret about the tragic aircraft accident which occurred today in the province of Qazvin in Iran.
The debate here today is a necessity following the events which ensued after the elections on 12 June.
However, I think that we must hold it within the right framework.
We must therefore roundly condemn the violence from this tribune here today and call for respect for freedom of speech and expression to be applied in practice in Iran, as in every other country in the world. (DE) Mr President, I think it is good that we are having this debate in the first week of the new Parliament.
However, there is no doubt that the European Parliament, if it wants to, can play an important role in urging Europe and the international community to take the current events seriously and to implement all of the initiatives needed to ensure that the process of introducing a democratic system in Iran can actually take place.
It is also up to us to keep this level of attention high, and it is also up to the Swedish Presidency - which I thank for the points it has made today - to promote a strong initiative, together with the United States, Russia and other countries, in order to change the way in which issues in Iran, from democratic rights to the nuclear issue itself, develop. (ES) Mr President, in the last few weeks we have been moved by the repeated demonstrations of heroism and the bravery of the people of Iran, who have confronted the machine guns and truncheons of their tyrants with their bare hands.
We need to send out a very strong political signal to express our absolute rejection of this intolerable theocratic dictatorship.
Fourthly, I would point out that dialogue really does not provide any help and, finally, I note the citizens rightly want more freedom and that they must have our - Europeans' - support in this regard.
But, while words are, nevertheless, important - no question about that - we are discussing primarily what has been happening in Iran since the election on 12 June.
Whether that represented the majority of Iranians or not is very difficult to judge from the outside, but that it was significant is testified not least by the force of the crackdown that we saw after 12 June.
I can assure you that the Council will continue to be very much engaged with all aspects of this particular dossier. (Applause) (FR) Mr President, please excuse me, but I have just been given a piece of information, and I should like to share it with the Council and with all my fellow Members.
Natalia Estemirova, who was a candidate for the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize, was kidnapped this morning in Grozny and is being held by unknown kidnappers.
