The aim of this thematic strategy is to reduce the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment.
The proposal for a regulation that we are dealing with today contributes to this aim by ensuring that reliable and comparable data is collected in all the Member States, in order to enable harmonised risk indicators to be calculated.
I would like to conclude, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by reminding you of the high financial cost of implementing this regulation, which is between EUR 10 and 25 million per year in an initial estimate made for the Union of 25, which leads us to recommend that the Member States should be given sufficient flexibility in applying this regulation.
As the Commissioner also made very clear, the aim is Europe-wide harmonisation of national statistics on the use and placing on the market of pesticides, which must be achieved at the level where it is most feasible in functional terms.
The aim, therefore - and it is an important one - is to use those data to reduce, in the medium term, the risks and impact on the environment and public health resulting from the use of pesticides.
When drawing up my report, I had four objectives: 1.
I think that Mr Nassauer and I have held very constructive discussions and that his concerns have been realised, including in the vote in the Committee on the Environment, which was almost unanimous.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is consensus on the fact that we wish to reduce the harmful effects on people and the environment emanating from the use of pesticides.
Nevertheless, I would say, Mr Staes, that if the Commission manages to abide by the compromises that we have worked out, your report will not come to grief in our final vote.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I debated about whether to speak in Hungarian or English on this subject and then I realised that during the working process I used mainly English expressions on the given topic.
The PSE Group had an intensive debate on the report and reached a compromise standpoint.
We will vote negatively on only three amendments, namely Amendments 24, 27 and 29.
Let us hope that this will be the case in all 27 Member States.
I therefore strongly oppose Amendment 33 whereas I will support Amendment 2, since Parliament has already reached agreement on this and this amendment alone conforms to the thematic strategy and the Directive on pesticides, as approved by Parliament in October 2007. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, plant protection products are being tested and the statistics are part of a package that also contains the Regulation on authorisation of pesticides and the Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
The aim of the entire package is to keep the effects of plant protection products on both human health and the environment to a minimum.
The total length of railway tracks in the European Union is around 213 000 km, and the amount of chemical we douse them with, according to the estimates, is around 900 000 litres.
