This debate is opened on behalf of the Council and Commission.
The Commission believes that the solidarity shown by the other Member States can and must support the Spanish authorities' fight against terrorism.
The Commission therefore welcomes the step forward represented by the enshrinement in the Treaty of Amsterdam of the principle of solidarity in the fight against terrorism.
Article 29 of the Treaty on European Union specifically mentions terrorism as one of the forms of crime to be prevented and fought at European level and one of the areas in which the European Union can bring added value to this fight.
We must go further in terms of European cooperation.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, as I have already stated, enables the European Union to make this contribution.
Europol, whose mandate expressly covers terrorism, must also give its support to this joint action and participate in these joint investigation teams.
The greater operational capacity Europol has, the more effective its support will be.
Although it is true that in many cases bilateral cooperation between police forces is an essential instrument for combating terrorism, it is no less true that the need to establish the link between some terrorist acts and other forms of organised crime, in its methods, in its networks of activity and even in its sources of financing, requires a multilateral, not just a bilateral vision of the phenomenon of terrorism.
In democratic societies such as ours, terrorism cannot take shelter behind any supposedly political justification.
Hence, all terrorist attacks are not just attacks on democracy and the rule of law but they also prevent Europe' s citizens from enjoying the freedom that we all desire.
Mr President, I am convinced that the vast majority of Basque people, given the opportunity, would thank the French Presidency of the Council and the European Parliament for echoing their deep desire for peace and democratic coexistence.
Ladies and gentlemen, since the first democratic elections took place in Spain in 1977, the Basque Country has emerged as the European region with the highest degree of self-government.
However, since our Constitution was approved, enshrining the democratic rights of the people of Spain, ETA has killed 804 people in my country and left over 2000 widows and orphans all over Spain, mainly in the Basque Country.
Today, thanks to this debate, they are a little less alone.
Mr President, last Thursday while we were presenting a written declaration to the Parliament register through which we sought a direct and active commitment from the European Parliament in the fight against ETA terrorism, this criminal organisation attempted to kill José Ramón Recalde.
Recalde, a 70-year-old socialist, has dedicated his life to defending democracy and freedom.
This is something he pursued as a teacher in San Sebastian in the turbulent 1960s, when he became, in the eyes of his students, an example of intellectual rigour and human decency.
What is more, ladies and gentlemen, the damage inflicted on us by ETA goes beyond damage to our coexistence, to the attacks on our freedom and on our lives.
But before that, in 1977, there was a general amnesty in Spain and all political prisoners, among them all members of ETA that had been imprisoned during the Franco years, were freed.
Everything is subject to change, but we shall never accept terrorism as an instrument for changing our will.
Democracy and human rights are the very raison d' être of the European Union.
This is why whenever fascist and totalitarian acts committed by ETA in one part of Europe strip us of our freedom, people elsewhere in Europe must feel that our freedom, everyone' s freedom - whatever a person' s nationality, language, culture or religion - is under threat. (The President asked the speaker to conclude) Ladies and gentlemen, I simply wanted to say that the people of the Basque Country are normal, ordinary people, who are anxious to find a way out of this impasse, and be free to walk around our towns without watching our backs.
We simply want to live in peace and defend our freedom.
I should like to point out that at the Summit of the Heads of State and Government which was held on 19 and 20 June this year in Santa Maria da Feira, in Portugal, the Council expressed its outrage at the tragic events related to terrorism in Europe and vigorously reaffirmed its commitment to continuing to fight terrorism at European level and to stepping up and intensifying cooperation between Member States in this area.
Since France currently holds the Council Presidency, at this point I would particularly like to express our solidarity in the face of the terrorism in Spain, which is the most deadly in Europe at the present time.
In no instance can violent nationalism be compatible with the ideals of the European Union.
It is the role and the responsibility of the European Union in combating terrorism in general, and therefore also terrorism in Spain, which I wished to discuss this morning in my capacity as co-chairman, together with Elisabeth Guigou, the French Minister of Justice, of the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
The implementation of this network, undoubtedly the most effective cooperative network, was the result of the action programme adopted in Dublin in June 1990 by the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs of the twelve Member States at that time.
I should also at this point mention the role played by the European Police Office, Europol, in combating terrorism.
The initial wording of the Convention stipulated that Europol' s mandate would be extended to terrorism within two years at the latest of the Convention' s entry into force, which was on 1 October 1998.
As you know, there is a Europol department dedicated to combating terrorism.
In view of the criminal activity undertaken at that time by some terrorist groups, the Justice and Home Affairs Council, which met on 28 and 29 May 1998, took the decision to authorise Europol to bring forward its counter-terrorism activities and have them begin on 1 January 1999.
In particular, the French Presidency wishes to improve and intensify the cooperation between Member States, but also to extend this cooperation yet further to include the candidate countries.
Among the priorities of the French Presidency I should particularly like to mention the initiative to establish a programme of information and measures to be undertaken in order to prepare for the accession of the candidate countries to the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is this system, with a combination of bilateral and multilateral cooperation, which very recently, in fact just a few days ago, made it possible to achieve some remarkable successes in the fight against terrorism in Spain.
Mr President, while we have been here discussing these issues, José Luis Ruiz, a town councillor of the governing Partido Popular party in a town in Catalonia, has been murdered by ETA.
Some are trying to confuse us and seem intent on creating confusion between the people of good will in Parliament.
It is important for a Parliament to speak out in public on this kind of matter.
This is why I strongly urge those that presented the declaration - as I have done so in private and do so now publicly - to do all they can to enable us to sign it, because any position that is adopted on terrorism requires universal backing.
On the other hand, if this declaration is supposed to stem from the 1997 declaration adopted by Parliament, which spoke of dialogue in positive terms, it would seem strange not to have recourse to it, and in particular, to the eighth paragraph in which Parliament considers dialogue in positive terms.
A few days ago in Strasbourg, President Nicole Fontaine herself made reference to all of the democrats of Europe, men and women alike, and especially the Basque Country in Spain, which, in her view, continues to believe in political dialogue, despite the climate of terror that exists.
I shall not quote from the text, but the Commissioner' s report on terrorism presented to Parliament in 1997 is there for consultation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although all groups, including ours, must be self-critical, it is now time we set to work and, above all, attempted to combat such a serious problem as terrorism from solid foundations, the maximum consensus possible and, of course, in the knowledge that dialogue has been, is and will always be the most valued method for achieving peace and reconciliation.
We could have presented an alternative text here, but this would have been a serious mistake because in our view, resolving a matter as serious and important as this requires us to do everything that we can, except to put forward proposals that divide Parliament.
Thirty years ago at the height of the Franco dictatorship in 1970, I was in prison for championing freedoms and at that time I was against ETA.
I shall end, Mr President, by recalling the words of Jorge Luís Borges when he wrote "Around 500 years before the Christian era, the greatest thing to happen in the history of the world occurred in Greece - the discovery of dialogue.
Today is pointless already, after all that we have heard about the significance of ETA terrorism, its devastating effects on the population, its outright assault on the democratic values enshrined in the Spanish Constitution of 1978 and in the Statute of Guernica, that cost the countless efforts and sacrifices of the Basque and Spanish people as a whole to achieve.
Political dialogue should take place between democratic parties, whether they be nationalist or not, with Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya, with Convergència i Unió, with the PNV, with Eusko Alkartasuna, with Izquíerda Unida, with the PSOE, with the governing Partido Popular, and within the institutions, transparently and clearly, on behalf of the people and answering to all Spanish citizens.
They are not tolerant, they have spoken for more than three-quarters of an hour, they cannot stand just one minute by me, that is their democracy. (Continuing protests) The day when the European Union will stand for a political solution, I will assure you that for 100% of the Basque inhabitants, including PP and Socialists, will be the happiest day in our lives.
Mr President, on behalf of the British Conservatives, I should like to offer our strong support to the Spanish authorities in their fight against terrorism.
We support the Spanish Government and security forces in their tough stance against ETA terrorism and express solidarity with the Spanish people and in particular, those that have suffered directly as victims of terrorism. (Applause) Mr President, let us send out a very clear and unequivocal message from this Parliament today that violence has no role of any description in solving the problems of a divided people.
Organisations which use violence, should be told very clearly that their claim to be acting to achieve human and civil rights for people is completely false, because their method undermines the most fundamental human right of all, the right to life.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I of course support the unreserved condemnation and outrage that everyone within this Chamber feels at the news that the blindest and most cowardly form of terrorism has struck once again in Spain, at 7.40 this morning, making a victim of José Ruiz, a municipal councillor in Sant Adrià de Besós, in Catalonia.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Commission, I would just like to add my own deepest sympathy with regard to the victim of the attack which occurred in Catalonia this morning, and also to stress my concern at the events in London.
In particular, I want to state that, outside this debate on the legal instruments - police cooperation, legal cooperation, the questions of how to make the extradition system more effective and how to ensure a European mandate for investigation, which we are looking into - there is an added value which Europe is providing in the fight for freedom and democracy.
We must never lose faith in the fact that freedom and democracy are values for all time.
Parliament needs to facilitate dialogue between the democrats.
Mr President, I am now in a position to provide Parliament with more details.
The debate is closed.
Getting effective sanctions means firstly exploiting EU powers for anti-discrimination laws and agreeing the Article 13 Race Directive in record time sent the right signal of determination.
Effectiveness also means stepping up intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation under Article 29 of the EU Treaty and ways to do that are explored here.
Firstly, I regret that the opportunity has been taken to identify specific countries and parties as especially bad e.g.
Mr President, in response to an inquiry from the PDS Group in the Bundestag, the German Government revealed that in 1999, a total of 2031 right-wing extremist and anti-Semitic criminal offences were committed in Germany.
The well-known German newspaper 'Der Tagesspiegel' records that there have been 93 murders with a right-wing extremist background over the past ten years.
But there are just as many reasons that have to do with the developments that have taken place over the last ten years, for example the dissociation of economic and social development in eastern Germany from that in the former Bundesländer, the lack of respect for East Germans' curriculum vitaes and their experience, and the lack of rigour in the debate on right-wing extremism past and present.
The Council and the Presidency attach great importance to the European Conference against racism "All Different, All Equal" which will be held in Strasbourg between 11 and 13 October 2000, in preparation for the 2001 UN World Conference Against Racism.
The Council does intend, and I must stress this, to present a common position at the World Conference which is due to be held next year in South Africa, and work on finalising this common position has already been set in motion.
In order to coordinate their positions ready for the European Conference, the Member Sates will, of course, take account of the very useful recommendations given in the document provided by the Commission departments on 17 April.
I should, further, like to point out that on 21 June 2000, the Council directive was adopted, implementing the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin.
Because of the duplication that now exists between this directive and the proposal for a directive on the creation of a general framework promoting equal treatment in employment and work - the directive on discrimination - racial discrimination was withdrawn from its scope, but let me remind you that the scope of this proposal for a directive is a great deal more limited than that of the directive previously adopted, which covers not only the sectors of employment and work but also social protection, welfare benefits and education, as well as access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services.
Next, work on the Community Action Programme to combat discrimination is well underway within the Council and I can safely state today that, if the European Parliament issues its opinion during its first part-session in October, the Council will be in a position to adopt a political agreement on this text on 17 October, so that the text could be adopted before the end of the French Presidency, enabling the programme to be launched, as anticipated, on 1 January 2001.
Finally, on the subject of the 1996 Joint Action concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia, in May 1998 the Council examined a report on Member States' compliance with the obligations upon them under the Joint Action and decided that the implementation of this Joint Action should be re-examined in 2000.
The two monsters in Europe today are terrorism and racism.
In 1996, the Council approved a joint action on judicial cooperation between Member States on questions of racism.
Articles 29 and 13 allow us to adopt quite specific policies.
Secondly, two directives have been proposed on the basis of Article 13; the directive on racial discrimination was voted through by the European Parliament and the Council in record time, a mere six months, and is now part of European legislation.
We have already submitted two documents incorporating all the experience and proposals on how to combat racism at Community level, together with our experience in matters of education, training, research and policy for young people in order to address these matters.
There is financial support for the conference as regards non-governmental organisations because we believe that they can play an important role, over and above the role of governments and, of course, we are negotiating for support for the involvement of non-governmental organisations in the regional conferences to be held in Chile, Senegal and Iran.
We can, moreover, even see the revival of racism in some European Union countries.
In this, as the Commission, the Council of Ministers and Parliament, we have a shared responsibility and we want to be very scrupulous about this common approach, as Europe' s credibility, at this World Conference Against Racism, will depend, above all, on our assessment of the situation and on how credible we are on our own territory.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this debate serves as a timely continuation of the debate we held in Parliament first thing this morning on the issue of terrorism in Spain.
I say that this debate is a timely continuation of this morning' s debate because, as John Hume has so often reminded us in Parliament, all conflicts are linked to the notion of difference, all conflicts focus on what we do not accept in others.
John Hume has also reminded us on many occasions in Parliament that the European Union is and must continue to be an example of conflict resolution.
One could say that the European Union today is the practical expression of the exact opposite to the notions of terrorism and racism.
However, Mr President, I think there is another, more important issue that we must tackle without delay.
Mr President, from the racial persecution in El Ejido, in Spain, to the murder of Mozambicans in East Germany, everywhere incidents of racist violence are inflaming passions in the heart of Europe.
We have only succeeded in combating the Front National effectively in France because we never had any government alliance.
I shall conclude by thanking Commissioner Diamantopoulou for making the comparison between terrorism and racism, because I consider that it is an attack on the physical dignity of persons, and as such is intolerable.
In relation to this report, I would like to focus particularly on Amendment No 6 - which I hope will be rejected - which cites the political movement to which I belong as a racist party.
I reiterate: in Italy, my movement is not currently arraigned on charges of racism and has never been convicted of racism in the past, and I therefore fiercely reject this accusation.
They make up between 1 and 2.5% of the population over there, according to a recent German press source.
Our fellow MEP, André Brie provides a clear and plausible answer to this.
But this debate should never be misused for other purposes.
What we really need is a plan for tackling the root causes, immigration policy strategies that take account of integration capacity, and of an individual Member State' s absorption capacity, also strategies leading to a common asylum policy which help refugees whilst tackling abuse, and measures promoting integration.
The same applies to you, Mr Pirker, in every sense.
In the United States of America, where, in 2050, whites will be in a minority, there is an American Nazi party and there is a candidate for the American presidential elections from the Nazi party, but no one thinks of banning it, no one is afraid, because the weapons of democracy and freedom are being used to combat racism.
This is how racism must be fought, and this is how we must fight it in Europe.
The events that took place in Dessau, Munich, Ludwigshafen, Düsseldorf are of such concern to us primarily because violent acts were committed against defenceless people with great indifference and coldbloodedness.
Commissioner Diamantopoulou made the point very clearly that there are two monsters facing us here in Europe, terrorism and racism.
If Europe wishes to play a central role in the World Conference Against Racism it has to start seeing itself as others see it rather than as we would like to be.
Over the past few weeks, the German Government has made an additional DM 70 million available for just such projects.
However, whether some of us like it or not, Europe is already a multiracial and multicultural continent and no racist is going to stop people intermingling and intermarrying.
The package of measures which Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already presented is, in my view, an integrated proposal and may provide a convincing response to the racism and xenophobia which we are witnessing today in the European Union.
That the state and political leaders have a responsibility goes without saying.
The debate is closed.
In so doing, they undermine our national economies, and in view of corruption, also erode our social systems and states.
Firstly, because the failure to involve Parliament has taken us a step backwards, not just to the days before the Treaty of Amsterdam, but long before the Treaty of Maastricht, because according to Chapter 6, Parliament must be involved in every case.
The Presidency has also committed itself to involving Parliament to a greater extent in the work undertaken in the field of justice and home affairs, in particular by means of regular participation in the meetings of your parliamentary Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
On the other hand, as you know, on 21 December 1999, the Council sent Parliament the strategy document on organised crime drawn up under the Finnish Presidency, expressly specifying that it wished to keep Parliament informed right from the start of discussions on this document.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Council is not unaware that, in response to the strategy document, Parliament is currently working on a new document on organised crime.
We are pleased to see the work carried out by Parliament.
Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam marked the beginning of the so-called 'communitisation' of many policies, but not those relating to criminal matters in both procedural and substantive terms.
Mr President, I should like to thank the French Presidency for its very clear statement.
Legal and police cooperation is absolutely vital in the fight against organised crime, particularly the trafficking of human beings, the sexual exploitation of children, and money laundering.
Criminal organisations can find themselves in a position of strength thanks to the financial operations they carry out in order to launder criminal proceeds.
The fight against organised crime is an important undertaking, where we must not fail.
The Europe we want to build is a Europe of rights.
The Liberal Group believes that, in addition to all kinds of practical measures which are included in the document, it is, in particular, high time that criminal prosecution was improved by means of European cooperation.
I would like to take this opportunity to argue once again in favour of setting up a European public prosecution office.
Organised crime in the European Union has seen significant developments over the last decade, requiring action essentially in the areas of computer crime, crime involving trafficking in human beings, drugs and arms, terrorism, child pornography and money-laundering as well as corruption and fraud.
The European citizens, who, every day, live through the drama of all forms of petty and serious crime - from international drug trafficking to the sexual exploitation of children, from the trafficking and exploitation of human beings to illegal immigration - who live in towns which are unsafe or even dangerous, would like to be able to express their opinions and to lay claim, democratically, through their representatives at the European Parliament, to their rights and priorities of security and the fight against crime.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
Vote Mr President, first of all I should like to say that I am astounded at the vote on Amendment No 16 because, as far as I was aware, it had been withdrawn, but, more especially, I should like to request that my report be referred back to committee pursuant to Rule 69(2).
I am therefore requesting, Mr President, that my request for referral to committee be put to the vote.
Mr President, I would like to support the rapporteur' s motion.
We want this regulation but we want it with our improvements.
During the debate late last night there were at least ten speakers who all raised points very critical of the Commission.
I felt very sorry for Commissioner Nielson who had to respond as duty Commissioner and who read out about half a page prepared by Commissioner Liikanen.
Now we can see that, in Europe, the left supports left-wing racism and is in favour of left-wing anti-Semitism! (Uproar) These are all very interesting political games but the procedure is that we hold the debate and vote afterwards.
Moreover, as I would not class myself as one of those who do not participate in committee work, I would like to remind the House that it was we who tabled the amendments and point out that we maintained a very balanced line in committee.
Mr President, this is a plea for everyone to calm down a little on the subject of this debate on racism.
It is a report which is intended to assist developing countries in preserving the environment.
Skinner report (A5-0222/2000) Mr President, as representative of the Pensioners' Party, I was very happy to vote for the Skinner report, which lays down safety measures to prevent occupational accidents.
It is important that untruths are rapidly rebutted.
All other questions ought to be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.
Hernández Mollar report (A5-0225/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Hernández Mollar report because pensioners and elderly people are extremely concerned by what might happen to them with modernisation and the development of electronic and computer science.
This Convention was signed on 15 June 1990.
The proposed revised wording for Articles 22 and 23 of the Eurodac regulation, which is what has currently been referred to Parliament, was therefore rejected by the committee which proposed, instead, an amendment endowing the Commission with the unconditional right to exercise implementing powers.
We were very pleased to note that, at the Council meeting (legal affairs and the internal market) on 29 October 1999, the Danish Government stated that it wanted to participate fully in Eurodac cooperation on an intergovernmental basis.
The Socialist Group voted accordingly in that particular Parliament vote and hopes that the Commission and the Council will accept our proposals.
Mr Pirker, the rapporteur, opted to comment only on the part of the report that had been amended.
Glase report (A5-0220/2000) Mr President, 'illegal work' could also be referred to as 'underground work' .
If we want to combat illegal working practices we must also permit pensioners - who live on low, paltry, starvation-ration pensions - to receive a regular salary in addition to a pension, or else they will be forced to remain underground, where they could well end up suffocating.
If Parliament truly wished to combat undeclared work, it would have to begin by proposing that any employer guilty of employing a non-declared worker should be forced to employ that person under an open-ended contract.
It is clear, nonetheless, that the Member States would be well advised to coordinate their efforts in order to establish a proactive strategy to combat this scourge.
Bringing "greater flexibility to the labour market" (point 11 of the motion for a resolution), making "efforts to reduce tax and contribution levels" (point 11), and promoting "flexible working hours" (point 26) will not be sufficient to reduce the extent of undeclared work.
A new phase of Brussels-inspired regulating mania would be neither use nor ornament in the fight against illicit work in the Member States of the European Union.
Unfortunately, the European Parliament report under discussion goes in completely the wrong direction; it basically backs employers and calls for even more neo-liberal measures on the job market, ostensibly in order to wipe out undeclared work.
Resolution on racism (B5-0766/2000) I would like to express my disappointment and dismay at the PPE' s vote on the resolution on the World Conference Against Racism.
After much soul-searching in the Socialist Group we decided that we would withdraw that amendment in the interests of getting the largest majority possible in Parliament against the forces of racism, the extreme right and anti-Semitism.
Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I should also like to express our disappointment at our failure to successfully conclude this matter, in spite of all of the efforts we all made so that the European Union could adopt a strong position, with the backing of Parliament, on something as important as the World Conference against Racism.
A desire to link the issue of racism with the situation in Austria represents an attempt to defame the country of Austria.
We Radicals consider that Parliament and Europe must also learn from their past, which lives on today through prohibitions, be they right-wing, left-wing, socialist or extreme right-wing.
In principle, we welcome the action plan put forward by the Council, but we also join the committee in criticising the Council over its consultation obligations.
