The rise in foodstuff prices, consumer protection (debate) The next item is the debate on an oral question - B6-0321/2007) concerning the rise in foodstuff prices and consumer protection by Joseph Daul, Lutz Goepel and Neil Parish, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group to the Commission, an oral question - B6-0377/2007) concerning the rise in foodstuff prices and consumer protection by Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, on behalf of the PSE Group to the Commission, and an oral question - B6-0378/2007) concerning the rise in foodstuff prices and consumer protection by Sergio Berlato, Janusz Wojciechowski, Gintaras Didžiokas and Liam Aylward, on behalf of the UEN Group to the Commission.
For 25 years we have been in a situation where there has been plenty of food in Europe.
As you know, we were surprised a few months ago by a change in the situation in the market for some agricultural products, which not long ago we believed to be unthinkable; an enormous pressure on supply, with the consequences that we have been seeing.
This in turn caused a major disturbance in the livestock production sector, foreseeable consequences in the rise of consumer prices and not forgetting the FAO's warning about the consequences for foodstuffs in many areas of the world that could result from this situation.
However, most of all we must go further in assessing and studying the situation so that we can quickly identify the measures that, in the short term, can be adopted in the immediate future.
Mr President and Commissioner, we believe that today more than ever, the European agricultural model must be protected in order to shield national agricultural markets from international price fluctuations and give substance to the defence of models of production and use of the territory which are so characteristic of European agriculture.
However, this does not do enough to reassure us about the worrying situation in terms of cereal stocks and the rising price of cereals on the world market.
In a difficult economic climate such as this one, the European Union and the Member States have a responsibility to help consumers maintain their food purchasing power while at the same time protecting our farmers' right to an income.
Milk quotas were increased on 1 April 2006 and 1 April 2007 by 0.5% in 11 Member States.
On 1 April 2008 - next year - another 0.5% will be added to the increase in the quota allocated to 11 Member States.
In the cereals sector there are various different reasons for the increase in prices.
While in the developed countries, we spend 10 to 20% of our household budget on food, in the least developed countries, this figure is 60 to 80% of the budget, and a 20% increase in the price of cereals is drastic.
At the same time, we know that in the areas where they have not yet taken effect, namely the pig sector, these price increases will lead to a very expensive winter in terms of food prices.
We should continue the reform of the common agricultural policy from 2003 by reducing support, and we should seriously discuss further transfers of agricultural support to rural development policy.
Reform of the market in sugar is a massive limitation of sugar production in the European Union, from 18 million tonnes to 12 million tonnes.
The market reacts, the price goes up and now we, here in the European Parliament, as representatives of the farmers, are asking for prices to be brought down again.
I would like to remind the Commissioner that a few months ago, we asked for a moratorium on the discussion of amendments to the CMO in fruit and vegetables in order to pause and reflect on what was happening - and what is happening now in wine - based on a few points, which I would now like to raise.
I understand where Mr Baringdorf is coming from when he says that this is a fundamental problem, but I do not think that the increases we are seeing at this time are to the advantage of producers.
Mr President, let me be first of all assure Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf that I am happy to see prices going up for our farmers at last, so long as it is farmers who benefit, and not supermarket chains.
Greek livestock farmers are in despair; they are taking action to demand substantial aid to help them survive.
The decision by the Council of Ministers on 26 September to remove the compulsory set-aside, suspend duties on imported cereals and take other measures, to which you have referred, Commissioner, will go some way towards easing the problem, but it does not solve it.
As many of those who have already spoken have pointed out, we are getting perhaps 10% more in primary materials prices, but retailers are marking that up by 40-50% in some instances.
Accepting this situation also means denying the influence of the large supermarkets, which for 40 years have contributed to the downward trend in prices for farmers, while food prices for consumers have stayed the same or have increased.
It is also important to realise that this increase in prices is not a European phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon - and that is the reason why it is very difficult for us to take certain measures.
Steps in this direction have been taken to increase Member States' support in the authorising process.
The vote will take place on Thursday 25 October 2007.
