Government Procurement Agreement (GPA) (debate) The next item is oral question to the Commission on the renegotiation of the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA) by Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade - B6-0450/2006).
author. - (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting this oral question on the renegotiation of the Government Procurement Agreement, which will end in March, because we are at a crucial moment.
The government procurement markets are becoming increasingly important in the world, in view of their volume, which may be up to 25% of world GDP and, furthermore, because they represent a comparative advantage for the European Union, since at the moment we can be competitive in this sector compared to the competition that we are facing from other countries in other sectors, such as agriculture and industry.
Parliament therefore wishes to know whether any new countries are interested in signing up to the agreement in the short term, and particularly whether we can expect substantial commitments from China in relation to the opening up of its public markets.
Let us not forget that China committed itself to opening up its government procurement market - which largely remains closed, or has requirements that are unacceptable to European companies - and to beginning negotiations in 2008 on accession to the Government Procurement Agreement, following its accession to the World Trade Organisation.
For this reason, we have the legitimate right to demand that our companies enjoy similar conditions of access to the public markets of our main trading partners, whose companies currently enjoy access to our public markets.
Commissioner Mandelson also referred to this imbalance in his communication on a competitive Europe in a globalised economy.
The Council emphasised in its recent conclusions on the Commission's communication 'Global Europe - Competing in the World' that we need to achieve additional improvements in market access with our future major trading partners, namely in public procurement.
China has indicated that it will start accession negotiations by December this year and, following my visit there last year, we are already preparing this important accession.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start by congratulating my esteemed colleague, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, and by thanking him for having asked, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, this oral question on the negotiations under way at the World Trade Organisation regarding the rules on access to public contracts.
The WTO rules on trade in goods and services do not apply to purchases made by a State for its own use, that is to say to public procurement.
This imbalance is unacceptable, and the public contracts that have thus been excluded are precisely those that concern our small and medium-sized enterprises, while the SMEs from those countries have unrestricted access to all our public contracts.
The renegotiation of the multilateral agreement on public procurement that is currently under way at the WTO is, in our view, an extraordinary opportunity to act and to reflect on the place occupied by SMEs in terms of accessing public contracts.
Many would argue that government procurement has little or nothing to do with traditional matters of trade, tariffs and quotas, and that it is an unacceptable area for negotiations at the WTO, because subjecting government procurement at the national, local or regional level to one-size-fits-all rules at a global level on how taxpayers' funds are spent I think destroys citizens' reasonable expectations that they should have a level of democratic accountability over how their money is spent.
Firstly, we have to deal with the WTO through one man who represents no less than 27 nations.
Government spending is only some 20% of GDP, whereas in the eurozone it was 47.5% in 2005.
In China, business runs with a light regulatory touch.
In the European Union, we are regulating ourselves to death.
My country was hoodwinked into joining the European Union in 1973 on the basis of it being just a free trade area.
Instead it has become a bureaucratic monster which is wrecking our economy. (EL) Mr President, provisional agreement has already been reached on the revised text of the Public Procurement Agreement and is expected to be reached on the final agreement.
It would also help British and European SMEs to compete globally. (NL) Mr President, a Government Procurement Agreement could mean more transparency and thus less corruption.
Of course, on the one hand, it is the WTO agreement that is at issue here, but, on the other, it must also be clear to us that these international treaties - as is the way of things with globalisation - have direct effects on the European internal market.
It is for that reason that I believe that the crucial problem for small and medium-sized enterprises in this respect is much more that we have not yet really got a handle on the problem of sub-contractors, for it is in that capacity that small and medium-sized enterprises are often used, being in that way able to create jobs and have the chance to earn money, but they are, ultimately, managed from higher up and that often puts them in a difficult position, with their feet in two different camps.
I was rapporteur in this House on the reform of contracts, supplies and services, in this case Directives 17 and 18.
In 1994 and in subsequent years, very different types of activity were planned worldwide through plurilateral agreements.
If we were to do that, so would more of our trading partners and the result would be that European companies would lose out.
