For this reason I have welcomed and expressed support for the Commission's proposal, which will allow a greater degree of coordination of Member States' bodies, including close cooperation with Europol, Frontex, Interpol and the World Customs Organisation.
in writing. - (FR) Artificial electromagnetic waves have a significant impact on the health of Europe's citizens, and above all on the health of workers, who need to be protected from electromagnetic fields just as they are already protected by two EU directives fixing limit values for exposure to noise and vibration.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of this codification report, which is an important part of the work on increasing the clarity and transparency of Community law.
in writing. - (PT) This regulation replaces Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92, which established the Community Customs Code.
The Community Customs Code (CCC) was established by Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to support the Dunn report.
The aim is therefore to deepen coordination at Community level, in the light of the new instruments provided by European law, bearing in mind that at the time at which Regulation (EC) No 515/97 was adopted, the Treaty did not yet contain an article on customs cooperation (Articles 135 and 280).
The sources of information on expenditure must be transparent and, above all, they must be arranged in a practical manner.
in writing. - I voted in favour of my own group's amendments on the Pomés Ruiz report, which were all adopted.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, which is supported by a European Commission Communication that puts forward a number of proposals, the majority of which we agree with.
in writing. - (PT) The fight against fraud and misappropriation of public funds, in this case Community funds, must be a priority in each Member State.
in writing. - I supported the Musotto report on the fight against fraud.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted for the Deprez report on how the Union and the Member States should proceed in their action to rein back support for terrorism and the increase in recruitment of terrorists.
Hence our abstention.
I voted against the final report, not because I support the PPE position or the narrow Spanish domestic debate which so frequently poisons our discussions on tackling terrorism in this House, but because we have decided to consider the inclusion of the justification of terrorism in our anti-terrorism package.
in writing. - (FR) This report on eradicating terrorism takes its place in an endless series of texts glorifying human rights and the battle against discrimination.
in writing. - (FR) This report reflects substantial amendment work by the members of the PSE, Verts/ALE, GUE/NGL and ALDE Groups in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
in writing. - This report sought to outline a set of European norms and principles in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - (DE) Combating terrorism will be the challenge of this century.
in writing. - (SV) Terrorism is a cross-border phenomenon and must be combated vigorously by common action.
in writing. - (PL) I am unable to support the Deprez report and its proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists.
I therefore voted against the report and contributed to its rejection by Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) This EP own-initiative report is a genuine repository of goals and initiatives for liberalising world trade - whether in goods, services or capital - led by the EU and the European Commission, a virtually omnipotent body in common commercial policy with the new draft Treaty, which makes this an exclusive EU competence.
in writing. - I welcome the Guardans Cambó report on the EU's Strategy to deliver market access for European companies.
in writing. - (PT) Although the European internal market is huge, the world market, opened up due to globalisation, is even larger and more dynamic.
in writing. - (RO) The Guardans Cambó report refers to the European Union strategy to facilitate the market access for European companies.
The measures proposed by the Commission refer to restructuring the Community computer system that provides market access information and services in approximately 100 countries, better transparency and an information campaign, especially for small and medium-sized companies, regarding the Community services available for European exporters.
