I wish to place clearly on the record of this House our sympathy for all the victims of this earthquake, and our determination to show practical solidarity with them and their communities in the weeks and months to come.
The other is that a large number of Members of this House are flying off to India on Thursday morning for the Social Forum.
The recognition of professional qualifications is such an important topic, and one that affects so many members of the public, that it really would be sensible and proper for there to be a very large number of Members in this House to vote on it.
I have been advised that he would have been quite happy to have this report put to the vote this week, one reason being that we know from experience that attendance is higher when we are in Strasbourg than when we are sitting in Brussels.
There have been apologists for terrorists in this House before, particularly Herri Batasuna.
I am disappointed and ashamed that a British political party should have taken the same stance and I hope you condemn that, Mr President. &#160;&#160; Mr Titley, the House expresses its total solidarity with you and your staff.
Mr President, I believe that the institutions must not be intimidated by these acts and that, today more than ever, we must continue to work in favour of a united Europe – taking account of the priorities which the Irish Presidency will present to us the day after tomorrow – in favour of a Constitution for Europe; Europe wants and needs a Constitution, Mr President, a Constitution which must include all of us.
Mr President, I believe it is important that, in view of the threat of terrorism, which affects us all equally – and I believe it is a good time to recognise and express, as a Spaniard, my gratitude for the constant encouragement we have received from the European Parliament in our fight against the terrorist group ETA – we have to continue united, and the response must also be from us all equally.
In taking the floor, I am doing so to ask you, Mr&#160;President, and all my fellow Members to support an idea that was put forward by the former Norwegian Prime Minister a few days ago: the idea of awarding the Nobel Peace Price to the European Union.
It appears as if the Valencian authorities have designed this Stalinist law in order to achieve their plans cheaply.
I would therefore call for one of Parliament's committees of enquiry to examine whether this law violates international treaties and also for this law to be rendered inoperative during the enquiry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this week marks the second anniversary of the detention of approximately 660 people in Guantanamo Bay without charge or trial.
This House has expressed its concerns quite recently about the continued detention of these people without charge or trial and has urged that they be given a fair and open hearing with the right to choose their own defence counsel.
I ask you, Mr President, to make direct contact with the United States Congress to express the concerns of this Parliament and also to urge the President-in-Office of the Council to make contact with the authorities in the United States to express our concerns.
If, in the struggle to defeat terrorism, we deny people civil and political rights then we are undermining our democracies. &#160;&#160; In the course of my remarks on behalf of Parliament to the December 2003 summit meeting in Brussels, I spoke in precisely those terms regarding all of the institutions' contacts with the United States, its administration and Congress. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week at the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, India and Pakistan announced that they will meet again in a month's time to take bilateral confidence-building measures, including talks on Kashmir.
This House will welcome an easing of tensions at the most dangerous flashpoint in the globe which only two years ago was on the brink of a nuclear war.
I am sure this House will wish to express its encouragement and support for the peace process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank the Members who have endorsed a paper that expresses solidarity with women accused of having an abortion and who are currently on trial again in Portugal.
Following the Maia case, around two years ago, new cases have emerged on a regular basis.
Since, over the years, the European Union has shown itself to be incapable of ensuring respect for the clause on human rights in all of the Association Agreements, it would be appropriate for Parliament to receive all the information from the Commission, before debating the issue, as to how it was possible to conclude an Association Agreement with a country such as Syria. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, at Tel Aviv airport a document was handed over which seeks to prevent movement in the Palestinian occupied territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
I therefore call upon the President, the European Commission and the Council Presidency to intervene and to ask the Israeli authorities why they are restricting people’s movements in this way.
I will pass on the document that has been received by various foreign citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wanted to speak about the polemics between the World Jewish Congress and the Commission of the European Union last week.
That is the revival of anti-Semitism in a number of countries, France in particular, where Jewish children, because they are Jews, are harassed and persecuted every day by Arabs perniciously applying to them what is happening in the Middle East conflict.
While increasing haddock quotas, which was welcome, the Council limited the Scots fleet to only 15 days at sea, and also restricted access to certain key areas.
I am calling on the European Commission to look again at this package and to accept that the unworkable and discriminatory nature of its regulation must be re-examined. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am informed that on 29&#160;December 2003, at approximately 2 a.m., the Casal Jaume I Cultural Centre in Russafa, a district of Valencia, was attacked by persons unknown.
All Casal Jaume I centres are members of the Acció Cultural del País Valencià association, whose goals are to study, support and promote the cultural heritage of Valencia.
Acció Cultural has more than 9 000 members.
Many young people are also members of Casal Jaume&#160;I centres.
The Secretary-General of Acció Cultural referred to 21 attacks since July 2001 on the Casal Jaume&#160;I centres in Valencia and the nearby towns of Llíria, Carlet, Sueca and Vila-Real.
As we rightly strive to develop common European policies for asylum and, in parallel, common policies for Europe for legal immigration, this tragedy and other similar ones have drawn yet further attention to the need for the EU to be constantly aware of the less prosperous states around it and to do ever more to support those countries, of which Albania is just one example. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry to have to make yet another complaint about Air France.
Members who went to the lounge and were called at the appropriate moment in fact found they had to queue for 40 minutes.
He had already called at the last session of Parliament for the House to observe one minute's silence in memory of the 16 children killed by the American invaders in Afghanistan at the beginning of December and in memory of the thousands of other civilian victims of the interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq.
It is a field in which we have made clear progress: we have approved the Directive on the notification of accidents in civil aviation; we have approved the creation of the European Air Safety Agency, which is now operational; we have approved the rules on the certification and maintenance of aircraft which that Agency must apply and we have also made progress on the ‘Single Sky’ initiative, which is an element which must improve safety in the European air sector.
With regard to the Air Safety Agency, which since 28 September has been operational, its responsibility with regard to national certification competences is restricted to aircraft registered in the Community, in other words, those which have a Community flag, and therefore does not cover aircraft such as those of Flash Airlines.
In order to facilitate this monitoring, in 1996 the States of the Union and certain European third countries created a system for inspecting aircraft and for exchanging the corresponding information, known as SAFA, within the European Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC).
The European Commission co-funds this programme and participates in it as an observer.
And I would like to point out that, as a consequence of an accident similar to the Flash Airlines accident, which took place in 1996 in Puerto Plata, in the Dominican Republic, on a flight operated by a Turkish charter company on behalf of a German travel agency, the Commission presented a proposed directive in 1997 on the control of third-country aircraft which land at Community airports.
I would like to point out that the Commission also presented a modified proposal on this text in January 2002 which essentially took up the 1997 text with corrections which improved on the text and which, furthermore, allowed it to be adopted speedily.
It should provide the necessary data for the choice of air companies by tour operators in order to encourage them to take even more interest in safety issues.
Naturally, the data in this report can only reflect the reality at a given time and does not always allow us to draw general conclusions on the safety or lack of safety of an aircraft or aircraft in general of a specific company.
Nevertheless, the British initiative to publish a list of companies which may not enter British air space demonstrates that, in any event, transparency is not only possible but that it is going to happen.
There is no question that the current situation justifies enhanced and more active cooperation with the American authorities in order to reinforce security aspects in view of the new terrorist risks.
We must point out that the data which has led to certain difficulties were not the data which appear in the ‘Passenger Name Record’ (PNR) and that they are sufficiently detailed to prevent certain types of errors which have been made in this field.
Firstly, I would like to point out that this issue is one for the Member States to deal with.
The Community has no competence in this area.
That safety must be dealt with in a global manner and it is not sufficient to talk about guarantees and safety for air companies from our territories, that is, European air companies and aircraft, because third-country aircraft also use our airports and huge numbers of our citizens travel on them.
I would like to say finally that safety issues for preventing problems relating to terrorism in the civil aviation sector must be dealt with from the point of view of seeking the greatest possible safeguards and security for passengers and citizens.
Then, as you know, there is the safety issue which arose after the terrorist attack on 11 September.
Since early last year, the Americans have been demanding the handing over of passengers’ data before they join a flight; some of this information is of a highly personal nature.
Not only in this House did this call forth vehement criticisms, one in particular being that this was illegal, in that it is in flagrant breach of two items of European legislation, namely the Data Protection Directive and the Regulation on the handling of data in flight booking.
The fifty years for which the data was to be stored have now become three and a half.
Furthermore, as the Commissioner stated, this last request, in particular, has met with very mixed reactions from various countries.
I therefore take the view that there is still neither adequate protection by the United States nor protection of the interests of air travellers and airline companies.
In short, I think that the signals that were given over the past month are an example of precisely how things should not be done, and I therefore hope to receive a clear answer now, or at least in response to my written questions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the only words that are fitting for the terrible disaster of Sharm el-Sheikh are sadness and compassion and I want again to express my solidarity with the victims’ families and share in their grief.
As things in fact stand, as you said, there are no sanctions for states that fail to carry out inspections.
The proposed directive, which was again submitted in January 2002, has still not been adopted.
Pilots, technicians and other professionals have irreplaceable experience in this field.
For the fight against terrorism, data would be transmitted in 34 fields, including the racial origins, political opinions, religious convictions and state of health of passengers, whereas the national authorities competent for the protection of privacy had reduced that list to 19.
It seems to me that this agreement isolates the European data protection directive and, in the light of European legislation, I do not think we can agree to the transfer of this data. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the accident involving the Egyptian aircraft has shocked people in Europe.
After 11 September, and especially in view of the ensuing crisis in aviation, people have again begun to realise how very important safety is.
As the rapporteur for the safety of aircraft from third countries, I am pleased with the promptness with which at least this Parliament has acted and has accepted a number of amendments at first and second reading which we still need to debate.
I am delighted that the Commissioner has pledged her support to Parliament and I am convinced that the trialogue will be very fruitful.
The most significant difference of opinion between the Commission and Council concerns information to the public.
I am sorry I had so little time, but I would like to thank the Commissioner and my fellow-Members for the support that they wish to express in the context of this report, and for the initiative they are taking.
On my own behalf and on behalf of the members of the French delegation of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I want to express our most sincere condolences and our solidarity with the victims’ families.
However, civil aviation must carry on improving its safety record.
Fourth, there is a need to reform the existing package travel directive which is now not only outdated, but ineffectual and allows some airlines to offer packages without being covered by the directive.
However, I repeat that aviation is the safest form of public transport and accidents, however tragic, are thankfully rare.
In any case, we now have a European Aviation Safety Agency, and it might be useful if an independent audit were to be carried out on the different ways in which Member States assess the safety of aircraft.
Mrs Maes, I hope that you, together with the Members of this House, will be able to salvage a few things yet. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, Mr President, the Sharm el-Sheikh disaster will hang over aviation for a long time.
I think many French people, many Europeans have identified with the victims because they express part of our way of life.
A long time ago, in 1996, the Commission presented a proposal following the crash of an aircraft belonging to a Turkish airline.
The Commission deserves all credit for its fight to defend privacy in the negotiations with the United States concerning the air passenger lists.
We know, in particular, how incredibly difficult it is to get the United States to achieve an, in our view, fair and considered balance between combating terrorism and defending human rights.
The outcome of the negotiations is, in some respects, successful and, in others, unsatisfactory.
There must also be a far better means of exchange of information, whether it be through the International Civil Aviation Organization, the EU or Member States.
With regard to the transfer of data, we should remember that 3&#160;000 people lost their lives in those horrendous attacks on 11 September, and many of them were from the European Union.
I agree that better cooperation between the US and the EU could probably solve problems before they arise.
I would like to thank the honourable Members for their speeches and, firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Maes for the work she is doing as rapporteur on the safety of third-country aircraft.
This task falls to the International Civil Aviation Organisation.
The next point which has arisen is the transfer of passenger data to the United States.
The next issue relates to the communication of data.
We must resolve the tension between the two elements in an appropriate and balanced way.
The package we are going to discuss today constitutes the penultimate phase and naturally supplements the work carried out over the last four years.
We have taken many very important steps, and I believe we can safely say that during this legislature there has been a revolution in maritime safety in the European Union and a spectacular improvement in the guarantees of protection for our coasts and our citizens.
In March 2003, the Commission presented its proposed directive on ship-source pollution and the introduction of sanctions, including of a criminal nature, for pollution offences.
And, thirdly, precisely defining the conditions under which responsibility may be established for each of the parties involved; the Commission believes that criminal responsibility may be established when spills are intentional and also, in the event of an accident, if the spill is due to serious negligence.
As the honourable Members know, in May last year, the Commission also presented a proposed framework Decision on pollution from ships.
This second proposal supplements the proposed Directive and essentially regulates the criminal aspects, that is, harmonisation in the field of sanctions and issues of judicial cooperation on criminal matters.
Now, the principle of incrimination and the imposition of the corresponding sanction must be established legally and, in the Commission’s view, by means of the directive, which, in accordance with the Treaties in their current form, is the only genuinely effective instrument for truly incorporating sanctions into the law of all the Member States and will therefore be an effective deterrent.
The Council has not yet laid out its position in this regard, but I have heard the doubts of the majority of ministers, who are not convinced that we should continue along this route.
The position Parliament adopts will be a determining factor and will contribute to moving the situation forwards.
I will now move on to the third issue, relating to the transfer of ships between European Union registers.
As well as the aspects relating to criminalisation – the treatment or punishment of certain actions in the field of sea pollution and dumping – we are going to discuss the transfer of cargo and passenger ships between Community registers.
According to the current regulation, only cargo ships can be included under certain conditions in the intended system.
In addition to this objective, the proposal intends to improve the circulation of information amongst maritime administrations in the States of the Union to better coordinate the system applicable to transfers between registers with the Community acquis, particularly with the Directives on controls by the port state and classification societies which we have adopted in the packages.
The modifications contained in the text of the Council’s general guidelines of 5 December 2003 contribute to defining the scope of the Regulation and, by coordinating it better with the detention and denial of access procedures in the Directive on control by the port state.
The Commission fully agrees with these proposals.
The draft directive that is currently under discussion should rectify this situation without delay.
The solution is to include internationally valid discharge regulations in Community law and make provisions for enforcement rules.
A common European coast guard is desirable in order to trace discharges more effectively and for the authorities to act more quickly and more adequately.
Ten amendments have been tabled in respect of the text of my report that has been approved by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
As I have already stated, the introduction of criminal sanctions is a good instrument.
However that may be, the starting point is simple: every vessel has a flag that belongs to a country, since there is no European flag.
The first text on changing registers goes back more than 10 years.
The Commission proposal and the accompanying report by Parliament seek to adapt to the new situation, because a lot of water has flowed under the bridge since then.
The second thrust of the report involves a very similar argument, since it is about coordinating Community instruments in the area of maritime safety, in short integrating all the legislation that has been adopted piecemeal, in particular the packages known as Erika I and Erika II.
Finally, the third thrust seeks to increase cooperation between national maritime authorities.
May I remind you that we are, indeed, about to welcome 10 States, but two in particular are island States with very large fleets, Malta and Cyprus, and it seems a good idea to get these rules settled before 1 May 2004.
The most important demand comes from the Commission, which is insisting that, unlike other vessels, a vessel that has been detained more than once following an inspection in a port during the three years preceding the application for change of register should not be able to benefit from a simplified procedure.
I think that is a nice symbolic amendment and our committee voted in favour, but the Council does not want to adopt the amendment because it would only apply to vessels changing register and not to all of them.
Mr&#160;President, Commissioner de Palacio,&#160;–&#160;both of you fortunately Spanish&#160;–&#160;on this very important point, the in December 1999 and the in November 2002 have already been mentioned as two disasters that were followed by all words and no action, though certainly not from the Commission who&#160;–&#160;as has already been said&#160;–&#160;did in fact do a great deal.
I believe, however, that this directive will only have an impact if there is the political will to enforce it, especially because recent history teaches us that European Union directives are almost always disregarded by Member States.
The real issue is the lack of will on the part of Member States to respect these provisions and the fact that, I am sorry to say, immediate corrective action has to be taken today when there have been terrible disasters.
The proposed framework decision is merely a complementary decision to the directive.
We have been talking about these problems and about marine pollution for four years now and I hope that in a few years’ time we will not need to talk about them much more.
We are here to support her and to demonstrate to our citizens once again that we really do want to put all this legislation in place and see that it is obeyed.
Once again I would like to praise the rapporteur and the Commission proposal and, on behalf of my group, I give my full support to the positions that have been set out. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, instead of always focusing our attention on shipping disasters and their consequences, I think we should do more about what I have to call the day-to-day fouling of the oceans.
We must, in any case, ensure that we draw a distinction between an accident and deliberate pollution.
I have read that a shipping disaster has now struck in Karaj and that the crew are being held criminally liable.
However, Commissioner, I think that Parliament and the Commission, despite opposition from the Council, have managed to obtain a few positive results, and I hope that we can do the same in the next session. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the disaster in November 2002 had devastating consequences, which are still being felt in the north of Portugal.
However, the fight against pollution discharges requires not only effective measures at EU level and greater cooperation between Member States, but also more effective enforcement at world level.
This is why this report is so important.
Tomorrow, we will be voting on a proposal tabled by my group to link this Pex directive to the Bouwman directive concerning port facilities.
Furthermore, we would ask for your support for other amendments, such as the involvement of the EMSA during the implementation of this directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to make it clear that this should not be an inquiry into the disaster off the Spanish/French coast: it concerns the safety of the entire European coastline.
I cannot imagine what would have happened if such a disaster had occurred off the coast of Ireland.
They will remain so, and, as a result, the safety of our seas will remain in danger.
This type of action is nothing short of criminal and must therefore be dealt with by criminal sanctions.
I hope that this initiative, tabled by Ireland, France, Portugal, Spain, the UK and Belgium within the UN's International Maritime Organisation, will have the full support of all current and future Member States.
However, it must be said that there is no doubt whatsoever that, without political will, nothing will change. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, safety remains an important topic in both the marine and maritime spheres.
I am less happy about the request to set up a European coastguard, because in my view, this concerns an extra layer of existing activities rather than a useful addition to tasks that individual coastguards are already carrying out.
This also applies to the request in the Poignant report that ships under European flags should be given a clear, physical, EU designation.
Leaving aside a few reservations, then, I take, on the whole, a very positive view of these proposals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are obviously in agreement with the aims of the new legislation before us today and the findings on which it is based.
In the first place, it is always dangerous to lay down rules – some of which are not consistent with the Marpol convention and which have severe financial implications – that will apply only to ships flying the flags of Member States of the Union when they are the least likely to cause pollution.
Finally, I would like to rule out the idea of European coastguards, which seems to me to smack more of ideology than of a realistic and appropriate approach to the problems.
No one can say who would be authorised to mobilise and deploy such an instrument, which has a very direct bearing on the security of the Member States, assuming a way could ever be found to pay for it.
That is why it is important to ensure, with this framework decision, that appropriate sanctions, criminal sanctions in particular, are applied to the persons responsible for illegal discharges of hydrocarbons and noxious liquid substances.
True, the European Union has already considerably strengthened its legislation on maritime safety, but most Member States have applied the first 1995 directive on the control of shipping using Community ports very poorly.
Then, following the disaster, in December 1999 the European Union adopted five major texts on maritime safety.
The two legislative packages were adopted in an exceptionally short space of time, but on 19 November 2002, the day the was wrecked, only one Member State – Denmark – had transposed one of those five texts into its national law.
The framework decision that we are going to adopt tomorrow complements the 2003 directive on pollution by ships, which was a first important step.
The European Parliament’s Temporary Committee on the disaster was finally formed last December, after 10 months of obstruction.
We must find a solution that will ensure that the Member States comply with the measures adopted by the European Union in the field of maritime safety and agree to receive vessels in distress in harbours of refuge.
Oil from ships is very dangerous in many ways and for that reason pollution offences must be dealt with firmly and by making those who contribute to them accountable.
It would require a debate on flag legislation in the Member States.
If this amendment is dropped, it will be possible to bring this whole issue to a swift conclusion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposal for a regulation to transfer cargo and passenger ships between registers comes within the more general anti-labour policy of the European Union.
The recommendation in the explanatory statement of the regulation in question, that the Member States re-consider the creation of a European shipping register, is a strategically important choice by big business in order to increase its profitability.
The proposal to strengthen the criminal framework for abolishing pollution from ships will do nothing to reduce crimes at sea, in that everything will be subjugated to safeguarding and increasing the profits of shipowners and big business in general, which controls the sources of energy and the means of transport and production.
I believe it is very positive and it has great synergy for all of us that European Union ships should be identifiable in all the seas of the world. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, illegal discharges of oil from ships is a major problem in Danish waters.
We should, however, like to see the EU take the initiative in setting up an international environmental court under the auspices of the UN.
On our behalf, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I want to emphasise this and highlight the negative stance by the Council, stating that we shall fight to the end so that the Pex report becomes reality. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to be feeling happy and optimistic today as a result of this legislative progress and to congratulate the Commissioner and my fellow Members, rapporteurs and non-rapporteurs, and even myself, but as a citizen from Galicia and given that these legislative proposals result – as we have heard here over and over again – from the disaster, please allow me to make a different – although I hope complementary – point.
I also fear that the future may lead us to forget the present and this is a disaster which has not yet come to an end, as demonstrated by the new slick of fuel oil which is currently reaching the French coasts or the 14 000 tonnes of fuel oil still contained in the wreck awaiting a solution.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy that our disaster should lead to Community legislation moving forward, but I am also firmly convinced – and I hope to convince you – that Europe must have mechanisms for providing a European response, which does not yet exist, to these disasters, which are going to continue to occur. &#160;&#160; It is scandalous that we have had to wait for the loss of the before adopting more or less constraining directives with a view finally to applying rules dating back thirty years.
At present, eight Member States, a number of which are quick to give lessons in ecology, appear not to respect Community legislation on classification societies and port state control.
With the Motorway of the Sea project, the sea appears more than ever as an alternative to roads.
Strict, and strictly applied, maritime regulations are required, but they should be applied to everyone and not only to European ships. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I believe that the Commissioner and we as Parliament are right to claim responsibility for a measure adopted in this parliamentary term that is finally effective in the area of safety at sea.
This would be a great step forwards, also for a whole range of other issues that we are faced with in the European Union, not least that of illegal immigration.
We should feel encouraged by this feeling amongst the public and also call on the Council, which has to date been somewhat reticent on these issues, to not disappoint such important expectations, which, for our fellow citizens, have increased recently and which can really give us important results for the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, like others I welcome these reports on combating ship-source pollution.
All these aspects vary from one country to another and, listening to this debate, I remain to be convinced as to how these harmonising instruments will actually crack down on those who are really responsible and bring them to justice. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today’s debate is extremely important and responds to the expectations of the citizens, who are calling for greater maritime safety.
It is now our turn and, fundamentally, the turn of the Council.
And the European Union must offer an example and lead this effective prosecution of offences against the marine environment at world level.
With these two reports, the European Parliament is allying itself with the Commission and contributing to giving the European Union greater maritime safety and better environmental protection.
It is extremely important to have legislation in place under which those responsible for unlawful oil or chemical discharges from ships can be prosecuted.
The United Kingdom already has criminal sanctions in place for unlawful discharges from ships, as specified in the Marpol Convention, and matters relating to criminal law should, as such, fall within the competence of the Member State and not the Community.
Furthermore, as there have been no practical difficulties between Member States in deciding where a prosecution should take place, this proposal should be removed from the framework decision.
As regards the Poignant Report, in principle we support this proposal and accept that the new regulation will improve cooperation between the administrators of maritime registers in the Member States.
As I clearly pointed out prior to the vote in the debate of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, British Conservative MEPs will vehemently oppose the integration of the emblem of the European Union onto our Red Ensign.
The current proposal for a Council decision is based on the idea of tightening up civil and criminal responsibility for pollution-generating maritime transport.
The second, following a similar logic, extends the perpetrators’ responsibility from damage to species of fauna and flora to substantial damage to the protected natural environment, which is all marine and coastal life at risk from pollution.
Indeed, the new legal framework on maritime pollution and the future Lisbon Maritime Surveillance Agency, established by the Brussels Council last month, leads us to believe that Europe is finally assuming its responsibilities.
It would be absurd for Europe to be responsible for regulating sea resources, without first having the necessary means to protect them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when an accident occurs at sea it has far-reaching and almost irreparable consequences for the immediate environment as a whole.
I hope that after the directives to improve safety at sea enter into force at EU level, all parties responsible for maritime transport will consider carefully how consignments can be handled using appropriate equipment and in a way that is as environmentally safe as possible.
I thank the Commission and the rapporteurs for the work they have done, and I hope that the reformed, stricter legislation will soon be brought into effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I commend the rapporteurs on their reports.
The consequences of the disaster are still being felt in Spain, Portugal and France.
Other amendments are acceptable in principle, but will need some redrafting.
The debate is closed.
It is particularly important for Parliament to support the Commission’s initiative concerning the use of legally binding instruments to provide a framework for nuclear safety and the management of nuclear waste in the future enlarged Europe of 25&#160;Member&#160;States.
It involves both concerns for nuclear safety and the desire for fair competition in the electricity market.
This is actually in line with Parliament’s proposal, namely to allow more time but to set specific dates.
The proposal for a directive drafted by the Commission is inappropriate and should not be approved as it stands.
The authorities must act to improve the safety of nuclear installations in collaboration with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
At meetings led by the Italian Presidency they eventually proposed some fundamental amendments to the Commission proposal, and our committee took a sympathetic view of the Council position in our report.
The Commission has justified the need for the directive with indirect reference to the accession to the EU of the new Member States.
Parliament in its report is more in favour of the opinion of certain Member States represented in the Council than that of the Commission, and does not intend to approve the Commission proposal as it stands. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I should like to make a few observations about the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste.
The Commission should have adopted the correct legal basis, namely Article 203 of the Euratom Treaty.
Even in France, the nuclear energy country , national legislation requires a series of different options to be considered.
The Commission must publish its current plans for the management and disposal and storage of radioactive waste of all Member States and allow comments to be made.
With regard to the safety of nuclear plant, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is of the opinion that the current amendment to the directive will not lead to an improvement because the international, worldwide directives that are already in place are more or less taken as a basis.
I assume that she was expressing her personal view and that she did not represent the view of the entire Commission, for she is not responsible for this dossier.
I will therefore ignore her remarks with regard to Kyoto. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to thank my colleagues for their excellent work in drafting these reports.
As has been said, both rapporteurs have done some excellent work tweaking the reports to make them more realistic and practical.
During its presidency Italy played an important and conspicuous role in the Council and helped take the package forward.
I hope and believe that Ireland will continue to use the same constructive and cooperative approach as its predecessor, Italy.
Owing to its obvious lack of resources and know-how, the Commission cannot now nor in the future have anything but a coordinating role in cooperation on nuclear safety.
I am for high safety standards and voluntary cooperation between the Member States and the authorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs most warmly for these reports, as also all those who played their part in preparing this debate.
I would, though, also like to thank the Commission, for in my many years in this House – almost twenty-five of them so far – never before has a Commission dared to put its head as far above the parapet as this one when it comes to the safety of nuclear power stations and the safe disposal of radioactive waste.
It is for that reason that I favour a directive rather than the recommendation that some Member States are demanding, some of them with very different considerations in mind.
What that means is that we – or rather those of us who will be re-elected – will have the opportunity to hold, in this House, a debate on inspection reports.
The next point to which we had to devote a great deal of attention, is the funds issue, that is, of how the decommissioning of a power station or installation is to be funded.
What we have now got presented to us by the Council is a much-reduced form of this, and it is probable that a majority of this House will vote in favour of it.
All in all, I see this debate and the directive as progress, and hope that we will, tomorrow, adopt the reports by a large majority. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the important debate on the nuclear package, my position, and that of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, is clear.
Looking further into the twenty-first century, we observe that our needs are going to double by as early as 2050 or 2060, even if we are unwavering in our efforts to make energy savings.
We must therefore do everything to improve the management of nuclear energy.
For us, the waste is not ordinary merchandise, and we agree to specifying that, although a Member State’s programme may provide for the transfer of nuclear waste to another Member State, no Member State is obliged to accept such imports.
Yes, our European Parliament and our Commission may genuinely be said to have worked well, overall, on this nuclear package. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am sorry to hear that the Commissioner is ill this evening.
The nuclear package represents a coordinated effort to prepare for further development of atomic power in an enlarged European Union and it has been stripped of all meaningful safety requirements.
It will receive no support from my Group.
The current draft will not lead to an increase in nuclear safety in the EU or the accession countries, because all nuclear states in the EU and the accession countries are already parties to the International Atomic Energy Agency's Nuclear Safety Convention and must already report on the safety of nuclear power stations.
Safety improvements and decommissioning measures can and must be funded from the money available.
Euratom loans are fundamentally inconsistent with the directive on the internal market in energy and put other energy sources at a disadvantage.
The way the rules are applied in France and Germany, with reserves used for quite different purposes, is a threat to free competition in the energy sector.
What can be said, in general terms, about the storage of radioactive waste is that the mere fact that there is no sure solution to how to dispose of nuclear waste shows how irresponsible it is to build new nuclear power stations.
It also beggars belief that certain countries are able to get rid of waste that gives off radiation by exporting it to – of all places – those third countries that are not so fussy about nuclear safety. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I sympathise with the Commissioner over the vagaries of temperature in this building.
To paraphrase William Shakespeare, I come not to bury radioactive waste but to praise nuclear energy: that is to say, to provide a reminder that nuclear energy is vitally important to European electricity and, therefore, our people must have great confidence in the safety standards applied to its generation.
That is the vital role of this proposal.
That also will enhance public confidence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Commissioner, and commiserate with her for her illness.
The package is, as the Commissioner said, a response to the European Parliament, which is in turn responding to the very real fears and concerns of European citizens, as is our duty – my voice sounds rather similar to yours, Commissioner, I apologise: I too have a cold.
I believe that market liberalisation means there is practically no future for nuclear power without a huge change in the ability of states to promote it.
I regret very much that the changes which the Convention could have made to the Euratom Treaty were not seized upon – in great cowardice – by Member States and by the Convention.
Therefore, my Group, although it supports the two reports, wants a lot more from you, Commissioner, and from our Member States.
Citizens really worry about these issues. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, even though the trend right across Europe is to leave nuclear power behind, the Commission is doing the donkey work for the ailing nuclear industry.
What you, Commissioner, have put forward under the pretext of standardising safety norms in the enlarged EU is actually a massive programme of support for the European nuclear industry, which cannot pay its own way.
Especially in terms of the illegal dispersal and discharge of radioactivity into the environment, I regard that as enormously risky. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I also want to thank the Commissioner for the brilliant work she has done on this matter.
If anyone wants to carry on a smear campaign against nuclear waste, they are welcome to do so.
That being said, our Parliament must not be led astray by the Commission on nuclear matters.
The Commission would like to convey the impression that, with the wave of a magic wand, it is settling the issue of the management of nuclear waste, whereas thirty years of research have ended in failure.
Nuclear safety in the power stations of the new Member States would be better guaranteed without putting some new standard in place or by proposing to grant loans to the nuclear industry, thereby giving it an advantage over clean, renewable energy sources which have difficulty gaining a foothold.
Without any comparative study and without any democratic European debate on the future of nuclear waste, this decision would give the Bure site its one-way ticket for burying European nuclear waste and would turn it into the nuclear dustbin of Europe.
Finally, a last question, if you would allow me: how does the Commission intend to set about asking France to provide the public with wide-ranging information on the transport of nuclear material, when this issue has been classified as a top-secret defence matter since last August. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I shall begin on a humorous note.
These funds are the single biggest distortion in the liberalised EU electricity market.
EDF, EON and RWE are buying up other companies with billions from these funds.
Today we know that you fooled us.
Its objectives are to guarantee the safety of the population, to provide maximum transparency for the citizens and to guarantee a safe and reliable supply of energy for the European&#160;Union.
After that, we shall conclude. &#160;&#160; I asked a question about the legal basis, Articles 31 and 32, and the decommissioning funds.
The only way I could believe the Commissioner would be for the Commission to publish its legal opinion on the nuclear package.
This is very clear from the Council's response.
The Council has – and will retain – the ultimate responsibility for the nuclear safety of our citizens. &#160;&#160; Your minute is up, Mrs&#160;Ahern.
The debate is closed.
The Euratom loan instrument was set up in 1977, pursuant to a Council decision.
It is a mechanism enabling the Commission to award loans to help finance nuclear power stations in the Member States.
Nonetheless, there are important sectors in which the instrument could be helpful to the Commission’s policy on nuclear safety.
Euratom loans were first set up in 1977, and the amount has since been increased five times.
I think it very important that we bear in mind the fact that this change in the situation regarding the K2R4 reactors is not in accordance with the 1990 resolution, especially in view of the potential legal difficulties.
This enormous increase in credit has been the subject of critical debate, and my report gives expression to the regret that Parliament has not been consulted about it or about its potentially adverse effect on the European internal market.
My report, moreover, calls on the Council to consult Parliament in the event of any substantial amendment to the Commission proposal, especially in view of the fact that the Commission’s proposals are combined in a single document.
It is precisely because the Council is working on a single document, discussing both the amount of the loans and their conditions, that it would be most regrettable if this House were, today and tomorrow, to be giving its opinion on a document that is utterly obsolete – as will quite conceivably be the case.
I would ask you to revisit this subject, for it would be a waste of our institution’s time and derogatory to this House’s dignity for us to hold a debate and vote on an utterly obsolete document, one that is currently being debated in the Council in a quite different way.
In committee, there was a very close vote on the amendment from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which provides for loans to be made only for plant already in operation and only outside the European Union, to avoid competition being distorted.
Having only recently debated and adopted the directive on the European internal market for electricity and gas, we should not tolerate any distortions of competition. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commissioner has been on the receiving end of much criticism, so please allow me, outside my speaking time, to hasten to her aid and thank her for putting two proposals before us, enabling us, for the first time in this Parliament, to discuss nuclear safety.
The granting of Euratom loans for new nuclear power stations cannot be accepted under any circumstances.
We have also made it very clear that the issue of the final storage of nuclear waste remains unresolved until it is resolved worldwide.
The Euratom loan scheme has served us Western Europeans for very many years.
The best example of this is funding for a new unit to be constructed in a certain country in northern Europe.
There is nothing wrong with nuclear power plants in the candidate and other Eastern European countries receiving funding in this way to improve the safety of installations.
I am in favour of the Euratom loan scheme continuing.
Tomorrow, the issue of the Euratom loans will probably boil down to the question of whether we should support nuclear power stations in the course of construction or those that are being used, on which subject the only thing I have to say is that we are indirectly supporting nuclear energy in Russia by buying more and more gas from the Russians.
I believe that we should vote in favour of these Euratom loans, quite simply because of the improvement in safety.
I believe that the argument still holds water today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is no justification under Euratom for allowing the Commission to extend the Euratom loan by EUR 2 billion, as proposed in November 2002, bringing the loan up to EUR 6 billion altogether.
This loan has been increased about five times since it was set up in 1977 and is a thinly veiled attempt to promote the nuclear industry: whilst asking for the extension of the loan, it also changes the condition and type of project to be funded in light of the expansion of the EU.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (1)
