In supporting this joint Resolution I want to highlight the demand that the EU must now use all the instruments at its disposal, including the EU association agreement with Israel, to end the violence in Gaza which has condemned the Palestinians to a slow death and risks setting the whole Middle East on fire.
I demand an international force in Gaza.
We have contributed to the chaos in Palestine and we have allowed the Israelis to go too far in the name of their legitimate right to protect their security.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this resolution on Gaza.
This is not in any way to minimise the tragedy of Beit Hanoun, where misdirected Israeli artillery fire claimed 19 Palestinian lives.
in writing. (SV) In today's resolution on the situation in Gaza, which I have voted in favour of, I would like to have seen a more balanced discussion of the reasons why Israel and its army have been compelled to use methods that, viewed on their own, can be regarded as unreasonable.
I support the demand that next week's Sixth Review Conference should reconfirm the commitment of all 155 States Parties to the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BTWC) the first multilateral disarmament treaty banning an entire category of weapons and their commitment to the complete prohibition of biological weapons.
The EU must take up this issue in the transatlantic forums, in particular NATO, to convince the US Administration to move away from its unilateral standpoint and to contribute to the relaunch of an enhanced multilateral framework.
In addition, we draw attention to the fact that although white phosphorus is a conventional and not a chemical weapon, Britain - but not America - has signed Protocol III of the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons banning the use of incendiary weapons against civilian populations.
in writing. (SV) The June List welcomes the Baltic Sea being put on the political agenda.
in writing. (SV) The report on which we are voting today is a wish list for advocates of a militarised EU state.
I have therefore voted in favour of this agreement, since I agree in essence with its analyses and concerns, even though I neither share nor think it necessary to share all its axioms and conclusions.
in writing. (SV) The EU's common cooperation on foreign and security matters must not be allowed to become a competitor to NATO.
Succession cases with an international dimension, of which there are 50 000 to 100 000 every year in EU territory, do not actually warrant a new wave of forced standardisation of the provisions of substantive law but only require the harmonisation of the rules of private international law and the creation of a European certificate of succession.
A married couple with Swedish citizenship take up residence in Malta.
The political desire demonstrated at the Beijing Summit in 1995 and the existing international conventions have indeed helped to make the public and decision-makers aware of the issue of equality at every level of society.
Yet, according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union, of the 43 961 members of parliaments worldwide only 16.4% are women.
This marks a fundamental democratic deficit at European level and in the wider international context.
I call on Member States to review their national legislation to promote parity and genuine democracy in politics, review their constitution, legislation and practice, enshrine gender equality as a fundamental principle in their constitutions and take measures aiming at the reconciliation of social, family and professional life, in line with the conclusions of the Barcelona European Council and the Lisbon Strategy, thereby creating an enabling environment for women's full participation in politics.
in writing. - (PT) Although this report is about women in international politics and it finds that there is a real problem, it ought not to have skirted around the constraints that prevent women from playing an effective part in political and social life.
The UMP delegation in the European Parliament, which consists of nine women and eight men, sets the trend in that regard.
in writing. - (FR) I should like to congratulate Mrs Bauer on this very high-quality report.
The report is timely in pointing out that the international trade in human beings affects between 600 000 and 800 000 men, women and children each year.
For these reasons and because the fight to uphold human dignity deserves our full support, I voted in favour of this text proposing the adoption of a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on fighting trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - (FR) Bizarrely, this report strives to make a clear distinction between human trafficking and illegal immigration.
The placebo effect will not last long, however, because the real difficulty - the lack of controls at the European Union's internal borders - remains.
in writing. (SV) The Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings has already been signed by 30 countries.
The Convention has been ratified by Moldova and Romania, amongst others, and work on ratification is under way in Sweden.
The Convention applies to all forms of trafficking in human beings irrespective of whether it is national or international or linked to organised crime.
in writing. - (PT) On the whole we welcome the report, although we regret that certain proposed amendments have been adopted that do not help to make the fight against trafficking in human beings, above all women, any more effective.
The report has, however, retained a number of positive points, such as the need to impose extremely severe penalties on companies using cheap labour supplied through human trafficking, or the need for Member States to accept responsibility for the victims of trafficking in human beings, in addition to effectively clamping down on the laundering of the proceeds of the traffic in human beings.
Even so, the report could have gone further on fighting the problem at source, through a policy of cooperation with the countries of origin, including support for specific economic and social development projects, thus reducing the main causes of trafficking, which are poverty, unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. - (FR) This report accomplishes the amazing feat of making an illusory distinction between human trafficking and illegal immigration.
in writing. - (FR) The figures and estimates concerning human trafficking are frightening.
Mrs Bauer's report quotes figures of 600 000 to 800 000 men, women and children who are trafficked throughout the world each year.
in writing. - (PT) This report on a highly controversial Commission communication has ended up enshrining some of the most negative aspects of the methods, particularly propaganda, that are being developed in order to put the project for a so-called European Constitution back on the table.
in writing. - (FR) The aim of the European communication policy is ostensibly to 'counter the effect produced by the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty [...] and to halt the general rise of Euroscepticism'.
in writing. - (PT) While I agree in essence with the positions and concerns of the Commission regarding communication policy, particularly on the need to be transparent and to engage with the people, I still feel that it should be quite clear that a communication policy is not an end in itself, but a means.
The illusion that everything is communication and that communication is everything may lead us to a society devoid of meaning, in which all that matters is the existence of the message and little is invested in its content.
