Type-approval of hydrogen powered motor vehicles (debate) The next item is the report by Anja Weisgerber, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of hydrogen powered motor vehicles and amending Directive 2007/46/EC - C6-0342/2007 -.
Against this background, the question arises of whether we can facilitate the development of hydrogen powered vehicles.
However, I would like to add, in brackets, that all these considerations make sense only if we can produce hydrogen in an environmentally friendly way.
The proposed regulation will integrate hydrogen powered vehicles into the European type-approval system.
This regulation will make all hydrogen powered vehicles put on EU roads as safe as conventionally powered vehicles.
The proposal also introduces a system for identifying the vehicles, so that they are easily recognised by rescue services.
EU research ministers set up a long-term public-private partnership in February with the aim of getting hydrogen and fuel-cell technology ready for the market between 2015 and 2025.
It is planned to invest a total of approximately EUR 940 million in this research programme in the next few years, with public authorities and private investors contributing half each.
The first 0.5 megapixel digital camera was developed many years ago for space travel and cost around EUR 10 million, but nowadays, almost everyone has a digital camera.
However, it makes sense for rescue services to know if they are dealing with a hydrogen vehicle when they arrive at the scene of an accident, so that they can take certain details into account.
We do not mean just hydrogen alone, but hydrogen as well, and not just individual Member States, but the entire European Union.
I also want to thank Günter Verheugen and his team in the Commission for moving very quickly and in a timely way to give us this important proposal, which will effectively incorporate into the master Type Approval Directive the specific requirements for hydrogen vehicles.
Whether the final result, in terms of CO2, is favourable depends very much on how hydrogen will be produced in the future.
in the name of the ALDE group. - (BG) The inclusion of hydrogen-driven vehicles in the overall normative framework of the European Community is of exceptional importance, because the currently existing statutory procedures on type approval do not guarantee that vehicles of identical quality can be released on the entire market of the European Union.
The adoption of an European Union regulation would guarantee that all hydrogen-driven vehicles released on the market are manufactured, tested and identified in accordance with a common standard and that their safety level is at least the same as that of conventional motor vehicles.
The all-European regulation should also provide common requirements in respect to the monitoring of these motor vehicles and the necessary infrastructure - the fueling stations.
The adoption of a regulation of the European Union would also guarantee application of the common standards in respect to the production and exploitation of hydrogen-driven vehicles manufactured in third countries - the United States, the Asian Economic Community - and would help defend the interests of Europe.
I thank Mrs Weisgerber for a businesslike report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, on reading the explanatory statement for the regulation under discussion, I was unpleasantly surprised.
Apart from the problem of combustion of a methane-hydrogen mixture, something which I know about since my dissertation concerned combustion, it would be necessary for normal engines to also use urea to achieve clean combustion products in accordance with EURO 5 to 6 for the elimination of nitrogen oxides.
It is a valid point that it has still not been determined whether, in the end, the use of hydrogen as a fuel for vehicles will conform to the principle of sustainability and be ecologically sustainable, but nor can it be excluded yet.
Sales of alternative-fuel vehicles, for example, in the United Kingdom alone have grown from just a few hundred in the year 2000 to over 16 000 last year.
It is this market that is capable of producing the hydrogen cars of the future and I believe this law today, when we vote for it, is crucial to achieving that goal. (LT) The Commission proposal on type-approval of hydrogen powered motor vehicles is very important for solving the problems related to the search for alternative vehicle fuels, environmental protection, climate change and people's health.
There are two such filling stations in France, for example, and one in Spain, while there are none at all in the new Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 and 2007.
Thirdly, I agree with the Commissions proposal to use mixtures of natural gas and hydrogen, but only as a transition fuel and only in countries that have a well-developed natural gas infrastructure.
The principal objective of the regulation we are looking at today is to introduce EU criteria for the type-approval of hydrogen powered vehicles in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
We should continue to concentrate on this in future.
This regulation firstly establishes a legal framework that lays down how we should utilise this energy and secondly provides the infrastructure requirements, ensuring that the basic ex ante conditions for developing the new technology are essentially met. (RO) In the transport sector, constant efforts should be made towards introducing alternative fuel vehicles in the market, which contribute to the significant improvement of air quality in the urban environment.
The use of hydrogen as fuel, either as fuel cells or as internal combustion engines, generates no carbon emissions or greenhouse gases.
EUR 800 million have been made available for research into hydrogen technology, and not only for vehicles, in a joint technology initiative.
I want to avoid giving the impression that we are spending EUR 800 million to enable research into hydrogen as a fuel technology.
As we have seen, hydrogen is a technology of the future.
The question of filling station infrastructure will be handled by a public-private partnership.
The EU Seventh Framework Programme allocated EUR 800 million for research into hydrogen technology.
The use of hydrogen as a future fuel in road vehicles offers a solution which is exceptionally favourable for the environment.
The successful introduction of new technologies also depends on the timely construction of an appropriate network of hydrogen filling stations.
