Combating the rise of extremism in Europe (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on combating the rise of extremism in Europe.
In my view, therefore, today's debate is extremely important, because it is not just extremism which leads to terrorist acts - extremism about which we have talked on many occasions in this House - but also those activities and developments which are more properly to be seen as racism, anti-Semitism, xenophobia, nationalist extremism, Islamophobia, all those forms of intolerance which, as I said, are worryingly common in Europe, and which, in my view, are absolutely incompatible with and run entirely counter to the values of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights which we proclaimed this morning.
I believe that there can never be any justification for extremism; while we have said that many times about terrorism, we also need to say it about racism, for instance, and about xenophobia.
I should like to cite a few examples which, in my opinion, show that a European policy may be genuinely useful and more useful, if I may say so, than a policy which is solely national.
For instance, all the programmes which we support and which I believe should be further encouraged, programmes which keep alive the memory of the victims of all the dictatorships, of all the totalitarian regimes that have devastated Europe in the past, are, in my view, tools that can be put to good use in eradicating extremism and racism; from the history of the concentration camps, for instance, we can draw a lesson for today's young people so that tragedies of that kind never happen again, not just in Europe but in any part of the world.
Then there is another policy measure that I believe we can and must bear in mind: those measures that more generally promote tolerance and dialogue between different cultures and obviously between different religions.
In my view, the 2007 review and the 2008 programme offer a golden opportunity to make people and, I would stress again, younger people, more aware of a spirit of dialogue which enriches, a dialogue through which everyone can grow together.
The Agency, as the main protagonist in this field, will have a very important role to play.
What we said this morning when we were celebrating the European Charter of Fundamental Rights!
Extremism is a cancer in our society.
It might sound too strong but our Union is based on clear principles and its existence is possible thanks to the fact that peace, solidarity, tolerance, mutual respect among ethnic and religious communities, and the peaceful co-existence of nations prevailed in Europe 50 years ago.
It is this behaviour that we see also in many national parliaments encourages extremists who would resort to yet another punitive action tomorrow, inspired by this political circus.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, growing extremism in Europe is a fact, and we need to talk about it.
The Commissioner said a great deal, but he spoke in general terms and about matters of secondary importance such as racism at football matches.
We need to talk about the facts, the political extremism we are witnessing at the present time in the European Union.
He declared that Kaliningrad, Gdańsk and Wrocław are German cities and demanded German jurisdiction over them.
The party in question has representatives in seven regional parliaments.
And yet we only have to look back over the last 50 to 60 years to see the enormous changes that have gone on, even within our own continent.
But we do not, most of us, expect that to be passed on only through a bloodline, somehow, and a deep connection with territory, but through citizenship, through law and through our rights.
And as others have said, the signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights here today was an extremely important symbol particularly attached to this debate.
But when we are looking at the election of extremist parties who only have one view of what is right - what is theirs - I think what we see is a legitimisation of violence, of hate speech, of actions against others that they see as different.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Vice-President Frattini and all the fellow Members who have worked with me, and the proposers, to draw up this resolution.
Parties and movements which in recent years have had strong anti-European nationalist leanings, and are highly racist, are on the increase.
The problem in Europe, however, is the growth of right-wing extremism and the problems which are causing right-wing extremism to proliferate.
Neo-nazi and neo-fascist political forces and movements have been set up in recent years in Europe and have made it their policy to work against European integration - we have seen them in Italy, in France, in Austria, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in the United Kingdom, in Germany, in Denmark, and in Switzerland; they reflect the crisis that has led an intellectual such as Alfio Mastropaolo to describe the offensive of the new right as the mad cow of democracy.
A dangerous, and in some cases underestimated, disease which feeds on ethnocentric proclivities, often concealed and hidden, in some cases masked by seemingly democratic and legitimate acts.
We therefore need to question our choices and our political initiatives.
The best idea in that situation is to have a siesta and not to disturb a debate where respect for the speaker should prevail at all times.
Across Europe, Fascist leaders were vilified and obstructed.
This morning, we saw the rise of extremism in this Chamber with the signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, part of the Constitution for Europe to be signed tomorrow and on which a national referendum was promised in seven countries.
For the EU are today's extremists, seeking to impose their will by way of this distorted document.
Ignore our example now, and you are on your way to perdition. (Applause from his group) (FR) Mr President, this must be the umpteenth report on the so-called rise of extremism in Europe.
If we use such a strategy in an attempt to reduce the risks and dangers entailed by such groups and to prevent them from obtaining votes from our citizens, we will only offer legitimacy to their ideas and methods.
The results of the European Parliament elections in Romania could be an example in this regard.
Millions of people were killed because of their religion, their ethnic background and their political beliefs.
Racism and xenophobia are the most direct violations of the principles of freedom and democracy and our fundamental rights.
The eradication of racism and xenophobia, the right to live in peace, is a moral challenge to all democrats, and to defend civil rights is the duty of every democrat. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
Just to mention a couple by name: Pospolitos in Slovakia, the Young Nationalists in the Czech Republic, the New Right in Romania, the German National Democratic Party in Germany and the National Alliance in Italy, but we largely face the same extremism.
I listened to Mr Gollnisch earlier on, calling people in this House and others barbarians.
In countries where appropriate reporting facilities are in place, the most reported reason for discrimination is often region.
In my home country we have even witnessed the murder of people who have defended human rights.
In it we read that, amongst other things, some political parties and movements, including those in power in a number of countries or represented at local, national or European level, have deliberately placed intolerance and violence based on race, ethnic origin or nationality at the heart of their agenda.
In the Chamber in which we adopt such resolutions, one of our colleagues used abusive and offensive language of mendacious propaganda - the very kind that is often used by extremists, the very kind that is based on slurs and qualifies as a hate attack.
It seems that in Europe today - just as George Orwell wrote years ago - some pigs are more equal than others.
Some can hide under the privilege of immunity, some can even avoid justice and even European arrest warrants.
The economies of many EU Member States have been growing, unemployment has been falling, but extremism has not been waning.
The statement, which I tabled jointly with my fellow Members Mr Tabajdi, Mr Szent-Iványi, Mr Vigenin and Mr Amezaga, condemns the operations of paramilitary extremist groups within the Union, which are one of the most obvious forms of extremism.
In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support written statement number 93.
So the framework decision - adopted by a substantial majority in this House on 29 November - on combating certain forms of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law is very necessary indeed.
However, the paradox of democracy is that it contains the possibility of its own death, in allowing the expression of populist and extremist opinions which erode the democratic system itself.
In many European countries, there are parties that have succeeded in positioning themselves at the heart of political life with populist and demagogic discourses.
European history has shown how extremist parties, dressed in democratic clothes and using populist and nationalist propaganda, have often led democracy to dictatorships.
Article 21 of the Charter prohibits discrimination on the ground of political or any other opinion - I repeat, any other opinion - which thus includes extreme opinions such as those expressed recently on German public television by the leader of the NPD calling for changes to the border with Poland.
I would therefore ask the supporters of the Charter of Fundamental Rights how they intend to fight political extremism when they are defending it at the same time. (EL) Mr President, it would be an omission on my part if I did not begin by expressing my concern at the general use made of the term 'extremism' without any definition, and without specific condemnation of extremist acts, in other words any extreme form of unlawful use of violence.
As for how to prevent it, I think there are three essential factors.
Secondly, I think there are two other fundamental aspects which at the moment are much underrated.
We have lost, and are still losing, or at least eroding, values such as work, discipline, self-reliance, that is to say all those values which go towards creating a good citizen when these people reach adulthood.
Worse still, many politicians and political parties take advantage of extremist or populist movements for their own purposes.
As a result of that disarray, Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union was inserted.
It has never been used and it is clear that Member States have a cultural problem in criticising each other.
The law can help change attitudes, as well as behaviour.
But the law can and should only go so far.
The recently agreed new EU law banning incitement to racial and religious hatred was right, in my view, to leave that option to individual countries.
Extremism often uses terrorism in pursuit of its aims.
Still, I hope that our supporters, our voters in the Member States will hear very carefully what was pointed out also by Commissioner Fratini.
Secondly, we must remember the involvement of citizens in the political process.
It is our common responsibility of all of us in the European Parliament to also oppose the rising extremism and intolerance to the east of the European Union, which is dangerous to all of us.
Everyone must act against the nationalist and extremist tendencies emerging in their own country.
First of all, everyone should condemn extremist nationalists and distance themselves from them in their own country.
This current debate is very important, and I feel that Commissioner Frattini, the Agency for Fundamental Rights and the European Parliament must monitor all extremist incidents closely.
Thank you for your attention. (NL) Mr President, there are extremists on all sides, but in recent years they have been dictating the tone and content of the political agenda.
I am horrified when I see parties in government, with power to rule, or parties represented in parliament - in my own country too - encouraging discrimination against women, gays and people of other faiths.
If the citizens of Europe vote for extremist parties, it means, among other things, that a large section of society does not feel that the people in power are listening.
All these are facts, taking place in the European Union and committed by persons reputed to be democratic members of the mainstream democratic parties.
This is just because they are perpetrators of intolerance and intolerance should not be tolerated.
In the last local elections in 2006 Sverigedemokraterna (the Sweden Democrats) won seats in two thirds of municipalities.
It might be suspected that their next targets are the elections to the European Parliament in 2009 and the Swedish parliamentary elections in 2010.
We Swedish parliamentarians need help in making that more difficult, precisely as others need help in their countries in stopping the spread of right-wing extremism, which is on the increase throughout Europe.
It is a threat which I observe in Sweden and, along with all of you, throughout the EU.
The propaganda which extremist groups spread among children and young people takes the form of white power music.
From this point of view, I think this very well-balanced joint resolution from all the democratic parties in Parliament is another great political moment for our Parliament - especially after what happened today - and I am very proud that this resolution originated from our own group, the Socialist Group. (PT) On 6 September some twenty graves in the Jewish cemetery in Lisbon were desecrated and swastikas painted on the headstones.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider that today's debate has been of extraordinary interest - of extraordinary interest and also of a high political level - and I should therefore like to thank all those who have spoken, including those who have said things with which I do not and cannot agree.
An issue which is certainly a highly political issue has been raised: striking a balance between the right freely to express our thought, which is one of the rights that the Charter of Fundamental Rights recognises, and other fundamental rights such as the dignity of the human person, equality and non-discrimination.
I do not agree, because calling for a referendum against the Charter of Fundamental Rights would be to call for a referendum against citizens, since those citizens are clearly the holders and protagonists of the fundamental rights that we must now safeguard.
It is not because that principle has to be refuted, but because those who defend fundamental rights are not extremists, while those who violate and refute them, those who wish to affirm the right to incite a mob or a group of violent people to destroy Jewish graves are extremists.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 December 2007.
It covers an important subject which I have worked on in this House since I was first elected in 1984, when I had the honour to chair Parliament's Committee of Inquiry into the Growth of Racism and Fascism in Europe.
My concern is that this resolution is so weak that individuals who back in the 1980s were members of neo-Fascist parties like the Movimento Sociale Italiano are able to sign and vote for the resolution today.
in writing. - (HU) The extremist parties gaining seats in many Member States of the Union and temporarily even in the EP cannot become acceptable in European politics.
However, the problem requires not only political or legal responses, so action should not just appear in our objectives, but also in responses from civil organisations and churches that profess European values and play a role in public life.
Today, these are our fundamental values.
In many places the extreme right wing looks for and finds one of the sources for its solutions to the social problems before us in segregation and in inciting hatred, rather than in social reconciliation and integration.
The European Union, as the true repository of human rights and humanitarian protection, must do everything to make these ideas and organisations withdraw, and even to make them disappear from our everyday lives if their aggression, which disturbs the healthy life of society, so demands.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union must fight against any type of extremism, since this activity is contrary to the principles of freedom, democracy and respect of human rights lying at the basis of the Union.
The European Agency for Fundamental Rights will also play an important role in preventing racism and xenophobia, ensuring a climate of security on the territory of the Union.
