The institutional aspects of the creation of a European external action service - Creation of a European external action service: State of the negotiations with Member States (debate) The next item is the joint debate on Elmar Brok's report on the institutional aspects of setting up the European External Action Service - and the declaration of the Council and the Commission on the creation of a European External Action Service.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the time when the Treaty of Lisbon will finally be ratified and we are now beginning to consider how the treaty should be implemented.
The intention was to make the European Union more efficient by moving towards a situation where Europe speaks to the world with a single voice.
Let us assume that this service will be assigned to the Commission as an administrative body and let us recognise that it must have a sui generis character.
Therefore, we must ensure that there is a safeguard in place for the Council so that its rights can be expressed in a reasonable way and so that a loyal approach is taken.
It is important to emphasise that the national experts in the Commission must be treated in a different way than was previously the case; in other words, they must be given equal rights.
Therefore, I would like to remind the Commission at this point in the debate that we not only have the right of consultation, but also that we parliamentarians have forced the Commission to give its consent.
We must ensure that, in the case of changes relating to staff regulations and financial regulations, the European Parliament has the right of codecision in the same way as in the budget procedure.
This is not clear to me from the earlier COREPER documents which I had access to. (Applause) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Brok, honourable Members, the development of the European External Action Service is a matter that I know is of great interest to you here in Parliament.
This is necessary in order for us to be able to be as effective as possible.
The objective is for the European Council to agree on a report that the High Representative, once he or she has been appointed, will be able to use as a starting point when he or she tables a proposal on the External Action Service.
During this work, the European Parliament will, of course, be consulted in connection with the tabling of the proposal by the High Representative.
Until this time, the Presidency will ensure that there is a regular dialogue with the European Parliament.
It is important for the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to have regular contact on these issues, not only between officials, but also at policy level.
This work is progressing and I am absolutely certain that we will be able to present a number of usable ideas to the European Council next week with regard to the future High Representative.
We have not completed this yet and discussions are still ongoing, but I will give you an idea of how far we have progressed hitherto, and in this regard, there appears to be a high level of agreement between the Council and the Commission, and I hope eventually with the European Parliament, too.
The Member States and the Commission also agree that the legal status of the External Action Service should reflect and support the unique role, sui generis, that it has within the EU system.
Whatever legal solution is finally decided upon, it must fulfil the principles of good administration and the prospect of accountability.
Staff will be recruited from the Commission, the Council Secretariat and the Member States.
The EU delegations will be placed under the authority of the High Representative as soon as the Treaty of Lisbon has entered into force.
One important matter in the setting up of the European External Action Service is contact with the European Parliament.
Once the High Representative has been appointed, he or she will regularly consult the European Parliament on the principal paths and the important choices of direction within the common foreign and security policy as well as the common security and defence policy.
The European External Action Service should therefore have a facility that is responsible for contact with Parliament.
As we reach the final stages, allow me to congratulate Parliament, and particularly the Constitutional Affairs Committee, with Elmar Brok as rapporteur, on delivering its opinion on the key element of the Lisbon Treaty which is the External European Action Service.
Together with this important debate and many other consultations with Parliament representatives, it provides vital input to our work with the Swedish Presidency, but also with the Member States and the Council Secretariat, over the coming months.
Indeed it will be sui generis as there is no model to follow.
The fact that the new High Representative will also be a Vice-President of the Commission, responsible for coordinating all of the EU's external action, will help.
The service will also be responsible for the administration of delegations, though the people inside delegations will come, as now, from different services - not just the EEAS, but also the Commission services and maybe other institutions and bodies of the European Union.
The EU delegations should be responsible for representation, coordination and negotiation as from the day the Treaty comes into force.
However, in some, where the workload is particularly heavy, it will be necessary to organise a form of burden-sharing, not only with the rotating Presidency but also with other Member States.
We will be bringing together officials and diplomats from the different institutions and all the Member States.
As we know, a common foreign policy is not just the sum of 27 national policies.
It is worth remarking that since the 1970s, the Commission has already organised training seminars for more than 5 700 diplomats.
The Commission is open to this idea even if it may take some time to develop.
The establishment of such a service is a logical and necessary consequence of the decision to combine two foreign policy roles in one and it is crucial to the development of the European Union's foreign policy identity.
The development of the new service should spring from the same spirit which brought together these two foreign policy roles and which will result in the unification of the Council's and the Commission's foreign policy efforts.
It is important that this service is established with due regard for the roles of, and cooperation between, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, and that it is founded on mutual trust and the will to cooperate.
Naturally, we are aware of the unique nature of the Service, which also reflects that of the role of the High Representative and Vice-President of the Commission, just as we are aware of the fact that the Service must not incorporate all of the services used by the Commission when it implements the numerous aspects of its external action - which does not just boil down to the CFSP - starting with development cooperation.
However, we think it crucial that the Service be able to make the Union's foreign and security policy more effective and its external action as a whole more consistent.
For Parliament, it is crucial that we have a political interlocutor to negotiate the establishment and future programme of the External Action Service, so, please, states - bring us your people for all these posts.
The goal is a truly European, and in reality, a sui generis organisation which serves the common interests of all Europe's citizens.
All the same, in my opinion, the Council would be very wise to consider appointing a female High Representative, as we all know that the President of the Commission is not a woman.
It was suggested that the European Parliament does not have any role to play here and that it is trying simply to give itself more importance with this report.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, I want to express my disappointment that yet again, this Parliament is considering a report that pre-empts the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
As the English author, George Orwell, might have observed, all Member States are equal, but some are more equal than others.
I wish to remind colleagues that any common position on foreign policy would be determined by the Member States represented in the Council, not by the Commission, and certainly not by this Parliament.
Any additional staff the EEAS requires should be seconded from the Member States, and they require no separate training.
I hope that day never comes and I will do my utmost to prevent it. (The speaker agreed to take a question under Rule 149(8)) Mr President, could I ask the speaker if, should he be disappointed and the Treaty actually finds itself in force, he would support the appointment of Mr Chris Patten as the High Representative?
The GUE/NGL group is opposed to this.
We in Parliament should also ensure that the citizens of Europe are as well-informed as possible about the different aspects of the EEAS, particularly in the face of the doubts and criticism relating to the Treaty of Lisbon and the demand for more transparency and democratic codecision in this respect.
It is also the reason why this report seeks to make the Commission responsible for everything.
Paragraph 4 says that the service - that means its powers - cannot be circumscribed or predetermined in advance.
This body will conduct foreign policy over the heads of Member States with no effective control by Member States or the European Parliament.
Through him, we want a consistent and uniform foreign policy.
We are well aware that there are problems, that much has already been said, but problems are there to be solved.
The Commission and the Council are already working on the guidelines which they are expected to present to the European Council meeting at the end of this month.
Today's debate and the resulting resolution are of the utmost importance because we have to send a very clear message now as proof of political consensus on the setting-up of the service to the Council and to the European Commission.
The EEAS should form part of the Commission administratively and budget-wise, and should formally be a part of the Commission as a sui generis body attached to the Commission structure.
The High Representative should be a person of merit, expertise and excellence, supported by the Commission, Council and national diplomatic services.
Last but not least, as a person who has been working for women's equal political representation over the last 15 years, I would be glad if this person were a woman. (NL) Mr President, some fellow Members have seen fit to use their speeches to try to give us lessons in democracy.
My own political and governmental responsibilities in my previous political incarnations have taught me that none of this will be simple.
I would therefore like to promote four areas which, in our opinion, will help the service to create a new foreign policy.
Thirdly, we do not want a dual structure for the Council President within the Council Secretariat.
As far as appointments to the top jobs are concerned, my colleague, Mr Tarand, has already mentioned that we firmly believe that it is time that a woman is appointed.
Parliament must exercise its rights to scrutinise the EEAS and shape its budget.
In 2008, only 1% of the agenda items in the Council of Foreign Ministers were debated publicly.
With the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty and the new Service, we will increase our ability to speak with one voice.
We agree that the new Service should be as close to the Commission as possible, because only the Community method guarantees the coherence of our actions and, most importantly, the points of view of us all will be taken into account to the same degree.
We have to do our utmost so that the Commission, the Council and 27 Member States send their best people to work in the EEAS.
Often our trade policies conflict directly with our development cooperation policy.
I also want to warn against any thoughts about subsuming development policy as part of our foreign policy.
The creation of this new external service is an opportunity that should not be missed.
Parliament must have its say, not only on the budget, but also on the service's overall structure.
It is vital not to fall into the trap of duplication by the external service and the Commission delegations, but instead to develop a specific service generating added value for joint external action.
The final point is that this debate cannot be separated from the debate on the budget for the European Development Fund. (NL) Mr President, now that the Irish referendum is behind us, the European Parliament is again venturing to show what it stands for, and is doing so with great drive and enthusiasm.
These relations are often wide-ranging, complex and have a significant impact on the world outside Europe.
The question of coherence is central in this context.
We have taken another important step towards a common foreign policy for the Member States.
However, it is also essential that the national governments once and for all give their own interests a lower priority and offer their full support to this office and to the tasks of the service and do not constantly stick their oar in whenever they feel like it, which is what we are unfortunately used to.
It must also be made clear, and this is very important to us, that development policy should remain independent, because these things must not be combined arbitrarily.
Let us make sure that it works. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, given the importance of the subject under discussion, Parliament should have had more time to explain its position to the Council.
Instead, the committee process lasted only a few days and we are now holding a debate in Parliament two days after the adoption of the provision within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
One result of these moves will be the establishment of the European External Action Service, which is primarily intended to ensure that external relations are both coherent and effective.
Regarding transparency, I expect a balance to be achieved when establishing the European External Action Service.
I have in mind not only a balance between institutions, but also a geographical balance when making appointments to the European External Action Service.
The service should be established pursuant to democratic standards, and I expect Parliament to play a significant role here, both in the establishment process and later in the interviewing of candidates for heads of delegations, together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
This is an important venture but, at the same time, I would like to take this opportunity of stressing that there are, in fact, national centres, and also numerous European colleges with experience in training personnel.
I also believe creating this service will add a significant political dimension to the European project and give Europe a more political profile.
I would also like to underline the need for consistency within the action taken by the service with regard to administrative and budget responsibilities and on this point, of course, relations with the Commission, on the one hand, and with Parliament, on the other, are crucial.
In addition, the High Representative will, naturally, be a well-known figure, but I believe that the other members of the service should also be people who inspire a high level of confidence.
Finally, I would like to mention briefly the importance of this common European culture which, of course, is being created in different schools and different institutions, but I believe that a consistent initiative on the subject, creating a European-level structure, would be a good idea. (PT) Mr President, it is essential that the primary objective in creating the European External Action Service is to consolidate the efforts of the European Institutions, ensuring the creation of an efficient service capable of articulating, formulating and implementing a European response to the present international challenges.
It should also be more than the sum of its parts; it should constitute added value to the existing efforts by the Member States and the European Union.
That is why I fully support the Brok Report, which advocates and safeguards close collaboration between the Commission and the future service.
Firstly, there needs to be close coordination between the President of the Commission and the High Representative, who will also be a Vice-President of the Commission, in order to ensure that it is effective and works smoothly.
As far as I am concerned, I believe that, in this sense, Turkey is also part of this European political culture which includes a totally respectable tradition of diplomacy.
This is what I should have addressed first. (DE) Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I am concerned about the way in which the Commission and the Council are excluding the European Parliament when it comes to the question of the External Action Service.
The answer to the question of 'Who decides what?' has not become clear to me in the course of the debate.
Finally, to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, I know she will be containing her excitement following the intervention of the UK Independence Party and she understands that British Embassies are not up for sale. (SL) Mr President, what we are doing today is giving the green light to the European Union to press on with a major achievement in its efforts to create a greater and more important role for itself in global foreign politics.
Small countries do not have much money and do not have representations all over Europe and all over the world, which is why they have high hopes of this service.
Commissioner, we would like that cooperation to continue to act as a kind of template. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, I would like to bring to your attention the fact that the European Union is committed in everything it does to compliance with human rights and, obviously, these also include the rights of women, as already mentioned here.
I myself believe that the common European External Action Service will definitely improve our opportunities to take human rights into account in all our work, though this will not happen by itself.
I would therefore be interested in hearing your views on these matters. (HU) Mr President, the question that is being asked here at the moment, and what we are actually talking about, is whether, while progressing along the path determined by the Treaty of Lisbon, there will be a superstate initiative or 27 countries will have close institutional cooperation.
We envisage a different path for Europe's future.
This would allow Europe to truly speak with one voice.
It goes without saying that for this service to be able to start operating, the prospective High Representative must submit here in our Parliament his or her proposal for setting up the service.
With these functions available, I believe that European diplomacy should be able to play a more active and decisive role in defending the EU's basic interests, which also concerns energy security.
I welcome the fact that the High Representative and the heads of the diplomatic missions should engage in permanent dialogue with the European Parliament.
With regard to the deployment of staff as part of the external service, I believe that, apart from the fact that the relevant employees must have excellent knowledge and skills, consideration must also be given without fail to ensuring proper, proportional representation for Member States. (PL) Mr President, I, too, would like to express my sincere thanks for this splendid, factual report.
Of course, we all agree that the question of the quality of services is principally the responsibility of the Commission and the Member States, and that in this matter, cooperation is needed between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
However, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether, on the basis of her contact with the European Parliament, she envisages a practical possibility of using our work in the form of active cooperation, for example, in interparliamentary delegations.
It is important that the report also mentioned the importance of transparency and democracy.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I found it interesting that some of the honourable Members who speak so warmly of democracy cannot accept that the Lisbon Treaty has been democratically adopted by 26 Parliaments and one referendum. (Applause) There is one man's signature remaining, I agree, but I feel very confident that the Treaty will enter into force very soon, and that we should have the External Action Service in place.
We should, of course, avoid bureaucracy and duplication but, as Mrs Ferrero-Waldner said, we are building a new body.
It is sui generis so we have to find ways to develop it.
What is important is that the High Representative has the instruments to execute his or her tasks in the most efficient way.
I would like to thank Mr Brok for the work he has done and for the debate here in the Parliament.
This will also apply in the EEAS, but appointments also have to be on merit, so merit and gender mainstreaming have to go together.
The situation should be the same in the future.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks that have been made here on a common European foreign and security policy belong in the past.
In opinion polls, 70% of the citizens of Europe say that they want a stronger common foreign and security policy, because they know that this is the only way of keeping the peace in Europe and of looking after the interests of Europe throughout the world.
We would also like to state that we want this foreign policy to strengthen Europe's ability to act.
This is the case in all national states.
However, this means that parliaments - and in this case the European Parliament - must have full rights of control.
Instead, they must describe the rights of the Parliament in these COREPER documents and not simply say that the rights of Parliament must be maintained full stop.
In addition, I am of the opinion that the High Representative or Vice-President, who has yet to be appointed, must be involved in drawing up the proposals and must not be presented with a fait accompli.
Mrs Malmström, it would generate a lot of confidence if you would refer to the High Representative in future as the High Representative or Vice-President of the Commission.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 22 October 2009.
On the basis of this work, the committee that I have the honour of chairing will be able to conduct a constructive but firm dialogue with the future High Representative and to defend the Community character of the new External Action Service.
The message that we want to send out to the Commission and the Council is basically this: we want a service that has extensive powers and which fulfils our ambitions of making the European Union a global political player, and we want this to happen on a consensual basis, that is to say, with the involvement and the support of all three institutions - Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
The creation of the European External Action Service is an absolute must in order to improve the effectiveness of the EU's external action.
However, achieving these objectives depends on how we organise this service.
We need an organisation which is as streamlined as possible and avoids any duplication.
Setting up a European diplomatic college seems an ideal solution to me for providing diplomatic staff with training based on common standards in order to guarantee consistency for the EEAS.
Indeed, in the future, a European diplomatic career could become just as attractive as a diplomatic career for a Member State.
The aim of the report is to ensure that foreign policy serves the interests of military expansion by the major powers within the European Union, by taking advantage of what they inserted into the Treaty of Lisbon in order to bolster their decision-making powers, even though there are Member States that hold different views.
One example is the following statement in the report: 'the military and civilian crisis management units must be placed under the High Representative's authority, while the command and organisational structure may have to differ from that for civilian personnel; the sharing of the intelligence analysis of players within the EEAS is of vital importance in order to assist the High Representative in fulfilling his/her mandate of conducting a coherent, consistent and efficient external Union policy.' Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last spring, the European Parliament adopted the report by Mr Dehaene on the effects of the Treaty of Lisbon on the EU's institutional balance.
Now, just a few months later, the European Parliament is adopting an even more stringent position in favour of the implementation of equality.
Parliament's position on equality is therefore clear.
José Manuel Barroso, the Commission's re-elected President, has also promised to be sympathetic to the notion of equality when he forms the new Commission.
Conflicts are as inevitable in this area as they are in the new External Action Service whose rights of access have not yet been clarified.
Therefore, it is important to maintain the balance so that the new system, on the one hand, does not result in any duplication, but allows synergies to be exploited, and so that, on the other hand, parliamentary control cannot be circumvented, the Member States cannot be blocked and national authority remains unchanged.
It is intended to assist the EU High Representative but, at the same time, we must remember to ensure a proper level of qualification, as well as its institutional and national representative character.
