The situation in Palestine (debate) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have all been deeply moved and disturbed by the terrible events and tragic occurrences in the Gaza Strip over the last few days.
With that in mind, I would like, now, to reiterate my call for Israel to release to President Abbas the Palestinian customs duties and taxes - amounting to some USD 800 million - that it has been withholding for several months now.
Today, 40 years later, we must accept that the situation is still in deadlock - as the French press reminded us yesterday - that it has not been possible to create a Palestinian State and that, unfortunately, there are effectively two governments in conflict with each other.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all political men and women in this House, and we are perfectly aware that the highest of the political values is unity and that, without unity, it will not be possible to realise the dream of a viable Palestinian State living in peace with its neighbours.
We welcome resumption of direct aid to the Palestinian Authority and the prospective release of up to USD 800 million in Palestinian tax revenues by the Israeli Administration.
In particular, we must think of the women and children, whose suffering is not something that has occurred just because of the Hamas takeover in Gaza, or just because of a lack of negotiation between the Palestinian and the Israeli authorities, or just because of the cancellation of aid from the European Union and the US; their suffering goes back 30 years.
What we have seen in Palestine over the last 30 years has been a failure to meet any one of those four criteria.
What a responsibility to have ruined historic opportunities such as the Arab League peace plan since 2002, the success of the first democratic process in Palestine in 2006 or, more recently, the establishment of a last-chance national unity government, all by aligning ourselves with the deadly strategy of the White House!
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, last week, the so-called Palestinian Fatah-Hamas unity government came to a violent end.
Important though the security of Israel is to Europe, the future prospects for the Palestinian people are no less so, and if we manage to give them hope for the future, we stand a chance of establishing peace in the Middle East in the longer term.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (SK) I have serious concerns over the current situation in the Palestinian territories.
