rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank everyone who has been involved in the deliberations on this report, especially the shadow rapporteurs and members of other committees who have made their comments.
The first is a Europe of active citizens, which includes town-twinning and citizens' projects.
I myself believe that culture and our civil society create a basis on which a dynamic and thriving economy can also be built.
Now that the overall amount has been reduced to EUR 190 million from the EUR 235 million that this House and the Commission originally agreed on, that is the amount with which, for lack of any understanding on the Council's part, we are obliged to manage.
This House wishes to point out that its resolution of 5 April 2006 referred to both conferences and seminars, and the bilateral seminars - working parties and meetings of experts - are essential components of the partnership effort in terms of qualifying the programmes and those who work on them, and grants should be available for them in the same way that they are for multilateral conferences.
The European Union has recognised that there is a chasm between its citizens and the institutions.
This programme allows them to take part in the process and get organising.
It is, therefore, enormously important for the European citizens to have the sense of being involved in the EU's development.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in producing this report on the promotion of active European citizenship.
There must also be mutual cooperation between our citizens so that they too are an integral part of the process - not as an audience, but as actors on the stage; not as observers but as participants.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I, too, should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Takkula.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) We share the concerns and the objectives of the 'Europe for Citizens' programme and accordingly voted in favour.
This programme alone will not in itself reverse this situation.
The exclusion of these dictatorships, and of the memory of them, sends out the wrong message to the citizens, suggesting, as it does, that there are some dictatorships whose memory should not be forgotten and others that are not so bad or even acceptable.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, we are all playing our part in the creation of the European Union, but we bring with us our own particular outlook, experience and observations.
Many European citizens are sceptical about the Union and dubious about European integration.
Much was said during the debate on the programme about how little the citizens identify with the process of European integration.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, the draft document on 'Europe for Citizens' is an example of detailed wishful thinking.
Someone dreamt up the idea that if more money were invested in awareness raising, informing and including Europeans in Union events, the citizens would be brought closer to the Union and involved in European integration.
In my own country there are town-twinning associations which have existed for 50 years and others which have been newly founded.
We have got the best tune, but we have to proclaim it.
Old women and men remember the revolutionary events they witnessed, and young people try to image what happened 50 years ago when the anti-Stalinist revolution united the Hungarians, the reformed communists and the democrats.
Europe is viewed more as an abstraction than an important presence in our lives.
Explaining Europe is vital in forming a feeling for Europe. - (SL) The greatest achievement of the European Union to date has been guaranteeing peace and coexistence amongst the nations of Europe.
The 'Europe for Citizens' programme offers new initiatives that will help to bring European citizens closer together, including those who are not enrolled in any type of formal education but who wish to gain new knowledge and experience and forge contacts with other citizens of the European Union.
More than 10 000 municipalities in the EU are cooperating under the civic programme.
Three weeks ago we awarded 11 golden stars for the best projects - those which are inspiring and which help real people solve real problems in towns and cities across the EU.
In conclusion, as well as a 'business-friendly' or 'market-friendly' Europe, we also have a real need for a 'citizen-friendly' Europe that is both well-disposed and helpful to its citizens, having as its foundations civil society and a certain degree of maturity.
The debate is closed.
Forming active European citizens plays a key role in this process, and the presence of such citizens is indispensable in order to ensure the continued democratic and balanced development of the European Union.
For the programme in question, the sum at current prices amounts to EUR 215 million.
