That is why we need a new set of rules for the European Union: a new Constitution to replace the current constitutional order and the set of overlapping Treaties.
In concrete terms this means a set of improvements that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and your rapporteurs have identified as falling into four main categories.
Second, it will provide for a more effective Union – a Union capable of deciding and acting with 25 Member States.
Frankly, this makes the European Union the most democratic international structure, or supranational structure, that exists in the world.
We should be proud of the democracy that exists at the heart of this Union.
The Constitution will significantly reinforce that democracy by extending codecision, by giving Parliament the right to elect the President of the Commission and by improving parliamentary control over the Commission and the so-called comitology system for delegated secondary legislation.
These improvements are due in no small part to the input of the European Parliament into the Convention and the IGC.
We can be proud of our results.
This Parliament, elected by citizens across the whole of Europe, with parties from left to right across the political spectrum, parties in government and parties in opposition, will send a powerful signal if it endorses the Constitution tomorrow by an overwhelming majority.
I believe – I said it then and I repeat it today – that they would not have believed that what was happening was real, because, leaving behind a Europe divided by fratricidal confrontations, this Constitution sanctions peace on our continent and, to use Mr Geremek’s beautiful expression, this Constitution stitches the two Europes together.
Overcoming a Europe which had disappeared from the world, this Constitution sanctions a Europe of solidarity, as demonstrated by the enormous wave of solidarity which has arisen on our continent to deal with the effects of the other terrible wave that struck Asia.
For all of these reasons, I believe, Mr President, that many of the flags that this Parliament has unfurled over recent years are today standing as proud as those we have behind us.
I joined this Parliament 13 years ago, when it was a consultative assembly; today it no longer is.
I joined this Parliament when there was talk of the European Union’s democratic deficit; I believe that the European Constitution will put an end to that democratic deficit, because this Constitution introduces more democracy, more efficiency, more clarity and more transparency, as my friend, Richard Corbett, has quite rightly pointed out.
I would like to remind you of the names of Emilio Colombo, Marcelino Oreja, Fernand Herman, Giorgio Napolitano, Olivier Duhamel, Antonio Seguro, Dimitris Tsatsos, Antoinette Spaak, and so many people who, seated here in this Parliament, have defended what today is going to become a reality.
We in this Parliament can feel very proud of the work we have done.
Personally, this is the first time that I have had the honour of appearing before Parliament and it is therefore a great honour and a great pleasure to be able to speak in this House, on the Council’s behalf, on a matter as important as the draft European Constitution.
In this context, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
The Council is committed to channelling all the necessary energies for this Constitution to be adopted in all Member States.
Each Member State, each government and each parliament now has the responsibility to take us over this hurdle so that the Constitution can enter into force, and, I should add, on the scheduled date.
The European Parliament, national governments and national parliaments share a great responsibility in this respect.
This House has played a crucial role in strengthening the foundations of our common enterprise, not least through the substantial contributions made by Members of this Parliament during the European Convention.
The involvement of the European Parliament in this unprecedented process culminates today with an excellent and well-written report, which sends a clear message on the benefits of the Constitution and the need for its ratification.
I wholeheartedly congratulate Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the two rapporteurs, Richard&#160;Corbett and Íñigo Méndez de Vigo.
The Constitution consolidates and simplifies half a century of treaty changes, allowing us to move from 12&#160;basic treaty acts to a single text.
The Constitution sets out, in 54 concise articles, the fundamental rights we will guarantee to our citizens.
These three simple concepts – more rights, more democracy and more openness – explain why this Constitution should be ratified.
We would certainly have wished to be more ambitious in certain policy areas, but the final result is the best possible compromise in the current political situation.
Our latest Eurobarometer survey shows that 68% of our citizens support the idea and principle of having a European Constitution.
It provides a range of good reasons for the Euro-specialists to be voting yes, but these are not always the reasons that will persuade a single mother in Gdansk, or a shipyard worker in Spain to do so.
Today, in 12 countries of the EU, we have a piece of Europe in our pockets, with the euro being taken for granted across the Union and with new Member States joining the queue to introduce it.
Finally, first through membership of Greece, Spain and Portugal and now with the 10 new Member States, we have helped guarantee and consolidate democracy and the rule of law across the whole continent.
All of us have a duty to make available clear and reliable information on what the Constitution does and the benefits it can bring.
Lithuania and Hungary have already ratified the Constitution.
The possibility of concrete participation in the functioning of the Union is extended far beyond the election of the Members of the European Parliament.
The citizens' initiative will, for the first time, make European citizens protagonists in the legislative process.
The same is true for judicial and police cooperation.
The Union is already playing a key role in providing humanitarian aid and contributing to the political, economic and social reconstruction of that region.
The new provisions on civil protection, which entrust the Union with the task of promoting consistency in international civil protection work, will allow us to make our international action even more effective in the future.
We have, of course, already put in place a number of initiatives aimed at informing the public about the content of the Constitution.
I seize this occasion to call on you to examine the possibility of putting in place joint communication initiatives with us that can maximise the impact of our initiatives.
I can also assure you that the Commissioners themselves will be active in the debate on the Constitution and the future of Europe.
Securing the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty is the main concern for the Member States and for the European institutions.
The Commission has been engaged in this process from the start.
In conclusion, I return to my three simple concepts: more rights, more democracy and more openness.
I would like to extend very warm thanks to Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo for the outstanding work they have done together with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and also to all those who assisted them in it.
There are 128 MEPs in the European People’s Party, and the DE part of our group has 40 Members.
A constitution needs values.
Today, though, I would not wish to deny that many of us would have welcomed a reference to God in the Constitution, because it affirms that our human capacities are not infinite.
We would also have been glad to see reference made to our Judaeo-Christian heritage, for, at a time when dialogue with the world’s cultures is so necessary – particularly with the Islamic world – I believe that it is important that we know where our own roots are, and that our cultural and religious development should be mentioned in the Constitution.
It is also proper that a constitution should include a description of the constitutional structure of the European Union, and I think it is particularly successful in this, talking as it does in terms of national identity.
The Europe of the future must rather be founded upon the Community method, and upon the Community action of the European institutions.
What this means for us is that we need a strong European Parliament, one that is a symbol of democracy, that we should act as equals in all matters affecting European legislation, that we need a strong Commission, deriving its legitimacy from its election by the European Parliament and hence also from European elections, and that we have to have a Council of Ministers whose actions are transparent.
Let me conclude by saying that much that is in the Constitution is in the nature of a programme and has yet to become reality.
Another is foreign policy, an area in which we cannot, in future, allow ourselves to speak with two or three voices, but must act jointly.
That is why it is not Member States of the European Union, as such, that should be seeking to join the UN Security Council, but rather the European Union as a whole, if it wants to be a global actor for human rights and democracy.
It is the European Union as such that must be represented in the United Nations.
The foundation of the European Coal and Steel Community a few years later was a direct consequence of what had happened during the Second World War.
The European Union is a union that has managed to take the values described in our Charter of Fundamental Rights and use them as the basis of democratic integration and to overcome both the Fascism and the Communism of Europe’s past.
Our group will be voting in favour of the Corbett/Méndez de Vigo report – out of profound conviction, and also out of the conviction that the values described in this constitution are civil values.
In the knowledge-based society of the future, this Union of ours must, at one and the same time – and the Constitution does indeed set this out in black and white – perform its social tasks and guarantee the protection of the individual and of every citizen from the dangers present in this divided world.
Those who signed their names to this Constitution at the dignified ceremony in Rome, which all of us chairmen of groups were allowed to attend, Europe’s Heads of State or Government and foreign ministers, must, in the same way as we do, appear before the peoples and declare that this is our Constitution and that we want it.
It is those things too, but it is the work of all those who carry responsibility for Europe’s future, and they must affirm, before the peoples of Europe, their support for it.
This report by Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo gets the story right and I am pleased to say that all Members of my Group who will be speaking today will be speaking in favour of this resolution.
The principal argument for this great reform is clearly that it strengthens the European Union.
It strengthens our capacity to act abroad and inside our Member States, making us prepared to stand on our own feet in world affairs, shaping Europe's response to globalisation politically.
The Constitution redefines the European Union.
It strikes a balance between states – the old and the new, the large and the small – between citizens and the authorities and, as Mr Giscard d'Estaing has said, between dream and reality.
Europe cannot be constructed without clear, liberal and social values, strong rules and robust parliamentary democracy.
Without the Constitution, things will not work properly and the quality of policy flowing from Brussels and Strasbourg will begin to decline.
But Europe cannot work either without strong leadership.
This Parliament must learn to fill some of the strategic space that the reforms begin to open up for us.
The Commission must assert itself quickly as the new arrangements for the Foreign Minister and the Foreign Service, the team presidency and especially the so-called full-time President of the European Council are put in place.
They must shoulder their individual and collective responsibility to win these referendum campaigns by showing the voters why these reforms are for them and why this is truly the Constitution for Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, a majority in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, because it sees it as an important step on the road leading to the political integration of our continent.
The proposed Constitution establishes the Union as a community based on fundamental rights, grounds European policies in a code of common values, defines clear and binding objectives, and expresses a commitment to uphold sustainability in the economic, social and environmental fields.
It includes social rights among traditional human rights, ties the Union’s external actions to compliance with international law, simplifies procedures, clarifies competences, expands the scope of Community decisions, and increases transparency and the democratic legitimacy of the Union, as well as opportunities for its citizens to play a part.
The text has a good many gaps and pitfalls in it, and it is understandable that there should be growing disaffection towards the European project among many people, associations and movements politically close to us, in whose eyes the Union is not yet able to respond to their concerns or to be a political entity fully able to act for a better, less unfair world.
To deny this reality, as our fellow Members do in their report, is, in our view, inappropriate.
Turning the motion for a European Parliament resolution almost into a propaganda exercise, pretending that it is the ideal outcome of noble, harmonious work done in the best possible manner, even saying that the Intergovernmental Conference left the Convention’s text unaltered – although we know that that is not true because all the amendments made by the Intergovernmental Conference made the text worse: one need only think of the Legislative Council or the disagreement over the budget – none of that will convince a single Eurosceptic or help us win over all those who, far from fearing a non-existent European superstate, know that the Union is not yet united enough or cohesive enough.
We therefore have a double objective: to approve this Constitution so that we can quickly lay the foundations for its successor, by seeking to build a strong, stable alliance with those political, social, associative and economic forces that believe, as we do, that in order to achieve our aims of social justice, ecologically sustainable development and peace, we must not only win the elections again at a national level, but also make European democracy stronger and more complete.
If the text submitted for ratification by the citizens or by the parliaments were in fact limited to that type of provision, many members of my group –&#160;not all, but many of them, including me&#160;– would not be opposed to the draft Constitutional Treaty.
Europe is therefore the appropriate level to meet challenges that a single country would nowadays have difficulty in tackling, due to globalisation.
It follows, for that very reason, that we need guidelines and structures whereby we can reverse the trend of maintaining the main decision-making centres at a distance from the people, and whereby we can reclaim popular sovereignty and the power to make political choices, instead of submitting to the laws of the market, even if that means encouraging fatalism, that deadly enemy of democracy.
If you harbour such ambitions for Europe, then perhaps some of you could tell us why, in that case, you are opposed to this draft Constitution.
You are opposed to it precisely because this text takes up provisions accumulated in particular since the Maastricht Treaty, in order to perpetuate them, solemnly and for the long term; provisions that constitute so many obstacles to even the partial implementation of such a European project.
The draft Treaty thus contains an article which calls, in the fiery spirit of the multilateral agreement on investments, for the removal of restrictions on foreign direct investment and of other dangerously ambiguous articles relating to life patenting or indeed to cultural diversity.
In all of these fields, what we need is not a propaganda campaign that brooks no contradiction, but a frank, public, pluralist review of the experience of recent years which has led to a breakdown of trust between the citizens and the European institutions.
As for the report by Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo, it does not say a word about the part of the draft constitutional Treaty devoted to the policies and functioning of the Union, which in fact accounts for two thirds of the whole text.
One word has disappeared, the word ‘sovereignty’, and another has appeared, the word ‘law’, European law, a word that is the very symbol of national democracies.
At the same time – and this will be my last point – national democracies will be trampled underfoot.
However, in one sense the debate has moved on, because it is now up to the Member States and the debate on the Treaty-ratification process that takes place in the Member States.
It is up to the people to determine what the level of debate and discussion and the final verdict on this Constitutional Treaty will be.
Many times when we speak about the issues involved, in spite of our best efforts, some of us would like to see new things added to what has already been agreed.
In addition, when you listen to some of the debate, it is like going back to the future, because the same issues and points that were raised in opposition to the first treaties in the 1950s, and to the second and subsequent treaties in the 1970s and 1980s, are being rehashed.
The European institutions and European lawmakers have been given the power by the Member States to make that law.
But let us ensure that the debate is based on fact, truth and the written text and not on misconceptions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, though this House, in self-congratulatory euphoria, will embrace this Constitution, thankfully the ultimate decision rests with the Member States.
Anyone with pride in his or her own nation, who does not want to see it subsumed into a hideous conglomerate, will reject this tawdry Constitution. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been given here is a Constitutional Treaty founded on the work of a Convention composed largely of parliamentarians, and, as it was they who made this breakthrough possible, the development of Europe is no longer in the hands of diplomats.
Ninety per cent of the draft produced by the Convention then went through the Intergovernmental Conference, and I believe that it was this method, involving the peoples of Europe through their elected representatives, that was crucial in terms of the progress made.
This Constitutional Treaty reinforces the citizens in their rights; the Charter of Fundamental Rights will give them entitlements and safeguards.
It strengthens citizens’ rights because, in future, the election of the President of the Commission will be directly dependent on the votes of the European Parliament.
This Constitution has become more transparent, because it makes the allocation of powers and responsibilities clearer, thereby making procedures more readily comprehensible, and because the Council is, at least when taking decisions on lawmaking, required to meet in public.
The extension of majority decision-making may well not be sufficient, but it is considerable, and it does make the European Union more efficient, something that is apparent in other areas, for example, in the removal of the pillars structure and the introduction of a single legal personality, and, in particular, in the substantial improvements made in the fields of foreign, security and defence policies.
Our Europe is founded upon values.
Having been drafted by a previous Convention, the marvellous thing about it now is that so many peoples can take such a common basis of values as their guide and that those who make our laws in future must look to see that these values are adhered to – and this is legally binding rather than a matter of policy.
Here we have fought to secure substantial rights for the Commission, without whose consent nothing happens, and I would point out to it and to the Council that we will keep a very close eye on this.
That, after all, is the whole point of this European enterprise, whose traditional objective has been to make war in Europe impossible – an objective of which we must not lose sight.
We want to retain our identity.
It is in diversity that our wealth is to be found.
Domestic, day-to-day policy must not be allowed to decide how the Member States and their parties handle the ratification process; what is, instead, decisive is the historic moment, in which it will become apparent where the statesmen are in the Member States, moving the process of ratification forward. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo on their outstanding report.
Let me say, secondly, that the greatest challenge for the European Union is not Turkish membership in twenty years’ time, but the ratification of the European Constitution in two.
In two years’ time, the Constitution will be in place.
The Constitution brings to an end twelve years of intermittent reform, which have taken us from Maastricht to Nice via Amsterdam and from 12 to 15, and then to 25, Member States.
The 25 different peoples, all of whom want to retain their identity – and will do so – who robbed and murdered each other, waged war on each other and laid each other waste for centuries; these 25 peoples are now indissolubly uniting their political destinies.
Let me conclude by saying that the Constitution provides two guiding lights for the European Union’s actions in the future.
Article 3 of the Constitution commits the EU to working towards peace, security and the sustainable development of the earth, thus affirming that the Union bears responsibility for our planet rather than existing for its own sake.
Freedom for humanity and responsibility for the world – from these grows the new Europe’s identity. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the American publicist Jeremy Rifkin recently wrote a book about the European Union and entitled it ‘The European Dream’.
I am grateful to the President for making it possible for Mr Rifkin to be with us this afternoon, and for giving us the opportunity to discuss with him the future of Europe and of the European ideal.
This book is a dazzling analysis of the achievements and innovations of fifty years of European unification, which are truly unique and to be found nowhere else in the world: direct elections in 25 countries to one parliament; a court of law capable of handing down rulings for all citizens and all states; one single currency in twelve countries, enabling us to defend our economic sovereignty at a time of globalisation; and, now, a European constitution on the table before us.
Many peoples have longed for freedom and democracy.
Let me say it again: the EU is the greatest peace project that there has ever been on this continent.
Some dreams, though, have not come true in a time such as this, in which crime, terrorism and the challenges of globalisation are gnawing away at the European Social Model.
Such are the big issues that have to be explained to people everywhere over the coming eighteen months, as ratification is debated in the twenty-five countries.
It is then that we come to the conclusion that this is a great leap forward, from a union of states to a union of citizens, from diplomatic Europe to a democratic Europe.
I want to thank Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo for producing a really good report, which will prepare this House for dialogue with our partners in the national parliaments and the citizens of twenty-five countries.
We must now do everything possible to ensure that this draft becomes reality rather than existing only in black and white.
In the opinion of the Committee on Development, we call for mobilisation so that the Constitution can be ratified and can enter into force as soon as possible, and for that mobilisation to involve those institutions, NGOs and individuals in Europe who have made North-South solidarity a fundamental cause within our political struggle and our social commitment.
Let us remember, therefore, that the Constitution makes these values of solidarity and cooperation and humanitarian responsibility the European Union’s distinguishing marks and that, accordingly, they must transcend all policies and guide all Community actions.
The Constitution also means that, in the future, the European Union will have the legal personality we have lacked and which will allow us to act as a Union on the international stage and particularly within the realm of the United Nations.
That means we are going to be able to spend better; and if the resources the citizens contribute are better spent, we will have more authority to ask for more resources in order to implement the policies the citizens are demanding of the European Union.
This Constitution brings much progress with it; nevertheless, as our Group President, Mr Poettering, quite rightly said, it is lacking certain things.
We have been timid in terms of acknowledging our Christian roots, we have been timid in recognising the obvious.
We have just celebrated Christmas; this Parliament will stop at Easter; here in Strasbourg the most important building is not a building like this one, but a medieval building, a cathedral.
We must, therefore, say ‘yes’, because we believe in Europe and we are aware that this European project is going to resolve the daily problems of the citizens.
Our group and I personally say yes to the Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there was a large majority of us in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs who voted in favour of the new draft Constitution.
We must not turn the best into the enemy of the good when we judge the new draft Constitution.
Secondly, the social clause in Part III, which obliges the EU to meet the social objectives in all the areas of competence.
Thirdly, the fundamental rights in the Charter of Citizens’ Rights, which also includes union rights.
Fourthly, the strengthening of the social partners’ role through recognition of the significance of the social dialogue and trialogue.
For ourselves who defend the social model, it is quite easy to support the new draft Constitution because it includes a long list of improvements which will significantly improve the opportunities for developing the social model in the future. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has adopted a position with regard to the Constitution, of which I shall highlight the following salient points: we welcome the fact that the implementation of the three pillars of sustainable development is among the Union’s objectives and that environmental integration and a high level of protection for human beings have been recognised.
Measures relating to surveillance and early warning systems in the fight against serious cross-border health threats are also a step in the right direction.
Such measures form part of the EU’s shared powers and are therefore subject to the ordinary legislative procedure.
We welcome the introduction of a chapter on democratic life in the Union, and the principle whereby these positions must be taken as transparently as possible and in the manner that is closest to the citizens.
Furthermore, we should like to highlight the importance of the Community institutions’ responsibility towards the public, and public access to the courts and other relevant organisations, not least in the field of the environment.
We cannot deploy our troops without the information they need being provided from space.
If we want a proper policy of military security around the world, then we also need a proper space policy, with an emphasis on civilian and peaceful use, and for that the Constitution provides additional possibilities.
I have had the honour of being draftsman of the opinion for this report for the Committee on Regional Development and I would like to say that the debate on this issue has been very positive and intense, because, amongst other things, we must remember the essential role played by regional and local administrations in European integration.
And it is also essential to remember that the European Constitution recognises local and regional autonomy as an integral part of the national identity of the Member States.
Right up to now, the Council has been able to take decisions without reference to Parliament, and over half the European Union’s Budget is disposed of without any democratic control.
We have also done sterling work on handling such crises as BSE, which means that our being conceded codecision in principle is something we have, to some extent, earned, and that is something we welcome.
In one article in particular, the Council has reserved to itself the right to vote on quotas, prices and restrictions on quantity, without, this time, consulting Parliament at all.
We still, then, have much to do in the future.
We will still have to draw on our creative powers in order to exert our democratic influence in these matters and in getting it stated, in principle, that agricultural policy will be subject to codecision.
The most important paragraph in that opinion, which will be retabled tomorrow for voting as Amendment No 13 on behalf of my Group, refers to exclusive competence.
We, in the Legal Affairs Committee, will, though, be dealing with the issues of special interest to us in an own-initiative report, particularly the reform of legal instruments and of the lawmaking process, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and the innovations in the justice system.
I believe that another issue that will demand our attention in the future is that of how we can guarantee coherence between parts I and III of the Constitution.
This opinion by the Legal Affairs Committee does of course concentrate on the rearrangement of the Union’s instruments of action, of which there is at present a veritable plethora: the Convention counted 35 different types of them.
Our legislative instruments will in future be simple and readily distinguishable from administrative instruments – and, when the Constitution is in place, much else about our lives will be so much easier.
I also believe that, although these changes are less spectacular than some of what is going on in the institutions, they play a very important part in making the EU more democratic and bringing it closer to the people. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, I congratulate the Members who have drawn up this important report.
There remain, however, certain aspects – which I shall highlight – that the Civil Liberties Committee examined but which left us somewhat perplexed, although without detracting from our pleasure and hence our desire to have this report adopted unanimously by this Parliament.
As I was saying, we were left perplexed by certain points: the clause granting Member States alone the power to determine the volumes of admission to their territory of third-country nationals, thus precluding the possibility of establishing a genuine European policy for the management of legal admissions to the Union; the appropriateness of incorporating the ‘emergency brake’ clause for judicial cooperation in criminal matters; the appropriateness of some Member States enjoying special arrangements for derogation from the Constitution; the European Parliament's limited role in the area of judicial cooperation in civil matters as regards family law; and the fact that the provisions relating to the freezing of funds, financial assets and economic gains needed to achieve the objectives of the area of freedom, security and justice are limited, contrary to what was proposed in the Convention text, to the area of the prevention and combating of terrorism, and thus exclude the prevention and combating of organised crime and of trafficking in human beings.
That would have been enough to modernise the institutions and the workings of the Union.
The Constitution is of such far-reaching significance that its rejection in one or more of the Member States in the forthcoming referenda would render it void.
However, rather than being totally negative, we should regard that outcome – should it occur – as a fresh opportunity for us all to establish a modern Union that respects and celebrates its diversity and which is accountable by the people and from the people, rather than one which demands too much conformity. &#160;&#160; We live in a very peculiar time in the history of the united Europe.
This Constitution allows for more opportunities to make Europe become the Europe of its citizens.
The role of Parliament, whose Members are appointed by direct election, has grown, and we believe that the decisions made by the European Parliament and the national parliaments should and will be built upon each other.
Hungary had already ratified the Constitution at the end of last year.
However, this document that is on the agenda today is very important to us as well.
It seems as if we have to force information on the European political systems and citizens of Europe.
In the so-called Lisbon process, we need to be familiar with the norms of the Constitution, its social norms and also know that norms require more and more guarantees in order to build a social Europe, strengthen solidarity and secure social tolerance.
Let me mention two areas that reflect our future challenges.
What I mean by this is not the question of Islam, but the challenge that our Europe is religious and secular.
I believe that our common European citizenship is the key to overcoming discrimination and the insecurity of national identity.
A motion for a resolution has been tabled on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, and this House, Europe’s largest democratic institution, will send an important message to the nations and citizens of Europe by adopting it.
The resolution approves the Constitutional Treaty and calls for its ratification.
I have no doubt that, as it stands, the Treaty makes it possible to strengthen the European Union.
Firstly, both the Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights enshrined therein state unambiguously that respect for the dignity of the human being is the basis of our common values, thus confirming the significance of our Judaeo-Christian heritage.
Secondly, the Treaty strengthens the role of the Community institutions, notably Parliament, the European Commission and the Court of Justice.
Thirdly, the Treaty extends citizens’ rights and creates a European public space.
Fourthly, the Treaty strengthens the EU by creating the post of EU Foreign Minister, and it enables full continuity to be achieved by means of longer presidencies, without the EU being turned into a superstate.
Two new Member States, Lithuania and Hungary, have been the first to ratify the Constitutional Treaty.
I am sure that my country, Poland, in which the majority of citizens are in favour of adopting the Constitutional Treaty, will also demonstrate its unequivocal support for the Treaty during the referendum.
Twenty-five years ago, the Polish Solidarity movement removed the first stone from the Berlin Wall, and our German colleagues ought not to forget this.
Fifteen years ago, the Round Table talks in Poland showed that it is possible to make the transition from a totalitarian system into freedom without any disruption to international peace.
The promise was that nationalism would be overcome, that democracy and the rights to freedom would be unrestricted and that Europe would be united politically.
This Constitution, which the vast majority of Greens will be endorsing, is a great step toward this promise being kept.
This Constitution lays the foundations of a European democracy.
It establishes the Union as a community of fundamental rights.
It simplifies the Treaties, makes external actions subject to international law, makes the EU more effective and transparent, more democratically legitimate, and creates the possibility of its citizens sharing in its decision-making.
Indeed, it does create something that is a Europe of citizens rather than the Europe of state chanceries that once existed.
He claims that social progress is absent, yet this Constitution, for the first time in the 200 years’ history of human rights, acknowledges and enshrines social rights as human rights in the traditional sense of the word!
Despite certain contradictions, we have, for the first time, incorporated full employment and the social market economy in the list of this Constitution’s objectives and values.
The issue of our relationship with NATO is as yet unresolved, and, although none can surely say in what way Europe will emancipate itself, we have made our actions subject to international law and to the UN Charter, while also, and for the first time, making civil conflict prevention a task imposed by the Constitution.
We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will make our contribution by setting in motion the first citizens’ initiative, which will demand a first amendment to the Constitution, completing democracy, peace and the social order in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in defiance of the resolution passed by the majority of my party, the PDS, and of the majority in my group, I support this Constitution.
Let me set out the reasons that have led me to this conclusion.
For centuries, the peoples of Europe have suffered from imperialistic wars and bitter animosities.
Defining the Union as a community of values, the Constitution enshrines a canon of values ranging from the respect for human dignity, which is the highest good, to justice and solidarity.
The Constitution substantially advances European integration, making the European Union as a whole better prepared to face the future.
My decision also has to do with the fact that the Left, during the course of the Convention, largely refrained from contributing any practical proposals of its own to the process, and with its failure to come up with any real alternatives to what it now rejects.
Whilst I would like to see a peaceful, democratic and social European Union and to see Europe united, this goal will elude us unless we are prepared to make concessions to one another.
I will, of course, take up the cudgels against neoliberal policies, and I will also fight against all that tends to turn the European Union into a military power.
My particular concern is that we must prevent the European Union from degenerating into an image of the power projected from America, and from its being weakened in economic and social terms by rearmament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a blank cheque is a cheque on which the recipient writes the amount concerned.
I want to see a Europe of democracies that solves practical problems by focusing upon cross-border issues, or matters that we cannot solve ourselves.
Then the Council, in turn, reached the most workable compromise, and the new Constitutional Treaty was signed in Rome.
If today, in this Chamber, we divide over something that no longer depends on our decision, but on ratification by the individual Member States and individual peoples of the Union, it will mean disavowing our Parliament’s ability to plan the future and relegating it to the role of a talking shop in which plenty of fine speeches are made but little is decided.
It would seem appropriate to recall that, while the values and principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights now included in the second part of the Treaty form the ethical basis for the Union, several parts of the Constitutional Charter are still incomplete and will need updating in the light of current circumstances.
The European Union must not run the risk of becoming a place where political groups join in battle to attack freely made national decisions on ideological grounds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we hear it said that the EU needs this Constitution if it wants to deepen integration, but, as we have just heard from one of its most forthright advocates, not everything in the draft we are to vote on is ideal.
If that is so, then the citizens of Europe’s states should be given a real chance to have the last word in the debate on its ratification, if at all possible by means of referendums.
Not only in that it makes for transparency do I regard that as something important.
The Council will have to hold its meetings in public.
I can speak for my own party, the CSU, but also for our colleagues in the CDU, when I say that we will vote in favour of this Constitutional Treaty without any reservations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution on the European Constitutional Treaty has been written in a very positive spirit.
We may decide that, despite every effort, this Constitution is neither transparent nor comprehensible.
The European Constitution is a practical instrument that will affect European integration for decades to come.
Europe can set out on the road either towards a bureaucratic federalist superstate, or towards the political opposite, a liberal and competitive Europe.
Let us make it quite clear that adopting or failing to adopt the European Constitution is a predominantly political matter, and not a prerequisite for integration.
It is therefore entirely legitimate to vote both for the Constitution and against it.
Ratification is often portrayed as an essential step which should not be open to too much discussion.
Advocates of the European Constitution sometimes even threaten that the Union will not allow itself to be held back by just a few countries not ratifying the Constitution, and that these countries will be marginalised and will have to content themselves with some lesser form of affiliation.
I should now like to issue a warning against the use of these same principles.
I simply wish to emphasise the need for open and democratic discussion, and to stress that a failure to adopt the Constitution is not a disaster, nor does it mean an end to the process of integration in Europe.
The first was the debate of the Congress of the European Movement in 1948, in which Churchill, Reynaud, Ramadier, van Zeeland, Madariaga and Adenauer had the opportunity to begin debating a Constitution for Europe.
Mr President, please allow me to refer to my country, which will be the first to hold a referendum on the ratification of the Constitution, with a public and open debate which we believe is important for everybody.
It is true to say that the Zapatero Government, after winning the elections of 14 March, unblocked the process of approving the Constitution, but I would like to say – and I cannot see any Member of the Spanish Peoples’ Party, and I would therefore ask the Vice-President of their Group, Mrs Grossetête, to communicate this on my behalf – that the Convention began with the Spanish Presidency of the Council of Mr Aznar, and it was he who called for the referendum.
This leads me to say 'yes' to this Constitution because of what it represents and because it means a new step forward on the way to a stronger and more efficient, more transparent, more democratic Europe.
With this Constitution, Europe will have a stronger voice in the world.
Moreover, our values, including those which are behind our social and economic model, will be strongly proclaimed and protected to allow Europe's growth and, simultaneously, to protect Europe's social cohesion.
I particularly regret that it reflects a virtual Europe, a Europe that is not the real Europe, a Europe that does not exist in political terms, where everything that lies between individual citizens and states is just ignored.
What is worse, some languages, such as my own – Catalan – which are stronger than acknowledged officially at European Union level, are blindly ignored in this Constitution.
The fight against the EU Constitution is a fight for democracy, and one that we intend to win outside this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is pretty clear that what we are involved in here is a one-sided exercise in selling this Constitution to the peoples of Europe.
Some weeks ago I revealed to this Parliament Commissioner Barrot's past and the affair was whitewashed.
Yesterday afternoon, President Borrell denied me the chance to make a one-minute speech to mention this to Parliament.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group, in common with many of the other political groups in this House, is divided on the issue of the Constitution.
To begin with, the Treaty alters the system according to which votes are counted, to the disadvantage of countries with a particular interest in policies relating to Eastern Europe, cohesion and agriculture.
This applies to Poland in all three instances, of course, yet it is not the implications for Poland that are the most significant problem, but the weakening of whole sectors of European policy.
The Treaty strengthens the EU’s powers over economic, employment and social policy within the Union.
Nevertheless, it substantially strengthens the EU’s powers.
The Treaty is a significant step towards use of the Community method in the field of foreign policy.
It is difficult to say where a line can be drawn between the Community method and the inter-state method in foreign policy, and Mr&#160;Rehn, the new Commissioner, admitted as much during his hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
An example of such falsehood and extreme prejudice is the removal from the preamble of references to Christianity and God, whose presence is still felt in the majority of the European Union’s Member States.
These are all reasons why today we must say ‘no’ to the Treaty and ‘no’ to this motion for a resolution in order to say ‘yes’ to Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, not only is the draft Constitution far from being ideal, it is also far from being the compromise it could have been.
Yet it would be a good idea to hand back to the nation states all matters which are not in actual fact of supra-national importance, and more freedom and less centralism is a good principle to follow.
I should also, however, like to thank Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, without whom, I am sure, we would not be here today debating this historic stage in Europe’s development.
Indeed, we must deplore the fact that European governments have not followed all the proposals made by the Convention, the consequence of which is that we shall gradually have to adapt the Constitution as we go along.
We need more Europe, more Union – a Union based on our universal values – and more democracy.
The Constitution will bring all of this, strengthening Parliament’s role and involving national parliaments at the same time.
This is typical of their inability to look to the future.
The choice is simple – if we want a free and responsible Europe, we must ratify the Constitution for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a French socialist and as a European socialist, I shall be voting tomorrow, with emotion and pride, in favour of the report by the two Members of this House.
He was an old anti-fascist militant, an old federalist, and I pay tribute to those Members of Parliament who voted for this draft during the sitting of 14&#160;February&#160;1984.
Mr Poettering voted in favour, Mr Hänsch voted in favour, Mr Wurtz voted against and Mr Vergès voted against.
The seam was first mined over 50 years ago and yielded the raw material of reconciliation.
Let us therefore view this Constitution as a hand proffered to the peoples who have joined us again, now that the dark night of totalitarianism is over. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, current events demonstrate that we need Europe now more than ever.
We need Europe to protect and preserve our environment and, finally, we need a Europe that carries weight in the world, with military and civil European defence, and a genuine foreign policy.
We need institutions that move away from a way of working that is all too often intergovernmental, whereby decisions are always taken without the citizens ever being involved.
We need institutions that favour Community decision-making, because this is the only truly democratic method of decision-making.
We also need strong institutions, enabling us to move towards a more integrated Europe, despite the timidity of the Heads of State or Government.
This is why we support both this excellent and well-written report and the draft Constitution.
Stateless nations will not have any recognition in this Treaty.
Working nation-states do not make a good basis for the construction of Europe.
Europe should be built on the basis of national diversity comprising stateless nations, nation-states and constitutional regions, for the purpose of establishing a new European citizenship. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the primary duty of a parliament is to represent the people.
To the democratic deficit in the drafting of the Treaty we can now add the lack of democracy in its adoption: if we cannot have a single referendum for all of Europe’s citizens, we could at least have held a referendum on the same day in all the countries of the Union.
This Treaty represents the abdication of politics in the face of all that: a silent Constitution.
In it, the rights of people, women and men, workers and migrants, are a variable dependent on a balanced budget and monetary stability.
That is why the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is declaring itself against this Treaty and will be campaigning against it in every country.
In doing so, they overlook the fact that the European institutions owe their existence to the voluntary transfer of powers by the Member States.
The treaty endows the European Union with the characteristics of a state.
The rapporteurs have to recognise that the dual responsibility on the part of the Council and Commission creates confusion and sows the seeds of potential conflicts of loyalty.
I cannot describe this treaty as anything other than an impetuous leap in the dark. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as a Lithuanian I ought to be proud that my country's parliament was the first to ratify the European Constitution.
However, the majority of Lithuania's citizens have not seen, read or discussed it.
On the other hand I am sure that for the most part this Constitution is in keeping with the interests of my nation and state.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to Part 1 Article 8 of the Constitution, which lays down that the word euro – the name of the common currency of the European Union – must be used in the same way in all European Union languages.
According to this article, which is based on Council Regulation No 974/98 of 1998, there would be an unprecedented intervention in the grammatical systems shaped over thousands of years and in semantic relations expressed not in word order, not in words with one form, but in the declension of words, of the languages of the seven new countries of the European Union, among them the Lithuanian language.
The Regulation mentioned, announced six years ago, before the new countries were admitted to the European Union, does not allow the word euro to be declined.
Such a ban contradicts Article 314 of the European Community Treaty and Article 53 of the Treaty on European Union on the true equality of the European Union's official languages, as well as European Community Treaty Article 5 on subsidisation and Article 151 on the limits of cultural policies.
I hope that Parliament will take these arguments into account.
I have seen with my own eyes, as a direct consequence of European policies, the destruction of our farming and of our economies, company relocations and deindustrialisation, endemic unemployment and poverty, the disintegration of our social protection systems, the opening of our borders to immigration on a massive scale, to terrorism and to international crime.
The Europe of Brussels is not, of course, solely responsible – it could not have created or exacerbated these problems without the collusion of governments, of all political hues, which have decided to sacrifice their countries’ independence and their inhabitants’ freedom to the Brussels Leviathan.
The European Constitution will put the finishing touches to this monstrous edifice, which was begun over 40 years ago.
That might be what you want, but we are rejecting it because Europe and the Europeans deserve better than this soulless superstate.
We are rejecting it in the name of freedom, in the name of independence, in the name of the sovereignty which belongs solely to the people and which is inalienable, and in the name of those people’s right to self-determination.
The Members of this House have betrayed their homelands.
They will be cursed by history and by future generations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we would be making a serious mistake if we considered the Union to be merely an economic entity or a vast free-trade area, or even a kind of superstate replacing the national states.
Europe is our history: it is the synthesis of our cultures and our languages, our identity and our future.
It is the Europe of values, of the central importance of the individual, of freedom, solidarity and subsidiarity.
The decision to sign the Constitution in Rome was, for our country, an important acknowledgement of the work carried out during the six months of Italy’s Presidency.
The world of globalisation needs this Europe, the Europe of solidarity, subsidiarity and human rights – the political Europe of the people whom this Parliament truly represents. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
There can be no doubt that Europe, the Member States, and, above all, Europe’s citizens need a European Constitution.
After all, one would not try to dress a fully-grown 25-year-old in the same suit he wore when he was 15 years old.
The European Constitution creates such a framework.
The Constitution is a good document as it represents a compromise.
It also makes the Union a place where human beings are valued and where democracy and security are safeguarded.
This is the case in my country, Poland.
I am proud to be able to tell you that 73% of Poles are in favour of the European Constitution, despite the reservations previously expressed by my government with regard to the draft Treaty, and despite the campaign that has been conducted against the Constitution within the country.
No political party has the right to call for the Constitution to be rejected, even if it is in opposition.
The citizens of the European Union are aware of this, and this is why they know better than politicians what is good for them.
We should listen to them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Constitution, or Constitutional Treaty, is a better legal basis than any we in the European Union have previously had, and, as it is a good and acceptable compromise, our group really can vote to endorse it.
That is what we in Europe need: a sense of being ‘us’, a feeling of belonging together, with us all seeing ourselves as Europeans and also Germans, Westphalians from the north of the Rhine, and, in my case, citizens of Cologne – all this made possible by this European Constitutional Treaty.
We have written our shared values into this Constitutional Treaty, thereby making this old continent into something of a new world, for the wonderful thing about this Constitutional Treaty is that we are defining in precise terms what holds us together.
If this feeling of being ‘us’, this identity, is to come into being, it is quite vital that all Europeans should be able to decide for themselves whether they want this Constitution.
That is why we are campaigning for referendums on it in every European country, for although most of the people can now vote on the Constitutional Treaty, not all Europeans can.
It will not, unfortunately, be possible to organise it so that they are held all on the same day, but, if people themselves are asked, it will in any case enhance their sense of identity, their awareness of being ‘us’. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would invite you to see this Constitutional Treaty in perspective and not as the finished article.
The European idea has never been fixed, and it will not now be fixed in the wording of this new Treaty.
The European Parliament shall act on its own initiative after seeking an opinion from the Commission and after obtaining the consent of the Council.
Although Mrs Wallström has just said that we would have more democracy, I do not think that it is more democracy we want, but merely democracy, pure and simple. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you gave the Constitution, or whatever you ultimately call it, to a cartoonist in any country of Europe who respects the principles of democracy, of national sovereignty, of the values of the historic and cultural heritage, he would draw it like a mincer from which various parts of various animals, from sheep to cows, come out in the form of minced meat.
We have time to reverse globalisation and the new order of things. '. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, since the first six countries joined forces, the European Communities have developed a form of cooperation that is not perfect but that is nonetheless a form of cooperation between states of equal value whose governments have the last word concerning the states’ cooperative participation.
My party and I dispute the sense and validity of this construction.
This Constitution removes countries’ independence in favour of a non-transparent regime pursuing objectives that, in all too many cases, do not have grass-roots support.
If it is just, it is only so in the eyes of those who wish to amass power throughout the whole of Europe.
In fact, the text of the agricultural policy is out of date in the Constitution, fifty years out of date.
The European Parliament’s AGRI committee has even pointed, in its views on the Constitution, to the direct conflict between the original aims of the common agricultural policy and the Constitution.
The draft amendment rights this wrong.
It would also be desirable for the European Parliament to adopt this draft amendment because, in the entire resolution of the European Parliament, this is actually the only reference to the most important common policy – the agricultural policy. &#160;&#160; The subject of our debate, the Constitution, may be the first joint creation of the reunited Europe.
The Member States may also regard it as their own, as we, including myself, participated in the work of the Convention drafting the Constitution for a year and a half.
It is, perhaps, not by accident that two new Member States, Lithuania and Hungary were the first to ratify the Constitution.
The Hungarian parliament even proposed an amendment including minority rights among the fundamental principles of the Constitution.
At the same time, it is important that minority rights are exercised collectively and mutually and that the Constitution allows for this as well.
It was by no means an attempt to get rid of a secular Europe, but we found it necessary that in addition to mentioning the inheritance of humanism, enlightenment and other common European values, the preamble acknowledged the contribution of Christianity to this joint Europe and its role in making it possible for us to be here today.
I am, however, pleased that the Constitution allows for an institutional dialogue between churches and the European Union, which is a very important aspect for churches.
It is definitely so for national minorities, as it will be the first time in the history of the Union that national minority rights become part of the .
Millions of people belonging to national minority groups will celebrate the Constitutional Treaty’s coming into effect.
I represent a country where 10% of the population is made up of minorities, and from a cultural point of view, one third of its people lives outside its national borders.
As a representative in the European Parliament, I had the right to say in the Hungarian parliament’s ratification debate that every country, including Hungary, shall now have two Constitutions.
We must ensure that we always refer to the Constitution that grants more rights to our citizens, to the citizens of Europe.
All countries will become richer in this respect.
Indeed, that is what is stated in the new Constitution, but in the first instance there is only one candidate, as opposed to various candidates, so there is no choice.
When it comes to ratifying the Constitution, and certainly in countries where a referendum is to be held on it, the debate will not, though, be about subtleties and the differences between the old and new situation.
A referendum will be held in the Netherlands in a few months’ time.
I am already opposed to the argument that, as a result of the new Constitutional Treaty, the imminent accession of Turkey would mean that small Member States, such as the Netherlands, would more or less disappear into oblivion within the Union.
This is rabble-rousing, because Turkey is a separate decision and the public should, in my view, make up its own mind in a referendum when the time comes.
I am in favour of proper and democratic governance and against chaos.
If the purpose had been only to reduce the defence budget through greater efficiency, that is what would have been stated.
If we combine this with the wording to the effect that ‘[I]n its relations with the wider world, the Union shall uphold and promote its values and interests’, we see a return to a 500 year-old colonial policy.
It is something I reject. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am in favour of rejecting the Constitution, as is all my group.
At the same time I would like to remind everyone that the European Parliament does not have competence in this matter.
This debate and the committee initiative report to be adopted, which is based on it, have no legal basis or value.
Under the Constitution, Member States even have to agree to increase their military expenditure.
Governments of the Member States are behaving as if the Constitution were already in force.
In a similar way, a powerful elite once made decisions in our country and then issued its resolutions as predestined inevitabilities.
Life has ultimately shown that no catastrophes have occurred, and the same is true now.
We should do better to send the money to Sri Lanka. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I speak on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
The Member States are transferring a growing proportion of their sovereignty to benefit an ambitious global idea, whereby 25 countries tread a common path together, side by side.
It is 21 years since this Chamber, by a large majority, adopted the plan to reform the European Union that had been drawn up by the Italian Member Altiero Spinelli.
The Constitution, signed on 29 October in Rome, just as in 1957, is a fundamental achievement in that context.
Half a century later, Europe’s road has come back to the place where it all began: an exciting new challenge involving us all in creating and building the Europe of tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as Vice-Chairman of the Convention, I can only rejoice at the likelihood of the European Parliament, tomorrow, and by an overwhelming majority, declaring itself in favour of this Constitution.
It is true that we, in the Convention, tried to provide an answer to the challenges that Europe is facing, namely enlargement and globalisation, and this Constitution would not have assumed its present dimensions without the European Parliament’s important contribution.
The Constitution provides the institutional framework that the enlarged Europe requires.
Indeed, it is impossible for Europe to continue to work with the same institutions and the same rules as it did when there were fifteen Member States.
At the same time, I think that the true dimension of this Constitution is that we, although the first step was taken at Maastricht, are only now really changing from an economic community to a political union: the end of the pillars, the communitisation of the third pillar as regards the area of freedom and justice and a far more developed external policy, enabling Europe to speak with one voice in this globalised world.
I wish to thank my colleagues – there were 28 of us, the largest ever delegation of the European Parliament – the vice-chairman, Mrs Napoletano, and the staff who accompanied us and prepared the observation mission.
Our task, as Members of the European Parliament, is to deliver an informed political verdict on this crucial election at the Brussels part-session later this month.
I hope that the European Parliament will respond to the appetite for democracy in the Arab world as a whole. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote.
The PEACE programme is of much more than purely financial importance to Northern Ireland and the border counties of the Republic of Ireland.
It is the most visible contribution so far by the European Union to building a stable society in Northern Ireland and, to that extent, it has enormous symbolic value as well.
It is a fine example of the European Union offering assistance without interfering in the local political process.
I am grateful to the chairman and the secretariat of the Committee on Regional Development for addressing the proposal as a priority once it was received from the Commission.
The Commission is also aware of the fact that citizens are making increasing use of their right to complain to the European Ombudsman.
The number of complaints rose substantially during the first ten months of last year, compared to the same period in 2003.
The Commission is looking forward to improving its cooperation with the European Ombudsman.
This decision will allow the PEACE measures, designed to support reconciliation, to be carried on for another few years.
I am delighted that funding has now been extended to the end of 2006 and sincerely hope that further provision will be made in the Financial Perspectives when they are finally established and come into effect in 2007.
There is no doubt that our hopes for a peaceful future depend on the good work of the various cross-border and North-South initiatives funded under this programme. &#160;&#160; The PEACE programme is justified as an internal matter for the EU.
As the June List sees it, it is of crucial importance that economic aid not be used as a form of ‘structural aid’, but that it be used for bringing about real and practical improvements that promote positive development of the peace process in Northern Ireland. &#160;&#160; If it were only up to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the draft Constitution would be much more ambitious than the one presented to us.
We need Europe, even an imperfect Europe, more than ever.
With a Constitution, we shall succeed in launching this peace-oriented Europe, the bearer of common values such as human rights and democracy.
It is therefore essential to extend the implementation of the PEACE programme by two years, until the end of 2006, coinciding with the programming period for the Structural Funds and with a proposal to extend the annual Community contribution to the International Fund for Ireland for the same period.
In 2005 and 2006, EUR 108 million are being allocated to this fund which is supporting projects in the border county region and Northern Ireland.
The European Union also gives EUR 15 million a year towards the International Fund for Ireland and has supported consecutive Interreg programmes dating back to the late 1980s.
Against this backdrop, I welcome the fact that financial support is to be maintained for Northern Ireland and for border areas of the Republic of Ireland, and that the PEACE II programme is to be extended for a further two years. &#160;&#160; We are therefore continuing with the debate on the report by Mr&#160;Corbett and Mr&#160;Méndez&#160;de&#160;Vigo on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the new Treaty is a positive step from an institutional point of view, as everyone has pointed out.
The new Treaty gives us a Union that is stronger, more democratic and closer to the citizens.
Article 185 of Part&#160;III on monetary policy, for example, expressly states that, without prejudice to the objective of price stability, the European System of Central Banks supports the general economic policies in the Union in order to contribute to the achievement of its objectives as laid down in Article I-3.
These clauses guide the Union’s actions and policies laid down in Part III of the Treaty.
Accordingly, Articles 115 to 122 of Part III, for example, state that the various policies of the EU must ensure that equality between men and women is promoted, that the environment is protected, that consumers are protected, that social rights such as employment are guaranteed and that public services or services of general economic interest have the necessary conditions to fulfil their missions.
These examples show how the new Treaty strengthens the European social model.
Through the Convention and through hard work, especially here in the European Parliament, we now have a draft European Constitution.
Certainly, a lot could have been better, and many fellow MEPs have talked about the fact in this House.
Personally, I should have liked to have seen a clearer demarcation of the EU’s powers.
I should also have liked to have seen the permanent President placed not in the Council but in the Commission.
Finally, I regret that the Convention did not discuss the issue of the European Parliament’s seat.
We must stop this commuting between Strasbourg and Brussels.
A new era is on the way.
It constitutes progress for European democracy and for our citizens.
I am therefore looking forward with great enthusiasm to the debate that is now in the offing and that is already going on in the various Member States and to being out with you on the streets and in marketplaces defending the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, together with the Flemish Greens, I will, over the next few months, be conducting a campaign for Belgian ratification of the Constitution in the federal, Flemish and Brussels parliaments.
That is why I would ask you to revisit the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, particularly Amendments Nos 4, 9, 15 and 16 and, I hope, support them when we vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, among the various reasons for our opposition to this new Treaty I should like to highlight the fact that it reinforces centralism, federalism and European bureaucracy, that it calls for policies applicable to all Member States of the Union, irrespective of their actual situations, and that it embeds neoliberalism and the militarisation of Europe more deeply.
The blind impositions of the Stability and Growth Pact, the European Central Bank and the monetary and single currency policies in the euro zone, regardless of the reality of each individual country, have led to a deterioration in the social situation, to an increase in inequalities arising from the privatisation of strategic sectors and public services and to appalling attacks on workers’ rights.
We have also seen how these practices in agriculture, fisheries and in external trade policy have led to economic recessions, to unemployment and to the collapse of production in increasingly large sectors in countries with weaker economies.
By the same token, we cannot accept the promotion campaign for the new Treaty, which is scarcely democratic and certainly not pluralist, based as it is on the arguments of its supporters, disregarding the arguments of those who are opposed to it, those fighting for a more social, more democratic Europe founded on the principle of sovereign States with equal rights and committed to peace. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, a Constitution should lay down the ground rules for policy and the rights due to citizens of a democracy.
A Constitution should not establish the content of policy.
When the will of the people changes in a country, it must be possible for policy to be changed.
It regulates in detail; it deals with tourism and agriculture; it legitimises a corporate society; it forces each Member State into a currency union; and it points towards a concentration of power and a Europe governed by technocrats.
What is presented here as a Constitution is an attempt by the political establishment to usurp the European peoples’ democratic right to shape their own futures.
Europe must become a political player, a political unit endowed with democratic power and diplomatic clout.
We want a Europe of states and peoples and, consequently, we wish to strengthen people’s confidence in the European Union.
The rapporteurs are sending out a clear message to our fellow citizens: the Constitution is fine, with the best possible wording.
The Constitution, as such, does not increase the competences of the EU.
What now will turn this ambition into a reality is the will of politicians and, in the first place, of ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Dutch delegation within the Socialist Group in the European Parliament believes that the debate is about the Constitution rather than about whether we are in favour of Europe or against it.
The new Treaty, however, guarantees the influence of regional, decentralised authorities, and designates the national parliament as a watchdog, so that Europe, rather than threatening to turn into a superstate, provides effective and cross-border cooperation in respect of crime and food safety.
In addition, in the new Constitution, more than 30 types of decisions have been replaced by a handful of terms readily recognisable by the public, including ‘law’ and ‘enabling legislation’.
The Constitution also brings us more effectiveness by extending the number of areas in which decisions are taken by qualified majority, thus ensuring that one country cannot put a spanner in the works.
In short, the Dutch delegation within the PSE Group gives a critical ‘yes’ to the Constitution.
Furthermore, I would very strongly support a suggestion to publish a document outlining, on the one hand, what is already in place in the existing Treaties and, on the other, outlining what is new, changed or different.
Unlike the assertions from some speakers in this House today, this is not telling people what to do or how to think; it is giving our citizens a choice.
If you were sitting a public examination in Ireland, you might be asked to compare and contrast.
I have many reasons for saying this, but time allows me to mention just one today.
This Treaty brings the EU closer to its citizens.
Scotland is not independent yet, but the Scottish Parliament is already the only body responsible for justice, the environment, education, health and many other areas of Scottish life.
We cannot recommend it to the people of Scotland and will not be voting for it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am from a country with a constitution that enshrines the truth about fundamental human rights: the truth that they are part of human nature and essential to human dignity; the truth that a supreme being, not a mere human institution, gave these rights to us – all of us without exception.
In Ireland we have had governments which have neglected or even denied our rights, but under the shelter of our constitution, even the most vulnerable of us can demand them.
The EU Constitution expounds the false position that the EU creates all rights, even fundamental rights.
I would not dream of supporting this Constitution.
History tells us that when human institutions become the giver of rights, rights become gifts.
I will defend the Irish constitution against usurpation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all I believe that we need to express our gratitude to the members of the Convention on the Future of Europe who prepared this Constitution and, at the same time, to congratulate the heads of the Member States who signed the Constitution on 29 October 2004.
I do not intend to repeat everything that has been said in favour of the Constitution or everything that has been written in the rapporteurs' report or everything said by the rapporteurs.
The European Union is going down in global history as a union of states which aims to serve values.
However, they should respect one thing: that their governments, all the governments have signed this Constitution.
That is why, irrespective of the reservations and the individual objections which we have, we all need to act and work for the approval of this Constitution, for its ratification by all the Member States &#160;&#160; Supporting this truly excellent report gives the European Parliament both a great opportunity and a great responsibility to encourage our European fellow citizens to support the European Constitutional Treaty.
Our message to the citizens whom we represent here is that the acceptance of the European Constitutional Treaty is a truly exceptional step forward in the development of our common European home and that it is indeed a prerequisite for its progress in all areas.
It would endanger our efforts to bring about a future that seeks not only peace, but economic and social progress; a future in which a democratic Europe will remain an active and influential player on the international political stage.
This, above all, makes a reality of bringing Europe closer to its citizens.
It builds on the right to petition, but more than that it is a positive right that allows our citizens to begin to set the agenda.
I am very proud that this nascent EU right offers more: a real opportunity for our citizens to participate in and to move Europe.
Let us therefore have a loud fanfare for this step towards direct democracy, European-style. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, we are all aware that the Constitutional Treaty is bad news.
These values have been replaced by secular, socialist, stupid and bizarre values, such as the worship of Mother Earth, or rather Gaia, rights for homosexuals and power for Brussels bureaucrats.
This is something we cannot consent to and never will.
The report we are debating is misleading, biased and deceptive.
Fortunately, Poland will reject this Treaty, and I hope other countries will follow suit.
The League of Polish Families and the Independence and Democracy Group will vote against the report. ‘No’ to the Constitutional Treaty! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I cannot agree with the previous speaker.
I should like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the European Convention.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats made a particularly valuable contribution to this Convention, something which as a young MEP I was particularly glad to see.
Mr&#160;Teufel, Mr&#160;Brok and Mr&#160;Wuermeling are names that deserve mention in this connection, but I should like to thank each and every one of the participants for the work they carried out during a period of such crucial importance for the future of Europe.
If I may go into detail on one point, I believe that one aspect of the Constitution which represents major progress is the fact that cooperation between the European Parliament, on the one hand, and the national parliaments, on the other, will improve our contacts with the national parliaments, and enable us to gain a more detailed idea of how the legislation for which we often merely lay down the framework is transposed directly in the nation states.
I therefore hope that regulation of a clearer and more transparent structure of competences, and the early-warning system for subsidiarity monitoring, will allow us to achieve more effective and better cooperation with our national colleagues, in order to make legislation in Europe even more transparent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, any community in which the separation of powers is not stipulated and the security of rights is not guaranteed needs a Constitution.
I would like to stress the support of the European Confederation of Trade Unions for the European Constitution, which I believe to be truly essential and fundamental.
We must therefore achieve its ratification on time and correctly.
In Spain, on 20 February, we have a date with a referendum, with two good friends: a Constitution and Europe.
Mr Corbett and Mr Méndez de Vigo have done an excellent job in their clear and straightforward explanation and advocacy of its merits.
The greatest benefits of the new Constitution are that, on the one hand, it constrains the EU, but on the other, it liberates it.
The powers of the European Union will be constrained by strengthened rules on limits to competence, on parliamentary scrutiny, on democratic accountability and the definition of citizens' rights vis-à-vis the administration.
But the Union will also be freed up to act more effectively on the domestic and external challenges we face.
Domestically, this is most striking in the case of justice and home affairs.
In the form of a single document that is more easily readable than the current treaties, the Constitution reaffirms the double legitimacy of a Union of states and of citizens.
The Council of Ministers will reach its decisions on a qualified majority basis in a greater number of areas.
The Commission will see the number of its members reduced and its coordination strengthened.
Externally, the appointment of a European Foreign Minister will finally enable Europe to speak with a single voice outside our common borders.
The drama of the tidal wave in South-East Asia illustrates once again the importance of such visibility and of the increased coordination of European action in the world.
The President-in-Office of the Council, together with the Commissioner, have detailed the democratic progress represented by the draft European Constitution.
The Constitution will also enable Europeans overseas to assert their particular assets and to contribute to the emergence of an active new European frontier, a showcase for progress in solidarity and diversity.
Europeans have everything to gain from approving the ratification of the European Constitution.
They will become its major proponents and enable the European Union to function better and with more clarity and transparency, while at the same time establishing a balanced and stable distribution of powers at the different levels of decision-making: European, national and regional. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, following the example of our group, the Belgian Socialist delegation will vote in favour of this report, which gives its support to a document that constitutes an important stage on the road to European integration.
Parliament’s decision will be crucial, democratically and politically, to the debates that will be conducted within the framework of the processes of ratification.
It will be a decision in the affirmative because, as many of us have pointed out, this Treaty presents significant advances.
Our decision will be ‘yes’, but a ‘yes’ designed to start the ball rolling and with a price attached.
When it comes to decisions taken by the Council of Ministers, it will not have escaped the attentive reader that, although the double majority rule has been extended, the unanimity rule has been maintained for a number of crucial decisions, including those relating to the social sphere and to taxation.
In the same way, a number of us are alarmed that a Constitution should include, embedded within its wording, a part that is programmatic in nature and with which we cannot all agree.
It will be difficult to progress matters in certain social or fiscal areas, but no more difficult than at present.
What is important is to become aware of the fact that this Constitution is only a stage in European integration.
It is meaningful only if it heralds an ambitious future project in which all European citizens, beginning with the least affluent, can glimpse, and hope for, an improvement in their conditions of life.
It has taken over 20 years to construct this Constitution but we are getting close.
I will vote for this report and for the Constitution for three simple reasons.
Firstly, this Constitution was prepared in an open and democratic way.
I have been a civil servant for ten years and I have been involved in negotiating three intergovernmental conferences, including the Amsterdam Treaty, the Nice Treaty and this one.
I can guarantee that had this been an intergovernmental conference from beginning to end, we would never have had this Constitution.
Finally, I would urge each and every Member to go home and defend this Treaty.
The Constitutional Treaty is a historic milestone and a particularly emancipating moment for the European Community.
Today, we are all deciding together on the adoption of a common primary unified legal framework respecting just those values which have allowed us to enlarge your assembly.
I believe that, by voting for the Constitutional Treaty, we are sending a clear and positive signal not only to the citizens of the nation-states within Europe, but also to the whole world, a signal of our resolve to live together in peace and solidarity. &#160;&#160; – In this Parliament I represent citizens of a state, which has already ratified the European Union Constitution.
On 11 November last year, barely two weeks after its signing in Rome, Lithuania ratified this document, the first European Union Member State to do so.
It is true, the decision was made not in a citizens' referendum, but in one of the last sittings of Parliament before the end of its term.
The European Union cannot work well without an effective mechanism for the enactment of resolutions, without more active participation by citizens, and without clear and transparent accountability to citizens.
I believe that while striving for this goal it is important not only to properly set out the priorities of European Union expansion and to ensure that these receive the necessary funding, but also to see that there is order in the European Union above all from the standpoint of its institutions.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the European Constitutional Treaty is another important step in the development of European integration.
I see the benefit of the European Constitutional Treaty as being, among other things, that it brings the EU closer to its citizens, extends the rights of EU citizens, enshrines the Charter of Fundamental Rights in primary law, simplifies the legal system and replaces the main European Treaties currently in force with a single text.
The Constitution also reinforces the democratic nature of the Union and strengthens the role of the European Parliament and that of parliaments in the Member States.
It creates the conditions for effective decision-making by the European Union, and also clarifies the powers of the European Union with respect to the Member States.
In addition, it strengthens the EU’s ability to act as a cohesive and unified power in the international community, which is very important in the light of the events in South-East Asia.
For all these and many other reasons, which are too numerous to mention here, social democracies, including the Czech social democracy which I represent here, unequivocally support the draft Constitutional Treaty.
The European Constitution is opposed not only by the communists, but also by the conservative right, represented here in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I should therefore like to invite Mr Poettering and the other leaders of the Group of the European People’s Party, for example Mr Karas, whom I can see in the Chamber, to come to the Czech Republic and urge the pro-European Czech forces to ratify the European Constitution.
This notable connection between a project of justice and a method of political sharing is exactly how the great philosopher Immanuel Kant envisaged it.
This is because, rather than merely recognising common fundamental values, it was decided to share those values in legislative acts; because the Constitution prioritises norms over permanent negotiation; because it affirms the sovereignty of acts and the inalienable dignity of man as a reason for, and an objective of, European policies; because it articulates a programme of global justice that transcends national interests and complements the effectiveness of Member States’ internal constitutions; because it brings together modern European political identity in a system of universal values incorporating all of the other identities; because it represents the sense of belonging to a cosmopolitan and anthropocentric world; because it is the starting point for a league of nations in a more rational and more balanced world; because it is the constitutional homeland with which all homelands identify in this Europe, with a view to creating a new Europe.
Firstly, an integral feature of the new Constitutional Treaty is that it provides us with values concerning not merely democracy and human rights, but also the environment and social responsibility.
As a Member of the Council of Ministers, I have often wondered at the fact that the population of Europe was not to know how I voted as a minister when we reached the point of taking decisions.
Citizens and members of parliaments all across the continent are being called on to adopt a single fundamental Charter which sanctions and strengthens the values upon which this Union is founded: peace, prosperity, democracy, justice, freedom and solidarity.
The new Constitutional Treaty is certainly not everything we had hoped it would be, but its very existence constitutes an unprecedented political and historical event, which was inconceivable until a few years ago.
The text we are to adopt strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the European Institutions and brings them closer to the 450 million men and women who belong to the Union.
Indeed, the Constitution confers greater powers on national parliaments and on the European Parliament, in both legislative and political terms: our citizens will also have a greater say in the democratic process thanks to the closer bond between Community institutions and local communities, the social partners and associations.
Our duty, as elected representatives, is to make this participation real, productive and tangible.
Europe will thereby consolidate its role as a global player.
I was one of the 200 parliamentarians who participated in the Convention and produced the Convention text, which the IGC subsequently took on board to a very large degree.
I doubt whether any Member State constitution has ever been prepared in such an open and democratic way.
Of the 200 parliamentarians participating in that Convention, only eight signed an alternative text, basically arguing for the disintegration of Europe.
The fact is that this is a world in which the response to natural disasters and to man-made problems clearly requires transnational governance.
Uniquely in the world, Europe is developing a democratic form of transnational governance.
We have to work for them, using this Constitution as the basis for our work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 2004 was a particularly noteworthy year in the history of European integration, and it had both high and low points.
It is generally acknowledged, however, that the European elections were a low point, both in terms of their date and their outcome.
The product we have – the new European Constitution – is a very good one, and we must win people over to it.
Mr&#160;Méndez de Vigo and Mr&#160;Corbett have summarised this in four key points.
The Constitution will bring greater clarity and greater effectiveness to the European Union, as well as more democracy and accountability and more rights for citizens by means of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This should be an incentive for us to promote the Constitution to the public. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to declare that the Italian socialist delegation will be voting for the Corbett-Méndez de Vigo draft report, and I would extend my congratulations to the rapporteurs on the quality of the report, in particular the explanatory statement.
Nevertheless, this Constitution contains in essence certain fundamental passages which constitute a stable, lasting framework, on the basis of which we must now move forward so that the Union can effectively do what its citizens expect.
Firstly, I would like to mention the establishment of the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is the European Union’s voice on the international stage and who guides its foreign policy.
The procedures which make him, as a member of the Commission, accountable to Parliament are a prerequisite for the existence of a foreign policy.
Lastly, I would like to point out that the principle of subsidiarity is now a constitutional principle and this strengthens and guarantees it.
That is another reason why I believe we must vote for this report. &#160;&#160; I support this constitution, however, in my opinion, it is a good thing that in this Parliament we have Members that are against it.
We should not expect to win the argument if we do not expose ourselves to an open debate, otherwise we will end up saying that we have won the game when in fact only one team would have come to play.
After all, when one compares the arguments in favour of this constitution with the arguments against, one will not take long to conclude that the constitution has much more that is good in it than bad and it merits the support of the European citizens.
There is no doubt that if we explain to the people what the constitution means, the people will be more in favour than against it, because they understand how logical is the unification of Europe, that it makes sense and that it is in their interest.
This support will be based on the comparison of the arguments and therefore it will be on a more open, more balanced and a more democratic debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a Constitution for Europe is necessary: it is a democratic requirement.
Profoundly attached to the unity of the party, the French Socialists will conduct the national debate without in any way giving up our progressive values and ideas.
I consider that approval of the report is the condition for establishing Parliament’s authority in respect of the Constitutional Treaty, but I am sorry that amendments tabled by a number of us have been rejected.
We also regret the fact that a large majority of the opinions issued by other parliamentary committees that have identified a host of shortcomings in the Constitutional Treaty have been left out of this report.
A number of my colleagues in the French delegation will abstain from voting on this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this Constitutional Treaty is worth upholding.
The Treaty text reinforces the position of regions and towns, which are close to the citizens and where important tasks are carried out in many areas.
It is an important step that the European Parliament supports this and remains critical about the way in which this Treaty will be fleshed out at local or regional level in the next few years.
I would also suggest that we in this House from time to time ask the Council and the Committee of the Regions whether, among other things, our national states have now learned to communicate openly about European policy, and whether, in the subsidiarity test, national parliaments take the opinions of regions and towns into consideration.
Consequently, we will labour for this cause at national level, certainly if referendums are on the agenda. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the major risks from this Constitution are three in number.
The second is, are we to be a Europe of social awareness or are we to be a Europe of the open, uncontrolled market?
The third is, are we to be a Europe without a democratic deficit, with power in the hands of the citizens, or are we to be a Europe in which European elections are held and we have abstentions of 70, 60 or 50%?
Allow me an element of minor national pride as a Greek and as a socialist: it was during the Greek Presidency, in June 2003, that the initial negotiations on this Constitution were concluded, and I am proud of that.
The famous social mainstreaming clause setting out the Union's obligation to ensure that its every policy promotes the objectives of high employment, environmental protection, public health, education and equality between men and women can only be applied under good laws.
Similarly, I must tell you that, for any MEPs striving for a socially fairer Europe, this is a particularly painstaking and particularly welcome challenge. &#160;&#160; For many people, the institutions in Brussels seem remote.
The Constitutional Treaty is a compromise that does not completely satisfy anyone, but it nonetheless most represents what we have been able to achieve in the convention.
We need the Constitutional Treaty because without it we cannot expect any effective reforms or effective functioning in the enlarged Europe.
Although the chapter on policies has frequently been criticised, as a shadow rapporteur I must express my satisfaction that in the area of social policy and employment very concrete commitments have been set out for the Commission and the governments of the Member States, including the establishment of a Committee for Social Protection and European Social Harmony.
By accepting the report on the Constitutional Treaty, the European Parliament is sending a clear signal to the people of Europe that the time has come for a transparent and wholesale rearrangement of our constitutional and legal foundations, thereby ensuring that Europe becomes a continent of peace, prosperity, solidarity and security.
I am convinced that it will do so by a large majority. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I reject totalitarian regimes.
We have paid in blood for our commitment to the freedom of conscience, which was embodied for us by Europe as a hope for democracy, freedom of thought, religious freedom and freedom of conscience.
The sovereignty of Member States should not be threatened.
If, however, the Constitution strengthens the role of Parliament, but does not define the competences of the European Court of Justice, will the balance between institutions thus be upset?
Decisions of the Court will be directly imposed on Union bodies and Member States without any right of appeal.
The draft Constitution contains no guarantees that the European Court of Justice will not appropriate some of the exclusive competences of the sovereign states, even contrary to national constitutions.
Even if the majority in this Parliament changes after the elections and the composition of the Council changes, a double unanimity will be required in order to change policies.
My voters have put their faith in me and I wish to proceed in Europe so that everyone, including the smallest, weakest and poorest, are accepted into it and can find their places in it.
Ladies and gentlemen, in a democratic Europe, I ask that we respect the freedom of conscience when voting. &#160;&#160; Mr President, despite all the differences of opinion which the debate surrounding this issue has produced, we are once again making European history.
It is unfortunate that in some countries the debate on the Treaty has been taken out of context and used to fuel an internal and party political row.
When this Treaty has come into force, there is no chance that it will lead to the creation of a European superstate: on the contrary, its spirit and text will effectively block any self-seeking aspirations on the part of states, groups of states or extremist movements.
The Treaty will still allow the economy to play the role best suited to it in cooperation within the continent.
The dynamics of mutual economic activity and the single monetary policy are also preconditions of political cooperation.
I am also proud that in my own country, Finland, we have been able to agree that Parliament can decide on the ratification of the Treaty at national level. &#160;&#160; While approving the report submitted, I would like to reiterate once more that Lithuania, on the decision of its Parliament, was the first to ratify this Constitution.
Today the European Union ship already contains 25 states, but is sailing with far too weak an engine for such a cargo – the Treaty of Nice.
Lithuania ratified it with resolve, so that the energy and optimism of the new countries might be passed on to the European Union's old-timers.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that this substantial report by Mr&#160;Corbett and Mr&#160;Méndez de Vigo has been tabled.
Today I should like to address my comments to those Members of this House who have taken a critical approach to the Constitution.
They have warned against the creation of a European superstate and denounced shortcomings, and they have come out in opposition to mistakes made in the past.
I believe we should make it very clear to them that this European Constitution is in fact a way of addressing these shortcomings.
The European Constitution remedies many of the problems that all of us have experienced with Europe as it exists today.
It lays down a system of competences and grants national parliaments the right of participation, thus making Europe less centralist and less bureaucratic.
The Constitution gives the European Parliament a full say, and Europe will therefore become more democratic than it has been to date.
It also strengthens citizens’ rights, above all by means of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, as citizens will be able to invoke the Constitution directly when appealing against European decisions.
Finally, the Constitution provides this Europe of ours with a basis of values, and is thus a way of countering the technocratic approach to political problems.
The Eurosceptics should therefore really be in favour of this Constitution, as it is the only way of changing the things we all wish to change.
Today is the anniversary of the birth of Alexander Hamilton, one of the fathers of the American Constitution, whose picture can today be found on ten-dollar notes.
As I look at the fathers and mothers of the European Constitution in this House, I hope that they will also be remembered as gratefully in 200 years’ time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on a very thorough report.
Today’s report stresses the need to clearly distinguish every point in the Constitutional Treaty that differs from existing treaties.
The 300-page Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe is voluminous enough as it is, and consequently also more complex than the constitutions of the Member States.
There is no common European public opinion yet, but in my home country Estonia, for example, support for the EU has grown with every month since Estonia’s accession.
At the same time support is falling in many Member States.
In old and new Member States, in cities and in the country, people are primarily interested in what effect the European Constitution will have on their everyday life.
I believe that in presenting the Constitution, we should concentrate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Answers to questions such as these should be an integral part of public information about the Constitution.
The Parliament’s Directorate-General for Information should take this into account in its efforts to publicise the Constitution.
I wish them and all the European television networks success in translating the Constitution’s complex wording into a palatable format for the public.
I believe that there should be a much clearer provision.
Unfortunately, however, this arrangement also emerged from the series of compromises which were necessary in order for us to get where we are today.
All the governments and all of us need to work to avoid such an unfortunate development if we want to enter a new era for our continent. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, by adopting the report by Mr Corbett and Mr&#160;Mèndez&#160;de&#160;Vigo, Parliament will be making its last major contribution towards the adoption of a constitutional Treaty for Europe.
The existence of such a Treaty will enshrine the historic transition from a Community of peoples and countries progressively united by ever-closer economic ties to an actual political Community united by the desire for a common future.
Fifty years of a policy of small, prudent steps has paved the way for a new reality based on shared values, civilised values that express a shared European identity based on peace, democracy, human rights and economic and social progress.
Europe is not being built at variance with the secular reality of the nations on our continent.
Europe is founded upon the free and informed desire to ensure that the past does not repeat itself and to provide its peoples with guarantees that they will remain masters of their own destiny in a future laden with challenges.
In a world that is characterised by uncertainty, disorder and deregulation, it is increasingly necessary for Europe to speak out and to play an active role, both for us and for those others who look to us to set an example and to take action on matters of major international importance.
The champions of sovereignty are not the only opponents of this Treaty.
Others have loudly criticised it for not going far enough, for the fact that results have been meagre or for its lack of ambition.
Such people refuse to acknowledge the significant progress that has been made, because they persist with the pointless exercise of comparing the constitutional Treaty before us to the idealised versions of their dreams instead of comparing it to the current Treaties and the Nice process, in particular. &#160;&#160; Mr President, while the European Parliament has no formal role in the ratification procedure, I am pleased that, as the elected representatives of 25 Member States of the European Union, we are having this debate today, at a point in time when the ratification procedure has just got under way at parliamentary level and is just about to get under way at referendum level.
On the day when heads of state and government signed the Constitution in Rome, I happened to be in Bratislava, Slovakia, where I was privileged to participate in the opening of the House of Europe.
Procedures for establishing Houses of Europe in all Member States are under way.
They offer citizens a point of information that is centrally and visibly located in their own Member State.
It should not be an 'us and them' situation; it should be about everyone working together for the betterment of all people in the 25 Member States – or perhaps the 27 Member States, should that come about.
It takes two sides to make a debate.
The third aspect – this should be made clear: the rules of play – is the result of compromises between Left and Right, between federalists and intergovernmentalists; it should be made clear that it refers to those rules, not to the policies to be implemented.
With this view towards future progress, we shall call for a vote in favour of the European Constitution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a long-standing dream of this Parliament, and one shared by many of Europe’s citizens, is becoming reality.
The democracy deficit, having persisted in spite of everything, will now be overcome by means of an extension of the codecision procedure to include all decisions of principle on agricultural policy.
This is a step backwards from the current situation, and it will mean much work for us in the future.
The draft Constitution lays the foundations for common economic activities, and we will gain a common basis of values shared by all of us, something I see as particularly important.
We have before us a document which places an obligation on all those who bear responsibility for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am very much in favour of the European Constitution, and would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their outstanding report.
The Constitution, which above all strengthens the area of freedom, security and justice, marks a milestone on the road to a more secure and just Europe.
We have taken a giant step towards a Europe of citizens with this Constitution, as by enshrining in it the Charter of Fundamental Rights, by EU accession to the European Convention on Human Rights and by simplified access to justice, citizens’ rights have been given an enormous boost.
In addition, we now have increased opportunities to coordinate our efforts in the fight against such evils as crime, racism and xenophobia in Europe.
I welcome the fact that the members of the CSU in this House will vote in favour of this report.
Unfortunately, many members of the CSU in the German , which has yet to ratify the Treaty, appear to have no inkling of the significance and implications of the Constitution, as they have announced their intention to vote against it.
This is yet another example of the double game which the CSU is so fond of playing, which involves being progressive here in Europe and flying the flag for the benefit of the outside world, but speaking out in opposition at home, just in case.
This is, however, one of their traditions, for it was the CSU that, in 1949, voted against Germany’s Basic Law. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen: the trappings of the European Union have become too small, and no longer suit it in its new, expanded form.
Therefore it is fitting that the new Constitution will replace agreements that are currently in force and will lead to more effective functioning of the European Union.
It will also strengthen the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments, and thereby the voice of the citizens of the European Union.
As a member of the Committee on Culture and Education, I particularly support the articles of the Constitution that relate to those areas.
One of our greatest objectives is respect for our rich cultural and linguistic diversity, and concern for the protection and development of the European cultural legacy.
The Constitution guarantees freedom for art and science, the right to education and professional training, equal rights for men and women, and the right of the handicapped to be full members of society.
If we use immigration as the principal means of solving demographic problems, this will jeopardise our cultural legacy, the languages of Europe, our culture, our faith, the European Union and European civilisation in general – in short, all the values that we wish to preserve and strengthen through the Constitution.
Because we in the 25 Member States have opted for this community, it is also fitting that we do everything we can to ensure that it functions as well and effectively as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work and express my full support for the report we are debating today.
However, our work cannot stop here.
As the honourable Members are well aware, we Spanish have a particular responsibility within this process, since the first referendum amongst European citizens will be held in my country on 20 February.
We all, therefore, have the responsibility of explaining the constitutional text to the European citizens, which in my case includes those Spaniards living outside of Spain and even outside of the European Union.
I am, therefore, pleased that in my country the majority of political parties, unions and other representatives of civil society agree with us and are fully involved in this task of creating awareness of the content and scope of the Constitution, which is the only way to ensure broad participation and a positive response to this historic task. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the road to this Constitutional Treaty was a long and rocky one, and a number of good proposals fell by the wayside.
Now, though, we need this Constitution, and ratification by the Member States must progress quickly.
The founding fathers, including Robert Schuman and Konrad Adenauer, laid the foundations for the European house.
This is what the European Constitution will help us to do, and it represents a compromise which will mean greater openness and tangible improvements for the European public.
Citizens will gain more rights, and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, as drafted by Roman Herzog, will be enshrined in the Constitution.
The Constitutional Convention allowed us too to bring our influence to bear on the Constitution, and Europe will not become a centralist monster state, but will instead be constructed according to the principle of subsidiarity.
The characteristic approach and principles of the largest group in this House, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, can also be seen in the Constitution, although unfortunately we did not succeed in pushing through all of our amendments, for some of which we fought bitterly.
Ladies and gentlemen, the drafting of the Constitution is in line with the situation which has developed historically in modern-day Europe and which currently exists in the world.
The new Constitutional Treaty is a step towards reducing this disproportion.
This Treaty will not only help us understand more clearly who we are and where we are going, but will also provide greater clarity to our partners throughout the world as to our aims and the values which guide our actions.
Ladies and gentlemen, all of us, including those who have participated in the drafting of the Constitution and those who have participated in the analysis and discussions, have an obligation to explain the significance of this document to the citizens of our countries, as we cannot expect every European Union citizen to have read it.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights, which the European Union has also published in miniature version – just like all of the most precious books in history – has been incorporated into the Constitutional Treaty.
I therefore think that removing society’s barriers to ensure that citizens can participate fully in our united Europe is the most important aspect of our current activities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the last thing I want to do is to spoil a party.
Over the next 48 hours this Parliament will spend hundreds of thousands of euro on celebrating the Constitution.
In at least ten countries there must be a referendum before ratification.
If it were only the party that was premature, it would be rather curmudgeonly of me to object, but we are anticipating the Constitution in other more important ways.
We are, for example, pushing ahead with the creation of an EU diplomatic service, a proposal which, pending formal ratification, has no legal basis.
In the field of justice and home affairs we have gone even further, pre-empting many of the Constitution's clauses, in particular those to do with the creation of a pan-European legal system and a European public prosecutor.
Asked formally by this House what parts of the Constitution they intended to implement without waiting for official ratification, only five of the current Commissioners answered that it would be wrong to anticipate the results of the national referendums.
No means no. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by addressing the citizens of Europe, and urging them to care about the Constitution.
We must do everything in our power to ensure that the European public accepts this Constitution, because it will make Europe clearer and more citizen-friendly, transparent and democratic.
The Constitution is on the table, but it has not yet been ratified.
It is a political milestone for the European Union, and for a more citizen-friendly, transparent and democratic European Union.
We also need to abolish unanimity in the Council, thus strengthening the common, transparent and democratic Europe as provided for in the Constitutional Treaty.
What we need is for the debate on the Constitution to be Europeanised, not for the ratification process to be nationalised.
Well, from the first day that Europe’s founding fathers began to dream, began to imagine this common entity – a single entity drawing together millennia of history, geography, society and common values – well, from that moment the founding fathers themselves thought of having common rules: what we today call the Constitution.
This is why I am extremely disappointed this morning to hear prominent fellow Members, whose freedom of expression I clearly respect, stating their opposition to the draft Constitution.
People may oppose this form of Constitution or the content of the Constitutional Treaty, but not common rules, since the establishment of these rules strengthens sovereignty.
Today the new concept of sovereignty lies in subsidiarity: it is the sovereignty of local identities, the sovereignty of citizens, the sovereignty of those who must help construct a legal system to interpret in the best possible way the ever more varied and complex needs of an evolving society.
Let us hope that during the process of European integration these things will be remembered. &#160;&#160; Almost 50 years after the signing of the Treaty of Rome, that established the European Economic Union, finally Europe is going to have its own constitution.
For the first time, 450 million citizens and 20 nations are going to be united by this document that defines the values and principles of this European Union.
The ratification of this constitution will lead us to a more democratic Europe.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights was introduced in this constitution and thus the rights of each person are listed and every citizen may invoke this charter whenever he or she thinks that his or her rights have been broken.
The role of the national Parliaments will be strengthened as well, and this is because it will be responsible to oversee that any agreement between the European Union and the Member States is respected, and therefore the national Parliaments will have enough power to put pressure on the European Commission so that it can revise its proposals.
It is clear that this Constitution has very broad support across the political spectrum and across Member States.
I am hopeful that in the vote tomorrow there will be at least a two-thirds majority in favour of it, with more than 400 votes in favour in this Parliament, and that will send a powerful signal.
Let me also respond to the criticisms that have been made of the Constitution.
If the new Constitution contains improvements, then it is better to take the new Constitution rather than carry on living with the old one.
That is an argument I would also put to those who complain that there is no reference to Christianity in the new Constitution.
However, the new Constitution contains a reference to our religious heritage and other heritages, and its values are Christian values and also the values of many others.
As someone pointed out this morning, it was in this House that the constitutional process began, and I should like to pay tribute, on behalf of the Presidency, to Altiero Spinelli who, with his draft European Constitution of 1984, initiated this process and set it going by introducing a first stage, known as the Single Act, negotiated moreover under the Luxembourg Presidency.
I should also like to say to those who have attacked and criticised this draft Constitution that, in a democratic debate, we obviously respect their position.
To turn in upon ourselves and return to outmoded concepts of sovereignty are inadequate responses in a globalised world.
They offer no solution at all in terms of prosperity, democracy and peace, neither to Europeans nor to others.
I should also like to say to those who draw a subtle distinction between a pro-European ‘no’ and an anti-European ‘no’ that there is only a ‘no’ pure and simple, since a rejection of the Constitution is simply a defeat for Europe – a defeat for a stronger, more open, more transparent and more democratic Europe with perspectives to offer both within and beyond its own borders.
Admittedly, not everything is perfect in this Constitution, as the rapporteur said.
Is not, however, imperfection in a sense the very essence of democracy, since democracy thrives on compromise; and must we not therefore be capable now of accepting a compromise that represents progress in order to make further progress in the future?
As several speakers have said, the Constitution provides a sound basis for our shared values.
It supplies a democratic framework enabling the European Union to take more effective action where action is necessary, account having been taken of the principle of subsidiarity.
A balance between large and small Member States, equality between citizens and the respect for national identities mentioned by several speakers are the very essence of our EU, reflected very well in this constitutional document.
We should have liked to have gone further in the Justice and Home Affairs or external policy spheres, but I believe that the draft Constitution is an extremely important first stage.
This document has been prepared with the broad participation not only of MEPs and of parliamentarians and other representatives from the Member States but also of representatives of civil society.
There has been a debate, albeit an inadequate one, in civil society.
The debate on the adoption of the Constitution has therefore begun, and it must be extended.
I emphasise that this work must firstly be done in the Member States, for it is there that the people are building Europe.
The vast majority of the comments have rightly paid tribute to this excellent report and to the work of the co-rapporteurs.
I am conscious that this report and the Constitution need to be put into historical perspective.
This is the first time that the European Parliament has not had a list of regrets about the result of an Intergovernmental Conference, and we can ask one of the veterans in this kind of work about this.
If I compare this report to the Planas, Méndez de Vigo and Tsatsos reports, for example, it is the most positive assessment of the outcome of an Intergovernmental Conference.
It is therefore our responsibility to provide examples of how the Constitution will affect the daily lives of European citizens.
If you look around, how could we find a perfect document?
We will have to continue to compromise because we are 25 Member States with different traditions, languages, political decision-making procedures and views.
Many have mentioned rights, democracy, openness, effectiveness and values.
Mr Méndez de Vigo reminded us this morning that the Constitution is the unique opportunity to guarantee the values of the Union.
We are united in our diversity but with a set of fundamental and social rights that brings us together.
They have already received a reply from Mr Corbett.
Let us work on the basis of facts and the text of the Constitution.
This should be made accessible to our citizens in all the Member States, not just scare stories or misconceptions.
We will shoulder our responsibilities and so must the Member States.
As Mr Brok has indicated, preparatory work has already begun on the entry into force of the Constitution and the European external action service that will assist the European Minister for Foreign Affairs.
We cannot simply wait and let another two years go by before we can implement the provisions.
We will have to prepared in the best possible way and find the right balance.
I agree that we must ensure respect for the text of the Constitution.
The speeches this morning from Members in the new Member States have illustrated the historic value of the European project and the principles and values that it guarantees.
I look forward to joining you in that debate. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
With this Green Paper, the Commission wishes to make a contribution to the current debate, a debate begun with the Tampere mandate concerning the most appropriate approach to the admission of economic migrants and concerning the added value represented by the adoption of such a common framework.
Within the framework of the programme devised in The Hague, the European Council invited the Commission to present, before the end of 2005, a proposal for a common European approach to legal immigration for economic reasons.
Three years ago, the Commission had addressed a proposal to the Council on this subject, but this was not followed up because of the reluctance of several Member States to tackle the problem in a Community perspective.
The changes on the international stage, Europe’s need for balanced management of the migration phenomenon and of the latter’s many political, social and security implications and, finally, the signing of the Constitutional Treaty – which makes a clear distinction between subjects that fall within national competences and those which have, either in addition or exclusively, a Community dimension – are factors that have led the Council to engage in timely reflections and that have put this problem back on the agenda.
It is self-evident that preparing a proposal in this area demands a wide, comprehensive and transparent debate and, above all, the participation of institutional and social actors in carrying out the research for evaluations, proposals and contributions.
Indeed, police forces and the authorities responsible for conducting inquiries cannot have available to them all of the facts necessary for putting together both a picture of local situations and of migratory flows from different regions of the world to each European country and a picture of the conditions of integration that have already been met, or are to be promoted, for communities of citizens from outside the EU that already reside, or that are establishing themselves, in the EU.
Indeed, these factors give rise to the sense of insecurity experienced by our fellow citizens and, in combating them, we must not confine ourselves to reactions in strictly military or policing terms.
On the contrary, political actions also have to be undertaken, beginning with a programme of initiatives designed to manage the flow of growing economic emigration towards, inevitably, our own countries that sometimes constitutes an undeniable advantage for the European economy.
The question I put to you, Mr&#160;Frattini – yes, it is to you that I am speaking – is this: what objective information do you have that leads you to think – and the question is, in truth, also addressed to Mr&#160;Schmit – that the blocks placed by the Council on the previous initiative are likely to be removed today, a prospect about which we are, on the face of it, delighted, albeit – it has to be said – slightly sceptical. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I am, of course, like my fellow MEP Mr&#160;Bourlanges, delighted that the Commission and the European Parliament are continuing with their common efforts to open legal immigration channels.
The first is similar to Mr&#160;Bourlanges’ question: what practical legislative measures are you considering taking, and what will you do to stop the Council blocking such measures, as in the case of your first attempt in 2001?
Thirdly and finally, what measures will you adopt in order to link this immigration policy to a policy of European integration? &#160;&#160; Mr President, my questions follow on directly from Mrs&#160;Roure’s comments.
The first reason why I am reasonably optimistic over the possibility of attaining a tangible result, namely the adoption of a European initiative, is that, with regard to 2001, it was the European Council – the very institution which in 2001 did not allow a similar measure to be adopted – which in November 2004 called on the Commission to adopt a European initiative by the end of 2005.
The second reason is that with respect to the past, we have chosen what I would call a bottom-up rather than a top-down approach.
I am confident that this method will first of all enhance the transparency of the debate, secondly it will allow members of civil society to participate more actively in this debate than in the past, and thirdly it will enable Member States to approve or reject the proposal that the Commission will table, having the views of their employers’ associations, their trade unions and the European Parliament on hand.
These elements will consolidate the work.
I can only tell you that we intend to adopt a framework of minimum rules, to enable those who wish to work legally to do so, and at the same time to give people a preview of the provisions with the minimum of bureaucracy – there are currently 25 different rules on the admission of migrant workers, one per country.
I think that the Peillon report about admitting third-country scientists and researchers is a case in point.
That is backed by the Council, and that may explain your optimism to some extent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, many Members have not had sight of the Green Paper yet, but at this early stage we should set down for you some basic principles of what is a very welcome discussion.
We know that we want to share best practice, but we still have a very vague position on integration policy.
Secondly, managed migration means all things to all Members in this House.
These are human beings coming from third countries to work in the European Union, they are not commodities.
Finally, I very much welcome that civil society will have a much greater say, but we must then listen to civil society, to the trade unions and to business.
Because, if this were the issue, clearly the impact of immigration on society would not be positive, whereas we must ensure that legal immigration leads to true integration.
In conclusion, therefore, the Commission has two lines of action: turning what has until now been a national approach into a European approach, with the aim of promoting a more balanced policy, and above all, delimiting the phenomenon of legal immigration through a positive approach within our societies.
This approach is essential for true integration, which it will be difficult to achieve without it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I thank the Commission for its initiative, which is extremely welcome.
There are tens of millions of Europeans living outside Europe who have benefited from the immigration policy of other countries – not only the United States, but also Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and many others.
Their experiences might even enable us to make it easier for our own citizens – identifying as they will with them – to understand the benefits of legal migration to Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I have an observation to make, or rather a question to ask of Commissioner&#160;Frattini.
I am not familiar with the Green Paper, but I would like this document to contain provisions to ensure that in future Europe will not be suspected or accused, as has sometimes been the case with the United States, of causing a ‘brain drain’ from poor countries.
The countries affected are frequently poor countries, whose development depends to a large extent on the education of such an elite.
One of the things that have changed since Parliament last looked at this is that we now have ten new Member States.
If we are looking at a hierarchy of movement for employment, presumably the Commission is looking at removing the transition periods for those new Member States as part of that change in the hierarchical system of entry for employment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am particularly keen to pick up on Mrs&#160;Lambert’s comments on transition periods.
We should do our best to avoid perpetuating the absurd situation whereby third-country nationals are invited to work in the European Union or in the European labour market whilst restrictions on employment opportunities for those from EU Member States are still in place.
I would however like to thank Commissioner Frattini and his staff for their efforts in continuing work on this issue, above all because employment is by far the best form of integration we can offer our citizens, as has been brought to my attention in many conversations with groups and individuals affected.
The fundamental purpose of this proposal is that legal migration should be seen not as a problem but as an opportunity for all of us and for Europe in particular.
In this period we will launch a public debate.
We will take into account suggestions, concrete proposals, and we will consider all proposals as a very positive contribution in the spirit of open and frank cooperation.
This issue of brain drain and what to do about it will be one of the key subjects in the particular and specific communication on migration and development, which the Commission will present in Spring 2005.
I can already assure you that the Commission is fully aware of the acuteness of this problem, particularly in specific countries and sectors such as healthcare.
The Commission intends to propose a tailor-made approach where responses could be made that are commensurate with the magnitude of this very important and sensitive problem.
In this way, we will put emphasis on the positive impact that migration can have on countries of origin.
Finally, I can assure you that this problem will be taken fully into account by the Commission. &#160;&#160; That concludes the item on the Commission communication on the Green Paper on admission for employment.
In the Basque country, our Parliament has just approved, by an absolute majority, a new Statute for co-existence with the Spanish State which, in fact, is inspired by the Community model, which maintains these same principles I have indicated and is respectful of the Constitutional Treaty.
Nevertheless, in this morning’s debate one Member has accused it of attacking the European Constitution and has said that the Basque President and the Basque Nationalist Party have allied themselves with the enemies of Europe.
And we want to be able to live together in peace and friendship with the other peoples of the Spanish State, on the basis of mutual respect for different identities and languages, free accession and common work within a united Europe.
In terms of industrial restructuring and employment, this decision is going to have very major consequences for some of the Union's regions.
The WTO Agreement on Textile and Clothing, which established a ten-year period for the elimination of the quotas, expired on 31&#160;December&#160;2004, and trade in textile and clothing products is henceforth subject to the general WTO rules.
Sustained efforts are needed to help upgrade the skill levels of workers, improve the quality of their jobs and empower social partners at all levels to address the many challenges in the sector.
The Commission communication of 13 October 2004, entitled 'Textiles and Clothing after 2005', is a key element of this strategy.
This communication was a response to the set of recommendations by the High Level Group on Textiles and Clothing, in which trade unions were represented.
On structural funding and relocation processes, the participation of the textile and clothing sector in multisectoral programmes should provide an efficient framework for supporting the sector, allow for diversification of production and ultimately serve the economic interests of the regions in question.
Firstly, on the one hand, we support the initiatives and programmes of the ILO.
Secondly, we reinforce the capacity of the countries in the region to implement the relevant Cotonou provisions and different Economic Community of West African States protocols and initiatives in the area of child protection.
The International Labour Organisation, through its International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour, launched in 2000 a new initiative called 'Combating Trafficking in Children for Labour Exploitation in West and Central Africa'.
In 2003 a 'West Africa Cocoa/Commercial Agricultural Programme to Combat Hazardous and Exploitative Child Labour' was added, focusing in particular on cocoa farming.
The Commission has a strategic partnership with the ILO, in which the fight against child labour is a priority.
In that context, a programme of EUR 15 million under the ACP funds is currently under consideration.
ECOWAS is active as a regional organisation in the fight against child labour.
In addition to the Cotonou provisions on trade and labour standards, the ECOWAS Heads of State have adopted a declaration and a plan of action to fight child exploitation, and ECOWAS has recently set up a child unit in its secretariat.
The 9th EDF Regional Indicative Programme will provide capacity-building to this new unit within ECOWAS, with a view to promoting the effectiveness of its work. &#160;&#160; I thank the Commissioner for giving me information on the ILO and various other organisations and activity which is already in the public domain.
Moreover, it considers that poverty and the lack of local opportunities are amongst the main reasons for exploitative child labour and child trafficking.
The poverty- reduction approach through EU development cooperation is a sound basis for tackling the problem as it gives priority to equitable growth and to better access to education.
Article 50 includes a specific provision on trade and labour standards, which reaffirms the commitments of the Parties to international CLS as defined by the relevant ILO Conventions. &#160;&#160; Is the Commission aware of the fact that the world Chocolate Manufacturers Association concluded an agreement back in 2001 specifically to deal with this issue?
Would the Commission therefore undertake to look at the report that is due in the middle of this year from the international chocolate manufacturers, commend them on the work that they have been doing and encourage them to continue to develop their certification programme?
For animal products, there was the concrete concern that trade would be totally blocked from 1 January 2005.
However, negotiations led by the Commission on behalf of the EU have averted this risk.
In the course of negotiations, no distinction has been made between the new and former Member States.
However, Russia has insisted on inspecting all establishments in the new Member States which have requested approval for export.
The honourable Member may rest assured that the Commission has involved all Member States in the efforts to avoid trade disruption, in particular the new Member States.
These efforts are continuing and the Commission will continue to defend the Community interest. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, the situation is more dramatic than might be supposed from the Commissioner’s reply.
Member States do not, however, have the power to take independent decisions on veterinary matters relating to imports of products from third countries.
This directive provides that posted workers, including temporary workers, enjoy, irrespective of the law applicable to the employment relationship, a number of important protective provisions concerning working conditions in force in the Member State where the worker is posted.
For services provided via an establishment in another Member State – for example a hospital or a home for the elderly – the service provider will have to comply with all the relevant rules in that Member State.
Second, the country of origin principle is embedded in harmonisation and enhanced administrative cooperation between Member States.
Finally, the Commission wishes to stress that the proposed directive does not require the liberalisation or privatisation of services which are currently provided at national, regional or local level by the public sector or public entities.
Neither does the proposal affect the freedom of the Member States to define what they consider to be services of general economic interest and how they should be organised or financed.
I am confident that also the honourable Member would like to see companies, consumers and workers enjoy the benefits of an open and competitive integrated services market.
In what way, then, will this directive lead to a competitive integrated services market?
The rest of the directive deals with any other areas.
If services are provided via an establishment in another Member State, the service provider will have to comply with all the relevant rules in that Member State.
It would be very helpful if you could explain these in more detail to Members of this Parliament who persist in describing this directive in the entirely unjustified terms you have so convincingly dismissed in your answer of 'social dumping' and a 'race to the bottom'.
The services directive is attempting to open up the services area to the benefit of everybody in Europe.
But having said that, and in reply to the earlier question from Mr De Rossa, I am also conscious of the specific concerns expressed by Members.
Hopefully, during the parliamentary process and other processes we will be able to tease these concerns out further. &#160;&#160; If you take the qualifications that the Commissioner expressed in his answer to the first question at face value, it is clear that this directive would not apply to the UK health service, which is based on care that is free at the point of use.
What we all have to accept is that if Europe is to meet the challenges of the future and keep the social protection model and other things that we aspire to and want in Europe, we have to ensure that the European economy grows.
The removal of internal market barriers in the area of services, as foreseen by the proposal, is essential for meeting the growth and employment targets which lie at the heart of the Lisbon Agenda.
The Commission has proposed a horizontal directive for several different reasons.
Secondly, a large scale and detailed harmonisation process through sectoral directives would be unnecessary, unrealistic and inconsistent with better regulation and subsidiarity principles.
Thirdly, the services proposal takes into account the specificity of certain activities, proposes specific harmonisation where this is deemed necessary and adopts a phased approach to implementation.
The country of origin approach is a central element of the proposal, as far as the cross-border supply of services is concerned.
It eliminates the problem of cross-border services being subject to a multitude of different rules.
The country of origin approach is in particular essential for SMEs, who do not have the means to establish a subsidiary or an office in another Member State and therefore can export their know-how only by the temporary cross-border provision of services.
This harmonisation and cooperation will generate the degree of confidence between Member States required for the effective application of the country of origin approach.
Finally, a number of derogations are foreseen for services demonstrating a particular sensitivity because of the need to protect consumers, public health or public security, or where the current divergence of Member States' legislation does not allow the application of the country of origin approach.
As pointed out in my earlier reply, the Commission is confident that the proposal is the best way to allow the economic potential of the services sector to materialise, in the interest of our workers, our consumers and our companies. &#160;&#160; I also wish to welcome Commissioner McCreevy to his first Question Time in Parliament and to re-emphasise at the outset that I am fully in favour of the Lisbon Strategy and objectives because they can create greater wealth and employment within the European Union.
As I said in my reply, it will allow companies to operate in another Member State without having to go through a multitude of further tests.
That is the basis of the country of origin principle as it would apply to the circumstances outlined. &#160;&#160; I also welcome the Commissioner to his first Question Time in this House.
Mr Mitchell has gone into further problems relating to growth within the European Community.
The Lisbon process is about addressing these matters and, as you will be aware, Mr Barroso has made the Lisbon Agenda his top priority for our period in office.
I note what the honourable Member has said regarding access by women to the labour market and his comments about childcare.
I therefore think it would be appropriate, and shall also ask the Commissioner if it might not be appropriate, to produce a list of examples clearly showing how companies have, in practical terms, been prevented from contributing to economic development.
A great many Members had asked to speak, and there is no way for me to know in advance what Members’ supplementary questions will relate to when I give them the floor.
The second part of Question Time has already overrun in any case, which means that Questions Nos&#160;31 to 33 can no longer be taken, and will instead be answered in writing.
This was a question on education, which is indeed a very important sector in the framework of the Commission's relations with Latin America.
The importance of this sector has been stressed by the Heads of State and Government of both regions in Rio, in Madrid, in Guadalajara and at various different summits, calling in particular for the reinforcement of regional cooperation at the level of higher education.
The Commission is currently implementing cooperation programmes at national, subregional and regional levels in the field of education worth about EUR 300 million.
In particular the Commission is financing two regional programmes in the field of higher education.
One is the Alfa programme – , and the other is the Alban programme – .
The Alfa programme promotes cooperation between higher education institutions and other relevant organisations in the two regions with a view to human and institutional capacity-building, mobilising the civil society of both the EU and Latin America regions as a whole and therefore creating and reinforcing lasting bonds.
Alfa 1 covers the period 1994-1999 and Alfa&#160;2 the period 2000-2005.
The Alban programme was launched in 2002 at the EU-Latin America Madrid summit, thereby responding to the recommendations of the Rio de Janeiro summit.
At regional and national level, several education projects are being implemented, notably in basic education.
In Nicaragua the Commission is contributing to the improvement of the education sector through budget support totalling EUR 62.5 million. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like first of all to welcome the Commissioner, Mrs Ferrero, who, as well as having an adopted Hispanic surname, has a mastery of Spanish and is knowledgeable about Latin America.
The statement by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner in this campaign says that the world must become a better place, but this evidently means primarily for Europeans and that development cooperation must in the first instance bring stability to our 'immediate neighbourhood'.
The Commission is committed to helping developing countries achieve the development goals of the millennium.
The Community's external actions, including assistance, are further adapted to the diversity of our partner regions and countries.
Similarly, our relations with the larger developing countries in Asia and Latin America in particular cover a broad range of objectives.
In this context, it is clear that bringing concrete benefits to our partners will make the world a better place, not only for the people directly benefiting from EC assistance but also for European citizens.
The human rights clause in the EU-Israel Association Agreement places ‘economic freedom and the principles of the United Nations Charter, particularly the observance of human rights and democracy’ as ‘the very basis of the Association’.
The European Commission has regularly expressed its concerns not only at the continuing terrorism and violence but also at the route of the separation barrier and the expansion of settlements.
Our wish is to address these issues through dialogue.
The action plan adopted for Israel includes measures to strengthen dialogue and cooperation on the importance of adherence to international law and the need to preserve the perspective of a viable, comprehensive settlement, which involves minimising the impact of security and counter-terrorism measures on the civilian population.
It is the Commission's view – and I believe this is shared by the Member States – that measures to suspend the EU-Israel Association Agreement would therefore be counterproductive. &#160;&#160; I fully accept what the Commissioner says about the changing circumstances.
However, I would ask her, in her new role, to keep this Protocol under constant review and to keep the pressure on Israel to observe the contents of the Protocol.
This offer is, in principle, also valid for Belarus.
If and when fundamental political and economic reforms take place, it will be possible for Belarus to be fully involved in the ENP, with all the benefits that would bring.
Under current conditions, however, there can be no fully-fledged ENP action plan for Belarus.
The October 2004 parliamentary elections and the referendum were important milestones for Belarus under the ENP, but, unfortunately, Belarus failed to achieve them.
The Commission is stepping up its effort to coordinate assistance for democratisation and civil society.
Belarus is covered by the European Commission delegation in Kiev, which has a technical assistance office in Minsk.
What we can do, however, and as I mentioned before, is to provide particular support for civil society, and also to focus efforts on working with the academic community.
I can tell you that we are planning to hold three workshops in order to identify exactly what we can do, involving non-governmental organisations and as many neighbouring countries as possible, as we share the view that support for civil society is the only opportunity available to us at present to bring about change in Belarus. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks.
However, with regard to projects and money I can give you some examples: the EU's support for civil society is to be strengthened; the EU's TACIS programme – which amounts to EUR 10 million for Belarus in 2005 and 2006 – will focus on support for civil society, independent media – exactly what you wanted us to focus on; higher education cooperation including exchanges of students and professors; and alleviation of the consequences of the Chernobyl catastrophe.
Finally, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights – the EIDHR – will have a more active role in Belarus in the years to come.
In 2005-2006 Belarusian applicants will be able to apply for support under two campaigns: 'fostering a culture of human rights' and 'promoting democratic processes'. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to know whether the European Commission is aware that these much-needed educational programmes are under the control of the Belarussian authorities, and therefore cannot be regarded as true support for the process of democratisation in Belarus.
The last of them will be in Lithuania, which invited the Commission to work together with some neighbouring countries on new ideas and strategies; on what can be done with NGOs and others.
When the competent authorities of one Member State in the course of criminal investigations in their own country need to carry out taps on phones or telecommunication services located in another Member State they must follow the procedures that have been put in place for that purpose.
The main European instrument providing for this situation is the 2000 Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union.
Until such time as this Convention enters into force, Member States can have recourse to the 1959 Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and to Council of Europe Recommendation (85)10 concerning letters rogatory for the interception of telecommunications. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome you but you surprise me.
We have had telephone tapping in Greece of Greek citizens by the Italian authorities in the absence of any Greek authorities.
At any rate, the Commission does not have the legal right to rule on a breach which, if committed, would have been committed by an independent judicial authority and not by a governmental authority of a Member State.
There are legal instruments available, which I pointed out: in particular, Council of Europe recommendations and the Council of Europe’s Convention on Mutual Assistance. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I think there has been another mistake here or something has escaped you.
Concept and practice varies due to a number of factors: different immigration histories and variations in the roles of government and civil society with respect to integration policies are just two examples.
The Commission consistently stressed that integration policy was by definition an area where subsidiarity is at stake.
On the other hand, all Member States adhere to human rights standards and shared values such as equality anti-discrimination, solidarity, tolerance, etc..
Best practice must be taken for what it is: ideas, lessons to be learned and suggestions which can inspire and inform policy makers in the definition of the policies required. &#160;&#160; I thank the Commissioner for that clear answer.
The Commission can and must take action, and it will, in order to ensure that the fundamental rights of persons entering European territory are respected, obviously including those who enter illegally: the right to respect for human life and dignity is not a question of legal differences.
Article 11 of this framework decision called on the Commission and Council to make an assessment by the end of 2003 of the forms of implementation by the Member States of specific anti-terrorism measures.
Whereas, within the first pillar, the Commission has the authority to initiate an infringement procedure against a Member State, this possibility does not exist within the Treaty on European Union.
The situation described by the honourable Member certainly does not facilitate the Commission's role, but it does not prevent it from producing a broad range of policy initiatives, which have been the basis for the policy definition of the Union in the important area of the fight against terrorism.
The Commission has been playing this role very actively in establishing in June 2004 the revised action plan on combating terrorism, in updating it in December 2004 and in implementing more than half of the respective measures.
This is also evident from the submission, in October 2004, of four communications covering different aspects of the prevention, preparedness and response to terrorist attacks and from the adoption, in the same year, of a communication on mutual access to data relevant to the fight against terrorism and of several classified documents in the field of consequence management and the protection of critical infrastructures.
The Commission in general and President Barroso and I in particular are determined to work in close cooperation with Council presidencies to maintain the fight against terrorism.
This is very high on the agenda of the Council, including that of the JHA Council and the European Council comprising the Heads of State and Government. &#160;&#160; I am well aware of the legal framework in which the European anti-terrorism policy can operate as far as the Commission is concerned and you described it very well.
The action plan will be presented in May this year and I hope that it will be adopted by the European Council in June.
The action plan on combating terrorism will contain tangible measures and guidelines, precise deadlines for the Member States and binding obligations for a common policy to enhance cooperation, information exchange and protection for the victims of terrorist attacks.
Member State crime statistics experts are being consulted on this draft action plan, which will be presented in the form of a Commission communication in the spring of 2005.
The Commission, in close cooperation with Europol and other providers and users of EU crime statistics, is developing this project on a step-by-step basis in accordance with Member States' ability to provide relevant data.
This task force will begin its work in May 2005.
A seminar on this subject, co-financed by the EU's AGIS Programme, was hosted by the Italian Ministry of Justice in Rome in October 2004. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for staying to answer the question.
I do not think that we can or should create new bodies; I think that on the one hand the Commission should give strategic, or rather political direction to this sector and, on the other hand, the sector should have the chance to find different ways to use Europol, which as we all know is trying to extend its duties and its remit.
This is undoubtedly one of the sectors where work can be done. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to make a few remarks: some of my fellow Members, like myself, have been here since the start of the sitting, have submitted written questions and have not had the opportunity of receiving a reply in the Chamber which they could then counter with a further question, whether they were satisfied or not.
The Bureau and the legal departments should better consider the matter of Question Time and give proper thought as to the time allotted and how many questions can be answered in that time, because we cannot oblige a Member to stay in the Chamber all this time and then not have the satisfaction of receiving an immediate, direct reply from the competent Commissioner.
I should like to extend my sincere thanks to everyone, and especially to Commissioner Frattini again for being prepared to remain so long in the Chamber with us for Question Time.
Questions Nos 46 to 76 will be answered in writing.
