In the words of our Berlin Declaration of 25 March 2007, 'We, the citizens of the European Union, have united for the better'. (Applause) The successful integration of Members from Member States joining the European Union in 2004 and 2007 and the adaptation of our parliamentary work to a European Parliament now bigger and more diverse rank among the most significant successes of this parliamentary term.
During this time, the European Parliament has gained in experience, strength and cultural richness.
We also succeeded in ensuring that the basic principles we have always represented are maintained in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Together we have advanced parliamentary democracy in the European Union and beyond.
The European Parliament and national parliaments are now partners.
Tomorrow morning, I will participate in the Troika summit on employment and tomorrow afternoon in the Summit for the inauguration of the Eastern Partnership in Prague.
It is also an achievement of this legislative period that the role of Parliament in the European Councils is no longer restricted to the inaugural address by the President.
I would specifically like to thank the Chair of the working group, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, and her - our - colleagues for their special commitment. (Applause) Together we have succeeded in adapting the working methods of the European Parliament to changing political circumstances.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, in our day-to-day work, we deal with many issues, sometimes relating to very specific circumstances.
In particular, I should like to thank not only Vice-President Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez for his unflagging support but also my fellow Members in this Chamber.
With your support - if I am reelected as a Member of the European Parliament on 7 June of course - I will devote myself to the task of ensuring that the 'House of European History' is completed by the end of the next legislative period in 2014.
My work over the last two and a half years as President of the European Parliament has been a tremendous challenge, and I have carried it out gladly and with dedication and will continue to carry it out until 14 July.
Mr President, on 25 March 2007, you signed on our behalf the Berlin Declaration commemorating 50 years of the European Union.
By taking the initiative of creating a House of European History, you are giving a lasting dimension to the work carried out by yourself and your predecessors and by all those who, in their own way, have contributed to our common history.
For all these things, I would simply like to thank you, Mr President. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you, Mr President, for your hard work.
You have given Parliament dignity through the way in which you have led this House.
The legacy of a President of the European Parliament is always subject to political scrutiny.
The dignity of a multinational joint parliamentary assembly of well over 700 Members from 27 countries, who belong to eight different parliamentary groups, who belong to different faiths, who have different skin colours, who come from different political traditions, who have experienced different historical development, must be safeguarded.
To underpin what I have said about the way in which you have exercised your office, on behalf of our Group I should like to single out one point on which we fully shared your view and where you gave this House a voice that extended far beyond the bounds of political divisions, and hence gave a voice to disenfranchised people in a place that is assembled in exactly the way I have described.
Events - tragic ones, in many instances - have followed one another thick and fast during this term, and on many occasions, particularly during the last two and a half years, Parliament, through you, Mr President, has been able to perform a crucial role in mediating proposals.
Mr President, I thank you on behalf of my group and personally for your commitment - you have represented all of us - and for the great contribution you have made to establishing the reputation of our institution, for which we demand not only ever more transparency, but also due attention on the part of certain sections of the media that have taken an interest in Europe solely for the purpose of stirring up petty, futile debates instead of contributing to the growth of common awareness and shared progress.
Mr President, after the 20 years I have spent in this Parliament, I feel it is my duty to join you, representing me magnificently in this Chamber, in thanking the millions of European citizens who, through their daily toil and respect for the principles of solidarity, justice and the roots of our past, are contributing to the development of a society that is more respectful of rights and more aware of its own duties.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Herr Präsident, you have had the immense privilege of presiding over the most original institution in the world, and we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are sure that you have done so with motivation and with passion, and we thank you for this.
Mr President, your presidency - as you have just pointed out - has been marked by events of major political import, which have, on more than one account, been a challenge for Europe and, at the same time, for our Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of you all I should like to thank Mr Wurtz, who has been a Member since 1979 and will now leave Parliament.
Our thanks also go to three other fellow Members, who have been here since 1979 and will now leave: Klaus Hänsch, a former President, Ingo Friedrich, former Vice-President and Quaestor, and Karl von Wogau, former Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and currently Chairman of the Subcommittee on Security and Defence.
I would first like to pay tribute to you, Mr President, for the exemplary manner in which you have led this institution throughout the last two and a half years.
Speaking in particular on behalf of the Presidency, I can only say that we have very much appreciated all your qualities in the contacts we have had both before and during our Presidency.
I should also like to emphasise how important it was for this Parliament and for the entire European Union that you had the courage and the willingness to defend the democratic principles and privileges of this Parliament, even against Heads of State where necessary. (Applause) I should also like to congratulate you on 30 years as an elected Member of the European Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Mann.
