author. - (IT) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that I do not need to remind you of the importance of the Conference of the Parties in Bali which is now imminent and in view of which we have asked for further information on your strategy, on the line that you intend to take.
A great deal has changed in recent months and we can therefore be optimistic, albeit in a critical and vigilant way.
I would therefore like to sum up the purport of the resolution which we have drawn up and which we are sure will be adopted in this House tomorrow by a large majority; it is an offering, an offering to the negotiators to help them to take a tougher line as these negotiations are being launched.
The message the scientists are sending out about the advance of climate change and the urgent need to cut emissions is becoming an ever more alarming one.
We are showing the way with our own measures to reduce our own emissions, but also by coordinating international negotiations.
It is just as crucial to get big developing countries, such as China and India, to accept limits on the increase in their emissions.
We have to understand that if China, India and other similar countries accept limits to their emissions, it will mean a huge change in their way of thinking and the way they do things.
After the Second World War the United States delivered 2% of their GDP in the form of Marshall Plan aid.
In this context Bali is the final opportunity to launch negotiations on a global and comprehensive agreement on the post-2012 climate regime.
The European Union will go to Bali with the same sense of purpose that has guided it over the last 15 years, during which we unhesitatingly and unambiguously took on the role of leader of the international community in this great global challenge.
We were on the front line in Kyoto in making greater commitments than were asked of us, and today the EU and its Member States have clearly defined ambitious targets that again put us on the front line in combatting climate change.
It is therefore time for other states to assume their responsibilities and to play a real and proportionate role in the global battle against climate change.
Encouraged by the debate between the Heads of State and Government at the recent Lisbon Informal Summit on Europe and globalisation, which clearly showed that climate change is an EU priority area, and also by the Environment Committee's 30 October conclusions on the preparation of COP 23, we will go to Bali committed to contributing actively to achieving a result that can be translated into concrete, perceptible progress on the future of the climate regime.
The Commission and the European Parliament made a decisive contribution towards adopting an ambitious European policy on climate change.
The question submitted by the Temporary Committee on Climate Change concerns the most important issues we will be facing in Bali.
One such issue is how to secure the support of our main partners for starting negotiations, with a view to concluding an international agreement that will aim to ensure that global warming is limited to 2°C.
The Bali Conference will undoubtedly be a milestone in the international endeavour to combat climate change.
The recent meeting in Bogor also confirmed that there is a shared view among a steadily growing number of countries that an agreement must be reached in Bali on starting official negotiations aimed at concluding an agreement on climate change for the period after 2012.
The EU strategy on climate and energy, approved by the European Council in March 2007 on the basis of a related motion from the Commission, has had a decisive effect on the aims and level of ambition of the Bali Conference as well as the architecture of the post-2012 agreement on climate change.
The developed countries must continue to take the lead by making ambitious commitments to reduce emissions in absolute terms.
We therefore support the initiative of our Indonesian hosts to invite finance ministers to a meeting on climate change and funding, to be held in Bali during the Conference.
The Commission will approve the package of measures on climate and energy at the beginning of next year and will plan the necessary measures for achieving our targets, namely a unilateral reduction in emissions of 20%, or 30% if an international agreement is achieved.
The Commission will propose a legislative framework for achieving the Community target of 120 g/km by 2012.
The Commission will also present the legal framework for capturing and storing CO2, with the necessary guarantees on environmental protection.
We must now prepare and secure the widest possible international support for the way ahead that we have planned.
For instance, there is disagreement on how to combat climate change, and in particular the type and nature of the targets.
Targets of this kind are of fundamental importance if we wish to ensure the effectiveness of our agreement and the strengthening of the global CO2 market.
We shall continue to cooperate with all those in the United States who can help towards bringing about a change of attitude at federal level.
In the United States itself, a very lively dialogue is already being conducted on the issue of combating climate change.
We need this support in our efforts to strengthen international cooperation on climate change. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FI) Madame President, first of all my sincere thanks go to Mrs Hassi for her cooperation on this resolution.
Obviously this is perhaps going to be one of the most important, if not the most important, conferences on climate change.
For example, a year ago Nairobi failed to show any indication that there would be commitment from any of the important new countries to emissions cuts from 2013.
We have therefore had to hope that negotiations outside the Kyoto Protocol framework will result in emissions cuts among the world's four largest polluters, the United States of America, China, India and Russia.
The European Union must speak with one voice in Bali.
Large areas are being devastated today and we all know what that means for the climate.
What we need is a growing forest where the final product is taken care of in a way that locks in the CO2 and other greenhouse gases.
For that this debate is an excellent tool, but we must also make preparations together with our friends through a strong transatlantic dialogue and dialogue with China and India.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, can I too congratulate Mrs Hassi on her work and contribution to this debate.
I also want to congratulate Al Gore, the former Vice-President of America, for being recently awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his sterling work in highlighting the need for international action to arrest climate change.
I thus fully support the 20/20 and 50/50 EU commitments to reduce carbon emissions.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, it has become standard practice in the European Union, as we heard again today from the President-in-Office of the Council, to speak of a leading European role in the international effort to combat climate change.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, the text before this House is the result of collective work by the Climate Committee.
That committee, set up on ad hoc basis with a mandate of great importance, has undertaken major consultation and discussion initiatives, and has drawn up an instrument which Europe can use to play a major role in the thirteenth Conference of the Parties in Bali.
What is needed is a political and multilateral approach which is based on the UN, and takes account of the IPCC and major changes not just in technology but also in the social model.
The proposal of 3.20% by the Commission and the Council is only a starting point in this sense, albeit a positive one.
We also need to start thinking about innovative proposals that we ourselves have put forward in our parliamentary debate and which are now being taken up in a more authoritative way by leading figures such as Chancellor Merkel.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, may I make the following points on behalf of my colleague, Hans Blokland.
In view of the upcoming Climate Change Conference in Bali it is important to record the European Parliament's position on climate policy as concisely as possible, and Satu Hassi has done just that.
Besides, precisely because we need to set a good example, I do believe we shall arrive at a European environmental foreign policy that serves to influence the search for answers to questions such as why these huge conflagrations break out across the globe, producing more CO2 than all of Europe's power stations put together.
If we do not take it, others surely will. (FI) Madam President, the credibility of the leadership shown by the European Union in the area of climate policy will be measured in December in Bali.
You have done some excellent work. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a word of welcome to Commissioner Dimas, who will be on the front line in Bali.
I am optimistic that in 2009 we can really get down to brass tacks and conclude a good agreement which the United States can also sign up to.
But if the rest of the world does not follow Europe and agree binding targets, we shall need a plan B and even a plan C.
The proposed resolution is a good one and it merits our full support.
External climate protection of this kind may provide a response on the part of the European Union to the growth of emissions in our products from Southern countries and we can collect the income generated and then invest it in clean technologies in the South. (SV) We will soon be deciding how we will be able to combat global warming after 2012 when the Kyoto Agreement comes to an end.
The EU must continue to take a leading responsibility through measures at home - everything from tougher requirements for the cars of tomorrow to increased aid for alternative sources of energy.
First, clean environmentally friendly technology to all developing countries which are in a phase of modernisation, not least China and India.
Climate policy does not stand and fall with Bali, but success in Bali will, of course, improve the chances of achieving a final agreement in 2009.
Their decision on greenhouse gases provides for a 20% reduction in the 1990 emission levels in Europe by 2020.
I hope that this step can be initiated in Bali. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious climate problem.
I believe we should not only focus on the way in which national political decisions are taken but also consider, as one or two colleagues have said to me, how the development of technology can be spurred on and supported.
I do not see any sense in holding today's debate and then, two or three hours or two or three days later, discussing Lisbon strategies and the like in the same chamber.
I hope that the next time, when we deal with the full report from the Committee on Climate Change, we shall have a chance to put forward a rather wider spectrum of arguments. (DE) Madam President, I should like to add my voice to the numerous compliments that have been paid to the rapporteur for this good and objectively presented report, which also received the support of a good majority of the Committee on Climate Change.
Mr President, the fight against climate change should inspire the creation of a new development model.
The EU should play a leading role and ensure that the negotiations do not end in a broadening of the flexible mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol.
The aim in Bali should be an agreement with an environmental perspective.
The Bali Conference should be an opportunity to formulate a comprehensive proposal for the post-2012 period with binding, long-term targets.
The issue of climate change and the European Union's preparations for the Bali Conference have been a recurring theme during these monthly sessions that I have attended.
We have established our own emission reduction goals that cannot be and have not been equalled anywhere in the world, and we have also made significant efforts to save energy, to invest in renewable energies, etc.
We must therefore be proud of our efforts and of our work and must not slacken them.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the speakers in today's debate for their positive contributions.
However, we also need to look beyond Bali.
The international carbon market partnership (ICAP) with US states and Canadian provinces, which I signed on behalf of the European Union in Lisbon on 29 October, brings together partners who are actively pursuing the implementation of carbon markets through mandatory cap and trade systems.
I have to underline that without the continuous support of the European Parliament we would not have had an energy and climate-change package earlier this year and without your support we do not have any hope of achieving a better result in Bali.
