Conclusions of the European Council (19-20 March 2009) (debate) - Ladies and gentlemen, we have noted the internal political situation in the Czech Republic.
We support the Czech Prime Minister, the President of the European Council, in his work to make a success of the Czech Presidency.
We need the Treaty of Lisbon for greater democracy, so that the European Union has more freedom of action and for greater transparency. (Applause) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the conclusions of the European Council on 19-20 March 2009.
The topic attracting the greatest attention was of course the question of how to resolve the current economic crisis.
I will quote one figure: EUR 400 billion.
A worker dismissed from Saab in Sweden enjoys social standards that are completely different to those of a worker dismissed from General Motors somewhere in Chicago and the governments in these two cases have completely different approaches, as the automatic stabilisers multiply the EUR 400 billion to something substantially higher and give us an undisputed advantage over the US in this regard.
The fundamental support for the agreement from all 27 Member States confirms the validity of the Lisbon Strategy, as it is one of the four pillars upon which the entire Strategy actually rests.
Gordon Brown was here yesterday and he had an opportunity to explain clearly the approach of the 27 Member States, the mandate for the G20 summit and the three other de facto pillars to this Strategy.
This approach is causing concern and in my opinion it will be a topic of discussion at the G20 summit.
The discussion may continue later at the informal summit of the 27 Member States with the US administration and Barack Obama in Prague.
The second pillar of the agreement, in terms of seeking a solution to the current crisis, is preparation for the G20 summit.
I would also like to applaud the agreement for the fact that we finally provided a concrete number in respect of increasing the disposable resources of the International Monetary Fund and we set this specific obligation at EUR 75 billion.
The 27 Member States share a unified position, a single voice and a common aim ahead of the G20.
The current crisis, as we all know, is a crisis of confidence.
Within the framework of restoring confidence we have therefore taken a further step towards strengthening confidence by doubling the guarantee framework for countries outside the euro zone to EUR 50 billion just in case it is needed.
I believe that even the EUR 5 billion which was finally approved, and which forms only a small part of the enormous sum of EUR 400 billion, is the result of very difficult negotiations affecting many countries.
We finally reached agreement after very complex negotiations and here the Czech Presidency clearly played a dominant role in that it brought about the agreement to approve the EUR 5 billion and to send the money to you in the European Parliament, so that you could deal with it.
The renewal plan has a Community aspect of course, in respect of which about EUR 30 billion is available today, as well as a national aspect, in respect of which every Member State within the framework of the plan is implementing its own fiscal stimulus.
The plan is ambitious, diversified and comprehensive and it will solve the problems of growth and employment differently according to the situation in each country as well as problems linked to the economic situation of course.
The second major theme of the European Council was the climate and energy question.
The climate debate: discussions and preparations are already beginning for the Copenhagen Conference.
We are trying to find a joint position at the European level.
As far as the Polish approach is concerned, of course, we respected the interests of countries that are rather wary of this mechanism as well as the interests of countries which play a leading role in matters of climate change.
All countries, even those that view this as an absolute priority, agreed that we have yet to find the actual mechanism, the key and its wording, far enough in advance of the Copenhagen Conference.
The third area concerns external relations.
Given that there are icebergs to the north and the Atlantic Ocean to the west, then it is in the south and east that our neighbours live and it is there that the countries which could potentially threaten both our economy and our social and security situation are situated.
The Eastern Partnership was an objective of the Czech Presidency and I am delighted that it has been approved with a firm commitment of EUR 600 million.
If the Member States do not agree to this and there is no decision from all of the 27 Member States then President Lukashenko will simply not be invited, although both the opposition and the neighbouring states are recommending that we do invite him.
I informed the European Council about the meeting and the informal summit with President Obama on 5 April in connection with the fulfilment of other priorities, specifically the transatlantic relationship.
There were many other issues at the European Council about which I am ready to respond.
I hope that the struggle for seats in the European Parliament will be fair and that you will meet again after the elections and continue your work. - Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, for your determination to continue the work of the Presidency despite the difficult situation in your country.
The reality of our decisions shows the reality of our unity and confounds pessimistic expectations which, once again, have proven to be inaccurate.
Firstly, the Council has endorsed the Commission's proposal to devote EUR 5 billion to strategic energy projects and to broadband Internet.
The agreement reached at the European Council clearly reflects the EU's determination to use all the tools at its disposal and to do its best to prevent the crisis from jeopardising our long-term objectives, particularly in terms of energy security and the fight against climate change.
However, to this we added - during the European Council - the commitment to support the IMF with a maximum of EUR 75 billion.
The debate that we held yesterday with the UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, clearly demonstrated this.
This is a leadership agenda, and I believe that it is nonetheless important to point out - since it was not obvious at the start - that the position of the Member States, which are going to take part in the London Summit, and of the Commission, is in fact the message of the entire Union of 27 Member States, which want to maintain this leadership position so as to introduce a new approach at international level.
The challenge is to re-introduce into the economic system, and especially into the global financial system, ethical values without which the market economy cannot function.
However, the European Council also looked beyond the crisis.
In the area of external relations, I welcome the support given by the 27 to the Commission's proposals to develop the Eastern Partnership, which we will have the opportunity to examine in more detail during the Eastern Partnership Summit on 7 May.
This investment is critical in these difficult times.
The same is true of the package of existing and forthcoming measures on the financial system.
We must, in particular, make the most of what we can do to complete the Member States' action through the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
We also know that, when we take decisions regarding the financial sector, or when we adopt a recovery plan, these are also measures for employment.
Be that as it may, the Commission is fully mobilised and set to deliver a strong message on 7 May 2009.
It is important to send that message to all Europeans, and specifically to all workers in Europe, that we at European level also care about a social dialogue.
We have organised a meeting in the College of Commissioners, and I am determined to go on working with the social partners, the European Parliament, the governments of Europe, the Presidency, of course, and also with the Committee of Regions, and the Social and Economic Committee because I really believe that, in facing this problem of employment, we need a European mobilisation not only of governments and the European institutions but also of the social partners and all our societies.
It is important that we retain this determination and that, through coordination and implementation, Europe will be able not only to respond to the challenge internally but also to make an important contribution to the global response to this crisis of very great dimensions. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Topolánek, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, after leading our US partners and the rest of the world from the start of the crisis in an ambitious, but truly necessary, reform of the financial markets, last Friday Europe established a road map for the G20 of 2 April.
The decision taken by the European Council last week to put in place a EUR 50 billion fund to help Member States outside the euro zone in this difficult period is a good thing, since what affects one of us affects us all.
When added to the EUR 400 billion of the European economic recovery plan, these appropriations will help to re-establish growth conditions and to create wealth and, ultimately, jobs.
I call on the Council to do its utmost to ensure that an agreement is reached by the end of this parliamentary term on the three major issues currently on the table: credit rating agencies, directives on regulatory capital requirements and the Solvency II Directive.
On this last text, the Council must step up a gear to ensure that it can be adopted at first reading, in April.
It is therefore our responsibility to convince our partners to take our lead in combating climate change and to adopt the objective of a 30% reduction in CO2 emissions.
The 27 requested this last week; we expect to have a road map in June.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Topolánek, I find it remarkable that you are here.
That you are here this morning shows that you are a fighter, but you have yet to understand the remit of the President-in-Office of the European Union.
What Gordon Brown said yesterday was the opposite of what you said here.
That is the big mistake that you are making here. (Applause) Now I also understand why people told us at the beginning that it is hard to engage in dialogue with this man.
No, Mr President-in-Office, that is the way to take the European Union back up a blind alley.
We are here to help you.
I am not prepared to be consulted after 7 June until this Parliament has been formally convened for its first sitting.
All these are welcome.
We need a clear assurance from the President-in-Office that funds from the EUR 5 billion will actually reach that project, but also that investment in gas supply infrastructure will not be a substitute for renewables research.
Our leaders must be clear about that at the G20 Summit.
I therefore urge you to convene the leaders of Council, Commission and Parliament before this House rises in May to agree on how to compose Parliament and Commission with legal certainty.
Once again I congratulate you, and at what is a difficult moment for you because of domestic problems, I hope that you will be able to solve those problems and that you will also prepare the next summit in three months' time.
I will start with support for the Eastern Partnership.
A sum of EUR 600 million has been made available for this over five years, but we know that of this only EUR 350 million is new money.
Together this means barely EUR 20 million annually for each country which is part of the project.
The allocation of EUR 200 million to the project, which has an estimated cost of construction of EUR 8 billion, only brings a smile of pity to the faces of our partners.
At the summit EUR 5 billion was also allocated to the anti-crisis package.
Part of this money will go to large energy projects, including EUR 330 million to my country, Poland.
Unfortunately, this shows that at a time of economic crisis the EU's fundamental principle of solidarity is giving way to economic egoism.
This is exactly what we have to do at the G20 in London.
Thirdly - and Martin has raised this - the biggest error of your summit was the downgrading of the social summit in May.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Ladies and gentlemen, it is generally obvious that we need to find a way to resolve the crisis afflicting Europe and other parts of the world at the present time.
However, the problem is one of who can restore confidence and how it can be restored.
The sharp rise in unemployment is a problem and measures for stimulating employment and preventing job losses are extremely important for employees.
We are therefore establishing a sphere of influence and thus doing something ourselves which we sharply criticise in others.
Mr President, last week it was stated in the EU Observer that Jacques Delors had a pessimistic view of the future of the euro zone.
The conclusions of the summit in this regard are very vague.
Mr Delors also said something else that, for a eurosceptic such as myself, almost gives me a sense of déjà vu in relation to arguments that I put forward on a previous occasion.
The single currency is part of the problem, not part of the solution.
I would like to point out that these entirely rational conclusions were reached by the heads of the 27 Member States and the Commission in a situation where the EU is facing a sharp rise in unemployment and a decline in the economy and the Lisbon Treaty has not been approved.
Following the collapse of the Topolánek government President Václav Klaus has the strongest political mandate in the Czech Republic.
Let us try to look at these matters seriously and find unity among the 27 countries, each of which has its own history and each of which is experiencing different symptoms from the ongoing financial crisis or different impacts on the real economy.
If we cannot agree on a joint approach then it will not matter who had what starting position at the beginning of this problem because we will all pay the price through a domino effect.
Our one major task is to keep the system in operation and to guarantee for EU citizens the same social standards as they had before the crisis.
We have decided on some very concrete measures and the figures of EUR 5, 50 or 75 billion demonstrate, in my opinion, the European Council's clear commitment to respond in a concrete way to the situation in hand not just through general measures within this or that framework but through very concrete steps.
The job summit.
The Lisbon Treaty.
I have to say that our ambition is to achieve political agreement at the June European Council.
I have already said in my introduction that in my opinion the EU has adopted an entirely correct approach by not opting for one or the other but saying only that we have rescued the banking sector and now all that remains is to clean it up.
The second pillar of this structure is regulation, which lies partially in your hands.
There was also discussion about the role of the IMF.
The problem hinges on whether the largest players on the global financial market will respect these institutions as this was not the case in the past.
I think it would be good to say something about the Eastern Partnership.
The EU must remain a sort of lighthouse for these countries.
If the light is extinguished in this lighthouse, development in these countries will not be under our control.
In response to the words of Mr Bielan I would say that it was a major success to get the EUR 600 million approved at all.
I am enormously appreciative of the fact that after the G20 in London and after the summit in Strasbourg-Kehl the US administration headed by Barack Obama will coming to Prague.
I would finally like to say something about the remarks of Mrs Bobošíková.
I do not view the situation in such a poor light and I can assure you that the Czech Presidency will not suffer through this in any way and that all of us who have responsibility for managing the EU agenda will undoubtedly do just that. - Thank you Mr President-in-Office of the European Council.
With these good wishes we thank you for your presence here this morning. - Mr President, I want to express my support for the impressive way in which the Czech Presidency has dealt with some of the crucial issues facing Europe.
Earlier this month Mr Topolánek said that protectionism is always harmful and, in the case of the EU, it is illogical.
This honesty stands in marked contrast to the disingenuous and self-serving speech delivered by the British Prime Minister in this Chamber yesterday.
He ignored his role in putting in place and operating a fundamentally flawed financial regulatory framework.
Europe and the international community now need to move quickly to restore confidence in our financial systems, to ensure a properly functioning banking system in which individuals, Mr Schulz, and businesses can place their trust and get banks lending again to boost confidence.
The IMF has proposed that you invest 2% of GDP this year and next year.
Mr Barroso, you said that we are doing well; we are investing 3.3%.
I guess that, when the number of the unemployed reaches 25 million in Europe, you will proudly stand here and say that our stimulus is now 5% of GDP.
Mr Barroso, Paul Krugman has said that Europe is providing less than half in terms of real stimulus compared to what the Americans are doing.
I thank you for what you said today when you wished that this Employment Council on 7 May could be a true Employment Council.
This unemployment crisis will not disappear because we refuse to have more meetings.
This is about the destiny of the European Union's economic, monetary and social efforts.
So, one more time: Commission President, let us hold a serious, broad-based, well-planned Employment Summit on 7 May.
If you can do that, we will be with you. (Applause) - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has proven to be a stroke of luck in the financial and economic crisis and the Czech Presidency has also done a proper job thus far.
Erroneous decisions by governments in economic and financial policy and inadequate financial supervision by governments and the manifest collapse of a number of banks are reason to call for a reformed financial system, not a new economic system.
The independence of the European Central Bank and its approach to monetary stability are right and have proven their worth.
We also have proof of how important the common market is to prosperity and stability in Europe.
The European Union must therefore continue to work consistently to complete the internal market and offer a framework for competition that works.
The Czech Presidency stands for this and I hope that we can continue to count on that. - (LV) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Czech Presidency for the fact that under its leadership the Council has taken a significant step towards awareness of the real problems and also their resolution.
Secondly, the banks have received generous financial assistance in order to re-establish the stability of the financial system, but they are not in any hurry to take measures in the lending sphere.
Thank you for your attention. - Mr President, the UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, wants us to believe that he is now suddenly proud of European Union unity and that EU's countries are stronger together and safer together.
I hope very much that it will not be long before Scotland can play an even more active and constructive role in the world as a normal, independent Member State of the European Union. - (DE) Mr President, it surprises me that the President-in-Office of the Council, who lost a vote of confidence in his parliament yesterday, is being so harsh on the failed policy of the past.
That surprises me.
The economic crisis, the climate crisis and the energy crisis demand a new approach and that approach demands the necessary investment.
We had expected an agreement on the funding of the Bali and Poznań climate deals.
The EU needs to emancipate itself at the forthcoming G20 financial summit from the role of vassal which it has played hitherto towards US policy and to implement strict rules and rigorous controls.
The first priority, therefore, is to bring the crisis on the financial market under control, change the global imbalances, jointly address the tasks before us in terms of climate protection and the fight against poverty and implement a new morality in the world based on a social market economy.
If we manage to do this in this crisis, then the Czech Presidency will have met all our expectations in full, regardless of what happens with the Treaty of Lisbon and the internal situation in the Czech Republic. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-office of the European Council, Mirek Topolánek, opened his speech today in the European Parliament with an attack on social democracy.
However, I do not want to focus on Czech domestic politics.
In conclusion I would like to comment once again on the Lisbon Treaty.
This was the case in the Czech Parliament and it will be the case in the Czech Senate once the vote is taken.
This would help bring both Europes, new Europe and old Europe, closer together and find a consensus. - (PL) Mr President, during the recent European Summit many subjects were raised.
However, we must not depart from our guiding principle of solidarity.
The light-touch regulation of the financial markets was always a road to rip-off and corruption.
The Lisbon Treaty is old hat.
For the people of France, at least, it is becoming increasingly clear that there will be no safety without France, no France without French policy, and no French policy without national and popular sovereignty. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that at the centre of this debate there remains the dogma that the banks should be central to the economy and that the process of globalisation should also be a fundamental part of our economic future.
The increase in IMF resources, the doubling of the crisis fund, the Eastern Partnership, the support for strategic infrastructure and the support for Nabucco all amount to a fulfilment of the 'Three Es' of the Czech Presidency.
The election of Václav Klaus as President also belongs to the politics of double standards.
The second serious omission is the euro.
You can participate in the G20 summit and represent Europe at the summit.
It is important for Europe to defend its regulatory measures against the US and not just to submit to a policy of excessive stimulation packages which can lead to hyperinflation.
However, this also applies to us back home and it is your party that has kept us out of the euro zone for many years.
Otherwise you will find it difficult to represent the 60 to 70% of Czechs and Moravians who do not want to deal on unequal terms with Europe, but who do want to live in Europe in a normal way. - (SV) Mr President, there is an issue that concerns a large number of European citizens today.
They also say that the summit that should have taken place at the beginning of May will no longer be a summit.
Then we can also work to promote increased mobility and to combat protectionism. - (NL) Mr President, a lot has been said about how much money we actually need to set aside in order to combat this economic crisis.
Another point is the solutions for Eastern European countries and countries that are not in the single currency.
These countries are being let down somewhat, with a sum of EUR 50 billion being mentioned.
We all need to take the rise of the far right seriously and we all need to ensure that we tackle it before the elections. - (GA) Mr President, I would like to give my support and congratulations to the group of European leaders that met last week.
It is also clear that the fundamental rules laid down in the Lisbon Treaty are needed now more than ever.
As an old saying in Ireland goes: 'there is no strength without unity'. - (NL) Mr President, at every European summit we really can complain that the European dimension does not come through strongly enough in the decision-making process.
We must also ensure that enlargement really does take place and that we also show solidarity with the new Member States in these difficult times.
I urge that we revise this view in order to enable us to negotiate with the Council on the basis of a position taken by this House. - (FI) Mr President, the best way to improve energy security in Europe is to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources.
All in all, every cure for the economic crisis should have as its aim the prevention of global warming reaching a critical point.
This must also be the outcome of the meeting of the G20 countries.
When Europe speaks with one voice, the United States of America will also then adopt this same objective. - (SV) Mr President, the Berlin Wall fell almost 20 years ago.
The European Central Bank will have an even more important role.
The announcement of EUR 600 million for the Eastern Partnership is excellent and I welcome the proposed European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument spending on improving EU energy security through better storage facilities for oil and gas and building new pipelines.
The Council has also rightly decided to double the assistance package for financially distressed non-eurozone countries in eastern Europe, from EUR 25 billion to EUR 50 billion.
This measure will help stabilise countries like Hungary and Latvia.
The suggestion by Russia's Foreign Minister, Sergei Lavrov, that the Eastern Partnership is a means for the EU to expand its sphere of influence abroad is absurd.
I believe that there needs to be a change of government in Ireland and a change of attitude in the European Council.
It is all very well to cite EUR 400 billion, but we know that this money is almost all taken from national budgets.
The inclusion among these projects of the Nabucco gas pipeline and the interconnections between Member States, such as those between Romania, Hungary and Bulgaria, may help avoid a crisis similar to the one in January 2009.
Using energy sources from the Caspian Sea region and making the most of the Black Sea's strategic location are an essential condition for guaranteeing the European Union's energy security.
Decentralisation with the aim of strengthening local autonomy and the channelling of resources into investments in priority areas like infrastructure or energy in order to preserve and create jobs are two of the measures already initiated by the Romanian Government.
The European Union cannot survive with new demarcation lines. - (PL) Mr President, we can talk selectively about the summit from the point of view of two time scales.
Mr Barroso, if financial collapse turns into psychological breakdown, then we will be in the midst of a real crisis.
President Barroso, it is right to say the rich should pay for the crisis, because it was they who caused it.
With regard to the employment summit, this cannot be a mini-summit because employment is not a mini-problem; it is a major problem affecting individuals and families.
I fear that the crisis will continue for many years, which is not what we want. - Mr President, I think the encouraging result achieved by the Council is that 27 Member States can now go to the G20 with a common position.
On the contrary, we are bound to act together with the understanding that, by supporting each other and committing ourselves to reforms in the spirit of the Lisbon Strategy, the crisis will make Europe stronger. - (HU) Mr President, the European Commission and the Council have succeeded, in spite of the countervailing forces, in preserving the unity of the European Union.
I would like first to thank President Barroso, since the financial assistance to the region has been doubled, having been raised to EUR 50 billion.
The Prime Minister of Hungary suggested a year ago, and at this summit a decision in principle has at last been taken, to create a supervisory system for financial markets and banks.
We need a new economic order and a global system of governance for the 21st century that will correct the causes and imbalances at the root of the crisis and that will promote sustainable development through an open economy based on solidarity. - (HU) I welcome the decision of the Council with regard to the position to be put forward at the G20 summit.
I am pleased that our political leaders have recognised that measures to address the global crisis and the fight against climate change are closely related.
The essence of the 'Green New Deal' development plan put forward by Prime Minister Gordon Brown and President Barack Obama is to link economic stimulus with environmental investments and with support for increased energy efficiency and environmentally friendly technologies.
Although it will be some time before its positive effects on the economy are felt, there is no doubt that the large-scale budgetary package, representing 3.3% of the EU's GDP - that is, more than EUR 400 billion - will generate new investments and create jobs.
In order to do so, however, we urgently need to agree on the development of a global carbon dioxide market, on financial compensation for developing countries, on technological support and on capacity building, as well as clarifying at last the principles of burden-sharing among Member States. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the Czech Presidency for the successful summit.
Millions of people in Europe are afraid of losing their jobs and, frankly, I do not understand the position of the French President in opposing the summit: a fully fledged summit is something we need at this moment.
The problem is to transform this money into effective demand, and for that to happen we need to restore confidence among households and enterprises. - (IT) Mr President, President Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the combination of measures for support and stimulus and regulatory measures is one of the major questions on the international agenda.
It is no secret, in fact, that Washington insists on the need for a further collective commitment for the adoption of national measures to stimulate demand and revive the economy, while at the Commission in Brussels, the prevailing belief is that all useful and necessary moves in this regard have already been made and that it is now time to wait and see the results of the anti-recession measures brought in by the Member State governments.
For me, however, one sign of what the European Council did or did not achieve is what our Prime Minister said when he returned to Estonia - namely, that Europe was returning to its fundamental values.
A few days before the meeting of the European Council, we heard from Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman that the European Union stimulus package is perhaps not enough.
We may need not 400 billion, but 500 billion this year, and a total of 3 trillion may be required.
Whatever the conclusion of this debate, what is certain is that we are seeing the largest fiscal stimuli that our generation has experienced since 1929.
This is not rhetoric, Mr Topolánek, this is a call for action. - (FR) Mr President, it is difficult not to hide one's disappointment at the end of this summit.
It appears that it was President Sarkozy who succeeded in convincing the other Member States that there was no need to draft proposals making employment a priority of the European Union's operations.
I am not overly surprised that your Commission, Mr Barroso, which has in some ways sidelined the European social agenda during its term of office, which has created an opt-out in relation to the European Union's social and employment priorities and which has yielded by obeying that order given just now by a member of your majority, the conservative European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but I do believe that it is truly disgraceful and that, when it comes to coordinating not only recovery policies but also employment policies, it is the workers who are ultimately going to pay the price for this non-Europe.
A work of fiction, too, are these EUR 400 billion that you are adding up, as they are the sum not only of national recovery plans but above all of policies that are not even national recovery policies since they are just infamous economic stabilisers, that is, the increase in social expenditure linked to the increase in unemployment.
The second point I should like to address is that we are now in a difficult situation in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon.
Along with other fellow Members, I gave a letter to President Barroso about the situation of employees in the metallurgy industry in Romania and France, who are becoming technically unemployed, while receiving 70% of their salary.
The European economic recovery plan introduced in November 2008 has remained just words.
The economic crisis has shown that what we badly need is better economic policy coordination and stronger Community institutions, as envisaged by the Lisbon Treaty.
In this spirit, I welcome the constructive proposals put forward in the de Larosièr report, as regards financial institutions. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to say something regarding the large subsidies that are paid to undertakings that may not survive.
There is no point in asking a number of workers to remain in an undertaking or in paying their wages with public money if the undertaking closes down later.
The actual decisions on the EUR 5 billion for energy projects and broadband Internet are important.
The decision on the EUR 25 billion for increasing the limit in order to assist EU countries that are experiencing problems is also highly important.
The decision on the EUR 75 billion that we are taking to the G20 meeting in London also gives a clear signal that the EU is prepared to take its share of responsibility regarding the reform of global financial institutions.
It was only under the leadership of the Czech finance minister in Ecofin that an agreement was reached and confirmed at the European Council.
I would like to emphasise once again what our Prime Minister has already stated here: an agreement is in place between the Presidency and the Commission and on 7 May a job summit will take place under the format agreed on at the European Council.
The Eastern Partnership: we have agreed on a declaration that the founding summit will take place on 7 May and we are working with its future members, such as Ukraine, in order to make it a genuine success for the EU.
It was Jiří Paroubek, leader of the Czech social democrats.
There is also a need for confidence in our shared commitment to preserve our particular brand of social market economy, and in our long-term agenda for a low-carbon economy.
Written statements (Rule 142) I wish to express my support for the decisions adopted at the recent European Union summit held in Brussels.
What is particularly welcome is the necessary decision to increase the emergency fund from EUR 25 billion to EUR 50 billion.
Based on the measures adopted to protect states in the euro area against the global crisis, this decision provides concrete proof of the EU's solidarity and its ability to help states outside the euro area to overcome the economic crisis.
It concerns our neighbours, and includes our closest neighbours, like Belarus, Ukraine and Moldova, as well as more distant ones like Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia.
Now we are waiting for a response from the six countries which have a direct interest in the programme.
I consider this an important step towards a common energy policy.
The final list of the funded projects clearly indicates that the European Commission and the Member States have, after the gas crisis in January, understood at last the advantages of joining up the networks.
Strengthening the connections is important first of all because it allows Member States to assist one another rapidly in the event of disruptions to supply.
I would at the same time like to draw attention to the fact that there are contradictions surrounding the final list of the investments receiving financing.
For it is precisely the Member States that were most affected by the gas crisis in January that will receive less funding.
The gas pipeline in question would strengthen the energy security of the entire European Union, and thus its construction is a common interest.
The European Council's decision on providing funding for Nabucco and its designation as a priority energy project are appropriate and timely solutions to this problem.
in writing. - (EL) The debate in the European Parliament confirms that the political forces of capital and of the European one-way street support faster capitalist restructurings and more flexible contracts of employment within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy and the completion of the internal market.
I wish to say that this argument is ill-founded and that I merely said that the gas chambers were a detail in the history of the world war, which is a fact. (Mixed reactions) I would point out that, on this occasion, Madam President, I have been fined EUR 200 000 in damages, which just goes to show what state freedom of opinion and freedom of expression are in in Europe and in France.
