Public Finances in the EMU 2006 (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Lauk, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on Public Finances in EMU 2006.
The European Parliament, in this report presented on its own initiative, expresses itself for the first time on the revised version of the Stability and Growth Pact, adopted by the Heads of State or Government in March 2005.
The figures for 2006 show that the 21 Member States with low deficits or even slight surpluses also had high growth rates.
Secondly, we call on the Member States to declare new public debt unconstitutional or unlawful by 2015, as has already been done by certain states and regions in the European Union.
The amendment to paragraph 20 tabled by the rapporteur, Kurt Joachim Lauk, is designed to clarify the scope of this call.
It states that what is being proposed is a binding obligation on the Member States within the euro zone alone, not on all 27 Member States of the European Union.
This seems logical, and may I ask you on behalf of the rapporteur to approve this amendment, tabled on behalf of the PPE_DE Group.
With a strong economic recovery currently under way in Europe and in the euro area, Member States have an outstanding opportunity to improve their public finances and to prepare for future challenges, such as the ageing population.
The overall economic prospects for 2007 are equally encouraging.
The ongoing presence of cyclically favourable conditions in the euro area calls for further fiscal consolidation efforts in 2007 and beyond.
The Commission also shares Parliament's concerns regarding the long-term sustainability of public finances and is putting increased emphasis on its assessment.
In this respect, a new report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in the European Union was issued by the Commission in October 2006.
We grew much more last year than in previous years, we have come closer to our growth potential, but public debt remains below the limits that we ourselves set in the Treaty of Maastricht.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, healthy public finances are the mainstay of sustainable economic development.
I believe that on this matter I agree with my colleagues who have just taken the floor.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, this report takes us in quite the wrong direction.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the rapporteur accepts that government finances in several euro zone countries are still not in good shape.
Sovereign debts in Italy and Greece have not fallen significantly, and although deficits have been falling, this is a result of some higher economic growth helped by global recovery.
Examples of this are the 2005 performance of the Czech Republic and the 2006 performance of Slovakia.
This is important not only for the stability of the euro zone, but also because deficits that are identified only afterwards, or that have been covered up, reduce the credibility of EU institutions in the Member State concerned.
This practice has never been sanctioned, yet refusing a country entry into the euro zone is itself clearly a sanction.
The success of the Stability and Growth Pact is also reflected in the percentage decrease in total indebtedness and in the annual amount of new debt.
The more the text we approve results in uniform procedures, common shared parameters and a joint debate on budget projections, the more significant it will be.
As a result of this, the Commission published its report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in October 2006 and emphasises the importance of addressing the sustainability challenge in the context of ageing-related expenditure.
This report on Public Finances in EMU 2006 is therefore an opportunity to raise concerns about too rigid an approach when it comes to deal with the management of excessive public deficits.
