It is particularly thanks to the Al Gore campaign and Sir Nicholas Stern's report that climate change has been in the spotlight so much in recent months.
Europe must indeed take the lead in the climate debate and in the measures to be taken.
True, it is useful to have an energy policy that not only is as environmentally friendly as possible but also guarantees the energy supply that is crucial to our development, something that, in Europe, with all our political independence from non-European countries, has so far been a distant prospect.
Is it not the case, though, that the situation will end up as it has in Italy, where the 2007 budget law favours those who are in a position to buy new vehicles and actually condemns precisely those who are least well-off, who cannot afford to change their vehicles, to a lack of mobility and heavy costs?
The first thing I want to say to Mrs Harms is that the Council Presidency cannot as yet have a position on this issue, since the Commission has produced no proposal, nor has there been as yet any deliberation at Council level.
On the assumption that you mean the position of the German Federal Government, Mrs Harms, I suggest that there are a number of things of which you need to take note, the first of which is that your assertion that the German Federal Government is opposed to a legislative proposal and to Europe-wide legislation laying down CO2 emissions of 120 gram per kilometre is very definitely wrong.
There is agreement within the German Government that, if the voluntary undertaking on the part of the European motor industry should prove ineffective, there will of course have to be European legislation with the aim of enforcing an output of 120 gram per kilometre of CO2.
If, though, what the European motor industry has undertaken to do has to be enforced by law, it will be done in the manner intended, that being across all classes of motor vehicles, so that an average of 120 grams of CO2 per kilometre is achieved.
My fourth comment, for Mrs Harms' benefit, is that I think there are two things that we really must not do.
If your question had to do with the position of the German Government, then I hope that the answer I have given is sufficient for you.
If, though, your question was directed at the Presidency of the Council - which is how I understood it - then I would be obliged if you would have the decency to allow the Presidency the chance to have at least a general debate in the Environmental Affairs Council, which it will be able to do only once the Commission has released a communication on the subject.
Drive the agenda, please. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Gabriel, I do hope we can agree on the proposal to reduce the CO2 emission of cars to 120 mg and, moreover, on a still greater reduction in the second generation of fuels.
That is why it is important that we really stand firm with regard to this 30% and that we do not cave in to accept 20% if the rest of the world does not join in.
The clear message from many of the experts speaking is that 120 grammes per kilometre is perfectly realisable within the five-year timescale that we are talking about at a cost of a thousand euros: that is the estimate that many of those experts are putting on it.
Although you talk in terms of a CO2 output of 120 grams per kilometre, what you actually want is the same as the German car manufacturers, namely 130 or 140 grams.
That would be a fatal move not only for Europe but also for the world generally, for, as the target of between 60 and 100 grams must be achieved by 2020 at the latest, the figure of 120 grams can represent only an intermediate stage.
My opinion is that the lives of all of us and of our children weigh and count more than the automobile industry.
They ignore the fact that landfill waste will produce methane, which is 12 times more potent a greenhouse gas than CO2.
Finally, why does the President of the Commission drive a car which produces 1.6 times more CO2 per kilometre than the average sort of car I drive? (CS) Mr President, a number of experts have claimed that, apart from speculation based on short-term warnings, there is no incontrovertible scientific evidence that greenhouse gases from industrial growth lie at the root of climate change.
This requires everyone to make an effort, and time is our only priority. (FI) Mr President, for many people climate change has only become a reality now that its cost has been estimated.
Therefore, I would ask your departments to investigate what they can do to encourage the take-up of such schemes across the European Union. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the more than 40 deaths caused by the Kyrill storm are a sad portent of what is in store for us in the near future.
So, then, must all of us.
Environmental clangers of this kind must be prevented in future. (DE) Commissioner, Mr Gabriel, I too have only a minute in which to get through to your mind.
Limits and goals are important in this, but it is just as important to take action that is compatible with economic growth and resources for investments in order to safeguard what we must do.
It is a global problem requiring a global response from both governments and citizens.
We do not necessarily have all the answers to these questions, but what is clear is that we must act within the framework of a European and world strategy, because energy is a fundamental need and the phenomenon of global warming must be stopped.
I welcome the ambitious objectives consisting of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, because the EU must send out a strong message that behaviour and mentalities must be changed so that innovative solutions with global impact might be found.
Accordingly, more must be done to force the Member States to take more proactive measures, for example in connection with the use of biofuels and renewable energies, and to take taxation measures to foster energy saving and to promote the energy efficiency of buildings.
We need to understand that the most important factor of all is measures to improve energy and fuel efficiency.
If we try and do this, it will only mean that the environmentalists will turn against biofuel. (Applause) (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like firstly to thank the Commission and the Council for coming here to debate this issue and the strategy to be pursued in the future.
I truly believe that our main objective must be to reach a global agreement through our efforts, of course, and also with the efforts of our industries.
Secondly, all sectors will have to face their responsibilities in accordance with their emissions, because it makes no sense to talk about electricity but not to talk about transport.
I participated in the same event 12 years ago, and I must admit that climate change was not mentioned on that occasion.
If we are to have this debate at all, it must be conducted on a broad basis, openly, and with the necessary time being set aside for it. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, I do not doubt that the topic of climate change will occupy us for a long time to come and there is going to be a long timelag between any action taken and the actual effect of turning climate change round.
That makes it all the more important that we should get Europe, its policies and the legislation that goes along with them adjusted to this fact and should get something practical done about it, which will of course involve - along with the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol after 2012 - strategies for reducing CO2 emissions in individual sectors, for example, from private motor vehicles, in respect of which we must not only express concerns but also discuss opportunities.
It affects all sectors of society and we have to take a systematic and comprehensive approach.
We have to face the fact that the lifestyles that we have developed in a world with 8 to 9 billion people goes beyond the carrying capacity of the globe, and that is why we have to take a systematic approach that brings us back onto a normal, sustainable path.
The active participation of all of us is needed - and I have seen it here tonight with a great deal of satisfaction - in this dialogue.
In the European Council Conclusions, the Council mentioned exploring reduction pathways in the range of 15 to 30% with developed countries.
I have been asked why we do not have a similar target to that of Governor Schwarzenegger - a 25% target for 2021, but using 2006 as a basis.
Of course, in order to achieve what science tells us, to limit the average increase in temperature on the planet to 2°C, we need a 50% reduction by all the countries in the world by 2050.
They are not for all the countries in the European Union, but they will be adjusted according to the burden-sharing agreement that we had a few years ago regarding the achievement of our total target.
The truth is that we have a European Union-China partnership and a European Union-India initiative, and both have specific objectives which will be financed by European Union funds and funds from various Member States of the European Union.
Our first objective should be to consider how to bring on board developed countries, like the United States, which emits 25% of the emissions in the world and has not ratified Kyoto.
If I had accepted all the proposed national allocation plans from the Member States, the emissions trading system would have collapsed.
I am going to do my job and I shall assess the national allocation plans as is necessary in order to fight climate change.
Italy followed, and I hope other countries will do so, because this money is necessary in order to transfer technology to developing countries to enable those countries to be energy efficient and to make efforts in order to fight climate change.
We must protect the consumers, the workers, the public in general and, of course, fight climate change, protect our planet and protect our countries.
The business leaders have joined politicians and public opinion and showed their determination to fight climate change.
Secondly, the motor industry's 120 grams of CO2 emitted per kilometre are of course part of the theme of greater energy efficiency, but, returning to your earlier question as to how it is to be ensured that a proportionate amount of biofuel is also taken into account, I can say that we are together putting the case for Europe's oil industry to move on from the present proportion of 5.75% biofuels to be mixed in, to a substantially greater percentage.
When we start talking about how to deal with climate change, our opposite numbers in the developing countries take that to mean that their former colonial masters are coming along and trying to inhibit their economic development.
We will have to make some of this wealth available in order to fund technological developments and technology transfers, along with the things that need to be done to adapt to the climate change that is already happening.
Those are the two questions that are put to us.
The debate is closed.
We must also look at strengthening our emissions trading scheme and seeking to extend it to other parts of the world.
Furthermore, in order for our efforts to have genuine impact on CO2 emissions, I would like to see the Union also enact laws on other means of transport, not least in the car industry. (PT) As we know, the Commission recently proposed a package of measures on energy and a number of targets on greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy, thereby affirming their desire to combat climate change and to foster energy security and EU competitiveness.
Whilst there are some welcome proposals in the area of emissions reductions and renewable energy, there is another set of proposals that would be difficult to implement given the stringent requirements placed on the different countries, knowing the opposition, that is, the USA.
Nevertheless, whatever our view on climate change, energy security demands that we reduce our dependence on imported fossil fuels.
