Madam President, as we all know, Parliament will be in recess in August.
On 8 August 1956, 262 miners died in the most tragic accident in the workplace ever to take place in Europe: 262 miners from all over our continent.
I am sure, Madam President, that you will want to take suitable measures to mark the anniversary of this tragic event, and I am also sure that the Belgian presidency, which has announced that its programme will include the creation of an equitable social Europe, will make every endeavour to ensure that this proposal establishes the conditions necessary to prevent a tragedy such as that of Marcinelle ever occurring in Europe again.
Thank you, Mr Cossutta.
Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to the increasing and continuing problems faced by our drivers.
Incidentally, Madam President, this is not the first time I have addressed the European Parliament, because in 1987, as Chair of the Budget Council, I presented the budget for 1988 to the European Parliament.
All evidence, Madam President, that the European Union is also recognised as a partner in its own right at international level: when the European Union speaks with one voice, people listen.
There is a yawning gap between the individual citizen and the European institutions.
In exactly the same way, Europe will only count for anything economically by continuing to work on the internal market and by launching the unified currency on 1 January next year.
No, I am talking about those who protest indignantly against internationalisation and globalisation.
Our first dossier will obviously be the introduction of the euro on 1 January and the development of a coherent economic policy to underpin monetary union.
I believe nothing will bring Europe closer to its citizens than the successful introduction of the euro; that is the presidency' s task and it will have to act like a good father to ensure that it comes about.
That is why the Heads of State and Government will be examining an evaluation report in October, with the aim of ensuring that the introduction of the euro on 1 January goes smoothly.
Let us not forget that the aim - which will be achieved only when the euro is circulating physically both inside and outside the Union - was to create a single market, without currency fluctuations or exchange risks, in order to give a major boost to the Union' s economic growth.
We wanted to give Europe a tangible expression of its existence.
When I was studying European law at university - that is nearly 30 years ago now - the prospect was held out that the European company would become a reality in a few months' or at the most a few years' time.
Continuing the development of the European social model, which is precisely what distinguishes us from that other great internal market, the United States, and specifically, we want to define the quantitative and qualitative indicators of employment and to finalise the directive on the information and consultation of workers.
All Member States are today facing the same challenges of an ageing population and escalating health care expenditure.
This may sound pompous, but they are, in fact, matters that affect the citizen directly: asylum, immigration, the fight against organised crime, trading and trafficking in human beings.
Instead, ladies and gentlemen, of noting the progress, or rather the lack of progress made at the European Council in Laeken, I hope that the justice and home affairs ministers, together with Commissioner Vitorino and the full support of the European Parliament, will together make progress in five specific areas: a directive on asylum that will harmonise procedures for recognising and welcoming refugees, the establishment of Eurojust and the provision of an operational force for Europol -incidentally, after the recent incidents supervision of Europol will have to be radically strengthened - the initiation of a high impact operation to strengthen the Union' s new external frontiers and thus to combat trafficking in human beings, mutual recognition, or the start of it, for judgments and rulings and lastly, and importantly, we must start work on a European extradition mandate. (NL) In the months ahead, a wide-ranging debate on migration must be launched.
The Commission has already published a document on the subject.
If people cannot build a good life for themselves in their own country because the fruits of their labour cannot be sold in our markets, they will always try to immigrate. (Applause) The fourth line of action of the Presidency is aimed at improving the quality of life.
Following the lead of the Gothenburg Summit, we shall establish precise objectives and concrete indicators for the new strategy to be pursued on sustainable development.
In addition, the Presidency will concentrate its efforts on two specific issues relating to transport and mobility: the establishment of standards relating to pollution and noise generated by civil aviation, and the so-called Erika measures on safety at sea.
In this matter, it is the new presidency' s ambition to achieve results as good as the Swedish presidency' s.
In saying that, I mean that it is important that the candidate countries transpose the acquis communautaire, but it is not only important that they transpose it into their national legislation, they must also modernise their administrations, develop their judicial capacity and really implement the acquis on the ground.
The Commission has been asked to prepare an evaluation report on the matter for October.
What it was never possible to achieve through war and violence is, in fact, now within our reach by democratic means within an enlarged Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in my introduction, the Swedish presidency took a tremendous step forward in developing a coherent European foreign policy.
A recent opinion poll showed that in all Member States - and I mean all - the population was in favour of the development of a recognisable independent European intervention force alongside the national armies.
By the end of this year, therefore, we must at least be ready to declare operational the initiative taken in Helsinki.
The second major challenge on the external front concerns three conflicts.
First of all, the Balkans.
Full implementation of the Mitchell Report, to which the European Union contributed, must be the starting point for the process.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw your particular attention to another conflict: the conflict in the Great Lakes region in Central Africa.
I have just returned from the Congo, from Kinshasa and Kisangani.
The Balkans and the Middle East may be more important politically.
This region is incubating a war on a continental scale involving no less than seven countries and their armies.
If such a situation were to arise here, with our Eurocentric outlook, we would quite naturally speak of a world war.
In three years, more than three million human beings have been killed, not counting the victims of the ethnic violence in Burundi or the 800 000 or more persons massacred during the Rwanda genocide in 1994.
It must not restrict itself to what I venture to call a dry summary of agenda points or to simply establishing a method of working.
My starting point is that the European Union has a huge problem.
It has lost touch with the individual citizen, and at least a section of public opinion is convinced that the Union intervenes all too often, and sometimes too drastically, in people' s daily lives.
In short, people feel that the Union should concentrate first and foremost on creating the regulatory framework, on the boundary conditions, on monitoring and on the implementation of policy by regions or Member States.
In a speech I gave recently in Göttweig in Austria, I listed what amount to no less than thirty different policy instruments in the Treaties.
In addition, we must give the convention or forum the opportunity to work out different scenarios and present different options, because if we bind the convention or forum with the consensus rule and charge it to publish a single text, then we are in danger of being confronted with an unambitious document, perhaps the result of the lowest common denominator.
The Belgian Presidency regards the European Parliament as an ally.
This all the more important because this Parliament is the instrument par excellence for finally obtaining a unitary public opinion in Europe that is more than the sum of fifteen national opinions, as is still too often the case at present (and also one of the problems of Europe).
We are in the final stages of the preparations for the introduction of euro notes and coins, the most tangible expression of Europe ever achieved.
Belgium knows that it can count on the cooperation of the Commission and the European institutions to make this truly historic event a great success.
Meanwhile, precisely to prepare the Union for enlargement, the Member States are in the process of ratifying the Treaty of Nice.
Prime Minister, Madam President, at the Laeken Summit, we shall be reviewing the Union' s progress in implementing its social agenda.
Steady and solid implementation is essential if we are to succeed, this decade, in making the Union' s economy truly dynamic and competitive while, at the same time, ensuring that our social model remains anchored in the principles of justice and sustainability.
I agree with the new presidency' s emphasis not only on the essential drive towards achieving full employment but also on the equally essential need to improve the quality of work.
Modernising our pension and social security systems is also an important part of our social agenda.
I am therefore pleased to see the Belgian government' s commitment to action on these issues in its presidency.
In particular, I share the concern that underlies this commitment: the gap between rich and poor in Europe is widening at an alarming rate.
We must do everything in our power to stop this unjust development model and to give voices and rights to those who have neither.
I am particularly glad that, in contrast to the situation six months ago, it is now being conducted widely in all the media.
The Heads of State have also talked about a forum - I personally prefer the word Convention -... ...which will bring together, on an equal footing, representatives of the governments of the Member States and the candidate countries - and I stress, the candidate countries as well - representatives of the national parliaments, the European Parliament and the Commission.
Whatever else it may imply, the Irish 'no' to Nice tells us clearly that we have to close the gap between the institutions and the citizens.
The Laeken Declaration must therefore set an ambitious and comprehensive agenda for this Convention and lay down the methods and timetable it is to follow.
Ladies and gentlemen, the position I recently adopted on the Treaty of Nice and the Irish referendum has raised some concern in this House and elsewhere.
From the very start of my term of office, I have consistently attached great importance to political and institutional relations between the Commission and Parliament.
A Union of 25 or more Member States cannot function with its present structures and methods of decision-making.
The Union must therefore be ready to welcome the new Member States.
This means revising our institutional system and the decision-making process.
Therefore, as I have stressed on a number of occasions before this House, I very much hope that the Treaty will be ratified by the end of next year, in full respect for the democratically expressed opinions of our fellow citizens.
The people of the Irish Republic have recently expressed their opinion of the Treaty.
After visiting Ireland, I can, in any case, affirm without a doubt that the Irish people did not vote against enlargement.
Well then, we must not give the impression that the process can succeed without the reforms we all wanted at Nice.
As you can see, the Treaty of Nice is already an integral part of the debate on the 'Future of Europe' .
Our 'yes' to ratification is not, therefore, about tactics: it is about the need to ensure the political coherence of the Union.
You are thus following in the footsteps of your Christian-Democratic predecessors, Wilfried Martens and Leo Tindemans, who also made an outstanding contribution to the work of the European Parliament.
On 1 January 2002, we will have the single currency.
If the younger generation of today are able to pay in one currency throughout their lives, in the future, throughout Europe, in all the countries of the European Union and in some cases even further afield, then this is also an act of peace.
You said in the Council of Heads of State and Government that the European Union ought to be the most competitive continent in the world, but this statement is only truly meaningful if we encourage investment in Europe.
The European Parliament will be represented in the convention.
It would give a boost to the spluttering French-German engine if both countries were to push for governments also being represented at high level in this convention, for example by ministers for Europe who are responsible for this portfolio in their national parliaments, render account to the national parliaments and thus also reach their respective public.
If, for example, we know that civil servants but not the ministers are sitting on a conciliation committee between Parliament and the Council, and there are internal instructions that the majority of the people represented there ought to be ministers, then we would ask you also to ensure, through the Council General Secretariat, that there are politicians present, ministers who are equal in rank to the European Parliament representatives and who will legislate at European level alongside them. (Applause) You mentioned the work of the High Representative.
Our group has a high opinion of Mr Solana.
We should not only talk about defence; we need to get beyond the rhetoric and give our armed forces the hardware they need to make a real contribution to maintaining peace in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are appearing here today with a great political ambition, with a coherent programme which is a significant commitment, and you are offering an alliance with Parliament.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I can tell you that, in the terms that you have presented the issue - as Prime Minister of a Belgian rainbow government, which has demonstrated that democratic alternation also works in Belgium - of course you can count on our support and our cooperation.
I believe we have two possible fundamental points of departure, which you have mentioned: on the one hand, the development of European citizenship and, on the other, the introduction of the euro.
It seems to me that over the last twenty years, since the draft Spinelli Treaty, the Adonino report, our work in preparing the Treaty of Maastricht, our drafts of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Parliament has always been an ally and an accomplice in European progress.
You began by talking about your appearance as Minister of Budgets in 1988.
I was the rapporteur who presented the financial perspectives which have allowed us to make progress, but, as you know very well, anyone who ignores the budget is making a big mistake.
I believe it is absolutely essential that you argue that funding must be a public, democratic and fundamental element of our future.
We are in a period of far-reaching conversion and restructuring.
We need to defend our competitive capacity, but we must also respond to the thousands and thousands of workers who are affected by this very broad and decisive process.
Finally, Madam President, our international dimension.
The European Union is the first experience of civilised globalisation in history.
But there are also some important challenges in relation to our personality in the world.
You have correctly pointed out that you can receive two telephone calls.
I would add something more: for the first time there is a minister in Ecofin who proposes a debate on the viability of an international tax on speculation.
Lastly, Mr President, and I will end here, I believe that 99 working days is very little; surely you are going to end up without any holidays.
However, if you are able to implement this ambitious project, you can count on our support, our cooperation and our understanding.
Precisely because of people' s declining interest in Europe, you rightly said that the European Union must pay more attention to the concrete complaints of its citizens.
It is correct that the European Union should exercise more influence on world developments in the monetary, economic, social, ecological and commercial spheres, but also and especially in the field of international policy.
But the EU could also play a more active role in relations with, for example, the United States, Russia and Asia and, particularly, in relation to the peace process in the Middle East.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, Prime Minister, during your presidency we will be travelling down a long and winding road, which began with Nice and will end with Laeken.
I would now like to ask whether we must therefore return to Nice in order, finally, to get to Laeken.
You yourself gave an example of this: there are more than thirty instruments at our disposal, which means it cannot really be clear how the European Union functions.
You mentioned globalisation.
You must use all your diplomatic skills to bring the United States, Japan and Australia back to the negotiating table.
My group will lend you all the support it can in your efforts to continue the work Sweden began in the name of sustainable development.
I would also like to note that we now have a president of the Council and a president of the Commission, who are both cyclists!
In this connection I might say that the President-in-Office of the Council in the Transport Council represents my political group and is doing some creditable work.
If you manage as much, your presidential term will have been a job well done.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I appreciated the fact, Mr Verhofstadt, that you frankly acknowledged what you rightly called an 'identity crisis' in Europe between the citizens and the European Union, and that you stressed the need to take their aspirations seriously so that, as you said, we can bring the citizens closer to Europe.
In this spirit, I would like to mention a few issues that surface increasingly often in the debate provoked by the changes that are now affecting the European Union.
I believe that these issues should be raised as part of the exchange of ideas that you are hoping to promote during your presidency.
I would reiterate that, over six years, there has been a nine-fold increase in the amount of European capital flowing to the United States which, last year, reached over USD 220 billion.
Generally speaking, the fundamental question that the new, and rapidly deteriorating, economic circumstances raise and indeed force us to consider is, in my view, the following: what sort of political creativity can we come up with in order to avoid serious tension arising in all our societies even between some of the Member States, and, more importantly, with the candidate countries?
Madam President, firstly I should to thank the Belgian government for outlining in its legislative agenda the priorities it intends to pursue during its six month presidency of the Union.
It has already made it clear that it intends to promote wider cooperation between law enforcement agencies throughout the Union.
Within the Union a new institutional framework to fight against organised crime is being put in place, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The European Council has since launched two action plans to combat organised crime, aimed at overcoming disparities in national procedures and encouraging more efficient judicial cooperation.
It is important that all EU institutions work together to ensure the development of a coherent European strategy against organised crime.
I support a European-wide political agreement concerning the identification and confiscation of the proceeds of crime in all its forms.
The Commission has already presented a legislative proposal on child pornography on the Internet, in line with the provisions of the Council of Europe' s cyber crime convention.
I support the Commission' s framework programme to combat trafficking in human beings; the aim is to develop effective judicial cooperation across the European Union.
Over the next six months the Belgian presidency will have a coordinating role as we put in place the finishing touches to the launch of the euro notes and coins on 1 January next.
In recent weeks the Israeli foreign minister and the Palestinian leader have visited Parliament.
It is now evident that the European Union has come to assume a pivotal role in pursuing peace within the Middle East.
I very much hope that the Belgian presidency will use this important time to help end the spiral of violence in the Middle East and seek the recommencement of dialogue between all parties in the region.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Presidency being very quick to talk of a Laeken Declaration, but feel obliged to remind them that the Treaty of Nice no longer exists, since it was rejected by an impeccably democratic referendum in Ireland.
The way in which this established fact is being ignored by European officialdom is very characteristic of the undemocratic, dangerously totalitarian turn that the European Union is taking.
For that matter, in other European Member States, even holding referenda is considered too risky.
What the French lawyer Isorni once said about Michel Debré applies equally to Mr Verhofstadt: Qu' il marche à plat ventre sous le poids lourd de ses reniements, he crawls flat on his belly, weighed down by the weight of his denials.
Mr President, what we have just heard is unprecedented in the history of the European Parliament, of which I have been a Member since the first direct elections in 1979.
The Belgian Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the Council does not belong to my party.
We can perhaps help you to understand why people have voted no in the last three referenda on the EU in Denmark, Switzerland and Ireland.
President-in-Office of the Council, you said in your speech that you wished to bring Europe closer to its people.
We want a Europe that respects its people in practice and, as a start, we request that the next Intergovernmental Conference be prepared by the national parliaments and by these alone, and not the confused and illegitimate authorities or the committees of so-called wise men, which only succeed in sending Europe down dead end roads.
Respect for national democracies also involves avoiding projects that flout national sovereignties, such as the European tax which, in fact, Mr Verhofstadt, you are advocated by renaming it the 'direct funding of the European budget' .
This is a mistake, you will see this between now and the end of the year, and, in order to make amends, in order to bring the people closer to Europe, we will have to gain a better understanding of the practical problems that the citizens face and we must of course show great flexibility.
Mr President, there is insufficient time to dwell on the matters on the agenda, but the list is not really that important.
There are no miracle cures, but there are key words: information, democratic involvement and transparency.
In that context, I should therefore like to bring to your attention three points that strike us as being especially important.
Firstly: it is clear that the future of Europe can no longer be worked out in exclusive groups either of diplomats or of technicians.
I believe it is a wise decision that you wish to prepare for this debate with the help of the advisors of the Laeken group.
And I believe that your programme guarantees a social, sustainable and politically stronger Europe.
The Belgian Presidency could show, in connection with this matter, that there really is a difference between the thousands of peaceful demonstrators who stood in the street of Gothenburg and have a political message and those who know only the language of violence.
The Laeken Declaration must, without question, give more weight, credibility and depth to our diplomatic approach.
It is clearly important to transform the current mechanism for international relations in order to gain the means to enable us to intervene, as you have said, in Africa and in other countries, as well as in Maghreb and in events that currently unfolding, particularly in Algeria.
Secondly, as regards the power issue within the European Union itself, do what you have said you would; set a challenge for the debate to clarify the responsibilities of each of the institutions and, possibly, to extend the co-decision procedure in Parliament.
I wish you good luck and I hope that at the end of the presidency, you will have been able to make progress on most of the points that you highlighted in the presentation on this presidency.
Mr Verhofstadt is proposing nothing less than saving the Commission, because the election of President of the Commission by universal suffrage is the only way to save the Commission, since we know that the European Union will perish without it.
And so the integration and ratification process in connection with the Treaty of Nice is continued with as if nothing had happened.
The Benelux Declaration of 21 June is a frightening example of this process.
In any case, the programme which has been presented today indicates as much.
Allow me, in this connection, to make two comments.
Secondly, I am convinced that if the intergovernmental conference were brought forward to 2003, as the European Parliament has proposed, this would be seen as an attempt to escape the people' s vote.
I particularly welcome the fact therefore that the report on priorities will still be produced in 2004, hopefully after the elections.
I would like to focus on one of the central ideas of the Belgian presidency, according to what has been said this morning.
I believe we can all agree on the following consideration: the free movement of people, goods and capital which we enjoy in the European Union has also given rise to the free movement of criminals within our borders but, nevertheless, since there is no free movement of police or judicial decisions, we are running the risk of creating an area of impunity within Europe.
I would therefore ask Mr Verhofstadt to decide to favour a political declaration of this nature, which would inject new dynamism into the process started at Tampere.
The European Union, Mr President, is an area with harmonisable judicial systems in the field of judicial guarantees and respect for human rights, and we must therefore 'communitise' the fight against organised crime.
Mr President, I very much welcome the programme and priorities of the Belgian presidency in the employment and social field.
Your work should also fit well with the communication announced in Parliament by Commissioner Diamantopoulou yesterday.
Three specific points in the employment and labour market area: first, in relation to quality of work, it would be very useful if you could work with us in Parliament to incorporate amendments on quality indicators into the employment guidelines for 2002 to jump-start the Commission' s communication on that subject.
Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, after what you have said I am satisfied that the great, but also difficult, debate on the future of the Union is in good hands with you.
And, as a Fleming, I should like to ask you to ensure that, in this debate, the regions are finally able to play a role in the Union.
And you have already mentioned a number of things.
That Tampere Summit is almost two years old.
Therefore, the Commission must table a proposal as soon as possible on the trading of emission rights and, under your Presidency, something must be done as soon as possible with that proposal so that we can apply Kyoto in an economically feasible manner.
What became of all our good intentions and the objectives that were laid down in Lisbon in March 2000 to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic area in the world - or those set at Feira last year, where the Council adopted the European Charter for Small Enterprises?
Mr President, what decisions are you going to take in order to draw up a work programme for the practical implementation of the ten policy guidelines laid down in this charter?
This means that an important point is being made to President Prodi, namely that following the Irish referendum we need to keep a further option open and consider how enlargement can be achieved without Nice, and without enlargement being delayed as a result.
At the same time, in the light of what is happening in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it is important for this presidency that, where foreign, security and defence policy is concerned, we move away from the 'too little, too late' and finally make the necessary decisions to ensure that we do not have to face military conflicts of this kind again.
Mr President, I feel I can say that the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs firmly supports the statement which launched the Belgian presidency' s term of office this morning, particularly one of the points you made, Mr Verhofstadt, to the effect that it is not enough to provide the citizens with tangible solutions to the tangible problems which affect them most.
As regards the Convention, Mr Verhofstadt, as you know, the dispute over the name is not meaningless.
Those who insist on the term 'forum' have something different in mind from what you said.
I should like to make two comments in this debate.
The Belgian Presidency has resolved to set this process in motion at the Laeken Summit.
For the rest, I wish you every success with your policy.
Mr President, the Belgian presidency' s ambitious programme for this presidency gives us hope that it is possible to combine tangible, solid steps on the way to an even more successful future for Europe with vision.
Mr President, the Belgian presidency' s ambitions coincide with the ambitions of Parliament.
There is continuity in foreign and defence policy, in the implementation of the single currency and in sustainable development, but there is also insistence on the relationship between European integration, economic competitiveness and the social agenda.
Nevertheless, the key issue concerns the relationship between enlargement and reform of the European institutions.
Enlargement must be a success for Europe.
It is now a question of method and of political substance as well.
The response can only be provided by a Convention which in which, first and foremost, the national parliaments and the European Parliament participate as democratic representatives of the citizens.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Belgium is Europe in miniature with all its advantages and disadvantages.
This experience is partly the key to the success of the Belgian presidency.
The Belgian work programme is ambitious, and it is also set against an extraordinary context in order to regain the trust of the citizens, in other words, with the introduction of the euro, a debate on the future of Europe and also a debate on enlargement.
There are numerous questions and I would say to the Belgian Prime Minister: in the language of figure skating, your compulsory programme is outstanding, but you will be judged on your free programme, and in these efforts to win over the public Parliament will be at your side. (Applause) Mr President, ambition is a practical joke played by the gods on mankind.
The programme of the Belgian presidency is ambitious.
But Mr Verhofstadt has to lead the Council towards a resolution of the problem, posed by the failure of Nice and by the Irish referendum.
The democratic decision of the Irish people cannot be ignored or ridden roughshod over.
Democracy may be inconvenient, but it is all we have between freedom and tyranny.
People all over the Union, and indeed in the global market all over the world, have lost their faith in the institutions of governance.
However, it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to tell the Europeans that they are European citizens.
The euro is certainly an important step - and I agree with the line taken by President Prodi - but it is not enough.
Without substantial political support, the euro is likely to encounter difficulties, as it has in recent months, in relation to the dollar and other currencies.
I am consciously not talking here about much larger projects that are being launched and that are aimed at bringing about a real revolution in all the institutions.
With twenty-seven or thirty Member States, you cannot continue to work with the unanimity rule.
If we want to know something about Europe, we follow CNN, not Euronews.
Add this to your priorities and try to agree a relevant course of action with the countries of Europe.
On behalf of the CDU/CSU Group in this Parliament, may you be an effective President-in-Office of the Council.
In passing, however, it should be stated that a further factor in this was the way in which the powerful members of the Council for example dealt with a country like Austria.
The method adopted hitherto in intergovernmental conferences has had its day because decisions of consequence - such as those made when treaties are amended - must no longer be made in Council back rooms in the dead of night; instead beforehand we need a phase of public consultation.
That is why we are calling for an assembly, similar to a convention, to be set up which will organise a public dialogue in Europe before decisions are made in the Council.
In taking a step of this kind, we would also be justified in going before the Irish for a second time and tabling the treaty for a vote.
Today, I notice that, in speeches that have been made in the last two years, every European policy leader has taken up a position in favour of a European constitution.
I believe therefore that, as expressed in the Laeken Declaration, this is an idea that is possible to achieve. (NL) Fourthly, I should like to make a comment on the Treaty of Nice.
For four days we discussed and debated them constantly until four in the morning.
That strikes me as better advice. (Applause) Thank you very much, Mr Verhofstadt.
The debate is closed.
In this spirit, the European Union and Mr Solana, the High Representative, welcomed the agreement of 11 May to form a broad coalition government, which includes the democratically elected leaders of the major Slav and Albanian political parties.
The European Council urged the local political forces to come up with results as quickly as possible.
Their deadline was the meeting of the General Affairs Council on 27 June 2001.
The disarmament plan proposed by President Trajkovski is the other pillar of the security situation.
The plan gives a central role in this process to NATO, since the parties consider that the presence on the ground of NATO and of European Union observers is essential to providing the necessary element of trust.
This intervention with a view to disarming the ethnic-Albanian rebels is, however, subject to specific security conditions which the parties concerned have not yet fulfilled.
Mr Léotard must also establish and maintain contact with the other relevant international and regional players, including NATO, the OSCE and the United Nations, in order, of course, to ensure the necessary cooperation.
Lastly, Mr Léotard must assist, if necessary, in implementing possible agreements and to closely monitor all developments and initiatives concerning the security situation, in conjunction with the appropriate bodies.
At the same time, and in close cooperation with NATO, the dialogue on the security situation will be pursued with equal determination, since these two aspects of the crisis are intrinsically linked and progress on both points should be made in parallel.
All of us who have some responsibility for this region are acutely conscious of the danger that a descent into civil war in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia would pose, not just for the community there, that would be bad enough, but for the region as a whole.
That agreement includes important commitments by the government in Skopje about respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities.
The European Commission is providing very substantial support, EUR 42 million under CARDS in 2001.
This Parliament would not take kindly to proposals from the Commission, or from anyone, to spend more money supporting reconstruction and development, supporting the budget in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, if at the same time money was being spent, which frankly no one really has, on more bombs and more rockets, and if there was not a clear prospect of a political settlement and continuing cease-fire.
When the foreign minister of FYROM reports to the Political and Security Committee of the Council in Brussels on Friday, she will be in a position to speak about substantial progress, because the alternative is frankly too awful to contemplate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, we welcome Mr Léotard' s appointment and also Mr Badinter' s intervention in the situation in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
We need a permanent presence on the ground, not because we want a protectorate of some kind but because we want to demonstrate our interest in preserving the state of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
However, I do not believe that we can disregard the fact that it might also be good for NATO to be seen to have a presence in Macedonia as a preventive measure.
Neither does the fact that we now make our financial assistance conditional on there being a clear desire for peace on the ground mean that we are interfering in domestic matters, as this is described in the region.
After all, we cannot indefinitely spend our taxpayers' money in a country in which the desire for peace is not underpinned by joint initiatives to create that peace.
In my opinion, however, the solution cannot be to divide the country along ethnic lines.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia belongs to all of its citizens and this must also be enshrined in the constitution.
The constitution and also the reality of societal relations in Macedonia or FYROM must be brought into line with the needs of a modern multi-ethnic society.
Above all, these matters must be addressed in a democratic context and by democratic means.
If this is clear and obvious to the Council and the Commission, then admittedly this raises a number of questions.
Mr President-in-Office, this Parliament has a right to be given answers to several questions.
Mr President, we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party are clearly working on a joint position which we will vote on at noon, in order to condemn violence and support dialogue, but also so that the short-term efforts, such as the appointment of a mediator and the support for the Traikovski plan, should be immediate measures.
It is also important that the medium-term efforts and the Union' s responsibility in this area - the association agreement is clearly an important factor - make positive progress.
Another important effect for the European Union - which has not been mentioned and is indirect, but very important - is its repercussions for the enlargement process.
Although by chance, it happens that the countries directly neighbouring the FYROM - Bulgaria and Rumania - are the countries which have the greatest difficulty in achieving the sufficient economic development with a view to enlargement and the negotiation.
I believe that this proximity has a negative effect on the conflict in many respects - not only economic - and a very direct effect on the process of direct investment in these countries.
I believe that our intervention, or that of our countries, should take good account of this, because countries such as Bulgaria, for example, have made a very positive contribution to stability in the area.
I am in favour of exercising pressure, I am in favour of the involvement of the EU, but I am against vague threats.
My second concern relates to the reaching of an agreement.
It has been said that military involvement will only come when there is an agreement within the government and an agreement with the rebels, and it is with this last point that, in my view, the problem lies.
The governmental agreement therefore needs to be linked to an agreement with the rebels.
Mr President, I should like to assure you that our group is overwhelmingly in favour of the unity and democratisation of the FYROM and, more importantly, in favour of safeguarding rights for everyone living there, for all its citizens.
And I wonder why the people living in this area do not trust the European Union.
I was in Skopje and I had discussions not with the extremists but with the official Albanian parties there and they told me they do not want majority voting on major issues.
We therefore need more stable, more serious, more reliable support from the European Union for the unity and democratisation - and they go hand in hand - of this country.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner Patten, I should firstly like to express my satisfaction and also congratulate the High Representative of the CFSP and Commissioner Patten, because I think that in our attempts to resolve this conflict we are actually revealing the form which our CFSP will take.
Commissioner, I should like to go a step further and say what mistakes have been made.
These KLA terrorists must be disarmed and NATO is offering to do this.
I wonder why we should now send an additional 3 000 soldiers there, under the conditions with which we are all familiar, when we could have disarmed these criminals and disbanded their organisations back in Kosovo.
Ethnic segregation, penning nations in after a war or uprising behind fortified borders which no-one considers definitive and which in turn become a new source of conflict is, unfortunately, the pattern which has been repeated throughout the history of this region in the Balkans.
The European Union was, historically speaking, the last factor to appear in the area, advocating certain principles which, if they really could have been imposed, would have released the area from the nightmare of its history.
The benefits to the people of a European type solution would be incalculable, but they presuppose abandoning armed violence as a method of forcing historical development and, on this point, the European Union has not excelled either in the case of Cyprus or in the case of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
They are responsible, but we too are jointly responsible, Commissioner, for the recurring nightmare which is the history of the Balkans.
The debate is closed.
We also know, however, that it is difficult to find a hotel for fifty visitors.
That is, anyone who is of the same opinion as the rapporteur must vote against the report. (After the vote on the joint text by the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, the President referred to the Rules of Procedure, having noted that the votes were tied) President.
Madam President, the Conciliation Committee is of the view that the President of Parliament should vote on that matter ... (Mixed reactions) ...
I believe that is the point. (Mixed reactions) Mr McMillan-Scott, you may well believe that I have not acted in the proper manner.
I acted as my conscience dictated.
There is no majority in favour of the report and we should not call this result into question.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fontaine, I am particularly addressing you personally.
I should like to thank you for this. (Applause) Madam President, I apologise to you and to colleagues if by rising I test their patience, but since you have indulged some others, I should like to express a very brief view.
It is clear that, in the form presented, the mergers and acquisitions (takeovers) directive, has now fallen.
It is such a fundamental and important issue that I hope we do not abandon the attempt because of this difficulty.
The Council and the Commission can help us in that regard.
The Commission has listened to you very carefully, Mr Cox.
That is an individual and personal right.
With regard to this directive, I would like to address not only the Commission, but also the Council.
We have worked on it - you yourself as rapporteur, in the past - and the lesson which the Commission and the Council must learn today is that if there is a double parliamentary reading and a conciliation, then notice must also be taken of Parliament on issues on which, although we have offered many opportunities for transaction, we have come up against a brick wall from the Council and the Commission.
Madam President, thank you very much for giving me the floor briefly.
Thank you, Mrs Rothe.
Regarding Amendment No 11 Madam President, I should briefly like to call your attention to a necessary language correction.
Madam President, I have a similar problem.
However, my prevailing sentiment is one of deep satisfaction, and that is because, with our votes and the votes of the other members of the Conciliation Committee delegation - 8 to 6 - we made it possible for the decision to be taken by this House.
We knew that there was disagreement between and within the 15 governments, that the trade unions and economic organisations were divided and that practically all the Parliamentary groups were divided in their opinions.
Madam President, the EPLP delegation voted in favour of the mergers and takeover conciliation text.
While we realise that the prime objective of this directive was to protect minority shareholders' and investors' interests against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards in a takeover or merger, in conciliation we achieved the incorporation of amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, which meant that this directive would have recognised the legitimate interests of employees in a takeover bid.
Let us be clear: this was a choice between no information and providing information to the workforce in the process of a takeover or merger.
This directive would have had no effect on the acquis communautaire of employment rights in the EU, or in the national Member States.
We will have no directive on mergers and takeovers and we will have no information and consultation with rights for workers, even though mergers and takeovers will continue to happen across the European Union.
Madam President, I think it is highly regrettable that the compromise achieved in the conciliation procedure is being rejected today by the smallest possible margin.
The rejection of this directive shows that we lack the political will to take the decisions of Lisbon forward.
It means that this rickety proposal for a directive is now no longer on the table and the European Commission can quickly get down to work and work out new proposals.
If the Commission takes account of the feelings of the great majority in Parliament a new proposed directive can be tabled very quickly.
Although some slight progress was made during the conciliation process on protecting shareholders who do not have control of the company and on adopting some regulations on making the information of workers mandatory, the situation still fails to safeguard all aspects of workers' and minority shareholders' ability to take action.
It was with some regret that I voted against this outcome of a conciliation procedure.
For small shareholders, it will take more than the proposals in this document to protect their rights against those of large shareholders whose legal position can require them to seek maximum return within a short-term perspective.
However, we have witnessed how national interests can substantially frustrate and delay a fresh proposal.
As the proverb says, 'Time brings everything to those who wait' , and after 12 years of discussion, we could have expected that a perfect directive would be produced.
This means that there is no equal treatment ( 'level playing field' ). 2.
European companies would be exposed to pressure from the major financial corporations in Europe, with wealth creation henceforth giving way to the sole aim of maximising profits.
This has been available in draft form since 1972 and has still not been adopted.
The main purpose of the directive is to protect the interests of minority shareholders, and, by means of harmonisation, to protect these interests when the takeover bid is of a cross-border nature.
I therefore give my full support to the agreement that has been reached and, consequently, to the joint project, adopted by the Conciliation Committee, for a European Parliament and Council directive on takeover bids, which thereby seeks to create a set of harmonised rules that will add rigour to the process and ensure equal protection for all shareholders. . (NL) Most companies used to be small-scale and linked to a town or an area.
I reject this trade in companies and am voting against the proposal. . (NL) Unfortunately, as regards the Takeover Directive, I was forced to vote against the findings of the Conciliation Committee.
Therefore, I voted in favour of greater commitment to renewable energies.
Madam President, we have voted today, in a second reading, on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market.
In order to achieve this goal, we must promote the generation of electricity from renewable sources by means of various incentives, as we are still a long way from achieving this target.
Every gardener knows that peat is a biodegradable product.
The common position adopted in March differs considerably from the position Parliament adopted at first reading last November, even though the Council has accepted about one third of Parliament' s proposed amendments.
The rapporteur went to great lengths to achieve a compromise before the second reading in the EP and explained to the committee that the Council had agreed to eight of the nine compromise amendments during the trialogue held on Tuesday, 19 June.
The Council wants to include it.
Members, however, have pointed out that the support given to renewable energy sources must be compatible with the other Community objectives, in particular the principle of "respect for the waste treatment hierarchy".
That is why the incineration of non-separated household waste should not be promoted under this directive and under a future support system for renewable energy sources.
Where the two legislative bodies disagreed most profoundly was on the question whether the national targets for the use of renewable energy sources should be mandatory or merely indicative.
The national indicative targets must be consistent with the global indicative target of 12% of gross national energy consumption by 2010 from renewable energy sources.
At the same time, these renewable energy sources must account for a 22.1% indicative share of total Community electricity consumption. (Explanation cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) . (IT) The importance of renewable energy and increasing its use in Europe are at the basis of the measure we are examining at second reading.
My support for the generation of clean energy does not apply to this addition.
We believe that the compromise negotiated with the Council in this case is too weak.
Karas report (A5-0220/2001) Madam President, the Karas report concerns professional pension funds.
The Karas report draws on the very liberal conclusions of the Feira European Council in approving the directive.
The directive meets the demands of the UK and Netherlands pension funds, which want to be able to intervene at European level by having a single fund instead of separate funds set up in each country.
At that moment, I woke up and remembered that, I am glad to say, I am insured with a good insurance company and, most importantly, my house is still standing and I am in Strasbourg.
The Commission proposal is a response to the instructions of the Lisbon Council (23-24 March 2000).
The regulation is meant to be a general act laying down a framework for the creation of an '.EU' registry.
This registry should enter into contracts both with the Commission and with ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers).
Let me remind you that ICANN was created in October 1998 in order to stand up to American hegemony in Internet running.
ICANN has a Policy Advisory Board of 19 members.
ICANN also has four advisory committees, including the GAC (Governmental Advisory Committee) to which the European Commission and the Member States belong.
To my great satisfaction, the European Union has decided to devote more attention to this body so as to play a decisive part in the international running of the Internet and to make ICANN more neutral.
In the same context, if the European Union wishes to exist in cyberspace, it will have to create a domain name like its Member States.
Then the national territories will be able to recognise each other on the Internet by means of domain names such as '.uk' or '.be' .
That would certainly be a factor in speeding up the development of the e-economy and e-commerce in Europe.
As you know, it was decided at the Council to tackle the issue of pensions in the 15 States of the European Union resolutely.
In your opinion, how could I not take the floor to explain why I voted for the motion?
I rejoice at this and so I voted for this report because the Gothenburg Council has started out along this path.
Macedonia has an all-party government in which all the nations are also represented.
Above all, we should strengthen the government by making it clear that countries such as Macedonia which work with the European Union will also receive massive political and financial support from us.
Madam President, in the interest of a democratic and just European Union I ask the Council to respect the Irish people' s rejection of the Treaty of Nice by immediately halting further ratification.
I welcome, therefore, the Commission' s confirmation of my understanding that enlargement can proceed without the ratification of the Nice Treaty.
I believe that enlargement should proceed with all speed so that the accession countries can not only share in the benefits of European Union membership, but also contribute fully to the debate on the kind of European Union we hope to build.
Today the new President-in-Office of the Council, Guy Verhofstadt, has just confirmed this impression by giving us a preview of the conclusions of the debate that is supposed to be held in preparation for the 2004 Intergovernmental Conference.
The way this debate is being organised in France, following the communiqué of 11 April this year published jointly by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, makes it quite clear that it has been rigged from the start.
Not only are the meetings prepared by the prefects - which says a lot about their independence vis à vis the government - their conclusions will actually be drafted by a group of ten experts freely chosen by the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister.
I myself wrote to the two heads of the executive on 20 April this year to ask them to ensure that this group was made up of all the political elements elected at the European elections.
To crown it all, this ridiculous procedure is to be closed in October, which means that the great national debate will have lasted four months, of which two were holiday months.
But it is easy to understand why it will be concluded so speedily: at the end of the year we will be entering the dangerous period when we have to exchange our national coins and banknotes for euros.
Clearly, our national leaders have no wish to be burdened with a debate about Europe at that particular moment.
UE/NGL), in writing. (EL) The Gothenburg Summit will go down in history not just for what happened inside the conference room but also for what happened outside it.
At the same time, because they know that grass-roots opposition to the prospect of integration is increasing in the candidate countries, they are trying to lure them with the prospect of taking part in European elections in 2004.
In employment, this period was marked by a huge wave of redundancies in large transnational groups that are making millions of euros in profits, like Marks &amp; Spencer and Danone.
Yet the Irish 'no' vote shows once again that Europe cannot be built without the people and without their support for a democratic, political and social project.
Finally, at international level, the European Union has shown itself unable to make a positive contribution to resolving conflicts, notably by imposing a just and lasting peace in Palestine on Israel.
That is why we voted against the joint motion for a resolution. .
I welcome the call for the EU to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, which is an essential international agreement in terms of protecting our planet.
I do not believe that developing a Common Security Policy, which seeks to link us closely to NATO, has any part in the sustainable development of the EU.
Nor do I believe that we should be asking Ireland to negate its recent referendum and prepare for the ratification of the Nice Treaty.
The contempt in which the euro-federal oligarchy in Brussels holds the people is reflected in both paragraph 3, with the refusal to respect the clear implications of the Irish referendum, which is analysed as a kind of deadlock from which 'a way forward' must be found, and in paragraph 9, where the spontaneous rejection by the people of the excesses of globalisation - from Seattle to Gothenburg, via Prague, Nice, Davos, Washington, Salzburg and perhaps Genoa next - is condemned as 'provocation' , forgetting that the right to 'resist' the economic pressure the global market is exerting on the women and men of Marks &amp; Spencer and Danone, not to mention Moulinex, Michelin, Vilvorde, Alcatel, Ericsson and AOM, is one of the basic freedoms that was established two centuries before the European Charter, which proclaims for the rich alone formal rights that the unemployed, the excluded young and the old and poor do not, for their part, regard as fundamental.
Nevertheless, I have been forced to abstain by the fact that a majority of Members of this Parliament still insist on a post-Nice model for debate which, in terms of both method and content, goes further, not only than the conclusions of the Heads of State and Government in Nice, but also than the very Treaties currently in force, especially with regard to its harsh criticism of the intergovernmental method and its ambition to establish a broader, not to say quite unrealistic agenda for this debate.
The lesson to be drawn from the Irish referendum is that Europe can only endure in the long term if it is founded on respect for the national democracies.
Randzio-Plath report (A5-0225/2001) - (FR) The European Parliament' s report on the financial year 2000 of the ECB and that bank' s own Annual Report on the same subject attempt to iron out their differences of appraisal and present a united front on the eve of the physical changeover to euro coins and banknotes.
The ECB report, however, emphasises that "the first two years of the euro have also shown that the policy-making framework at European level is satisfactory" (page 3).
The European Parliament' s report, for its part, takes note of the reform introduced by the Nice Treaty to Article 10 of the Statute of the ECB, which could make it possible, in future, to weight the votes in accordance with size of country (paragraph 17 of the resolution).
This is the policy for monetary stability imposed by the Stability Pact, which the rapporteur is so pleased with, and with which we disagree, even though it does attempt to implement the ECB' s policies, by means of greater economic coordination and greater development of the quarterly dialogue with the European Parliament.
In the meantime, in a number of Member States, including the Netherlands, annual inflation is already higher than the interest rate.
This is precisely why the European Parliament needs to be even stricter and more demanding in its criticism of the ECB' s annual report, because there are results which hit the workers and because it supports closer links between the general guidelines to economic policy and the stability and convergence programmes.
Paragraph 20 talks of a tightening of the conditions that countries entering the European Union must meet if they wish to become part of EMU.
I welcome this third annual report by the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mr Duisenberg.
This boosts market confidence in its decisions and is a great example of open government.
It can surely be no coincidence that, since the Labour Government' s brave decision in May 1997, Britain has enjoyed an unprecedented period of economic stability.
The ECB will not have the full confidence of the market until it becomes more open.
The practical changeover to the euro on 1 January 2002 will clearly be a litmus test for the ECB and I very much hope that it will rise to the challenge.
I would very much like to see the ECB follow a policy of openness and transparency similar to the Bank of England.
Maaten report (A5-0222/2001) Madam President, my last explanation of vote relates to economic actors during the period of transition to the euro.
On 1 January 2002, we will, at last, have the euro in Europe.
So Europe will be interfering hugely in the day-to-day life of our fellow-citizens from 1 January 2002.
We must create macro-economic mechanisms to minimise costs and, in terms of the transition period, the workers and the small and micro-enterprises must not be the ones who ultimately pay for the introduction of the euro, either through an artificial increase in prices or through the costs of the whole process and the attempts at abuse and fraud that could take place over that period.
I am glad Parliament is finally stating its position on such an important issue, but, at the same time, I regret that it left it until 181 days before the introduction of the euro.
The Maaten report draws attention to the main problems and suggests practical solutions that could make the switchover to the euro easier.
Once again, the disappointing results of these campaigns show how necessary it is to make practical proposals that have a direct effect on people' s daily lives.
During this debate, I very much want to emphasise once again that we must leave the door open to the three Member States that have chosen not to enter the eurozone immediately.
Let me therefore point out that it is important to launch an information campaign addressed not only to the Member States that are participating in the single currency project but also to the others, giving them a special position with regard to third countries.
Our report sends out a political signal in that regard.
Many of them will not have a chance to spend them before the new euro coins and notes are introduced on 1 January next year.
Six months before the entry into force of the single currency, it would be a good idea for Parliament to show an interest in the economic actors and their preparations for this final stage.
Today, during this final stage, the Member States have a crucial role to play.
There seems to be a discrepancy between the result that came up on the board and that which has been published, the published vote being 273 in favour and 272 against.
If that is the official record - and that is the record that is published - then I would suggest that the result given by the President this morning is incorrect.
I do not want to discuss the question of pregnant chads or whatever they were in Florida, but like the other colleagues, I have looked at the written record and it shows 273 votes for, 272 votes against, contrary to the declaration of the result and the statistical evidence of earlier today.
At this moment, I do not insist on a particular outcome, although I reserve the right to continue questioning the technical and political dimensions.
What I do ask, Mr President, is whether you, on behalf of the presidency, are in a position consistent with Rule 138, to make a clear declaration at this time as to what is the position and what is the result of the vote cast.
Mr President, I would ask you to check whether Mr Brienza has voted.
Ladies and gentlemen, this morning a vote took place which the electronic system recorded as a draw of 273 votes to 273 votes.
The electronic system accurately reflected the reality of the House at that moment.
However, later on, in the verification, the result recorded by the electronic system did not coincide with the number of Members appearing on the list of Members of Parliament available to the services.
Mr President, I note your statement and believe that you are correct, both in terms of process and under our Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, when I spoke earlier I said I should like to reserve the right to speak again.
But if it is merely a technical slip-up, it would be a political mistake to call a Conference of Presidents for the purpose of dealing in a political organ of the House with something for which there is a perfectly reasonable technical explanation.
Under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, there has to be an exchange of letters between the European Parliament and the Italian Government so that we can actually confirm his entitlement to vote and if that is the case, of course, it is a valid vote.
Mrs McCarthy, I am pleased to inform the House that all the Members present this morning were able to exercise their vote.
Mr President, if you would permit me to make one final comment: all this confusion would have been quite unnecessary if the parliamentary administration - after producing the record and noting that contrary to the result given, only 272 votes against were printed out - had detected the error before this record was published.
This House is very pleased to note Yemen' s will to come closer to Europe and we pray that this second meeting will be the beginning of an important step towards strengthened cooperation with the European Union which will allow Yemen to once again find the road to prosperity and the consolidation of its democracy.
Politics is necessary in order for us not to have to look history in the eye.
Human rights are thematic, systematic and, above all, normative.
So that one day the EU might have a genuine common foreign and security policy, it must be founded on a common human rights strategy.
Internally, the proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and, externally, both the EU' s annual report on human rights and, in particular, the latest Commission communication contain valuable points of view to consider in making human rights work more effective.
This year' s human rights report, which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy adopted unanimously, contains numerous proposals for making EU human rights policy more effective with regard to non-member countries.
The report' s key theme is freedom of speech, not just because both traditional and very new dangers threaten it, but because it has a strategic importance in improving the human rights of all - first, second and third generation human rights - and in exposing violations.
It would be naïve to play down the importance of human rights.
In fact, we are entirely responsible for fundamental rights in Europe, while we can only take a humble approach to human rights in the world, knowing how little influence we can exert there.
Yet there is perhaps an intermediate area: in the candidate countries we can look at human rights and fundamental rights as a whole in view of their forthcoming accession to the European Union.
I would like to explain the new title of this report and why the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs endorsed the method adopted for this year' s report.
Our report is now called a report on fundamental rights rather than a report on human rights.
The Charter is a complete text because, for the first time ever, it includes civil and political rights but also economic and social rights and, therefore, covers a broad sweep of fundamental rights.
Whatever the outcome of the debate on its inclusion or not in the Treaties, it has already become a reference document since the European Court of Justice draws on it and the Commission itself has undertaken to have the activities of its services screened for compatibility with the Charter.
And, as I said earlier, it is a reference document, for the candidate countries because the Union could not accept a country that did not respect the values upheld by the European Charter on Human Rights with regard to its own inhabitants.
So we looked at the 50 articles of this Charter and checked whether they were applied in the 15 Member States and at Union level.
While taking this opportunity to thank everyone who helped draw up this report, let me also say that we call for a network of jurists.
The philosophy underlying this report is the refusal to brand this or that state, to draw attention to this or that blunder.
Lastly, this report is in two parts, as required by the rules.
In fact, this first report is intended as a rough draft, the matrix of a new method.
Mr President, the first thing I have to say is that I do not recognise myself in the opinion which I myself am signing in relation to this report.
The other, which is perhaps a bit more arguable, said: 'the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union should be supplemented with such important binding rights as the right to work, housing, a minimum income, the right to a healthy environment and the voting rights for citizens of third countries who have resided for five years in the Union, as well as the extension of civil rights to immigrants who arrive in Europe in search of a decent life' .
The proof is that more than 1 400 citizens in Europe send petitions to this committee each year, which relate to the recognition of qualifications, free movement, the rights of immigrants and the right to a healthy environment.
Mr President, I unfortunately have to recognise that in Europe we have a scourge, terrorism, which seriously harms the human right to expression and the fundamental right, the right to life.
We would very much like - and I repeat this in my recent modest capacity and I will continue to repeat it - Europe today to be a continent which is distinguished in the defence of its own human rights and of human rights outside its borders.
I will therefore seize this opportunity to tell you how the presidency proposes in concrete terms to promote the universal values on which our Union is based.
At the same time, in my capacity as President-in-Office, let me confirm that we must uphold these values here at home, first of all, but also throughout the world.
The European Union is only just over 40 years old.
In fact, Europe still has its whole future before it.
I for my part am convinced that Europe' s future will be determined mainly by its capacity to uphold and disseminate its humanist values.
The history of Europe could be written as a long battle against arbitrary power of all kinds.
Basically, most of these objectives have been attained.
Freedom can also put the rights of minorities or the rights of the weakest at risk.
When it is used as a pretext for selfishness, freedom always leads to intolerance and exclusion.
It is up to the public authority to guarantee freedom of expression and opinion for everyone.
We have to acknowledge the fact that even democratic governments are sometimes tempted to weaken this right and often find it hard to accept controversy and criticism.
Freedom of the press is a vital right that lies at the very heart of the constitutional state.
This value gave a powerful boost to the development of science, technology and the economy in the service of mankind.
Equality is a hugely powerful lever in Europe.
It is in the name of equality that the countries of Europe try to secure equal rights, an equal share in the fruits of economic activity and the democratic representation of the interests of every individual.
In Western Europe, this has led to the adoption of far-reaching social legislation to guarantee equal opportunities and equality under the law.
The question now is whether this charter will become a genuine European constitution.
The heated debate that has surrounded this issue is an incentive for Europe to look at its own future.
Article 7 of the Treaty provides for a mechanism to deal with serious and persistent violations of the European values.
In a unified Europe, it is now in the interests of all that every Member State respects the fundamental values.
If it wants to convince third countries that its humanist values are sound, the European Union must teach by example before teaching lessons.
The essential values are not just written in the texts; they are also put into practice in the European Union' s policies.
A first example of the way the European values are applied in everyday life can be seen in the EU' s enlargement policy.
Public opinion is worried, wrongly in my view, about the imbalance between the level of development of the EU Member States and that of the candidate countries.
Furthermore, we have a historical duty to enlarge the European Union, because we have to reunite nations that history has kept apart for far too long.
The second example relates to the European Union' s foreign policy.
Over and above the defence of its economic and commercial interests, Europe must also defend its values by taking concrete action.
Freedom, progress and equality can only be envisaged in a context of peace.
Reconciliation with yesterday' s enemies, the unification of different countries by peaceful means, these are a political innovation that can set an example to third countries.
To inquire into these values is also a way of discovering our European identity.
We must also do everything in our power to strengthen the coherence of our initiatives, our positions and our actions.
In international forums like the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe the Union must protest against systematic and organised violations of the most fundamental human rights.
As President of the Council I shall do my utmost to ensure that the European Union contributes actively to the success of that conference.
Through coherent and effective action we must persuade all states to ratify unreservedly and implement in full the Treaty on the banning of all forms of discrimination against women.
The special session of the United Nations on the rights of the child to be held in New York in September will be an extra opportunity for the Union to assert its values.
In that respect the European Union must do its utmost to ratify as soon as possible the two recent protocols on the rights of the child.
This value must apply in all democracies.
We cannot pretend to uphold values such as democracy, freedom, equality and justice while enshrining the right to impunity.
The democratic countries have fully understood this and spectacular developments are occurring in international law, especially with the crack down on serious infringements of international human rights law.
The establishment by the UN Security Council of international criminal tribunals to try crimes committed in former Yugoslavia or Rwanda was a first and decisive step towards the administration of justice in the name of the international community.
It is now possible that an international criminal court will be set up in the medium term.
Its statute was adopted in Rome in 1998, in the form of a convention.
It will establish a balance between universal competence and the sovereignty of the states.
The fight against impunity therefore requires an active and real commitment on the part of the states.
We need only look at the results of the Irish referendum.
The elites are often undecided and the citizens are becoming more and more distrustful.
We will succeed in awakening the interest of the people in Europe, in making them enthusiastic about an ambitious project, convincing them of the benefits they can draw from it, if we can remind them of the intrinsic values of Europe.
Perhaps the people will then end up asking more of Europe.
It is our duty as political leaders constantly to reiterate the humanist values on which our European model is based, the fundamental rights that have enabled us to overcome our differences and our prejudices.
European human rights policy, and more generally the European policy, must reflect these essential common values.
The year since Parliament' s last report on human rights has been punctuated with important institutional and policy developments.
The reform of external aid has taken root and Europe Aid is tackling the avalanche of responses to the two recent calls for proposals on human rights, some 1 400 proposals for a total of EUR 1.6 billion.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights has been solemnly proclaimed and it is an important element in the European Union' s efforts to ensure coherence between internal and external human rights policy.
Boiled down to its essence, the communication seeks to promote coherent and consistent human rights policies in the European Union' s relations with third countries, to maximise the leverage afforded by political dialogue, trade and external assistance, and to set out a more strategic and focussed approach for the European initiative, for democracy and human rights.
For example, we make clear that Parliament will be consulted on the programming of the European initiative for democracy and human rights for 2002 and the years beyond.
The latest report was released on 22 May and it provides a thorough analysis of projects supported under the 2000 budget.
The communication on conflict prevention issued in April confirms the high priority given by the Commission to developing the Union' s capacities.
More systematic use of country-strategy papers will help to ensure the cogent use of Community instruments to address both the root causes of conflict and other human rights problems.
Under the European initiative alone, over EUR 5.4 million was allocated in 2000 to projects in support of freedom of expression, free media and the protection and training of journalists.
A large project in Africa and Asia undertaken by 'Rapporteurs Sans Frontières' , offers a good example.
I would like to look now at another thread running through the honourable Member' s report, the relationship between our two institutions.
As I mentioned when I presented the communication to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on 15 May, the reports and resolutions of Parliament on the Commission' s previous performance on human rights were of great use in drawing up the communication.
The Commission is keen to reinforce its dialogue on human rights with Parliament, and this is reflected in the consultations which will take place on programming the European initiative in 2002.
In cooperation with the presidency, the Commission would also seek to ensure that the timing and location of the human rights discussion forum with non-governmental organisations, and with others, takes full account of the need for systematic participation by Members of this House.
As we know, the most recent version of the essential elements clause, as contained, for example, in the Cotonou agreement, makes provision for a consultation procedure prior to any suspension of an agreement.
The Commission intends to submit to the Council before the end of summer a proposal for controlling and, where necessary, prohibiting exports of equipment that may be used for the purposes of torture and cruel inhumane or degrading treatment.
The report contains a highly detailed and extensive explanatory statement.
It also includes a large number of pertinent recommendations, which would quite tangibly improve the protection of fundamental rights in the Union.
Without doubt, it will help promote a community culture when it comes to the protection of fundamental rights.
I personally am convinced that over the years this parliamentary report will become a prime means of ensuring the constant and objective evaluation of the situation of fundamental rights in the Union.
We actually have the necessary legal instruments to achieve this: the charter proclaimed at Nice, but also Article 6 of the EU Treaty, which refers to the European Convention on Human Rights and the constitutional tradition common to the Member States, together with Article 7 of that treaty, which will be further strengthened by the Nice Treaty when it enters into force.
The Commission very warmly welcomes the various proposals set out in the report, in particular those on creating the technical tools to deliver expertise in this area.
The Commission took careful note of the recommendations addressed to it more directly: the appointment of a Commissioner with responsibility for fundamental rights in the Union and the implementation of policies linked to the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, on the one hand, the reorganisation of the departments responsible for monitoring the charter, on the other hand.
Turning to the first recommendation, I pointed earlier to the link between the protection of fundamental rights and establishing an area of freedom, security and justice.
I am in a position where I can well appreciate the real importance and necessity of these changes and of the new report on fundamental rights that the organs and institutions of the Union and the EU Member States will be drawing up pursuant to Article 7.
This has in fact been done in the various proposals recently submitted to Parliament and the Council.
I cannot give you my position on the many recommendations set out in the motion for a resolution under the various headings of the charter.
Personally, I consider these recommendations, addressed in the main to the Member States, quite feasible and, as I said, likely to bring very tangible improvements in the protection of fundamental rights in the Union.
We know that democracy is a model that can never be attained in full, but more importantly it is a model we aim to attain.
We must see them not as criticisms but as suggestions on how to give better protection to fundamental rights throughout the European Union.
The Commission has also taken careful note of the recommendations addressed to it on European citizenship, especially in regard to points 122 and 123 of the report.
Let me point out that the Commission has made a proposal, which was forwarded to Parliament and the Council late last week, on reviewing the texts in force on the free movement of persons, to which point 123 refers.
I hope the Belgian presidency will be able to examine these proposals rapidly, under the codecision procedure, since they are an important means of ensuring real freedom of movement and right of residence in the Member States.
Fundamental rights are, without doubt, the identity card of a European political and social model whose values we want to preserve, not for purely defensive reasons but mainly with a view to being proactive, while accepting the need to adapt them to a world undergoing profound change.
When we build Europe' s future we must place fundamental rights at the heart of the essential political compromise and show the prime role played by the dignity of the individual and by a humanist vision of the European political project.
I hope that this new role that has now been assigned to fundamental rights will also be the key to restoring public enthusiasm for Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Mr Wuori very warmly for producing such a good and comprehensive report.
These legal proceedings against a former head of government are classical preventive human rights policy.
Earthly justice will prevail.
Let me state the case quite clearly: once you have seen how those affected, or the governments which believe they are affected, redouble their efforts, even before the report is produced, in order to prevent what they perceive as embarrassing statements from being made, it is clear that these reports must have an impact, an impact which extends into the civil society of the countries concerned.
This is a task for the Commission' s local delegation and our 15 ambassadors as well, so that we can monitor how the measures are implemented in practice.
In specific cases, we are justified in repeatedly reprimanding all our governments.
In both reports, however, there is still cause for concern and alarm.
Egypt incarcerates 55 gay men who are still denied legal representation and now face up to eight years in prison because they are gay.
The message we should send is that human rights are non-negotiable.
So long as one individual or one group suffers discrimination, we have all failed and we are all culpable.
We must develop our own in-house expertise and ensure that men, women and children born equal are afforded their natural human rights and civil liberties.
Our most powerful weapon is our imagination.
Mr President, Commissioners, Mr President-in-Office, the fact that Serbia' s former dictator Slobodan Milosevic is now in court in The Hague is a major victory for everyone who believes in human rights and international justice.
In recent times, the EU has considerably increased its involvement in human rights, and it is clear that the EU shares common values.
However, coordination between the EU institutions and between the EU and Member States could still be better.
No democracy can function without free and independent debate, journalists being able to feel safe and citizens being able to express their views.
Mr President, liberals around the world have stood and still stand at the barricades in order to fight for freedom of expression and human rights everywhere and for everyone.
Mr President, in areas such as human rights, the European Parliament has traditionally been, in a sense, the eye of the international community and has tried to goad the EU institutions into action.
Today we can do more than we could yesterday and no doubt less than tomorrow, but even that is very important.
Rather as in the case of sustainable development, respect for individual rights must become an integral element of the Union' s external policy.
If Europe is to appear credible as a Union, basing its action on respect for human rights and sustainable economic development founded on solidarity, we will have to reject all forms of hypocrisy or ambiguity.
Mr Patten raised these aspects and I hope his words will very soon be followed by deeds.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
And Mr Wuori has distinguished himself by producing a very complete report which we have all participated in and which I believe is a source of pride for the Committee on External Relations.
It is important to highlight this issue because, so far, it appears that only the United States represents this guarantee when in fact I think the opposite is happening.
Europe' s cultural, historical and social heritage, the four generations of human rights which, since the French Revolution, have been building up within European history, and also the success we have had with European integration are a guarantee of the unique privileged role which the European Union can play in the rest of the world.
Nevertheless, this should not stop us believing that we have an historic shared responsibility with regard to the tragic situation of human rights on the three continents.
Because it is precisely our presence on those continents which is one of the causes of these peoples' difficulties in having their human rights respected.
I think it would be worth establishing European Union human rights observatories in each of the three continents, which would maintain relations with the NGOs and with the instruments of the United Nations, so that the annual reports carried out by Parliament, to the Commission and the Council, may have the effect of improving our interventions.
We must not be surprised if sometimes our multinational companies (as I have observed in Colombia or as happens in Africa and Asia) are funding paramilitary groups which directly attack human rights.
It is our responsibility to bring these facts to light so that we can make progress in the establishment of human rights.
We cannot say that we need 70 million immigrants in order to make progress with our economy and then discriminate against them.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mr Cornillet for his work on the fundamental rights situation in the Union.
This is a detailed, balanced report which could genuinely provide constructive impetus for each Member State to give increasingly tangible, concrete substance to the principle of justice and the protection of the principal, inalienable rights of the European citizens.
With regard to the chapter on non-marital relations, I feel that it is unacceptable to envisage equal legal status for marriages between people of the opposite sex and unions between people of the same sex.
I would, however, like to draw Parliament' s attention once again to the case of the male descendents of the House of Savoy who, in a Europe which is an area of justice, freedom and free movement, have been unable to return to Italy for over 50 years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is something very important missing from the motion for a resolution on human rights in the world: the principle of the self-determination of peoples.
A guarantee of the right, for example, to see one' s own language or religion protected cannot be considered to be fully effective if that guarantee merely constitutes the protection of the individual freedom to use that language or practise that religion.
For example, in Padania, where I come from, those whose mother tongue is Piedmontese, as mine is, or Veneto, do not have the right to be taught it at school because those languages - Piedmontese and Veneto - are not part of school curricula.
The only pressure that the Union can exert through human rights clauses in treaties and agreements is undermined in this report by arguing for flexible application.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to devote a few words to the Cornillet report.
The attempt in Amendment No 24 to call attention to the position of terminal patients is in itself praiseworthy, but the concrete form it is given is misguided.
I am against every form of discrimination against homosexuality, but I oppose the politically-motivated attempts, apparent yet again in this report, to present homosexual marriage as the absolute norm and demand the same rights for it as marriage between partners of different sexes, which is actually still the norm today.
Unfortunately in the preparatory phase in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs this substantive aspect of the human rights problem in the European Union was scarcely mentioned.
All attention focused on the way in which human rights reports in the European Parliament should be produced in future.
In the first place, the choice of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights as the coathanger for the report.
The discussion on the scope of human rights and the concept of human rights is still fluid.
The findings of the supervisory agencies of these treaties should in fact play a much greater part in the deliberations of this Parliament.
We Liberals support Mr Cornillet' s desire for the new charter of human rights to be a model and criterion of relevance for this Parliament' s work on human rights.
I will confine myself to two specific issues in this debate.
In the coming five days alone, militant democrats will be further harassed with at least three political trials coming up: the trial of the journalist Sihem Ben Sedrine, brutally arrested as he stepped from the plane; Doctor Moncef Marzouki; and Fathi Chamkhi, President of ATTAC Tunisia.
The European Parliament has already, on several occasions, condemned this unacceptable repression.
Accordingly, it should become the established rule that third-country nationals who have resided in the Union for at least five years have the right to vote and stand for election, as advocated by the Council of Europe since 1992.
Let me conclude by saying how urgently necessary this is to the very future of a Union based on solidarity when we remember that the prospect of several candidate countries' participating in the elections... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House and the Commission to a matter which has been dealt with brilliantly in the report, a matter which is certainly less tragic than the physical violation of human rights which, I am sad to say, lies before us now, but which relates to a crucial, pivotal factor in the democratic processes of all countries and, above all - I am convinced - in the future of democracy in European and world societies: I refer to the issue of information, to a question which I feel to be central, the question of pluralism - and I will repeat this word, pluralism - of information.
In my opinion, the question gains in importance precisely when we consider it in relation to enlargement, for countries are joining the Union whose experience is different, countries are acceding which have a greater need for tangible rules than ever before.
I call upon Parliament and the Commission to address this issue and to produce a directive on the matter without delay.
Mr President, I had a prepared speech, which I decided to abandon after listening to Mr Michel.
One side has the right to a state prosecutor, the other to its judge.
I have always believed that the great benefit of enlargement of EU to the east is to anchor these countries in a climate of peace, prosperity and an institutional respect for democracy and fundamental human rights.
In the past, I have spoken with concern in this house on the Charter of Fundamental Rights with regard to the attempt to make binding its new controversial, social and economic rights, as opposed to the civil and political rights enshrined in the much respected 1950 European Convention of Human Rights.
It is normal for us to make our aid to third countries conditional upon their respecting human rights and, naturally, we must continue urging them to do so and putting pressure on them until they do so, but, while we do not make the same demands of the larger countries, we will not deserve to consider ourselves the world reference point for the defence of human rights.
But it goes no further than these words which, though forceful, are nevertheless only words.
In the statement on the Gothenburg Summit, we have once again called on the United States to establish a moratorium on the death penalty, we have once again expressed our regret that it appears in their federal law and that in 38 of their jurisdictions citizens are executed in the name of the law.
Cases such as that of Joaquín José Martínez lead us to be more optimistic about the influence of the European institutions and, in particular, our Parliament.
We must continue to fight to defend and extend the values of European civilisation.
Without liberty, without tolerance, without respect for human rights, there is nothing.
A country may be a great economic power, it may even be the envy of many others for its missiles, its strength, its powers of veto, but, if human rights are not respected and enforced, it is a society without values, an under-developed society.
Yesterday also, before the Committee on External Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the President of Peru, Alejandro Toledo, reminded us that democracy has no borders and human rights have no colour.
Mr President, I should like to thank the two rapporteurs for two outstanding reports.
We could, however, use these two reports as a basis for saying that there is, in fact, something that is very good in Europe.
Mr President, Matti Wuori' s report has shown that the political campaign against censorship through violence must become a joint campaign within the framework of European foreign policy.
It is important, therefore, to ensure that such information is recognised as freedom of opinion and a basic prerequisite for individual fundamental freedoms, and for collective and social basic rights.
I would like to ask the Council and the Commission whether they are prepared for the issue of press censorship to be anchored more centrally in European policy in order to give fundamental rights, human rights, social and collective rights an opportunity to develop.
This pragmatism colours all our positions, even this report.
We would like to be able to tell you about referendums which have been illegally denied in Italy on subjects of fundamental importance for the Italian citizens; we would like to be able to tell you about referendums in which tens of millions of voters voted and won and were then betrayed some months afterwards by the Italian parliament; we would like to be able to tell you about electoral lists illegally presented at the elections of our country and illegally accepted; we would like to be able to tell you about an electoral campaign which illegally excluded subjects, parties, movements, policies and proposals from the possibility of being chosen by the Italian electorate; we would like to be able to tell you about all these things.
It is difficult to analyse what is happening in each Member State and, above all, know the facts and circumstances which affect each country in the light of our recent Charter of Fundamental Rights and, therefore, we must continue to study the procedure in depth.
Unfortunately, terrorism has warranted a specific mention with a new section which refers to the right to life and the intensification of the fight against terrorism, based on the legal instruments agreed at the Tampere Summit to combat it, such as, for example, the arrest order, which we are creating at the moment.
Another aspect, which the Socialist Group in particular should reflect on, given that they do not even accept its application in places where the governments are of its same colour, is that mentioned in points 119 and 120, which recognise the right to vote of citizens of third countries, not only in local elections, but also in European elections.
Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that it seems to me absurd to hold a joint debate in this House on the human rights situation in the world and in the European Union.
My group said this in the Conference of Presidents and was only supported by the GUE/NGL Group.
The comparisons are odious and I am not talking about the victims of a lack of human rights, but we should be more concerned with dealing with what is exclusively in our hands.
His experience has been valuable because this is the first year that we have produced this report, after the declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If human rights are deteriorating in this respect, we must put forward solutions and conclusions which reflect it.
The caste system is a culturally constructed form of political and economic exploitation.
A massive consciousness-raising campaign must be launched and Europe must put this crude form of racial discrimination on the international agenda, to begin with at the forthcoming World Racism conference in Durban.
Ladies and gentlemen, even though the adoption last year, in Nice, of the Charter of Fundamental Rights represented a step forward for human rights in the European Union, it constitutes only a minimum standard for the protection to which every citizen is entitled.
It is therefore essential to enforce those rights, but also to make them visible and accessible to everyone.
Another key factor lies in ratifying international instruments and translating them into everyday life: the right to move around freely, to live with one' s family, to be a citizen.
Whatever a society is like, it can only flourish in peace, and there can be no peace without justice.
Apart from these generalised speeches in favour of human rights, nothing will happen without the political will to achieve real equality of rights for all men and women who have a share in wealth and in the construction of Europe and European citizenship.
Mr President, I cannot fail to stress the positive aspects of the Wuori and Cornillet reports on human rights in the world, for a number of reasons: most importantly, the reference to the human rights clause in the conclusion of trade or other agreements, and then the request, which has been made on a number of occasions in the past as well, for closer involvement of Parliament in the coordinated, consistent monitoring of Community action in respect of the violation of rights.
The adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights by the European Parliament and its proclamation in Nice were an innovation and made this a seminal text in the field of human rights.
It is now up to the European Parliament, in cooperation with the national parliaments, to ensure that the Member States and even the European institutions respect fundamental rights.
The Cornillet rapport closely follows the structure of the Charter and divides fundamental rights into six separate chapters, as has already been pointed out, and rightly so, by Commissioner Vitorino.
The slowness of justice is in itself a factor for injustice: by the courts not resolving the problems put before them in due time, the feeling of being able to commit crimes with impunity spreads.
The European Parliament is an essential actor in the design and practical application of the Union' s policy on human rights.
We must therefore pay close attention to the human rights situation in Member States when shortcomings are revealed in our systems.
In my home town of Lyons I am confronted every day, in the most graphic terms, with the suffering of refugees and with trafficking in human beings, particularly in women.
We must therefore harmonise our legislation and adopt a legally restrictive instrument, so as to guarantee real protection for the victims of trafficking in human beings.
We ought to be able to obtain, as a matter of urgency, better protection for unaccompanied minors, in particular by offering them, as quickly as possible, the assistance of a tutor or legal adviser.
If the Community' s policy on immigration, which is the subject of a report currently being examined at the committee stage, were to be based solely on the selfish economic interests of European countries, it would not really guarantee all the fundamental rights that we are defending here today.
Mr President, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights has gained in importance through the rapporteur' s proposal to use it as a touchstone to test the human rights situation in the Union.
But a critical test is more than a shopping list.
Combating this divide deserves our support.
Mr President, the author of the Cornillet Report has listed many areas in which, even within the territory of the European Union, human rights are totally or partially flouted.
Yet in matters concerning commercial law, the legislature knows how to be more stringent.
In its explanatory statement, the report refers to the Charter of Fundamental Rights which was proclaimed at Nice, where much praise was lavished on a text which combines civil and political rights and economic and social rights as if they formed a consistent whole.
One positive point at least is that attention is paid to the press and to press freedom.
Allow me to say that the Swedish presidency somewhat disappointed us on this point.
The essential thing is to know whether the European Union has the instruments to implement that globalisation of rights and, above all, whether it is prepared to use them.
Take, for example, the European Union' s role in the United Nations and the Geneva Commission, which is often weak and even contradictory.
Also, what can be done within the World Trade Organisation which, by the way, is going to meet in Qatar, a world leader in human rights, as the whole world knows.
Also, in the use of the democratic clause with third countries, in which the European Parliament should have a clear role, regulated by the Treaty, and, of course, in bilateral dialogue and in the use of the code of conduct on the export of arms, a code which is still nothing more than a proposal and a suggestion and which does not stop Member States from committing aberrations by selling arms to countries which systematically violate human rights.
The rights of peoples are also human rights.
In fact, according to Unicef data, 130 million children have never been to school and a further 150 million have started primary education but have left it before becoming fully literate.
This is in spite of the objectives set by the World Conference on Education for All at Jomtien, in 1990, or at the World Education Forum which took place in Dakar in 2000.
Given this situation, we cannot close our eyes, nor ignore the lack of political will of the European Union and its Member States when it comes to translating the rhetoric of great declarations into budgetary contributions.
With the same vigour with which we defend the right to life or the right to non-discrimination or the right to freedom of expression.
When the poor have an economic stake, then civil society and democracy will take root.
The global markets are so free that human bodies now have a market value.
The violent trade in human organs focuses on the poor.
I suggest that we establish a European body to make rules for the protection of privacy in the information society era.
However, the European Union must state more clearly the action it intends to take in three areas.
First of all, history shows us how difficult it is to ensure that human rights are respected in countries where economic development does not exist or is extremely poor.
Secondly, the report points the finger at a number of countries which do not respect human rights.
Finally, we must acknowledge the special responsibility of those countries which have achieved a high level of democracy and development but which, instead of setting an example, cynically continue to disregard human rights.
Mr President, given the small amount of time available to me, I am not going to waste a single second on rhetoric or demagoguery and, therefore, I am going to concentrate on issues which, from my point of view, are more significant.
His work clearly reflects the fact that within the European Union there are still groups and people who suffer discrimination, whose fundamental rights are not properly respected.
I therefore believe that we must make greater efforts in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, as well as Article 13, after Amsterdam, since those groups mentioned in Article 13 are still suffering discrimination and a lack of respect for their fundamental rights.
I am referring to issues as regrettable as racism, which still takes place in the Member States; discrimination as a result of the sexual orientation of certain groups, specifically homosexuals, who still suffer legislative discrimination in certain Member States; the protection of disabled people; women, that vast group that suffers discrimination; and immigrants, which this report reveals to be the new group which suffers the greatest discrimination.
However, I should like to take the opportunity of drawing your attention to another point which, in my opinion, was neglected in the report, namely the freedom of religion.
We will be discussing a resolution on this very topic on Thursday.
Mr President, it is a tragedy, in the Europe of the 21st century, that there are so many serious problems with violations of human rights, as we have heard in Mr Cornillet' s excellent report.
Ecological issues are seldom dealt with, while human rights are a peripheral issue.
My experiences with Asia, from India via Nepal to Korea, show that our commitment to human rights awakens great hopes among citizens there, among the disadvantaged, the excluded, the persecuted, and families and children.
Their hopes are also awakened by our partnership agreements with the human rights clauses.
Our approach does not constitute impermissible intervention in the internal affairs of states, but necessary action against racism, torture, exploitation and the death penalty.
The EU Member States were united in their support for the United States' initiative to put the ongoing human rights violations in China on the agenda.
I particularly welcome the commitment to give real substance to the human rights clauses in our trade and partnership agreements with third countries - something we badly failed to do with Mexico.
I share our strong statement of support and solidarity for human rights organisations and defenders, who risk their lives daily in conflict situations around the world to defend principles, which we hold dear.
Firstly, whilst I welcome the commitment in the communication to appeal to European enterprises to do more to respect human rights, reflected in paragraphs 55 and 92 of our resolution, I have to say to the Commission that I am disappointed that the Relex DGs appear to have opted out of the draft Green Paper on Corporate Social Responsibility.
The organisation Disability Awareness in Action has recorded over 2,000 such abuses within Europe and they should be dealt with by human rights monitoring organisations and by the Commission.
For the rest, I should like to assure Parliament that during the next six months, the fight against the trafficking in human beings in general, and the fight against the trafficking in women and children, in particular, will be one of our key priorities.
We are running out of time so I will just say that, on behalf of my colleague, Chris Patten, who had to leave because he is attending at the same time another parliamentary meeting on Latin America and on my own behalf I would like to thank all participants in the debate.
The Commission is taking note of all the remarks and is looking forward to the resolutions that will conclude these debates as guidelines for our reflection and further action.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I want to express Parliament' s concern that the Kyoto Protocol may falter and fail, leaving the world without any coherent network of obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We would like to use this brief debate to explore what Europe can do to lead the world in the absence of American leadership and in what ways the Members of the European Parliament who attend the Bonn Conference can speak for the people of Europe and actively participate in the proceedings.
Without the votes of Japan and Canada the Protocol cannot enter into force.
One of my colleagues, Mr Moreira Da Silva, who will be leading Parliament' s delegation to Bonn, wishes to move an oral amendment on this point to the resolution we have tabled, since the problem with Japan has really only come to the fore in the period since we tabled it.
Our resolution reiterates in paragraph 3 our basic expectations about the action that will follow ratification of the protocol.
But as Europeans we must make a sober assessment of what this will mean for us if it were to happen and still more if it were to happen without the United States.
The finance available for measures to reduce CO2 emissions in poorer countries will be greatly reduced without US participation.
We hope that the Bonn Conference and the Belgian presidency will be able to move the Europeans on from words to action.
Finally a word on the participation of the EU delegation in the Bonn conference.
On behalf of the Council, I can only reiterate our commitment, as referred to in the Council conclusions of 8 March and 7 June 2001, to reach an agreement at the resumption session of the Conference of the Parties No 6 which is soon to take place in Bonn.
All these objectives remain unchanged and the European Union is prepared to negotiate with all partners in Bonn on the unresolved issues in a constructive manner.
Although the Council recognises that the European Union and the United States do not see eye to eye concerning the Kyoto Protocol and the ratification thereof, despite this, the Council welcomes the pledge, made by President Bush during a recent meeting with the EU Heads of State and Government leaders, that the United States will not block the Kyoto process, and will cooperate during the forthcoming session of the Conference of the Parties in Bonn in a constructive manner.
The specific conditions for this participation, about which you may not be happy, are explained in a letter from the Council to the European Parliament of 18 November 1998.
Mrs Jackson, I am aware that this may not satisfy you entirely, but on the other hand, it does mean that you will be able to do more than just sing or lament on the sidelines or behind the scenes.
As the President-in-Office has already said, in Gothenburg, the heads of state and government confirmed that the European Community and the Member States are determined to meet their commitments under the Kyoto Protocol.
The Union' s summit reaffirmed the European Union' s aim of bringing the Protocol into force by 2002 and asked the Commission to prepare a proposal for ratification before the end of 2001.
The United States has indicated that while they will participate actively in the resumed COP6 in Bonn, their basic position, opposing the Protocol has not changed.
The resumed COP6 in July will pick up the threads of the conference in The Hague and try and bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
As in The Hague, the Commission and Council, the President-in-Office has explained, have proposed that the European Parliament be represented by eight Members.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak first of all about precisely this issue of whether or not the European Parliament delegation should participate in the European Union' s coordination meetings.
On the other hand, it has never been as difficult to take action as it is today: the decision by the United States has dealt a harsh blow to international efforts over the last ten years.
These factors, urgency of action, pressure from the public and the withdrawal of the United States make the Bonn Conference critical.
Our position is perfectly clear: it is crucial that we limit climate change and the Kyoto Protocol - and none other - is the most appropriate political instrument for achieving this objective.
The task of managing climate change is so enormous that going it alone will be extremely difficult.
The Commission feeds us a never-ending stream of fresh statistics.
Despite these difficulties, however, let me say that for the first time since the Second World War, Europe now has the opportunity to take on political leadership at world level.
I have no idea how this slipped into the text.
I would like to start by paying tribute to Commissioner Wallström, the Commissioner for the Environment.
I do not think any of the parliamentarians have any doubt at all about her passionate personal commitment towards trying to secure a positive outcome from the talks in Bonn, and I would also like to say a word of thanks to my Liberal colleague, Prime Minister Verhofstadt, for the emphasis he placed this morning on saying that the problem of climate change is the greatest single challenge facing the planet.
One thing that this whole issue has brought about - if it was needed - is a great awareness that this is a very small planet upon which we live and that mankind is very capable, through its industrial practices, of changing our environment.
Even the United States now recognises this, although they have yet to come up with an alternative in any practical form to the Kyoto Protocol.
I wish to see harmonised environmental taxation at a European level - the objective being not to raise more money but to change practices and priorities and ensure that industry at the same time is able to compete on a level playing field.
So, my question to the Commission is this: when it comes to practical forms, when it comes to actually dealing with what I hope will be a positive outcome from Bonn, how does the Council pursue harmonised energy taxation at the same time as dealing with enlargement, which makes the possibility of unanimity so much more difficult to achieve if it we were actually to have harmonised environmental taxation of a sort which is worth having.
Mr President, over the past two years, more wind-energy capacity has been installed worldwide than nuclear energy.
By the time a decision was to be made in Gothenburg on a strategy for sustainable development, many of the most important points had been removed.
I believe this is important ahead of the meetings which we are about to have with other countries in order to decide the future of the Kyoto Protocol.
It has already been mentioned that the Conference for Climate Change will be held in Bonn from 16-27 July 2001.
According to the Worldwide Fund for Nature prognosis, CO2 emissions in the European Union will be rising by eight percent in total, instead of falling by eight percent, as per the Kyoto Protocol.
There is the risk that the failure of the Kyoto Protocol will be used as an excuse for not having to do anything.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question that at this time of disappointment and rejection for the European Union given the attitude of the United States towards compliance with the Kyoto commitments, the European Parliament must unequivocally reaffirm and reinforce its commitment to making progress on the reduction of CO2 emissions through the ratification of the measures proposed in the protocol.
Having agreed in 1997 on an international strategy for reducing polluting emissions, we cannot accept such a drastic and important change in approach towards the situation, which gives credence to arguments which, under a scientific veneer, intend to postpone the intensity and force of specific actions.
Furthermore, I believe that this proposed resolution is a necessary gesture by the European Parliament towards the Member States as an expression of the renewal of a political will in each of them to combat climate change and to intensify the establishment of the mechanisms necessary for the ratification of the protocol.
At the next climate summit in Bonn, the Member States will have to respond to the key points which were left unresolved at The Hague.
Therefore, and in order to take the next step of negotiating with other countries a rapid ratification of the protocol, it is so important that this Parliament should unite in supporting the present proposal, renewing, as I have said, the European Union' s will for international leadership in the field of the environment and as a gesture towards the Member States, so that they do not forget or delay the implementation on a national level of the measures necessary for the ratification of the protocol.
The EU is now determined to go it alone, but the biggest culprit, the US, with 4% of the world' s population and 25% of global emissions, still will not co-operate.
Mercifully the UK is still online to meet its Kyoto commitments.
I believe that all nations must subscribe to policies of sustainable economic development and invest in renewable energy sources.
Mr President, the EU delegation did not show itself to its best advantage in The Hague.
Indecisiveness and dissension contributed to the failure of The Hague.
The polar icecaps have shrunk by 25% in the last three years.
I think that climate change is one of the best documented of any of our environmental problems and, at the same time, the biggest threat to the environment and to future generations here on earth.
We must stick by the Kyoto Protocol at the conference in The Hague.
I hope that the Bonn conference may nonetheless be a decisive step towards meeting the enormous challenge we are all facing.
The European Union should make climate protection and the Kyoto Agreement its key priority in relations with the US.
However, a precondition is that the Americans actually commit themselves to ratifying Kyoto and pursuing the climate protection process in a positive way.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We only have 40 minutes.
I am therefore going to apply Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure, which gives the President the authority to organise the debate on exceptional occasions.
I heard your ruling, but Annex II to the Rules of Procedure says that each Member may put a supplementary to any question.
Yes, I agree, but Rule 19 refers to such exceptional situations as today' s.
Mr President, I would simply like to propose a rational solution to the problem.
I believe that we effectively have the right to respond to the President-in-Office' s intervention and afterwards each of us should have the right to a supplementary question.
Mr President, I propose that we all have the right to a second brief intervention which would compensate for that hypothetical supplementary question which we would otherwise have the right to.
The debate will be brief but we would conserve our rights under the Rules of Procedure.
This is my final interpretation of Rule 19.
Question No 1 by (H-0516/01): Subject: The Laeken Declaration The December 2000 Nice European Council approved a Declaration on the future of the Union.
The Belgian Foreign Affairs Minister Louis Michel recently repeated his intention to allow MEPs to sit also as members of the Belgian Parliament.
Question No 2 by (H-0518/01): Subject: Laeken Declaration In view of the increasingly important and prominent involvement of the sub-state levels in the various EU decision-making procedures, the broad debate on the future of the Union which is taking shape mainly around the Laeken Summit should also provide answers to institutional issues relating to the involvement, from the legislative and judicial points of view, of constitutional regions (sub-state entities with their own legislative powers guaranteed under the Constitution of the State to which they belong) in the development, implementation, monitoring and assessment of EU policies.
Question No 3 by (H-0520/01): Subject: Laeken Declaration It is expected that during the Belgian presidency the Laeken Declaration on the future of the EU will be adopted.
In that respect, the positive stance adopted by Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt on the joint political declaration by seven constitutional regions is particularly pleasing.
Does the Council support greater Treaty-based involvement for constitutional regions in the European project in view of the added democratic legitimacy they bring to the construction of the European Union?
Question No 5 by (H-0524/01): Subject: Laeken Declaration Annex IV of the Nice Treaty contains a declaration calling for a deeper and wider debate about the future development of the EU.
The IGC also recognised the need to improve and to monitor the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the Union and its Institutions.
This formula opens the possibility of a form of convention with representatives of national parliaments, the European Parliament and the governments of the Member States.
Question No 6 by (H-0525/01): Subject: Laeken Declaration According to the Declaration in Annex IV of the Nice Treaty the debate about the future development of the EU should address, inter alia, the following question: How to establish and monitor a more precise delimitation of competences between the EU and the Member States, reflecting the principle of subsidiarity?
Question No 7 by (H-0526/01): Subject: Laeken Declaration Annex IV of the Nice Treaty contains a declaration calling for a deeper and wider debate about the future development of the EU.
It also recognises the need to improve and to monitor the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the Union and its Institutions.
The joint declaration of the Swedish and Belgian Presidencies, the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission of 7 March last, confirmed this objective and called for a debate in which all sections of society need to be involved more than ever.
The report by the presidency, submitted to the European Council in Gothenburg, describes the vast range of initiatives which have already been launched in Member States and candidate countries, and also by the institutions of the Union.
This report notes the numerous initiatives that have been taken in various Member States, involving different regional bodies.
It would be premature at this stage to give you a detailed response to this issue of content on behalf of the Council - for I am talking on behalf of the Council - but I am certain that this point will be addressed in due course.
But all of the ten EFTA parliamentarians present here naturally want to promote the regional process in the European construction, because we are all MEPs from pro-European regions.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, this morning we heard the Belgian Prime Minister.
I must say, however, that in his speech, as in the answer that he has just given to our questions, for which I thank him, I noted the absence of any explicit reference to the political recognition of national and cultural diversity which, together with statehood, is a fundamental element of the European character.
We would like to see acknowledgement of our political, civic and democratic realities, together with the executive, legislative and judicial powers that distinguish us, so that we are able to participate in the European Council, just as we also acknowledge that federal states, Länder and constitutional regions that have a different nature but similar powers must participate.
Our Prime Minister, the President-in-Office of the Council, was unable, in his speech, to include every aspect of the real situation in the European Union about which he is concerned, but I can tell you now that the safeguarding, deployment and development of cultural diversity, and indeed of linguistic diversity, are in his mind as they are in mine, and I believe that we all regard them as fundamental values.
This determination to safeguard cultural diversity will certainly be expressed, probably in the first section of the Laeken Declaration, which will deal with the principles and values that we have in common.
I can assure you, therefore, that cultural diversity, and the desire for cultural diversity, will certainly be included as one of the basic principles of the European Union, and it is a principle to which we are all very much attached.
Could I just remind you that have taken over from the Basque MEP, Mr Gorka Knörr, who was elected to the Basque Parliament on 13 May and has now become its Deputy Speaker.
Catalonia is a deeply Europhile nation, and yet today that nation has some difficulty in finding its place in this institution.
The problem you have raised is obviously even more complex than the issue of constitutional regions within the boundaries of a single country.
On the other hand, I completely agree with you when you emphasise the fact that the Catalans love their nation, their language and their culture, but that at the same time they are very European, very open to the world outside.
The President-in-Office of the Council is very receptive to the points we are making but her colleagues in the Council, generally, have very little to say about subsidiarity in a way that pleases us.
I do not know the difference between the regions of Luxembourg intimately, but I dare say they are less than the difference between the regions of Scotland.
However, I do know that within the Committee of the Regions the representatives of municipalities, cities, provinces, and constitutional regions find it increasingly difficult to build a common platform from which to develop their action.
I believe that the issue of subsidiarity and its meaning in practice is central to the whole debate on the future of Europe - not only in terms of the rights of nations and regions within the Member States, but also in terms of citizenship.
I represent Wales which has a new national assembly, just two years old.
It is a developing body that wants to play a full part in and have strong links with the European Union and help build the Europe of the future.
Would the Minister agree that involving this kind of regional level of government is crucial in terms of developing citizenship and bringing Europe closer to the people - a problem that we are all familiar with in all our constituencies.
The rest is very much my personal point of view as a member of the Belgian Government.
The local and intermediary levels are essential in bridging the gap between citizens and authorities.
Annex IV of the Nice Treaty contains a declaration calling for a deeper and wider debate about the future development of the EU.
It also recognises, importantly, the need to improve and to monitor the democratic legitimacy and transparency of the Union and its institutions.
Any answer now to your question would be quite premature.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the Belgian, Austrian and German Governments included declaration No 54 in the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to refer to the influence that European issues have on the internal bodies of the States, above all in the regions with exclusive competences.
The European institutions, and above all the Council, constantly take decisions which sometimes encroach on the competences of the constitutional regions or the regions with legislative competences in Europe.
Conflicts of competence are created and, in this respect, I would like to ask the opinion of the Belgian Government in relation to the possibility that these regions with exclusive legislative competences may be given the right to bring cases before the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
This has already happened in the case of the informal Tourism Council which took place last weekend in Bruges, and it will also happen in the case of the Education and Scientific Research Councils, and some of the other Councils too.
You yourself have pointed out that if the regions had direct access to the Court of Justice in disputes about competence, it would seem almost inevitable that the Court would one day be called upon to give a ruling on the internal constitutional organisation of the Member States themselves.
Mr President, I would like to make it clear to the President-in-Office of the Council that it is not permitted in all States for governments of the constitutional regions to participate in the meetings of the Council of Ministers and, therefore, we are unrepresented, as is the case with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country.
I would ask you to refer to your own governments, because that is where I believe this type of question should be resolved in the first instance.
Mr President, I do not represent any region; as you know, I represent the pensioners of Italy and Europe.
Mr President, The President-in-Office of the Council said that we want recognition of our national realities and of our constitutional powers.
I wish to reply that these realities are indeed part of European diversity but this is not simply a label to hold on to; it is also the powerful political reality of my country, Galicia, which should be fully recognised, just like those of the States of the borderless Union of Europe, of which we are all a part.
Question No 12 by (H-0550/01): Subject: Equal treatment of Turkey in regard to accession aid The European Council meeting in Helsinki in December 1999 decided that Turkey is a candidate State on the same terms as the other twelve candidate States.
Turkey was therefore promised certain aid during the often long and difficult process entailed by membership negotiations.
The forms of aid currently available to all candidate countries include funds such as ISPA and SAPARD.
The Commission submitted its proposal to the Council on 27 April this year.
The main objective of this proposal for a financial framework is to guarantee that financial aid will be granted in accordance with priorities defined by the accession partnership and to bring the existing financial instruments together to form a single instrument, in order to optimise its effectiveness.
The European Council in Gothenburg, which made it quite clear that the accession partnership is the kingpin of the pre-accession strategy, invited the Council to adopt this single financial framework between now and the end of 2001.
As you know, the European Parliament has approved this approach in its opinion on the framework regulation for Turkey.
Many of us, including myself, see Belgium almost as our second home in that we live in Brussels during the week but go home, in my case to Sweden, at weekends.
It is therefore a great pleasure for me to be able to reply to the question that you have so judiciously raised.
On 19 July 1999 the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision to the Council with the aim of abolishing the Council advisory committee for medical training, together with some other advisory committees established in conjunction with sectoral directives for doctors, dentists, veterinary surgeons, pharmacists, general care nurses and midwives.
The Council has had some discussions on this proposal, but has not come up with any conclusions yet.
Specifically on my supplementary, there is a major concern about the medical councils in the Member States and, in particular, for my own country, Ireland, with regard to ensuring minimum standards of training and qualification for doctors and other people in the medical profession.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 15 to 26 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I wish to recommend that the plenary adopt the proposal for a Council decision providing macro-financial assistance to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the in the version originally put forward by the Commission.
Particularly after the events of recent days, which have culminated in Milosevic' s extradition to the International Court Tribunal in The Hague, it is important that the European Parliament and the European Union signal that in response to these internal factors, the funds will be released, so that the people in a country like Yugoslavia can see that fostering democracy and human rights is genuinely worthwhile.
This has always been the position of this House and also our group.
Firstly, it was all too clear that Milosevic was handed over in exchange for the funds pledged by the donors' conference, not so much in exchange for direct assistance from the European Union.
Together with my group, I identify three key points in this context.
Thirdly, and this is my final point, the economy must certainly be reconstructed, and we must give our support to this process.
If we are able to link these three elements together, we will be able to look back in five or ten years' time on the successful history of EU policy in Yugoslavia.
Mr President, Commissioner, the economic relations between the EU and Yugoslavia are of a special kind.
After October 2000, the EU promptly made EUR 200 million available to Yugoslavia by way of emergency aid.
Last week, the EU showed itself in its best light at the donor conference.
Mr President, I can only speak for a majority of my group on this issue.
However, if at the same time a violation of rule-of-law principles is extorted, in effect, above all by the USA but apparently also by the German Chancellor, this policy is more likely to discredit the rule of law and democratic development in the long term.
KFOR therefore shares the blame for developments in Macedonia and the outbreaks of fresh conflict.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the increasingly unstable situation in what remains of the Former Republic of Yugoslavia, and, it has to be said, in the Balkans as a whole, makes it necessary for us to extend the aid that we provide to the countries of that region, not only for this year, but no doubt for a long time to come.
It also makes it necessary for us, and this should be a matter of priority, to come face to face with the reality of our failure and to ask ourselves what is the cause of it.
The cause is simple.
In reality, it was merely using humanitarian speeches to cover up the real logic, the logic of war, a war which was in the interests of several powers and which was intended to destroy Yugoslavia, which is what happened in just a few years.
Yet this would reveal the truth, a truth which is glaringly obvious, in other words that there are three powers pursuing converging interests in the Balkans.
To put it in a nutshell, Europe has worked against itself, and in my view this is a further sign of its failure to conduct a rational diplomacy.
However, my objective here today is rather more modest.
Of course we must react to the events of recent weeks as a European Community, offering a significant message of support to the Yugoslavian authorities and supporting the stabilisation and economic reform efforts made by that country.
I especially welcome the efforts made by this House, and in particular Mr Brok.
It is important, but it is limited, given the difficult economic and financial situation of Yugoslavia, which requires the international community to offer significant financial support.
The first channel is EUR 230 million, in 2001, which is the Community aid for reconstruction, democracy and stabilisation in the area, the so-called 'CARDS' aid.
As he has also said, there has been a certain change in the Council of Ministers, lending more weight to loans and less to donations, a change which we in the Commission do not agree with.
However, we are talking about a proposal for macro-financial assistance.
We are talking about aid which is complementary to aid implemented by other international institutions and bilateral donors, aid which is intended to prevent the external financial restrictions suffered by that country.
We are referring to 2001, although it may be considered for future years, but, at the moment, we are talking about the restrictions for 2001 and next year.
As I said before, our proposal was 120 million in donation and 180 in loan, the latter for 15 years under conditions similar to those for other countries.
The basic agreement in the Council has reduced the donation to 75 million, leaving the rest for loans.
Our view of the amendments is as follows, to put it very briefly: first, it is not necessary to include the references to CARDS in this particular case, since we are talking about another type of aid, and not about CARDS aid, which is of a different nature.
Certain amendments do not therefore seem acceptable, such as Amendments Nos 1, 11, 15 and 19.
We have no problem with Amendment No 5, but to make payment conditional upon what other donors do is neither a condition nor a system which is normally introduced in the case of macro-financial assistance.
Therefore, certain references do not seem necessary to us, such as its not exceeding 2003.
I do not know if it will be necessary for us to reconsider the issue in 2003, but to say now that in no event are we going to do anything in 2003 does not seem correct to us.
With regard to the obligatory consultations with, shall we say, bodies of a political nature, we believe that the political debate is taking place now and will take place in the Council.
We therefore believe that other types of conditions are not reasonable, such as those established in Amendments Nos 12, 14 and the first part of Amendment No 16.
You request additional reports to Parliament.
But we believe that it is much better to react to specific proposals than to establish this type of formal obligation, which does not always have the necessary interest.
One problem is bureaucratic, administrative: will we make it by 31 December?
Finally, and I will end here, I would like to thank Parliament for its support for the Commission proposal on the granting of macro-financial assistance to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The most important points are, firstly, funding for 27 new posts for RTD projects; secondly, the OLAF establishment plan and the necessary funds in the budget line for the recruitment of new staff; and, thirdly, an increase in the Commission' s payment appropriations required for the EU assistance in the Balkans.
We - Parliament - have taken the initiative and called on the Council to discuss with us, prior to every budget procedure and before the Commission produces its draft budget, the situation concerning the European Union' s own resources.
What we noted for the 2001 budget year is no different from the trends observed in previous years.
In total, own resources constitute 98.3% of revenue for the 2001 EU budget.
Thirdly, it simply does not create a visible link between the European Union and its citizens.
We want financial autonomy at European level, and we want to work towards this now.
We want equal rights in all areas; we want to be one of the two arms of the budgetary authority, in respect of all expenditure and all revenue.
A European tax may still be a long way off, but the Belgian presidency, the Belgian President of the European Union himself, has called for this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Jutta Haug' s co-rapporteur, I had a rather easier task with the Draft Supplementary and Amending Budget.
I should also like to make several comments on the issue of own resources.
The Committee on Budgets can look forward to some lively debates.
However, I think that Mr Costa Neves has carried out his task with the necessary care and wisdom for a serious proposal to be put forward to the tax-payers, whom we - in our role as part of the budgetary authority - are representing here.
Such agreement will require respect for the regulatory framework, for the existing agreements and between the institutions concerned, taking account of the representativeness of each one and the priorities that they legitimately define.
It is the most basic common sense also to address other key issues, such as the level of payments for next year and the pace of the Commission reform.
In December 2000, the Council agreed that, by 30 June of this year, the Commission would present a progress report on a raft of matters, with a view to increasing the levels and the quality of budgetary implementation, improving coordination between legislative and budgetary procedures, and ensuring the success of the Commission reform.
The progress report has already been presented by the Commission, which is cause for satisfaction, and we are sure that it will seen as the crucial instrument that it is and which we are already beginning to study.
Furthermore, in April of this year, the European Parliament adopted guidelines that suggest the perennial matters in the progress report that I have just mentioned as political priorities, as well as food safety and consumer confidence, together with sustainable agriculture, the definition of priorities and, more generally, better implementation of the budget, including very specific aspects such as e-learning, a key aspect of the priority that is always given to issues of employment and social inclusion, and policy development in the field of asylum and immigration.
In this context, it is understandable that there should be concern at the speed at which commitments are met by making payments in due time and, at the same time, effectively reducing the amount of delayed payments and reducing the amount of RAL (amounts outstanding).
I shall end here, in the hope that on 20 July - the date scheduled for the conciliation meeting - the positive and constructive spirit that I personally feel, will spread to all of those present.
It does not breathe a word about the problem that, after the failure of the fisheries agreement with Morocco, less money is being spent.
Neither does it mention the problems this has caused in vulnerable coastal regions in Spain and Portugal.
Europe is lagging far behind the United States and Canada in this respect, and only sound research will provide a basis to keep this technique in European fish farming at bay.
We in the Committee on Foreign Affairs wish to point out that the extension of the Union' s activities in this field, particularly in the field of the CFSP, requires sufficient contributions.
The uncertainty in the allocation of resources compromises the credibility and prestige of an external policy which must be in a position to fulfil its commitments and ambitions.
This of course, Mr President, bearing in mind their healthy, effective and transparent management.
The Commission has included approximately 120 million in relation to the fisheries agreement with Morocco, and we, like the general rapporteur for the budget, ask that the commitments made at the Nice Summit be fulfilled.
Our main concern is actually related to the proposals of the European Commission itself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the presidency of the Council can spend more time with us, at least when we hold our mini-sessions in Brussels.
However, I believe that the majority of my Group will possibly agree with it.
We are presenting clear proposals for the conciliation of 20 July, which the Council should not reject, because they represent the majority will of this House elected by the citizens of Europe.
I would also like to stress the will for the Council to comply with the Nice commitments with regard to overcoming the problems caused by the absence of a fishing agreement with Morocco and the need to safeguard Parliament' s external priorities, which are always cut at first reading by the Council and, even more, the indispensable consultation procedure which the Council should carry out with Parliament when adopting commitments on external policy.
Lastly, I would like to mention the need to deal with the problems that have already been mentioned in Category 5, especially the separation of administration expenditure and the identification of the Council' s expenditure in that category.
Ladies and gentlemen, all of this makes up the hub of Parliament' s negotiating position for the conciliation of 20 July, with regard to which we ask the Belgian presidency to maintain an open position and hold dialogue so that we can deal with the final part of the budgetary procedure with guarantees of success for all the parties.
The rest is forfeited and goes back to the Member States.
The main reason for under-utilisation was that new Objective programmes were slow to be approved.
The Commission must improve its ability to pay considerably.
Mr President, I wish to speak about own resources.
There are two different opinions on this in our group.
As a representative of taxpayers in a small net contributor country I cannot endorse European taxation for the purposes of a federal state.
I have read the notes on the work programme by the Belgian presidency and there is little or no reference to it.
I put to her that the Prime Minister of Belgium only, in the last few days, said that he does not want to pursue this path towards a European Union tax because "it is sensitive".
That downward path has continued during the last two years.
I am thinking particularly about enlargement and the development of a common foreign and security policy and its budgetary effects.
It is therefore worrying, even if some finance ministers are rubbing their hands with glee, that the level of budgetary implementation is so low that we now have to pay back EUR 11 billion to Member States.
Before we adopt the budget for 2002 and, above all, before we fully conclude negotiations with the prospective Member States, we absolutely must be clearer about the future Common Agricultural Policy.
Finally: we are also concerned about the external undertakings.
It is irresponsible, in my opinion, to have EUR 41 million earmarked in the budget for the outbreak of infectious animal diseases.
Mr President, this debate on the EU' s own resources and on EU tax is familiar to us all.
I also believe it is the case that if a tax is introduced, particularly a new tax level as in this case, taxation will also increase.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to jointly debate the system of own resources and the next budget at the point of conciliation reinforces the idea that income and expenditure are two sides of the same coin.
It seems a pointless exercise to talk about a new philosophy for own resources without having cleared up the fundamental unknown factors first.
The proposal also has some negative aspects, which are far from negligible.
The maintenance, albeit with a modification of the calculation system, of the so-called correction of budgetary imbalances in favour of the United Kingdom, confirms that this procedure is totally contrary to the desired transparency and simplicity.
With regard to the 2002 budget, I would like to point out that the Costa Neves report - and I congratulate the rapporteur on his work - provides the necessary elements for a good negotiation.
Mr President, rapporteurs, honourable Members, there is always a lot to do, discuss and decide where budgets are concerned, and today we have just had four important points: the two supplementary budgets for the current financial year, the resolution on financing the budget and the preparations for the first reading of the 2002 budget in the Council.
Amending Budget No 3/2001 is concerned solely with personnel matters, in the field of research and in OLAF.
Amending Budget No 4/2001 is concerned with the use of the budget surplus from last year.
Not all of them were actually filled by the Commission or OLAF, but when it came to the 2001 budget the budgetary authority then decided to cut the number of grade A posts to fewer than there were officials in place.
On the other hand, some of the European Parliament' s resolutions amount to very detailed micromanagement, which naturally at least raises a few questions as regards independence.
The year 2000 budget ended with a surplus of EUR 11.6 billion, as has been mentioned here several times.
I should like to point out, for example, that Parliament' s position on the Community initiatives was adopted in April 2000.
Now to the present motion for a resolution on own resources.
So far as the structure of financing is concerned, the Treaty states that the public budget is financed out of own resources.
The agreement with Parliament in 1975, for example, also stressed again that they should be genuine own resources.
This concerns the conciliation procedure before the Council' s first reading on 20 July, preparations for which take place in the trialogue on 9 July.
I should again like to stress that the 9 July trialogue is of course also an important date, an important point in the whole budgetary procedure.
Mrs Theato, you sent me a rather strongly worded letter asking me kindly to come to the Committee on Budgetary Control to debate a periodic report on 9 July instead of going to the trialogue.
The second point concerns the abortive fisheries agreement with Morocco, which has been mentioned by several speakers here.
The Commission will for this reason be making a proposal that the flexibility reserve, or part of it, be used to finance this restructuring programme.
In fact, the preliminary draft budget is the same as the 2001 budget, and the Commission sees no need for further cuts here, but the Commission will, of course, assist the rapporteur as requested in order to improve the budget commentaries.
You have drawn attention, Mr Costa Neves, to the report that the European Parliament had called for and which deals, among other things, with matters of budget implementation.
A brief word on priorities in e-learning and employment policy as they affect small and medium-sized enterprises.
The letter has no other meaning.
Mrs Schreyer, I am somewhat astonished that you read the letter in that way.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I must say straightaway that the Committee on Budgetary Control and this House are very much in sympathy with the principle of the agency that has been proposed to us, and our initial impression is a favourable one, because, in creating this agency, the Commission is responding to a matter of fundamental concern to Parliament, a concern which it expressed in the context of the budgetary procedure for the year 2000.
Therefore, Madam Commissioner, in principle you have the support of the rapporteur and the support of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
There are a certain number of points on which we agree and a certain number on which we disagree.
On the other hand, there are a certain number of points on which we still have doubts which need to be cleared up.
I hope to be able to convince committee members in the Socialist Group to support this proposal.
On this point, Madam Commissioner, I want to ask you for a firm commitment.
Those, Madam Commissioner, are the feelings of our committee.
The Commission must provide a precise list of the tasks to be transferred, whether they are public or non-public and the type of executive agency to which they are to be transferred.
The Commission is also legally liable for the executive agencies, since they are not anchored in the Treaty as institutions in their own right.
May I first of all use up a small proportion of my valuable speaking time to congratulate you on the excellent work you have done in the Conciliation Committee with regard to the Takeover Directive?
Our group gives its unqualified support to the proposal of the European Commission.
We are of the opinion that the Commission proposal forms a key component in the reform programme that was set in motion after 1999.
Needless to say, a certain percentage of Commission officials will need to work in such an agency, but it appears inappropriate in our view to place a figure on that percentage.
Firstly, the Commission will always remain responsible for what happens.
I should like to thank you for your continued cooperation in working out the proposal and also the report.
An executive agency is an instrument in the hands of and under the control of the Commission.
It means that the Commission' s responsibility for the execution of the budget under Article 274 of the EC Treaty is retained without qualification.
That is a point that has just been emphasised again by the Committee on Budgetary Control and also by you, Mrs Theato.
The Commission exercises control through its own departments.
The operational resources managed by the agency remain in the European Union' s general budget and are administered by the agency in its capacity as an authorising party by delegation of the Commission.
The agency' s establishment plan is submitted to the budgetary authority as part of the budgetary procedure.
I should like to thank the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control for their critical scrutiny of our proposal.
Their contributions will make our proposal more balanced and bring us a step closer to our goal of increasing administrative efficiency.
If we do not have a clear undertaking on this point by tomorrow, I shall make arrangements to submit to this House a motion to postpone the vote.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This has led to the EU reviewing its legislation with regard to this type of mining operation.
As such, mining waste is one of our major environmental problems.
In the main, we have decided, in our report, that things are moving in the right direction.
We emphasise that, in the event of an accident, the responsibility should lie exclusively with the company, including responsibility for the environmental consequences, and that the mining industry should be included in the future Directive on environmental liability.
We would also like the EU to review its own financing of various projects in this field.
With regard to the main proposals, in my report we propose that the study now underway should also take in the candidate countries.
We know that the situation may be more serious in many candidate countries than it is in the present Member States.
We also stress that this directive must deal with both old mining waste and existing production.
A third element of the proposals is that the Seveso II Directive should be reviewed.
What is correct is that the strictness of the regulations varies within the EU and naturally also in the candidate countries.
I believe the European mining industry is very much aware of its responsibilities and is therefore calling for a specific directive for mining waste.
I believe we are all aware that the specific nature of mining is such that the Landfill Directive cannot be applied and would not bring about any improvement in the ecological and economic situation of mining companies.
The potential problems - particularly the problems of water pollution - are cross-boundary problems and therefore worthy of European-wide legislation.
After consideration of existing legislation, be it on IPPC, landfill or Seveso, and in each case I have acted as the rapporteur at different stages of development of that legislation, it is clear that none of them can provide a comfortable solution to the range of problems presented by mining operations.
I would like to say that our Group very much supports this report.
I just have to look at it in my own country where mining companies have come in and basically taken what they want.
Local communities have to live with that and, in some areas, even farming has been affected because the mining companies leave their mess behind, affecting not just the water supplies but also the land in general.
I should like, on behalf of the Commission, to thank the European Parliament and especially you, Mr Sjöstedt, but also the committees involved, for your constructive cooperation and outstanding report.
The background to the Commission' s communication was the serious environmental damage caused by cyanide following the dam breaches in Spain in 1998 and in Baia Mare, Romania, in January 2000.
The communication mentions the three key actions planned by the Commission after the most recent mining accidents: first, amendment of the Seveso II Directive, then the presentation of the proposal for a new directive on the treatment of mining waste and, thirdly, the creation of a reference document on best available technologies following the procedure laid down in the IPPC Directive, with a description of the best available technologies for reducing everyday pollution and preventing or reducing mining accidents.
This refers not only to the three key actions just mentioned but also to legislation that is not specific to mining, such as the proposed directive on environmental liability.
The proposal for a directive amending the Seveso II Directive has already completed a public consultation and, according to the Commission' s work programme for 2001, is likely to be adopted in the course of this year.
Work on the proposal for a new directive on the treatment of mining waste is progressing well.
The study of mining hot spots will soon be completed and consultation with the interest groups concerned has already begun.
The proposal will probably be adopted by the Commission in 2002.
Finally, the report calls on the Commission to intensify dialogue with the European mining industry.
Your support shows the Commission that we are on the right road.
The report motivates us to continue to work hard for a swift implementation of our strategy for the prevention of mining accidents in the European Union and also in the candidate countries.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The EU' s demonstration programme on integrated management of coastal zones, funded by LIFE, has proved that implementation of integrated coastal zone management results in both economic and environmental benefits.
There is an urgent need to integrate planning and management and promote collaborative working of marine and terrestrial assistance at local, regional and national levels.
The EU must establish a legal framework to enable action at other levels.
For instance, the EU-funded integrated coastal zone management projects such as the Atlantic Living Coastline in the UK and others have since ceased.
The UK initiative and the Severn Estuary strategy, involving 12 local authorities, have only secured funding for the next six months.
In my own country, the Bantry Bay coastal zone chart is the only agreed integrated coastal zone management plan in the whole of the country at the present time.
Even in countries such as the UK, where the EU programmes have funded some of the most important coastal zone management and regeneration projects, local authorities are unable to give priority to funding integrated coastal zone management actions because of the absence of a national policy framework, statutory duties, responsibilities or adequate funding.
For this reason local authorities strongly support EU leadership to ensure cross-European commitment by national governments to give funding and legislative support in this field.
Some people have criticised me for saying that I want to give the EU more power in this area.
In my own country the government failed to take recommendations and even directives seriously and implement them in a way that actually achieves their original aim.
It is completely unacceptable that some Member States have a very good integrated coastal zone management strategy and plans, whereas other countries do not.
When it comes to environmental issues we need an international approach.
As everyone knows, environmental issues cross all boundaries.
Europe has experienced a great increase in pressures on coastal resources.
Coastal populations have also further increased and, at present, about 50% of the EU' s population lives within 50 kilometres of the coast.
So there really is an urgent need to tackle coastal zone management.
The draft recommendation leaves out a very important issue in that it fails to identify the threatened biodiversity of our coastal zones.
Another issue is climate change.
Everyone, at this stage, will recognise that climate change is having a major impact on our coastal areas.
Be it the Irish Cliffs of Moher, the Algarve in Portugal or the Watt mud flats on the German coast, Europe' s coasts have tremendous economic, ecological, social and cultural importance.
Coasts are not conurbation areas, but nevertheless around one third of the EU population live in coastal regions today.
But it will benefit our environment in the long term.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should almost like to say that the quality of our coastal zones here in Europe forms part of our heritage.
Quite simply because the development of our coastal zones is sometimes carried out in such a way as to cause the degradation of those zones, despite the fact that, as a fellow Member has pointed out, the habitat of the coastal zones is sometimes a long way away from the major centres of population.
I come from a country where there are major population centres alongside coastal zones, and those population centres have finally destroyed the quality of the coastal zones, resulting in numerous cases of degradation caused by human activity.
We are aware that it is necessary to have a real political will, on the part of all the countries of the European Union and within the candidate countries, because among those countries which will shortly be joining us within the European Union there are coastal countries and islands which are facing the same problems, the problems that arise between economic development and the protection of our coastal zones.
Economic development and protection are not actually opposed to one another, but there has to be a real desire to develop carefully, at the same time fully respecting the need to protect the landscape, biodiversity and so on.
However, we must have a legal framework which respects the disparities between our countries, because the coasts of the Scandinavian countries do not have the same problems as those of the countries of southern Europe, whether that means France, Spain, Italy or Greece.
We must give a little more responsibility to local authorities and ask each State to set up a legal framework which is appropriate to the regional and local scale.
In France, a coastline conservation authority was set up 25 years ago.
I believe that our coastal zones represent environmental and economic wealth which we absolutely must protect in the spirit of a sustainable development policy.
The environmental problems include habitat destruction, water contamination, coastal erosion and resource depletion and these are all very serious.
These environmental problems have a knock-on effect beyond coastal regions to inland regions.
The roots of the problem include a lack of knowledge, a failure to involve stake-holders and, therefore, a lack of cooperation between the relevant administrative bodies.
At a recent videoconference in Scotland House, that is the home of the Scottish Executive in Brussels, it was interesting to see how the different local authorities in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland were already working within local partnerships with stake-holders to protect the coastal zone.
In conclusion, we need to encourage strong action at a local level which we are seeing already in Scotland, and we need to exchange best practice across the EU in order that our coastal zones can be enjoyed as much by this generation as by the next.
Ladies and gentlemen, political movements which have long supported the very principles found in this document have been mocked in many contexts.
The movement which I represent nationally has long stood for the principles about which we are now speaking, but we have had to suffer a great deal of ridicule.
Mr President, coastal management which is not only integrated but planned, both in Europe and in every continent, is one of the paramount necessities for the future of humanity.
This is an area in which decisions could be necessary and legitimate at the level of a whole continent, or even of the entire planet.
The solving of major ecological problems is totally incompatible with the private ownership of the major means of production and the use of those means with the exclusive aim of making a profit.
In these circumstances, to vote in favour of a strategy for integrated coastal zone management would be pure hypocrisy.
Mr President, everyone agrees that it is necessary to protect natural areas in general and the coastline in particular, especially since our coasts are deteriorating as a result of demographic and economic expansion.
However, these essential regional planning measures have to be the subject of debate with the elected representatives and citizens concerned, because they are the ones who have to live with the coastline on a day-to-day basis, and it is absolutely essential to involve them in this protection if we want it to be admired and respected.
For example, there is one of our local authority areas that has 26 inhabited islands and a coastline as long as that of France.
Scotland, as a whole, has 462 different coastal plans in place, almost three quarters of them locally based.
Whilst management of coastal zones must remain predominantly local, national strategies to support and coordinate action are vital.
However, according to the reports of the European Environmental Agency, conditions in the coastal zone and its resources continue to decline.
I would like to stress that this integrated coastal zone management is not a procedure for land-use planning per se.
This strategy aims to introduce a coherent approach to the coastal zones across Europe but the recommendation intentionally leaves the choice of the format of the national strategies to the Member States to ensure that each national strategy is tailor-made to the institutional, physical and social conditions within each Member State.
At the same time, the recommendation presents a list of features which the Member States are encouraged to address through their national strategies, such as the need for coherence between the many plans, policies and programmes for management of the coasts and the need for coordination between the actors that use and manage the coast, particularly those with responsibility for the sea and the land which forms part of the coastal zone.
Let me turn to the key issues raised in the amendments proposed.
Several of the amendments proposed, namely Amendments Nos 11, 12, 16, 18, 29, 32, 43 and 49, introduce references to a future Community legislative framework.
These amendments are unacceptable to the Commission for the obvious reason that they prejudge the issue of whether a legislative approach is required.
In addition, a reference to a Community legislative framework would not be appropriate in view of the wide diversity of conditions in the Member States and the Commission' s philosophy of coastal zone management.
The Commission' s present decision to propose a recommendation was based on a thorough assessment of the needs for action at the European level through the demonstration programme on integrated coastal zone management and on a broad public consultation.
Similarly, the references in Amendments Nos 17, 20, 33 and 45 indicating the need for binding instruments within the Member States ignore the fact that integrated coastal zone management may be best introduced through voluntary measures in some Member States.
The Commission is concerned that Amendments Nos 16 and 42 might give an incorrect, narrow impression of the breadth of the integrated coastal zone management approach.
In particular, in Amendments Nos 25 and 47, while the Commission accepts the need to involve all the parties concerned, this text should not be limited to the special planning process, but should make broader reference to all of the actors involved in the planning and management of the coastal zones and its resources.
The Commission would also note that it cannot accept two amendments, which make inappropriate reference to other Community policies which are better discussed in a different context.
The reference to the INTERREG Programme in Amendment No 16 is inappropriate as the guidelines for INTERREG have been set out elsewhere.
Similarly, the reference in Amendment No 35 to the common fisheries policy and the 12-mile derogation is not acceptable as it prejudges the debate on the revision of this policy.
In addition, Amendments Nos 47 and 48 are not acceptable, at least in part, because they could lead to the endorsement of unsustainable traditional practices including those relating to hunting and fishing.
Concerning the remaining amendments - and this list is longer than the non-acceptable amendments - the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 3 to 10, 13, 15, 19, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41 and 46; and in addition, it can accept Amendments Nos 2, 14, 24, 36, and 44 in principle.
In conclusion, Parliament has significantly contributed to improving this proposal.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
