Automated systematic analysis of PNR of all passengers can be useful for other purposes, for example combating drug trafficking or illegal immigration.
The Commission and the Council have chosen a third-pillar instrument for the PNR proposal and also for the agreements with other countries, but the third pillar is about police and justice cooperation within the European Union.
I do not know if I shall reply to all these questions, but I shall begin by thanking you, Mrs in't Veld, for the opportunity you have given us first of all of discussing the PNR agreement concluded between Australia and the European Union on 30 June.
As far as the purpose of the PNR data is concerned, the draft recommendation asserts that this is not compliant with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
If you so wish, I believe you can say in this case that the purposes have been defined.
I turn now most importantly, if I may say so, to the oral question that you put and which clearly poses the whole problem of PNR.
Nevertheless, it appears to be the case that, in certain countries that have used PNR data, they have genuinely proved to be a useful weapon in the fight against terrorism and crime.
Parliament held a hearing on PNR, at which four Member States and three third countries made presentations on their use of PNR and testified to their success.
It is true that PNR are normally analysed automatically on the basis of risk indicators, but I must emphasise this: the Commission wants a guarantee that this sort of automated analysis will never lead to a decision directly affecting an individual.
Some Member States consider that PNR data could be of general use in combating illegal immigration, in safeguarding public health and for air safety.
The Commission considers this European Union proposal to be necessary.
By way of conclusion, Mr President, I apologise for taking a long time, but this is an important matter touching on the exercise of democratic control by the European Parliament and national parliaments.
As to usefulness, it is true that we must define usage and that we must pay close attention to proper use of these data, but it is also true that, in the fight against organised crime, we have such a need to become more efficient that I am inclined to think that an extra resource does not deserve to be overlooked.
The purpose of PNR should be to combat terrorism, and I have to say - I am very sorry to say this - that the Commissioner, in his opening statement, did not give me the confidence that that would be the purpose limitation which we all seek.
I welcome PNR systems as one part of our approach to counterterrorism but, to the same degree, believe that we must be flexible in our approach when negotiating with third countries.
We must approach the important issue of data protection on EU citizens and whether - and in which way - this data is passed to others.
In conclusion, I have always said that, personally, these systems would make me feel safer at 35 000 feet.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I gather there is a new rule, at least for the Council presidency, that they do not turn up on Mondays!
I too am not against passenger name records (PNR) per se, even though that impression is being conveyed to some extent.
Commissioner Barrot stated that he would very much like to work with the European Parliament, and I appreciate this, but when it comes to usefulness and need, then we still have some loose ends to tie up, and these, I believe, are at the very centre of the debate between the Commission, Council and Parliament on this topic.
As for your agreement with Australia, it may well be a cut above other agreements, for example with the United States, but my question is: which other agreements are still in the pipeline?
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what Commissioner Barrot has said does not convince me that there is any real benefit to be gained from using this PNR data.
This agreement responds to most of the concerns that we raised and guarantees adequate data protection: firstly, because Australian law will protect the privacy of Union citizens; secondly, because a system is planned which will guarantee that individuals, regardless of their nationality or country of residence, can exercise their rights and have access to a conflict resolution mechanism, even including the possibility of suspending data flows in the event of infringement of the agreement by the data protection authorities; thirdly, because of the obligation for a joint review involving the data protection authorities, and, fourthly, because, on the issue of sensitive data, I am delighted and welcome the fact that Customs have specifically stated that they do not want or need sensitive data.
I agree with Mrs in 't Veld that this is a good example for other countries.
This cannot be achieved through an a posteriori evaluation and national parliamentary approval given that, as the Commissioner knows, this national oversight is only provided for in 10 out of the 27 Member States.
This is my plea. (EL) Mr President, as far as European PNR are concerned, you made a shocking statement, Commissioner: you said in your proposal that you refuse to request information on foreign passengers travelling to Europe in matters such as illegal immigration or in matters such as diseases, because you consider that something of the sort would not be proportionate.
As you know, in the case of the United States, before the ink had even dried on the PNR agreement, the United States had started putting pressure on individual European countries and haggling for even more information than that provided for in the PNR agreement, in return for their inclusion in the famous visa waiver programme.
This medieval castle type strategy being put forward during our discussion contradicts the strategy used at airports, where open, secure systems are applied. (RO) The decision about establishing a register containing passenger data mentions that this data will be passed on in the case of flights from the EU to third countries with which the European Union has signed agreements on the protection of personal data.
Commissioner, you mentioned the fact that some Member States have already implemented the specific legislation nationally.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the legislation in one Member State does, in this respect, affect the citizens of other Member States.
For example, if a Romanian citizen, in order to fly to Australia, needs to take an international route which departs from another Member State, the Romanian citizen should be familiar with the legislation in that Member State and, in particular, should give his or her consent to his or her personal data being collected and processed.
As far as I know, the European Parliament should be involved, through the comitology procedure, in the agreements which the Community signs with third countries in this area. (DE) Mr President, I should like to make just two brief comments.
We have been told that PNR data offer opportunities for fighting crime.
We are storing millions, even billions of data for 10 years for perhaps a handful of cases.
The proposal on the table involves the development of 27 national PNR systems, not a European PNR system.
If Member States have such a pressing need for this tool in order to fight crime, we would suggest that the Ministers for the Interior go to their national parliaments and discuss and implement it there.
We should be very clear that Articles 24 and 38 of the Treaty on European Union state that, in international negotiations, the Presidency will conduct the negotiations assisted, where necessary, by the Commission.
Article 24 does not oblige the Presidency to inform or consult Parliament, and so it is for the Presidency, where applicable, to inform Parliament of the state of negotiations.
I am very unhappy about the way that we have been arguing about PNR for five years now, and the Council and the Commission just charge ahead like a runaway train.
