The report from the Independent International Fact-finding Mission on the Conflict in Georgia, overseen by the Swiss ambassador, Heidi Tagliavini, was compiled at the European Union's request based on the Council's decision.
The European Union firmly maintains the commitments it has assumed with regard to Georgia's territorial integrity.
As you are aware, the European Commission's package provides assistance of up to EUR 500 million for the 2008-2010 period.
The Eastern Partnership, launched in Prague in May, is an important framework for strengthening the support we give Georgia, both bilaterally and through multilateral cooperation with other partners in the region.
According to the Eastern Partnership, the External Relations Council agreed in September that the directives on negotiating new agreements must be prepared for all three countries in the Southern Caucasus, including Georgia.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Commission, we welcome the impartial and independent investigation of, and the subsequent report on, the 2008 conflict in Georgia, conducted by the International Fact-Finding Mission headed by the Swiss diplomat, Heidi Tagliavini.
Before the outbreak of hostilities in South Ossetia on the night of 7 to 8 August 2008, which claimed many civilian lives, we had been witnesses to months of provocation from all sides.
The Russian military intervention, including its invasion of Georgia, was disproportionate and unjustified.
First of all, it must withdraw from the areas it has occupied since 7 August 2008.
Approximately 25 - 30 000 Georgians remain displaced in South Ossetia and the de facto authorities of South Ossetia must facilitate their return to their homes.
Georgia's territorial integrity must remain beyond question.
Though the report says very clearly that this passportisation has not made the people living in South Ossetia or Abkhazia into citizens of the Russian Federation, only de jure are they still Georgian citizens and also because of this, the Russian Federation's claim that they were protecting or sending people to protect their citizens in South Ossetia definitely does not hold water.
Also, finally, Madam President, I would like to say that the most important thing of all is, of course, the reference in the report to the fact that Georgia's independence, autonomy, sovereignty and territorial integrity must be respected.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I would like to join the previous speakers in warmly congratulating Mrs Tagliavini and her team for the report they were able to deliver.
The report made it very clear that both sides were responsible for the escalation to the conflict that finally took place in August 2008.
In our discussions now - the member of the Commission has suggested moving to a free trade zone with Georgia, and Parliament will be discussing microfinancial assistance for Georgia - it is clear that the EU also has to consider placing conditions on Georgia, for example, to reduce the amount of its military budget.
The defence budget has been building up over recent years in Georgia, which is then short in other areas, such as social issues, civil society and media freedom.
The EU has to monitor that very closely.
It is also a matter of great regret to us that the independent peace observers sent to Georgia by the EU have not even been able to work in these areas.
The Tagliavini commission rightly criticises the mass provision of Russian passports to Georgian citizens in Abkhazia and South Ossetia as being contrary to international law.
Therefore, an important political lesson that the European Union should draw from the Tagliavini report is that it should actively assist Kiev in the defence of its national independence against any of its neighbours.
European projects in the Crimea are an excellent opportunity to do so, and the same is true in Georgia. (DE) Madam President, the conflict in the Caucasus in 2008, also called the 5-day war, was a regrettable armed military conflict on Georgian territory between Georgia and Russia, which also affected the so-called 'renegade provinces' of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
Russia's reaction was doubtless excessive, but was taken in accordance with international law in a so-called self-defence situation.
There are no winners in this conflict.
The European Union must show some credibility.
The key to the situation in Russia, Georgia, South Ossetia and Abkhazia lies in the EU.
As international reaction to this invasion has remained ambiguous, Russia can feel itself a winner, which means that there is a likelihood of similar aggressions, for example, in the Crimea or even in the Baltic Sea area.
I shall vote against Amendments 727, 732 and 734, tabled by Mr Deva and Mr Szymański.
