Ganzert, an attorney from Wels, has been dismissed.
Mr President, I would like you to take note of my strong protest at the conditions under which this debate is to be held.
On the question of asylum and immigration policy and, more specifically, the management of migration flows, under the measures that have been taken, immigration is regarded as a palliative for manpower shortages and as compensation for the demographic imbalances of the states involved, without taking account of the human or social dimension or the consequences of the brain drain.
The Geneva Convention forms the basis of asylum policy.
Some progress has been made at civil level, in relation to strengthening judicial cooperation.
Several texts have been adopted on judicial powers, the notification of acts, the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and their enforcement, especially in the matrimonial field and in relation to parental responsibility.
A proposal for a directive on legal aid is under consideration; it aims to secure better access to justice.
In the legislative field, framework decisions have been taken on protecting the euro against forgeries, money-laundering, combating the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children.
The Council also appears to be preparing to adopt those decisions that concern the fight against terrorism and the European arrest warrant.
The slow progress is due mainly to Member States' resistance to the principle of mutual recognition.
The setting up of Eurojust is a real step forward for the citizens; the rights of defendants and the protection of data do, however, need better guarantees.
Unfortunately, we find that we are still far from establishing a European public prosecutor' s office or from common legislation and judicial procedures.
The fight against trafficking in human beings and the fight against organised crime are both areas that should be dealt with under the external relations aspect of justice and home affairs. (The President cut the speaker off) We cannot start off the day running overtime.
My report deals with the question of security at summits of the European Union and similar international gatherings and it looks also at the question of citizens' rights.
My report has been drawn up in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs and I am pleased to say that it has enjoyed a wide consensus in that committee.
The first is that we must improve political dialogue on the right to peaceful assembly and to peaceful protest.
The second is that we must find a firm, but proportionate, response to criminal behaviour by demonstrators.
The European Union, too, needs to look at whether citizens' rights have been violated, particularly in reference to Article 6 (1) and to Article 7 of our treaties.
It must be recalled that Article 7 was strengthened by the European Council in Nice, which instructed the European institutions to monitor the application of fundamental rights even where there is simply a risk of a violation of them.
It demands an appropriate response and, indeed, a political response.
This approach needs to be complemented by a White Paper dealing with globalisation, looking at the European Union's position as a major actor in an area for which the Union is directly responsible and perhaps bringing together a number of Commissioners from different disciplines to look at a global strategy for the European Union.
We must look at Article 33 of the Treaty, which gives Member States the task of ensuring the maintenance of law and order, and see whether the responses have been appropriate.
The weakness in cooperation between the Member States' law and order authorities is a fundamental weakness of the Union.
I hope that we will be able to examine this in the context of the creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice.
We must not arrive late for this rendezvous that is so crucial and strategic to its future unless we want to end up one day with our back to the wall.
With that in mind, all the Member States will have to take global, integrated and inter-pillar action.
We must also stress the fact that hitherto the European Union has taken too little action in this field, which is still in its early days.
This kind of report must be seen above all as providing food for thought on the added value of deepening the area of security, freedom and justice that is at the very heart of the Union, so that the Union can be prepared to meet the challenges of an external policy in this field.
It is up to us to establish the necessary instruments, a lack of which has meant that we have hitherto been unable to respond to our partners' demands.
Current events remind us of that, with the terrible tragedy of the eight refugees, including three children, found dead in a container in Ireland last Saturday.
We also remember the 58 victims found at Dover in June 2000.
The Council must, of course, assume its responsibilities, because what is happening here is the result of its overcautious approach.
We must not now adopt an overly hasty position out of a sense of urgency.
The reinforcement or even the preservation of the constitutional state and democracy in the European Union is determined to a large extent by the situation in the countries surrounding us and those further away.
A significant factor in this is the visible and invisible corruption that is particularly problematic in a number of countries and which is undermining our democracy.
However, in order to achieve a good understanding of the causes of migration and asylum applications, we must match our development policy to the actual socio-economic and political context in the countries concerned.
The proposal by the Council, in collaboration with the Commission, is an important document that is pointing in the right direction.
The principle of the constitutional state is being reinforced, both in the area of enlargement and in that of the European Union' s collaboration with other countries, and we should now be aiming to achieve proper coordination in our external policy.
It is also taking place in the context of yesterday' s Justice and Home Affairs Council whose heavy agenda reflected the intensive nature of the ongoing work, and of the forthcoming Laeken Summit, a mid-term meeting to evaluate the progress made since Tampere and, I hope, give new impetus to our efforts to bring our programme to fruition.
Finally, it looks forward to the medium-term prospect of the Intergovernmental Conference to be held in 2004, against the background of the enlargement of the Union.
Some of the questions that have been raised, especially on the role of the European Parliament in the field of justice and home affairs and on protecting the citizen' s fundamental rights in the European judicial area, will figure very largely on the agenda of that debate.
The Commission is most concerned to ensure that the proposals put forward for guaranteeing internal security and the protection of our fellow citizens are balanced and proportionate and are consistent with a system of values based first and foremost on the rule of law.
First of all, a number of quasi-constitutional texts guarantee these rights in the European Union and are referred to systematically in the Commission' s proposals.
In that sense, we welcome the recommendations made in the Watson report on demonstrations organised in conjunction with the European Council.
As for the recommendation to launch a dialogue on the internal and external impact of globalisation, let me say that the same concern will be apparent in the communication the Commission will be submitting next January on the external aspects of a sustainable development policy.
No, the proposed measures are basic measures; they were taken, it is true, in special circumstances, but they are not makeshift measures and they are in fact consistent with the mandate our governments and our nations conferred on us when they adopted the Amsterdam Treaty.
Let me also take this opportunity to express my pleasure and my congratulations to the Belgian Presidency for managing, yesterday in Rome, to consolidate decisions taken by the Justice and Home Affairs Council to adopt the framework decision on combating terrorism and the framework decision on the European arrest warrant.
Delays have indeed occurred, especially in certain areas such as asylum and immigration or the minimal harmonisation of penal sanctions.
That will be the moment to check whether the commitments made in Tampere and reiterated on 21 September will be reflected by a real will on the part of the Member States to move ahead.
If the Tampere objectives were re-evaluated and, in particular, if the deadlines that were set were called into question again, we would see a crisis of public confidence vis-à-vis a political project, which, as everyone well knows, is essential and a matter of priority, whatever the remaining difficulties.
So what we need today is resolve as much as method, in order not to disappoint public opinion' s legitimate expectations as also the men and women whose job it is to protect our freedom, guarantee our security and ensure that justice becomes more accessible.
The Council of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers held last week produced encouraging results in terms of the Member States' resolve to match the commitments they made with their actions.
When the Heads of State and Government embark on a new, more general debate on the future of Europe at the Laeken Summit, that will also be the time to establish a link between the progress achieved, the progress still to be made and the future of the Union and of the way it functions.
They will have to reflect on how the next Intergovernmental Conference could introduce institutional changes and reform the decision-making mechanisms in such a way as to ensure the full achievement of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The fourth question concerns harmonisation in the field of criminal law.
The object here is not so much to achieve mutual recognition as to make sure the EU Member States combat acts that affect all the countries of the Union in a coordinated manner, in the same manner and by imposing penalties of equivalent severity.
The Tampere European Council listed the sectors where this rapprochement is needed.
There have been Member State initiatives or Commission proposals covering all these aspects.
Several of them have been adopted, others are well on the way to being so and I believe I can say that we will soon have a common set of instruments to fulfil this mandate.
Regarding procedural law, however, I have already had occasion to say that the Commission intends to present a communication on this subject, which has become all the more necessary in the light of the most interesting political debate on the European arrest warrant.
The purpose of this communication would be to define common standards for the protection of individual rights in criminal proceedings in relation to a number of aspects that derive from the Convention on Human Rights and the Strasbourg Court' s case law.
This approach would help strengthen the mutual trust on which the construction of the European judicial area depends, both in the Union as it is today and, later, in a Europe enlarged to 25 or 30 Member States.
The fifth point concerns the democratic deficit that still exists within the Union in fields relating to justice and home affairs.
This is a dual question, since it concerns, firstly, your institution' s role in the decision-making process in the field of justice and home affairs, and secondly, how it can exercise its powers in the appropriate manner.
It is very important to ensure that our resolve to make progress in achieving our objectives goes hand in hand with improved democratic and judicial scrutiny.
Firstly, I must say that over these past two years the Commission has endeavoured to inform and involve the European Parliament as closely as possible in the definition of its strategic guidelines and its initiatives.
Moreover, there is some risk that this situation could block the decision-making process; even if this risk is overcome at the price of artificially separating acts that in fact have the same aim, this deadlock would make the Union' s action unintelligible to the citizens.
I therefore welcome the Council recommendation, which your Parliament adopted on 15 November this year, on criminal sanctions and Community law, calling for, at the very least, the communitarisation of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
Finally, Mrs Boumediene-Thiery asked about strengthening the candidate countries' institutional capacities.
I believe that in the reports we have published and in our constant evaluation of the improvement in the candidate countries' capacities, we have borne this in mind and given all the necessary publicity to our evaluation of each of the candidate countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the enhanced cooperation between the Union and the United States in the fight against terrorism, I believe this cooperation shows the extent to which the European dimension cannot now be dissociated from any complete and effective international action taken against transnational incidents.
I see the development of this European dimension as an opportunity to assert our values and our principles rather than sacrificing our principles on the altar of cooperation.
It is along these lines that I see the future of that vast building site, which is the area of freedom, security and justice, and that I intend to pursue the cooperative relations with the European Parliament on which we embarked two and a half years ago.
I personally am very grateful for the commitment of all the members of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and above all its chairman, Graham Watson, to whom I offer particularly warm thanks.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, in view of the vast number of reports before us for discussion, I would like to make some fundamental observations, as Commissioner Vitorino has done.
If we briefly review the past year in flashback, we can clearly see that we have, as rarely before, made progress in the area of internal security, even before 11 September.
Progress has been made; it was heavy going, but we succeeded in moving ahead.
There were more, indeed dramatic, developments after the attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September.
Monday was the classic example; in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, we met specifically to have important debates on the European arrest warrant and on cooperation with the United States, which involved an exchange of letters between Presidents Bush and Prodi.
This report reflects on the need to respond politically to the problems posed by globalisation in order to contribute to the political, social and economic progress of the international community and to overcome violence.
Too many acts of violence have been committed during the anti-globalisation demonstrations, and also in some cases too many acts of violence against the demonstrators or even those arrested, as in the tragic events in Genoa in which a young man was killed, struck down in circumstances that are still unclear.
I am glad to say that the courts in my country are independent and still able to mete out justice, even if it is posthumous.
There have been too many acts of violence, too many violations of the rules and principles that govern the European Union.
The end does not justify the means, especially when it is the means - respect for the fundamental rights of every human being, and the rejection of discrimination between citizens and non-citizens - that form the essence of our democracies.
We are behind schedule with asylum and immigration but we have made progress on judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and police cooperation.
After incomprehensible resistance from - I regret to say - my own government, even the latter project is about to be implemented, and I hope my government does not make the country pay for its contradictions in this matter.
Mr President, I wish to talk specifically about the Council statement which we are expecting on cooperation between the EU and the USA and cooperation in combating terrorism.
The events of 11 September were an excruciating flash of light and we had to react immediately.
However, we must not be blinded into forgetting that terrorism has been a problem on our continent for many years.
After 11 September, I remember Hans Gert Poettering saying here in a memorable debate 'we are all Americans', but we have learned since then that we must first be Europeans.
In tackling terrorism there is a fine balance to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the rights and freedoms which make democracy what it is.
The European Union has shown that it can be tough on terrorism and still be true to its treaties and to the values which underpin them.
It has recognised that networks of terrorism stretch beyond its borders and that we need cooperation between democracies, particularly across the Atlantic.
The next step must be an agreement on better cooperation with the United States.
Articles 24 and 28 of the TEU allow us to build a cooperation agreement on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with our friends in North America.
Even if we were able to get an agreement on an extradition package in which the US would not apply the death penalty, the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which all of our Member States are signatories and on which the Union is founded, would prevent extradition of suspects to appear before such military tribunals.
Here, in Europe, we have developed a rights-based approach to international law.
We recognise that democracies need to work together in the fight against terrorism and other forms of serious cross-border crime.
Mr President, I should just like to speak about the draft extradition agreement between the European Union and the United States.
We are opening up an enormous breach in our defences against the death penalty.
We are saying we can extradite our citizens to be condemned to death in the United States even if that country then undertakes not to apply the sentence!
It is a complete break with our tradition; it is a complete break with our commitment!
We must vote against this resolution!
Indeed, since the events of 11 September, the significance of these topics has increased enormously.
Nevertheless, both the rationale underlying the organisation of these summits and the views of many of the peaceful demonstrators remain current.
First of all, it is important that international Summits should continue to be held regularly and, where possible, they should be expanded to include representatives of the Third World, as happened at the G8 summit in Genoa.
Lastly, I should like to mention the views of many men and women in the forces of law and order who, every day throughout Europe, strive to deal with major and minor emergencies of public order and crime, often with inadequate resources.
Giuseppe Mazzini and the revolutionaries who breathed life into 'Young Europe' in 1840 will be turning in their graves at the thought of a Europe which before giving itself a democratic Constitution is already thinking of a European arrest warrant: necessary certainly for terrorist and criminal emergencies but certainly not for other areas.
We had focused primarily on the interim evaluation of Tampere, of the decisions and recommendations made there, and on the four priorities which we had chosen for our presidency, namely the conversion from pro-Eurojust to Eurojust; the fight against trafficking in human beings, not only by standardising the laws but also operationally in the field; the fight against the disappearance of children; and last but not least, the freezing of assets.
Who would have thought that the events of 11 September would have had such a profound impact on our political attitudes, now that the framework decisions relating to the fight against terrorism and the European arrest warrant have seen the light of day and have experienced an accelerated genesis.
Firstly, the possibility of achieving the aim of the European Union, namely to create a high degree of security for our citizens in an area of freedom, security and justice, whilst - and this has also been clearly expressed by the various speakers - our fundamental rights as set out in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights are fully respected.
The Council recognises that it is immensely important to fully respect fundamental rights in all areas in which it is active, particularly in the area concerned with guaranteeing the security of our citizens.
I would like to illustrate this issue on the basis of two topical examples which I know have been the subject of intense discussion in your Parliament.
By working enormously hard over the past three months we have succeeded in taking this justified endeavour into consideration, and in this regard I am particularly pleased with the input provided by the members of the Article 36 Committee.
Furthermore, I understand the apprehension that some people initially expressed when they saw what we were doing in connection with the increased public concern about security after 11 September.
I understand this fear and I admire the vigilance, but the outcome of our work and the compromises made by the Council of 6 and 7 December demonstrates that the Council never intended to sacrifice the rights in the European Charter, and I think that this is the only result that counts.
The obligation to honour these rights as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty has been added, as has the work we have done on the European arrest warrant.
Finally, these precautionary measures are rounded off by the political declaration of the Council included in the decision.
Our work is now complete, and last Thursday the Council reached a political agreement in respect of this framework decision.
In addition to the explicit references to fundamental freedoms in the preamble, Article 1 contains the connection with Article 6 of the Treaty which I have just explained in respect of the previous instrument.
That the 15 Member States ultimately reached agreement on the European arrest warrant is therefore only to be expected.
Besides the developments that have resulted in the explicit integration of the fundamental guarantees in the European Charter, I would like to add that it is advisable not to lose sight of the future role that the Court of Justice of the European Communities will have to play in the bringing together of the guarantees and the fundamental rights, especially on a procedural level.
In view of its pre-judicial competence, and taking into account the traditionally sensitive relationship between criminal law and fundamental rights, it goes without saying that the Court is ideally placed to perform a particularly important role which consists of harmonising the guarantees offered to our citizens.
To return to the implementation of the action plan to combat terrorism, negotiations on an agreement with the USA in respect of Article 38 of the Treaty on the European Union concerning mutual legal assistance in criminal matters are on the agenda.
As far as the points on extradition that could be stated in this agreement are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the European Union' s unchanging position regarding cooperation with countries in which the death penalty is still in force.
The Council' s standpoint on the special military courts in the USA for crimes connected with terrorism is not yet known, but I can already tell you that certain delegations are of the opinion that this situation may entail considerable risks in the area of fundamental rights, particularly with regard to the right to fair treatment as set out in Articles 47 to 49 of the Charter.
The Council is aware that some negotiations on the proposals currently on the table are being postponed, albeit, I may say, primarily for impartial reasons.
The blockades without doubt form one of the points of the Laeken debate and I think that this will give the evaluation of Tampere a boost, especially that part in which we have not yet managed to achieve as much progress as we would have liked.
Concrete and decisive progress was made on all these levels in 2001.
These efforts have not been fruitless.
I think that we still have a very great deal to do in this area, but you can be sure that the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs, just like you yourself, are as keen as you are to achieve this.
Please also allow me to pause at another subject that has also been touched on briefly, namely the question of whether the fact that numerous arrangements and international agreements, particularly those relating to the prevention and combating of organised crime, have not been ratified by the Member States, is being taken into account in the acceptance of measures.
The Council is aware of this matter.
However, the Council realises that every Member State wants to achieve a ratification procedure that fits in with its own constitutional requirements.
The Council has established that national procedures have been speeded up, and that almost all Member States have completed the ratification procedure for some instruments; for example, the agreement to protect the European Community' s financial interests as well as the two conventions on extradition of 1995 and 1996.
The action plan identifies various instruments including the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and the United Nations Convention on the Suppression of Financing of Terrorism.
With regard to Europol, the Council first wishes to emphasise that since 1 May 1999, the date on which the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, all legislative decisions to be adopted on the grounds of the Europol Convention have been presented to the European Parliament for advice.
By doing so, the Council has tried to guarantee that the European Parliament would have control of Europol as far as legislative measures are concerned.
The Council wishes to point out that the concern expressed by the European Parliament is at the top of the agenda.
This deficit refers to the lack of the EP' s involvement in the definition of the strategy of the European Union in all its parts, both inside and outside the Union, except for the fact that Parliament is only kept fully informed and has access to the so-called sensitive information.
Experience shows us that the Council has consulted the European Parliament whenever the Commission or one of the Member States has submitted a proposal or an initiative to it.
The Council was in fact present during the plenary sessions and meetings of the appropriate committee of the European Parliament, and Parliament was given ongoing information about the state of affairs.
And now to the final set of problems I would like to discuss with you, which concern the need to keep the European Parliament informed about important changes occurring in the negotiation process within the Council, both in relation to legislative proposals by the Commission and in relation to initiatives developed by the Member States.
As I have already said, it was the Council' s wish to fully involve the European Parliament in the legislative procedures at Community level in accordance with the provisions of the convention.
It is true that the activities of the Council bodies will result in changes to the tenor of some provisions of the proposals or initiatives being submitted to them.
Please allow me to conclude this part of my speech by expressing my satisfaction as President for the way in which we have been able to cooperate with the European Parliament.
This method of cooperation, coupled with our cooperation with the Commission and the Commissioner, has made it possible to take a major step towards, amongst other things, the European arrest warrant, which I believe is the most important common denominator, because this has enabled us to undertake an action in this area which is comparable to the introduction of the euro in the financial and monetary sphere.
Thus the European arrest warrant has also come into being as far as cooperation in judicial matters and mutual recognition in criminal matters are concerned.
This is only possible if all players demonstrate the good, positive attitude that we have encountered.
I am therefore pleased that in these circumstances, the early annual report relating to judicial and home affairs matters has been given a different perspective than it has in the past.
I return now to the Watson report, which proposes the requirement of agreeing public order measures for major summit meetings.
I propose that Parliament should do the same in its plenary session, and to make it quite clear I shall indicate the dangerous points: Amendment Nos 22, 25 and 29 are real chemical weapons against the truth.
They should be rejected, otherwise I shall be forced to ask my coordinator to vote against this report.
Mr Berlusconi says: "Other nations have named 2004 as the deadline for the European arrest warrant to be put into effect, although it could be later." I quote word for word.
Mr President, Parliament' s Rules of Procedure must be enforced!
In the last two years since Tampere, the programme of cooperation on justice matters has been heavily weighted to the security side of the scales - especially since 11 September with the anti-terrorism package.
All this is necessary, but it is time to rebalance the work programme.
At the Laeken Summit, Heads of Government should commit themselves to a thorough review of the degree of respect in practice for the standards we have signed up to in the European Convention of Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We should project these standards in our international agreements because there are some worrying developments.
Finally, the case of the 14 British and Dutch plane-spotters detained for nearly five weeks in Greece without trial is extremely disturbing.
Over the past few weeks and even over the past few days, we have taken some important steps, and I would like to personally congratulate you on the efforts you have made in this regard and on the results you have achieved, because efforts are not always enough; we also have to achieve results.
Having said this, I would like to point out - and I share your opinion, but I know that there are others who do not - that security cannot be used as an excuse for threatening fundamental rights.
I would also like to see this confirmed in all texts, because people who want to change the constitution in their country are not necessarily terrorists, and people demonstrating against globalisation and injustice in the world are also not necessarily terrorists.
In the name of urgency, but also in a state of total confusion, the Council and Commission are trying to make us swallow texts on terrorism that are always questionable and often have not even been put to the vote.
This is because better coordination between Member States overcomes the problem described to a large extent.
Since the US terrorist attacks of 11 September, the EU' s attitude towards the US has been highly critical as well as supportive.
Please do not get me wrong; I am no advocate of trials by military tribunals without the possibility of appeal, and I believe that the USA must reconsider this, but I do wonder how we would have reacted if these attacks had taken place in the EU.
Mr President, first I would like to say that I entirely agree with what Mr Vitorino said about the problems besetting our quest for an area of justice, freedom and security, while remaining very much aware that we cannot have an area of security without justice or justice without police.
We should be lucid enough to realise that generally speaking Europe is in quite a privileged position in this respect, for we have a fairly well-established level of citizens' freedoms, even though we have to remain very vigilant.
Obviously this means more than involving our Parliament in the strategy and implementation of external actions in the field of justice and home affairs.
After many struggles, including a decision this Chamber adopted unanimously, we have managed to acquire one extra member of staff for the committee, although this person is in fact employed by DG IV; meanwhile the Committee on Foreign Affairs has nine members of staff assigned to human rights.
Mr President, the European arrest warrant was saved in the nick of time.
However, legislation on this matter is now being introduced in the third pillar of the European Union by means of framework resolutions engineered by the Council using secret diplomacy, monitored by national parliaments and the European Parliament.
In this respect, we are back in the 19th Century.
However, it will require a Treaty change and sufficient political will to do this, but we cannot wait that long.
Mr President, of course terrorism must be combated, but a number of the measures currently being introduced at breakneck speed are in danger of undermining the rule of law in society which the war against terrorism is intended to strengthen.
The new European Constitution should lead to harmonisation of criminal law and procedure in our Union.
The Member States should work towards a situation in which crimes and penalties do not differ from one place to another.
The results were actually achieved thanks to the action of the Italian Government, which concluded the agreement with Mr Verhofstadt yesterday.
Now we have another 13 people found in a lorry in Ireland, eight of them dead, among them two children.
Mr President, more than two years ago, on the initiative of the Aznar Government, a new page was turned in Tampere with regard to European integration: to make a politically and judicially viable new common European area of freedom, security and justice, which would make the freedom and security of citizens compatible - and here is the great political debate - with the efficient functioning of, and access to, justice within this area.
The events that have taken place over these last two years, such as the tragic deaths of Moroccan and sub-Saharan citizens in the Straits of Gibraltar and off the Andalusian coast, the death of immigrants in Dover or the recent incidents in Ireland, the repugnant traffic in, and corruption of, minors, and prostitution, combined with the horrific murders committed by ETA and the tragedy of 11 September, have caused an upheaval in the debate and have accelerated the need for the speedy implementation of measures to cope with such a dangerous and worrying situation.
The good points include the fight against terrorism, where the important role which our President, Nicole Fontaine, has played in this area, as well as Commissioner Vitorino, deserve a special mention; the European arrest warrant and the definition of terrorism are the result of a difficult battle against terrorism that started in this House before 11 September.
I would also like to stress what a good thing it has been to separate the debates on economic migration and asylum, which has helped us to clarify ideas, debates, and even approaches.
There are too many bad points and the most worrying of these in my opinion is the disorder caused by the hastiness and lack of agreement in the Council in areas such as the family reunification of immigrants, minimum standards on the asylum process, conditions for the reception of asylum seekers - to give but a few examples - where our work is sometimes ineffective due to the fact we have to chop and change what is carried out by the Council, which shows that the method with which we have to work is not ideal by any means and needs to be amended.
Mr President, Commissioner, as the last Justice and Home Affairs Council demonstrated, the system for taking unanimous decisions on matters of justice and home affairs has come to the end of its cycle.
A propos, my congratulations to the Belgian Presidency on the battle which it won in Rome yesterday.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, a little more than two years have elapsed since Tampere and the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is important to point out that major progress has been made but that, on the other hand, there are still many obstacles to be overcome.
The Union is proud, and rightly so, of its constant defence of respect for human rights in the world and within the Community.
The tragic events of September 11 and the intensified attention to safety measures cannot detract from this fundamental approach.
The Member States' commitment to building an area of freedom, security and justice was once again reaffirmed at the last Justice and Home Affairs Council.
Because security is merely an instrument to ensure freedom.
In this festive season, my best wishes to Commissioner António Vitorino for the continuation of his excellent work.
It appears to me that Parliament is going to make a worthwhile contribution today in confronting a violent situation in the streets of Europe which is a worry to us all.
Not only is there no European policy but, as we have seen recently, there are quite a few governments who are developing their own new national policies, and, what is inexcusable in some cases, justifying these decisions citing Europe as the underlying cause.
I hope that in Laeken we can make progress, however small, and make a new commitment in accordance with what the Commission said in its two communications on asylum and on immigration.
On the other hand, I think that the agreement reached on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, the so-called European arrest warrant, is very important.
This seems to me to be a giant step forward, of course, in the fight against terrorism, but also in the fight against money laundering, in the fight against corruption, in the fight against human trafficking, including of women for sexual exploitation, and in the fight against organised crime.
It seems to me that the unanimity and the lack of real power of this Parliament do not help.
I would like to tell you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I am pleased that you appreciate the institutional loyalty of this Parliament.
I would just like it if you could, in return for this, display a little more institutional loyalty in the analysis of our texts, in the inclusion of some of our positive ideas in your documents and I think that this would help in strengthening the positive nature of the Commission/Parliament/Council work cycle.
I think that the concept of creating a European area of freedom, security and justice first saw the light of day about 25 years ago.
On the contrary, anyone who has read the Watson report and the advice from the European Parliament and who knows the position of the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs and that of the Commission, knows that we do not use such methods.
However, yesterday - and I am now thinking back to Tampere 1999 when we took the decision to put a series of recommendations to the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs - I discovered that since then we have in fact been correctly following the three paths that were delineated there to create this area, namely those of harmonisation, mutual cooperation and the creation of players.
Tomorrow, and by that I mean the day after tomorrow, I hope that at the Laeken Summit we will give new impetus to the Amsterdam resolutions and the Tampere recommendations that have not yet been implemented.
I am saying this here with all the more conviction because I believe that there are two areas to which attention absolutely must be paid: the fight against trafficking in human beings and the fight against the sexual and economic exploitation of children.
I have often heard people say that we would have to choose between freedom and security, but I do not think that is necessary.
Justice and security are two instruments that are necessary in order to guarantee freedoms.
There is no private or special correspondence between the President of the European Commission and the American President.
There was an exchange of letters between the American President and the European Union, represented by both the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission.
On the substantive questions, let me tell you quite frankly that the truth is that we had already taken decisions on most of the aspects referred to by President Bush, during the Justice and Home Affairs Council meeting of 20 September; these decisions were in fact supported by the Heads of State and Government at the European Council in Brussels on 21 September.
Looking to the future, I believe that there are some difficult areas in the context of cooperation with the United States; we must not conceal that fact.
Of course we supported and still support the agreement signed between Europol and the American police agencies on cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
Secondly, there is one rather important area of cooperation, namely judicial assistance; as soon as Eurojust is established definitively, we will have an important tool in our hands for mutual judicial assistance with third countries.
I also had occasion to say that Europe has not taken any exceptional measures to combat terrorism.
All those who keep on trying to interpret these measures as emergency measures are wrong: no, Europe did not react to the terrorist threat by departing from its fundamental principles or taking emergency measures.
Moreover, on the question of extradition, let me repeat to the European Parliament that the Commission has always said that we have never changed our position on the death penalty and that we have said quite plainly that our position in this dialogue did not allow for any possibility of extradition to Member States that apply the death penalty.
Finally, Mr President, I want to tell you that I hope the Laeken European Council will enable us to give fresh impetus to the major task of establishing the area of freedom, security and justice, in the field of asylum and immigration as in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation, by accepting the gradual and pragmatic approach we are taking.
When it comes to turning Europe into an area of freedom, security and justice, we are looking at the very heart of European political cooperation.
That said, we shall persevere because I believe that our citizens expect us to find a political response to the needs of European integration.
That is why I am so excited to be taking part, at your side, in this project for an area of freedom, security and justice.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the reports will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m.
and resumed at 11.30 a.m.) Mr President, I wish to denounce the unacceptable behaviour of Mr Schmid, who was acting President this morning, who during the debate allowed some left-wing Members to make really personal attacks on Members of the Italian centre-right and in particular the Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, as well as involving President Fontaine by accusing her somehow of blocking in an evidently improper manner the request to waive Mr Berlusconi' s parliamentary immunity.
I recall that Rule 116 says: 'Members of the public admitted to the galleries shall remain seated and keep silent.
Mr President, I would like to clarify just two things.
If this directive is adopted as now proposed, the Commission will publish the relevant MHP multimedia home-platform standards in the list of standards published in the Official Journal of the European Communities under Article 16 of the Framework Directive.
According to this directive, Member States have to encourage the implementation of the standards contained in the list.
One year after the date of application of these directives, the Commission will examine whether interoperability and freedom of choice for users have been adequately achieved in the Member States.
The directive requires the Commission to carry out a public consultation on such a proposal.
Following the public consultation, the proposal would be submitted to a regulatory committee procedure requiring support from a qualified majority of Member States before being adopted as a formal Commission decision.
I would like to know whether this text genuinely reflects Parliament's views, particularly the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and whether the Commission would be kind enough to read out that text so that we can see what we are agreeing to vote on.
Could I just formally ask you for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 2, 11, 23 and 24?
Could I also say to colleagues that this is part of the compromise package we discussed.
I want to make it clear in your voting list, colleagues, that the first part of Amendment No 15 is part of the compromise text and I am recommending you vote against the second part.
My Amendment No 36 is also part of the compromise text, and for clarity for colleagues on the Legal Affairs Committee, this is the amendment you voted on in committee with just the addition of the word 'television' after 'digital interactive'.
Can I also make it absolutely clear that Amendment No 11 is also a compromise text and that is shown at the bottom of your voting list.
I am recommending that you vote against the committee amendment as part of the compromise but I would ask you, Mr President, to give the floor to Mr Liikanen.
First, the provision of Article 6 of the access and interconnection directive guarantees all broadcasters access to conditional access systems on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.
Under Article 5(1)(b) of the access and interconnection directive, Member States may impose obligations to provide such access on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, on other associated facilities, in particular application programme interfaces (APIs) and electronic programming guides (EPGs).
Second, the Commission will monitor the application of these provisions at Member State level, including 'must carry' obligations, taking into account any problems that public service or any other specified broadcasters may have in gaining access to satellite and other broadcast networks.
The possibility of guidelines for Member States could be considered.
In its forthcoming review of this directive, the Commission will assess inter alia the impact of technological and market developments on the production and distribution of European audiovisual networks.
In conclusion, I have noted the importance the European Parliament attaches to the promotion of multicultural and multilingual Europe, also in this context.
The group would be made up of representatives from Member States and chaired by the Commission.
As we stated earlier, the European Parliament will be given observer status to this group.
As far as the amendments are concerned the Commission can accept 28 amendments in full.
These are Amendments Nos 2 to 5, 8, 11, 12, 14 to 17, 19 to 22, 24, 33, 37 to 40, 45, 47 to 49, 51, 53 and 60.
Mr Santini, at the beginning of the vote on the Watson report I had already pointed out that there was a corrigendum to the Italian version.
It has been totally counterproductive and every effort will be made in future to prevent similar intrusions.
It was within this policy of openness and solidarity that the common organisation of the market in bananas was established to guarantee access to the European market for a certain percentage of the bananas produced by ACP countries, which include some of the poorest countries in the world.
The agreement reached in April 2001 did of course end the trade war that had poisoned our relationship with the United States for almost ten years.
Michel Dary' s report, that we will reach a decision on today, proposes that we offer the ACP countries a number of safety nets to be used during the transition period, before they step out into the unknown when the common organisation of the market in bananas ceases to exist. (Speech shortened pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) Ever since 1993, the issue of bananas has been at the heart of trade relations between the European Union and the United States.
Some have even gone so far as to say that it has poisoned transatlantic relations and that this conflict should be resolved as quickly as possible.
Niebler report (A5-0433/2001) The Niebler report, as you have said, Mr President, refers to authorisations for electronic communications service networks.
In this document there is nothing to help those who propose to use these means of communication to give information on employment rights, pension rights or social matters of interest to all citizens, particularly the elderly.
If, then, what I said in the previous explanation of vote is true, that consumers are for the most part the elderly and pensioners, that means that it should seek the greatest possible benefit for the elderly and pensioners.
It was of course disappointing that the British Conservative rapporteur informed me of his decision to abandon these important provisions for consumers and users in order to achieve political expediency.
I remained the draftsman of the opinion, but the opinion I expressed had little influence in the discussions!
As I said in my report of the opinion, if universal service includes, within the definition of its component services, the same kind of criteria that are usually used to assess services provided for consumers (affordable prices, availability, delivery timetables and quality), its raison d' être has different types of objectives if we look at the issue for the point of view of regional policy, social policy (preventing the poorest people from being excluded) or public safety policy.
Public services can be given a new lease of life through these new technologies, if the means are made available to them, and of course if they have the will to do so.
Today we have voted on a report that proposes some interesting changes concerning the protection of consumers, particularly disabled consumers, and the 'must carry' principle, but which, regrettably, cannot claim to provide universal service in this sector!
Trakatellis report (A5-0420/2001) Mr President, EUR 280 million is being appropriated to public health care.
A European programme of Community action in the field of public health can contribute to this.
Paulsen report (A5-0408/2001) Could I express surprise that the compromise package negotiated by the three largest groups has been rejected by the Council?
The compromise on the two contentious issues, namely time allowed for setting limits and the right to return contaminated feed to the country of origin with the consent of that country's government, was realistic and workable.
It is to the credit of this Parliament and the other EU institutions that measures were quickly put in place to deal with the crisis and to agree long-.term measures to prevent any re-occurrence.
Not for the first time do I want to put on the record that in all of this sorry debacle, farmers were the innocent victims of circumstances which were beyond their control.
It is to be regretted that some people used the debate on food safety to undermine the profession of farming and the role of farmers as guarantors of a quality food supply for citizens.
Lange report (A5-0406/2001) This document we have just adopted regulates pollutant emissions, particularly from motorcycles.
I voted for the motion but I hope that, when we vote on this document in future, in the coming years, economic support will be laid down for television stations which broadcast, in one of our States, programmes made in other States of the European Union.
Finally, I feel I must draw the Commission' s attention to the need to address properly, once again, the issue of Corridor 8 - which does not even feature in the White Paper - and peripheral regions, which are isolated even more by the excessive focus on Trans-European railway lines and the neglect of the air transport crisis.
According to the report, if we want to cross the borders of our country and take part in an international demonstration, we must earn the authorities' trust by convincing them that we intend to demonstrate peacefully in a legitimate demonstration.
As far as police violence is concerned, the only thing the report has to say is that a disproportionate use of force should be avoided and it sits firmly on the fence as regards the conduct of the demonstrators and that of the police forces.
In fact, especially in Genoa, the demonstrators faced unprecedented violence on the part of the police, with illegal charges, hundreds of illegal arrests, dozens of injured and the cold-blooded murder of a young man.
It is no coincidence that the UN Commission against Torture has called for a report on events in Diaz and Bozaneto jail in Genoa.
However, history has shown that this sort of action always brings in the opposite results.
Hazan report (A5-0414/2001) Mr President, thank you for your response to my explanation of vote on chaining myself to the President' s bench.
As regards the Hazan report, which I voted for, I have to say that I particularly welcome the intention it expresses to combat the intolerable level of corruption which persists in all the States of our Europe, but also - and, I would say, in particular, regrettably, in the candidate countries.
Although the situation in the Middle East is extremely serious, the European Union must not give in.
The European Union published a declaration after the General Affairs Council of 10 December which was mentioned earlier.
With regard to the Palestinian authorities: most importantly, the dismantling of the Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorist networks, including the arrest and prosecution of all suspects and a public call in Arabic to cease the armed Intifada.
The European Union is aware of the complex nature of the undertakings that it is calling for the parties to agree to, especially given the current situation on the ground.
On this basis, it is thus up to the European Union to continue its work to find the most effective ways of bringing the parties to engage fully in the search for a just and lasting peace.
In the meantime, we remain convinced that the implementation of the Tenet ceasefire plan and Mitchell Committee recommendations is the only way to re-establish a political process in the short term.
It is with regret that I note a dramatic deterioration of the situation in the region despite the tremendous efforts of the international community, in particular the United Nations, the United States, the Russian Federation and the European Union.
I am dismayed by the fact that more than 1 000 people, Palestinians, Israelis - among them, as we heard this morning, many women and children - have died since September last year.
I am also dismayed at the fact that we have seen the withering away of the aspirations and the hopes that Israelis and Palestinians have pursued since the peace process began ten years ago.
The World Bank has estimated that the Palestinian economy has suffered losses of between USD 155 million and 165 million in physical damage and USD 2.4 billion of gross national income since September last year.
The number of Palestinians living below the poverty line on less that USD 2 per day will have risen from 600 000 to between 1.2 million and 1.5 million by the end of 2001.
The economic decline and the non-transfer of taxes owed to the Palestinian Authority by Israel have caused a fall in Palestinian revenues from a monthly average of USD 91 million to USD 22 million.
Palestinians lost more than 100 000 jobs in Israel and about 66 000 jobs in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as a result of Israel's closure policy.
But the Israeli economy is also suffering, which is not surprising when one considers the extent of economic interchange that was taking place before the current Intifada.
We respect the fact that it is the Israeli Government's duty to try to provide safety for its citizens and we also understand Palestinian frustration over the continuous military occupation and the remorseless spread of settlements.
On Monday, as the Minister has just pointed out, the General Affairs Council discussed these issues with Shimon Peres and Nabil Sha'ath.
The Council's declaration reaffirms Israel's irrevocable right to live in peace and security within internationally recognised borders and the need for the establishment of a viable and democratic Palestinian state and an end to the occupation of the Palestinian territories.
The way chosen by people like the late Prime Minister Rabin was to find a negotiated solution leading to two states with the 1967 line roughly as their shared border, Jerusalem as capital of both, and a solution to the refugee issue acceptable to both Israelis and Palestinians.
Unfortunately forces on both the Palestinian and Israeli sides have been working against this goal.
It is our collective duty to try to stop them doing so.
The Council on Monday strongly encouraged the parties to take the first steps to end this devastating and self-fuelling cycle of violence that we have seen over the last 14 months.
I confirm our strong call for the parties to implement the Mitchell report without delay.
In the World Bank report, they state 'that the main proximate cause of the recession is closure'.
I have heard that remark in this Chamber.
But what we have done is to provide some grounds for hope - and in recent months to prevent further economic misery and to keep the Palestinian Authority barely alive and in place by providing EUR 108 million in budgetary aid over the last 14 months.
We have worked to maintain the only viable partner in peace that Israel can find and we should continue to support the Palestinian Authority, especially in its fight against terrorism.
It is the provider of necessary basic services and in the end the guarantor for a minimum of security for both the Palestinians and the Israelis.
If the Palestinian Authority is disabled, we will face a situation of anarchy where Hamas and Jihad will no doubt gather increasing support and local extremist committees will compete in an escalation of violence.
The most important of these is the regular checking and reporting by the International Monetary Fund on the austerity budget agreed by the Palestinian Authority.
Some commentators have referred to the problems in the Middle East as one of the root causes of terrorism - or they have pointed out that the Palestinian-Israeli conflict has been and is abused as a cheap excuse for violence or as a wicked justification for committing evil criminal acts.
The risk of wider regional spillover is very real and we must use every means to prevent a return to the time when the Palestinian cause was pursued largely through terrorism.
It must be the path that we Europeans advocate for the future.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I must say that these two speeches and also the Council's decision this week demonstrate how seriously we have to approach this problem, and that the European Union, both in the observations that have been made here, and also in this resolution, has sent a clear signal as to what is to be supported.
We believe that our position on the guaranteeing of human rights must be seen in the right context, both by the Palestinian Authority and in the State of Israel.
Madam President, from the start of this legislature, the European Parliament, through its various bodies, has been working extremely hard to achieve peace in this region, making its contribution, of both a political and an economic nature, through the Union budgets.
I think that, right now, for the first time, we are facing a situation where no reason can be found to be optimistic and for this very reason, I think that the Council recommendation is most appropriate and useful, above all in its final version which the Groups agreed on this morning and which I am sure we will vote for, because the only thing left is intercession, even international intervention, without which we would probably be facing a situation of all-out war.
Madam President, whilst we are talking here today in this House, in the Middle East, Israeli tanks are once again occupying the supposedly autonomous Palestinian territories.
In it, the Union, as is well known, insists, in the following order: firstly, that the Palestinian Authority dismantle the terrorist networks, detain all suspects and make a public call for the end of the Intifada.
Next, in second place, that the Israeli Government withdraw its armed forces, put an end to the extrajudicial executions and also to the blockades and restrictions that oppress the Palestinian people, and that they put an end to the building of settlements.
There was no declaration from Sharon on the Council' s demand that Israel end its violence.
He said that he thought it was 'a responsible European stance' , which was a more positive statement than that given by Sharon, but he went on to state that the Israeli military action is necessary.
The Council is also aware of this, and it has always hoped to have, like this Parliament, greater influence in the peace process.
Finally, I would like to say that I expect - and I am sure of this - that this recent mission led by the High Representative and the possible decisions to be made at Laeken will take us in this direction.
During the discussion, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party attempted to give priority to both the agreement and a balanced position.
However, I think there can be no doubt that our greatest demand is to be efficient, given that our purpose here is not to be conflict analysts, but to be politicians with responsibilities within the framework of the European Union.
From this point of view, I think that the clear position that has been taken with regard to the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli Government is logical and in line with the position of the Council.
The European Union, the United States, and, obviously, the UN and Russia, are all strong advocates, and it would be difficult to name another moment in history when it has been possible for them to act together in a such an efficient and balanced way.
However, I believe, without a doubt, that this should be our priority: to be able to act as forceful and powerful advocates, if this is a possibility for all of those involved, for the gravity of this conflict requires this.
This also means exerting pressure on Israel to distance herself from the kind of thinking which, for example, equates Arafat with Bin Laden.
Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, I had just returned from a memorable trip to the Palestinian territories and Israel when I heard the news of the terrible carnage in Jerusalem, followed by a second attack in Haifa.
The Palestinian police force, charged with arresting Hamas and Islamic Jihad activists, has itself been bombarded.
Because of this, they demanded three things of the Palestinian Authority: the dismantling of the Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorist networks, the arrest and prosecution of all persons suspected of terrorist activities, and a public announcement in Arabic of the end of the Intifada, the Palestinian uprising.
Madam President, if this Parliament does not clearly follow the same political line as the Council with regard to the insidious spread of Palestinian terror, the evil forces of 11 September will capitalise on this, because they are really not interested in what the European Parliament expressly states in this recommendation: a safe Jewish state in the Middle East.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to conduct an anti-Israeli campaign in the style of Picasso' s Guernica, with children' s bodies, usually, elsewhere, the victims of the US, here victims of the Israelis.
You are the just like the pacifists and communists of 1938 who supported nazism and urged the allies and the French to desert in that war.
Well then, if this is what you are going to continue to propose, I feel that it is our duty to point out that the Palestinians and all the citizens in the world - but the Palestinians, in particular - have the right to say "no" , as do we on their behalf, to this illusion.
I think that the international community must today display the same resolve and commitment in response to the desire for peace of the majority of Israelis and Palestinians.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, eight years after the Oslo accords and 15 months after the start of the second Intifada, the situation in the Middle East in December 2001 is disastrous.
The leader of the Palestinian Authority is weakened, surrounded and besieged in territories which are autonomous in name only.
However Mr Sharon was not in power when Ehud Barak, Shlomo Ben Ami and Bill Clinton tried to persuade Yasser Arafat to sign a peace agreement which would have been historic.
That said, the past is the past, as Commissioner Patten so rightly said.
It presents Israel with her responsibilities, but for the first time the European Union makes an equally clear appeal to Mr Arafat to dismantle the Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorist networks.
There may be light in that yesterday Israel recognised that the Palestinian Authority had, for the first time, begun to take serious action to combat fundamentalists.
There is also light in that Mr Arafat has admitted, quite objectively, that the European Union' s appeal is fair.
At lunchtime today, the Israeli Nurit Peled-Elhanan, winner of the Sakharov Prize 2001, expressed the hope that the voices of the mothers of the Middle East would drown out the voices of those calling for arms.
Madam President, my group is deeply shocked by the violence that has once again flared up in the Middle East.
It is a delusion that more force and more suppression will make the Palestinians more compliant.
There should be an international peace-keeping force monitoring the implementation of the Mitchell Agreement so that a start can be made with the immediate withdrawal from occupied territories and the immediate dismantling of all settlements.
The violence is terrible.
It seemed to us that an urgent call to action was required and that this urgent call needed to be addressed both to the Palestinian Authority and to Israel.
Perhaps I can just add one or two points in relation to the debate.
On Monday of this week a number of Palestinian and Israeli parliamentarians and intellectuals met at the Qalandia checkpoint to emphasise "the urgent need to continue dialogue between the two sides", even when this is the only venue where it is possible to do so.
They argued that these meetings are especially important in the light of the escalation of violence through the past week which they said is threatening to drag their whole region into war.
If an immediate halt to the current cycle of violence is not achieved, the situation may spiral out of control, perhaps with irreversible consequences.
A group, including Yossi Beilin, the former Minister for Justice and one of the architects of the Oslo process, and Yasser Abed Rabbo, the Minister of Information and Culture in Palestine, argued that ending the current crisis entails the immediate abandonment of violence as a political tool and the unconditional implementation of the Tenet work plan and Mitchell report.
I pray to God that in three, six or nine months' time there are still some moderates left with the bravery and courage to offer a better prospect for the future of the region.
Many thanks, Commissioner, for your very moving appeal in this difficult situation.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
They have had their eighteenth birthdays this year, 2001, which is the year which has seen the most extreme world violence, but it is also the year in which many of the world' s young people have gained the ability to exercise their full rights and responsibilities in coming of age.
I hope that this mediation operation, this firm moral message from Europe, will be a constructive witness for peace in the future for the young people of Europe and all the young people of the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the Council gave you a commitment, through my good offices, to take the necessary provisions to keep to the deadline of 3 December 2001 for the implementation of the European Parliament and Council regulation of 30 May 2001 concerning public access to the documents of the European Parliament, Council and the Commission.
It took the decision to modify its own internal regulations on 29 November this year.
This decision was published in the Official Journal of 30 November and came into force on 3 December, that is to say the same day when the regulation I referred to came into effect.
The discussions amongst the institutions about the establishment of an interinstitutional committee that will examine what the best practices are, handle any disputes and discuss future developments relating to public access to documents in accordance with Article 15 of the regulation, are still ongoing.
Her proposal was to allow this committee to meet at secretary-general level by way of an authorisation - par délégation in French - from their political bosses.
The Council is worried that the presidents of Parliament, the Council and the Commission would have to act as a kind of appeal court, as it were, if it were to be decided at Secretary-General level that access to a document cannot be granted.
For if the secretaries-general of the three institutions meet on the basis of an authority from their presidents, they will then have a mandate and in specific cases will then have to take decisions themselves concerning access to a document.
As you know, the Council' s document register has been available to the public since 1 January 1999.
This register contains all the documents that have been put before the Council or the preparatory bodies and which either serve as the basis for consultations, or have a definite influence on the decision-making process, or give an indication of the situation in certain files.
In November of this year, this register contained references to more than 250 000 Council documents in all our official languages, and it provides access to the contents of more than 50 000 documents.
Prior to this, on 28 November, we held a discussion to ensure the regulation is applied with the greatest transparency.
It is true that we needed a few extra days for this.
This is why the definitive decision of the Commission was only taken on 5 December.
The Commission has in fact been implementing the regulation of 30 May since 3 December.
In fact, the Commission services have already started processing applications to access the new database established in accordance with the regulation.
Article 18 of the regulation provides not only for the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, but also for the amendment of other existing provisions.
Therefore, the appropriate services of the Commission have checked whether the 1983 regulation on opening historical archives to the public was in accordance with the regulation on access to documents.
The third consideration also concerns Article 18 of the regulation of 30 May.
This work has allowed us to identify almost fifty provisions that the Commission will examine in the light of the new regulation.
Since adopting the new regulation, the Commission has provided the agencies with information on it and had invited them to re-examine their own rules on access in the light of the regulation.
Minister, I was pleased to hear you refer to the compromise proposal made by my colleague Mrs Loyola de Palacio on 28 November in the three-way discussion.
For its part, the Commission will continue to respect this independence.
The Commission hopes to respect the spirit and the letter of this new regulation, which, we believe, represents a real step forward in terms of transparency and democracy within the European Union.
It was agreed at the time that the practical implementation had to be ready by 3 December, and that applied to all three institutions - the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Parliament approved its revised Rules of Procedure on 13 November, and Parliament' s Bureau saw to its implementation on 28 November.
First the Council: the Council adapted its Rules of Procedure to the regulation on 29 November and published them on 3 December - just in time, in other words.
It is not entirely clear from the Rules of Procedure whether or not the Solana decisions have been overruled by the regulation.
In the Netherlands, letters from a municipality to the national government always have to be published, and it seems to me that this should also be the case for Member States in respect of the Council.
The Commissioner has said something about that, but has the Commission initiated anything in this area?
I think that more consultation is needed on this point; at least we have stated in our Rules of Procedure that one of our Vice-Presidents would have to be responsible for it and Parliament would have to back this pronouncement.
Mr President, first of all let me remind both the Council and Commission that the purpose of the regulation is: "to give the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and to lay down the general principles and limits on such access".
When looking at the Council and Commission decisions, I see an attempt to rewrite the regulation, in particular references to it in Article 9 of the Commission decision - documents which do not reflect opinions or individual opinions will not be made available.
The same applies to Article 11 of the Council decision.
I should like to remind both the Council and Commission that a restriction on access to documents can only refer to the exemptions listed in Article 4 and Article 9, which in turn relate back to Article 4.
In particular, I would like to ask that this committee for interinstitutional cooperation finally be established, in order that genuine transparency can be brought into effect as required by this Regulation.
Now we must also look at what will be our future challenges once (hopefully) all these open questions with regard to this Regulation are resolved.
Secondly, I wish to mention a problem which relates to the protection of personal data.
When we debated the regulation on public access to documents, Parliament' s rapporteurs expected us to be able to obtain that type of information in the future.
I should therefore like to ask our rapporteurs if they will be involved in taking proceedings against the Commission if our renewed request for access to documents also fails in the end to produce a satisfactory answer.
I congratulate them on the progress made so far but none of us should deceive ourselves into thinking that we do not need a lot more work before Europe is truly open and transparent.
The Commission may have some argument, but I would remind the Commissioner of the Zwartveld judgement.
When I hear the comments about the institutional tale of the Secretaries-General, I am of the same opinion as my colleagues; namely that it sounds as if we are putting it on an official institutional level instead of on a political one.
If you say general and policy criteria, then I would rather speak on a political level.
But then I look at the Council and I notice that the documents relating to the Justice and Home Affairs Council have not yet been released, or that not all documents have been included in the register.
This refusal on the part of the Commission infringes, in my view, the principle of transparency and hampers the Committee on Petitions in its work.
Mr President, Commissioner, I will limit myself to answering the questions that have been asked, the question from the rapporteur, Mrs Maij-Weggen, as to whether the new decisions overrule the so-called Solana decisions; the answer is yes, they do.
I would, however, like to emphasise that the political level is of course always accessible and politically responsible for what the official level decides, including what the highest official level decides.
I do not understand the distinction that some of you are making, as if the official level should by definition not be responsible and the political level should be to the greatest possible degree.
I think that we must take another clear look at these things.
However, I have assured you, very candidly, that these extra days we required in no way prevented the system from coming into operation on 3 December.
These have been processed by the Commission' s services, according to the new procedures.
However, this register will indeed come into operation on 3 June next year, we are working to meet this deadline.
Mr Cashman, you also referred to the need for a publicity campaign.
Mr Perry and Mr van den Berg bear out this concern for vigilance.
Then, Mr Marinos asked me a question on the ability of the Committee on Petitions to access documents.
Secondly, your reaction to the special report of the Ombudsman which was approved... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, the Commissioner intimates that we have been given an answer.
We were given promises from both... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, this debate has been quite unsatisfactory and, under the pertinent rule in our Rules of Procedure, I wish to propose to my committee and to the House that we have a resolution to close this debate, to vote on it at our January part-session, and to look at what further action we need to take, given the quite unsatisfactory nature of the responses from the Council and Commission.
I maintain that allegation in that both the Council and Commission have introduced a new mandatory and blanket exception on the basis of opinions or individual opinions.
I have explained the spirit in which the Commission took this decision a few days ago.
I have informed you that since 3 December citizens have been able to access Commission documents within the terms of this regulation.
Question No 2 by (H-0862/01): Subject: Regions' powers in a globalised world In Nice an additional Declaration on the future of the Union was annexed to the Treaty.
It offered, inter alia, the prospect of a more precise delimitation of powers between the EU and the Member States, reflecting the principle of subsidiarity.
If not, does the Council consider itself to be sufficiently armed in the face of the growing gap between European citizens and institutions and in the face of growing antipathy within certain movements to all forms of expansion in scale whether at European or world level?
Are the powers and position of internal political entities in the Member States in respect of their relations with the EU institutions in an executive, legislative and legal connection to be enshrined in the Laeken declaration?
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand, of course, that those posing questions have scheduled this Question Time at a very strategic moment, namely a few hours, a few days away from the Council of Laeken.
The Spanish Government has more or less made the fight against terrorism its number one priority.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would lend you my mobile, but unfortunately, it is broken.
With regard to your own challenging question about your opinion on the Committee of the Regions, I would like to state that, as you know, the constitutional regions are very much in the minority in the Committee of the Regions, and it is of course unnecessary to stage one' s own defeats.
The Committee of the Regions was composed in such a way as to ensure that the constitutional regions would form a minority, and I would want them to be considered as federal states that, in the course of history, have never been given the chance to develop into Member States.
It is the statute according to public and international law of an entity that determines the position of this entity in the hierarchy.
I think that in order to do this we need to find a new internal structure that is suited to the reality of our diversity.
Mr President, in response to the remarks that have just been made, I think it is important to bear the nature of the issue in mind.
It is a solution that you are pleased with and I welcome this.
As you know, I support independence for Catalonia and I do not think this is a viable solution for Catalonia, for instance, within the Spanish State.
I think that it is too early to say what the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will do.
The questions we are dealing with are on the subject of the Laeken European Council and the current European Union, however interesting the proposals made by some Members of this House may be.
If people in the regions and localities of Europe feel that their democracy means nothing, because all decisions are taken in remote places; if they are always merely told 'look to the constitution of your Member State if you are not happy with things', that will damage democracy in Europe, not help it.
The Belgian Prime Minister is familiar with the issue and he has his own views on the matter.
But in his capacity as President of the European Council he also knows that he will need unanimity in order to have the declaration approved.
No, I allowed supplementary questions to be asked by Members other than those who had originally asked questions, as stated in the Rules of Procedure.
It follows on from some of the comments and questions that have been asked already.
Now in its November resolution on governance, Parliament stated categorically that it will welcome proposals from the Convention to redraft Article 5 of the EC Treaty to include a specific reference to the function of constitutional regions within Member States.
I would also reiterate that Article 152 - formerly article 129 of the Treaty establishing the European Community - specifies, in general terms, that Community action in the area of health shall supplement national policies.
The Community shall encourage cooperation between the Member States in the areas mentioned in the Treaty and, if necessary, shall lend support to their action.
In this context, the Community shall also ensure a high level of human health protection by defining and implementing all the policies and actions.
As you know, the Fourth WTO Ministerial Conference, which took place in Doha between 9 to 14 November this year, adopted a Declaration on the TRIPS agreement and public health.
In the Declaration, the ministerial conference acknowledged, on the one hand, the gravity of public health problems, particularly afflicting many developing countries and least-developed countries and, on the other hand, that intellectual property protection is also important for the development of new medicines.
In this Declaration, WTO members agreed that the TRIPS agreement does not prevent Members from taking the appropriate measures to protect public health and affirmed that the Agreement can and should be interpreted and implemented in a manner supportive of WTO Members' right to protect public health, and, in particular, to promote access to medicines for all.
More specifically, the Declaration recognises that the flexibilities in the TRIPS agreement include the right of each Member to grant compulsory licences and to determine what constitutes a national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency, it being understood that public health crises, including those relating to HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria and other epidemics, can represent a national emergency or other circumstances of extreme urgency.
The Declaration also specifies that the least-developed country Members will not be obliged, with respect to pharmaceutical products, to apply Sections 5 (Trademarks) and 7 (Protection of non-divulged information) of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement or to enforce rights provided for under these Sections until 1 January 2016, without prejudice to the right of the least-developed country Members to seek other extensions of the transition periods.
I would add that, in the Declaration, WTO Member States made a commitment to propose, before July 2002, genuine solutions that could be consolidated in order to resolve the problem of those developing countries and least-developed countries that do not have manufacturing capacities for medicines.
The problem is extremely complex, but this is a very important commitment, because it relates to an aspect of the problem which could not be dealt with by the agreement.
I thank the President-in-Office both for her detailed reply and her cooperation over the past six months.
Good cooperation is sometimes marked by a degree of tension.
In Resolution No 1359 of 29 June, the Security Council clearly marked the path to be followed.
The presidency is in contact with Mr Baker.
In this connection, the Council is prepared to mediate in order to create a climate of trust among the parties and hence to facilitate a sustainable solution, but it does not intend to take the place of the United Nations.
Since 1996, the Commission has set aside EUR 56 million for this cause.
The visit by King Mohammed VI to the Western Sahara has not impacted on the above-mentioned approach in any way.
This may be the first time that this House has heard a political statement from the Council which goes much further than the usual strictly formal statements on the conflict in the Western Sahara.
But I have to tell you the following: having listened to this response, I am under the legitimate impression that in the Council too much weight may be given to a view of the conflict in the Western Sahara that does not consider that the solution to it may only be based on compliance with the United Nations Settlement Plan, which includes holding a referendum on the self-determination of the Sahrawi people, a referendum that has been blocked for many years by one of the parties concerned, Morocco.
Although it is public knowledge and a well-known fact, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that an official answer was circulated in the United Nations in the month of October - which was even the cause of a diplomatic incident between various representatives of the Member States - the question I am asking is this: when can I have my answer?
I believe, though, that the European Union and the Member States must, for the sake of a common foreign and security policy, choose a coordinated way of proceeding, one that is in accordance with the UN peace plan.
Following the visit of King Mohammed VI, events have followed in rapid succession.
There has also been a visit to the Western Sahara by the French President, Jacques Chirac, who, in defiance of all international legal positions, said that the Western Sahara was made up of the southern provinces of Morocco - a point we are discussing in the Council of the European Union.
The Council has already drawn the Honourable Member' s attention, in its answer to oral question H-0689 during the October session, to the fact that the return of displaced people was part of a whole raft of conditions imposed by the European Union as part of the stabilisation and association process, and the countries of the region subscribed to these conditions at the Zagreb Summit.
The Council's report assessing the progress achieved by the countries of the region towards the conditions for European integration, which was approved on 11 June 2001, stated that the process of the return of refugees and displaced persons to Bosnia-Herzegovina should be speeded up and that the measures to create the proper conditions to enable people to return under the correct circumstances, in accordance with the Dayton-Paris agreement, should be strengthened.
The European Union will certainly use the monitoring process to follow this issue and, where applicable, to assess whether, on the one hand, the progress made in respecting the conditions and, on the other hand, the level of relations established and the level of technical and economic assistance are still appropriate.
The 1995 Dayton-Paris Peace agreement, which brought an end to the war in Bosnia-Herzegovina, established the post of High Representative who is responsible for monitoring the implementation of this agreement, amongst other things.
He did so in accordance with the powers granted him by the Ministerial Conference of the Council implementing the Bonn peace accord in December 1997.
However, the Council understands that, since 1998, in line with the recommendations of the High Representative' s Office and the Return and Reconstruction working group, increasing funds have been granted to support the return of minority groups to Republika Srpska.
This area should also continue to occupy its rightful and important position within the framework of Community assistance provided under the CARDS 2000-2006 programme, Article 2 of which explicitly mentions aid for the return of refugees and displaced persons.
I can assure you, as we near the end of six months of holding the presidency, that the Council and its various members attach extreme importance to the issue of the return and reintegration of refugees in Bosnia-Herzegovina, but also in other areas of the Balkans where this issue unfortunately persists.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for this detailed answer and also for your intensive involvement in this area.
I have heard that, especially in the Banja Luka region, the Catholic Church is intensively engaging in care for the sick across cultural boundaries and in many activities in the spheres of social welfare and agriculture, and that funds promised for these have simply not been granted.
Question No 8 by (H-0876/01): Subject: EU and international measures providing for the return of illegally transferred assets Under the terms of the Tampere Council conclusions the Member States committed themselves to taking concrete steps to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime.
The Council called for the competences of Europol to be extended to money laundering in general and for common standards to be developed to prevent the use of corporations or entities registered outside the jurisdiction of the EU in the hiding of criminal proceeds and money laundering.
Since the events of 11 September, a special effort has been made in the fight against funding terrorism.
Alongside this, there are a multitude of other instruments, including the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 1959 and the EU Convention of 2000 on the same topic.
On 16 October of this year, the Council convened in a joint formation of Ecofin and Justice and Social Affairs.
On that occasion, the Council laid down the decision to adopt a protocol as part of the Convention of 29 May 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union.
This protocol considerably improves cooperation among the Member States in the fight against economic and financial crime and, in particular, the fight against money laundering, corruption and forgery, and it provides for broad agreement concerning the dissemination of information concerning financial transactions, accounts and bank details.
The Member States have committed themselves to ratifying this protocol by the end of next year at the latest.
Question No 9 by (H-0879/01) Subject: The case of Tracey Housel, a British national on death row in Georgia, USA Is the Council aware of the plight of Tracey Housel, a British national on death row in Georgia, USA?
The EU is therefore opposed to the death penalty in all cases and it has agreed to work towards its universal abolition.
The European Union is closely monitoring the situation in the United States, where numerous executions take place.
In another case - Atkins v Virginia - the European Union intends to make another request to intervene as amicus curiae before the Supreme Court in order to reaffirm its position on the application of the death penalty to people suffering from mental illness.
The Council is aware of the details of the Housel affair and, in particular, of the fact that a judgement by the Supreme Court of the United States could be handed down before the end of the year.
The Council was informed that the United Kingdom is very actively monitoring this matter, in conjunction with Mr Housel' s lawyers.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 10 to 38 will be replied to in writing.
It is no longer a plaything of one group, it has become the central pursuit of the European Union as a whole, and this is also the reason why the time has come to translate much of what has been written to date about conflict prevention - stunning reports have been published over the past few years, also by the European Commission, for which congratulations are due - into practice.
Fortunately, we do not need to start from scratch, for notably experience in the Balkans over the past ten years has taught us what the European Union is capable of, and has already done, in the field of conflict prevention.
I am really convinced that the coherence in this programme between democracy, economic development and security is an illustration of how conflict prevention has developed from a concept on paper to a very usable instrument in practice.
In my report, I have outlined three points, and today, I should like to do this again.
Maybe the most straight-forward point, yet very tricky in practice, is the cooperation between the European Union and the OSCE.
This is possible, not only because I, or Parliament, welcome it, but also because in the meantime, experience has been gathered with civil peace observers.
Finally, I have come to the third point, which may well be the most sweeping in my report.
If that is possible, if it is possible to make conflict prevention a central point in all areas of EU policy, then I will be happy, and what I refer to as a hobbyhorse of the 'soft' forces will then have developed into the favourite subject of the hard core of the EU' s policy abroad and all over the world.
Mr President, I should like to concur with the observations made a moment ago by the central proponent of conflict prevention, Mr Lagendijk.
The European Union is weak as far as its military contribution to international security and national law and order in countries surrounding us are concerned.
That is why the civil instrument is gaining in importance, notably for the European Union, in the light of the Union' s military weakness and of the topicality of the civil means in controlling and preventing conflicts alike.
The cold war is over and the entire security context has changed.
In my view, the unity of the European Union, particularly in this field, is a direct security interest.
The Community is the manifestation of a broad security concept based on economic and political cooperation and on shared values.
Despite this, one can still claim that there is already a culture of conflict prevention within the European Union.
The aim of conflict prevention is to prevent violence or recurrence thereof by intervening in good time, mainly by using civil instruments.
If conflict prevention is to become an effective instrument of EU security policy, it must form an integral part of our thoughts and actions.
This will force the European Union, more often than is now the case, to anticipate and trace hotbeds of conflict in good time.
It also forces the European Union to develop new instruments, such as rapid reaction facilities, and to considerably improve the three pillars.
Its ambition should be to play an equally visible role as NATO but then in the field of conflict prevention and the deployment of civil instruments.
Since 11 September, the Americans have come to realise that our responsibility does not stop at our own borders or the countries that are of strategic importance to us.
Solving these structural problems is both crucial and difficult.
Better structures must prevent political leaders from indulging in their unbridled hunger for power and wealth undisturbed.
The cause of this is that cultures and religions take their own values and standards too much for granted.
If the European Union wishes to strengthen its conflict-preventing role, also in the light of Cotonou, it must be adequately equipped.
Impressive speeches this morning by the Sakharov prize-winners have allowed us to share in the immense grief and also the moral strength of these victims of senseless violence.
There is little hope as long as tolerance is regarded as treason and the eye-for-an-eye principle leads to blindness, as is the case in the Middle East and Angola.
Out of appreciation for the report and so as not the create the impression of opposing conflict prevention, I will change my vote against to an abstention.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Lagendijk on his excellent report on conflict prevention, a subject on which Parliament' s position has always been very clear.
We need - and I address this particularly to the Commission - to dedicate not only more attention but, above all, more resources to education for peace programmes, along the lines of the work carried out by Mr Mayor Zaragoza when he was the Director-General of Unesco and which Kofi Annan reminded us of a few days ago.
In this sense, we feel that the number of European Union delegations to other countries is completely inadequate to meet the requirements of the prevention policy.
Lastly, I share your criticism of the Council and the Commission for not having accepted in the last six years - and six years is an extremely long time in which countless conflicts occur - the proposal put forward by Parliament at that time to institute a European civil peace corps.
Mr President, it is good to remind ourselves that at the moment there are many people listening other than those in this House.
I should like to congratulate Mr Lagendijk, precisely on this symbolic day when we awarded the Sakharov Prize to peace activists from Israel, Palestine and Angola.
In my one and a half minutes, I should particularly like to draw your attention to one aspect in the report, namely the Civil Peace Corps.
Paragraph 24 addresses the need for increased cooperation between the EU and the UN, as well as between the EU and the OSCE.
Two hundred Members walked out when he was due to speak.
But I would like to emphasise one aspect: the role of the Commission' s delegations should be reinforced, which also leads us to the issue of the external representation of the Union.
Before 11 September, Afghanistan was on the EU' s list of forgotten crisis regions.
Now, the EU has decided to play an active role in conflict prevention in Africa.
However, we should also play a more active and independent role in relation to the conflict in the Middle East.
That role has unfortunately fallen somewhat by the wayside since 11 September.
Mr President, what concerns us is that conflict prevention using military means is just the other side of the same coin, by which I mean of the intervention policy of the European Union, which has nominated itself international peacemaker, especially in crises and conflicts which it itself foments, so that it can then intervene and save the day.
But it also means exporting and entrenching democracy, the rule of law and good government; it means liberalising world trade, and using that and our development assistance to shrink the gap between the richest and the poorest, in a world in which the planet's three richest men own the equivalent of the GDP of the 48 poorest countries.
Earlier this year, the Commission published the communication setting out our new strategy of conflict prevention.
First, we want to make a more systematic and coordinated use of the European Union's instruments to address the root causes of conflict.
Simply put, we want to get better leverage from our position as the world' s largest donor and as the top trading bloc.
We are starting by integrating conflict prevention into our strategies towards partner countries, taking account of conflict indicators, for example, in our country strategy papers.
The second objective of our communication is to raise the effectiveness of our actions in tackling 'cross-cutting issues' such as trafficking in drugs or arms, the trading of illicit goods, environmental degradation and so on.
The third objective is to develop our ability to respond rapidly to emerging crises.
Concrete recommendations have been put forward, notably to improve the CFSP instruments, such as political dialogue or the use of special representatives.
What is required is a bit more of that old-fashioned commodity - political will.
Mr Sacrédeus raised this as well.
We were starting to do so before the horrific events of three months ago which the honourable Member referred to.
That is the very least we should be doing in response to the atrocities of 11 September.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Therefore, the more concise we can be, the more possibility there will be of ending the debate before 7.15 p.m.
The Commission recommends development of closer relations building on the progress made in the following areas: the rule of law, minority rights, freedom of the press, legislative and economic framework conditions and Iran's role in foreign relations and its position on security issues.
The draft Council decision on negotiation guidelines for a trade and cooperation agreement with Iran, drafted by the Commission, was delivered to the Council on 20 November.
My concern was to explore the EU's interests in enhanced commercial exchanges in view of the country's wealth of raw materials, but also in political dialogue on the fight against terrorism and the trade in drugs, and our respective contributions and potential contributions to resolving the Middle East conflict.
We welcome on principle the planned trade and cooperation agreement and do not make its conclusion conditional on the prior attainment of a specified standard when it comes to the rule of law and respect for human rights.
One is that we expect the agreement to include a human rights clause comparable to the Cotonou Agreement, which will help us at any time to effectively demand adherence to the international agreements Iran has signed on this subject.
The formularies on this subject in the preamble to the draft mandate, and the general reference to the final provisions on the possibility of suspension in the event of grave offences against significant elements of the treaty do not strike me as adequate.
All this makes it, in my view, a matter of urgent necessity that we should for our part build up our contacts and thereby strengthen the forces that the majority of the population know to be behind them.
By that I mean the forces that are in Parliament demanding greater freedom for the press and more rights for women; and the economic sector, which wants to demolish the encrusted structures and to promote a constructive role for Iran in the Middle East peace process.
Iran could, on the other hand, exert a more moderating influence on certain groups tending to seek confrontation in the Middle East.
The European Parliament will not, though, do a deal on human rights in exchange for participation in the anti-terror coalition.
We in the European Union have every interest in encouraging the authorities in Teheran to use this influence constructively, to promote stability, cooperation and development in the region.
It has been useful but now we should go much further.
We have welcomed Iran's constructive and measured response to the atrocities of 11 September, to which the honourable Member referred.
Even before those terrible events President Khatami launched a very useful initiative in the UN for a Dialogue between Civilisations.
I have the impression that Iran fully understands the importance of implementing UN Security Resolution 1373 in the financial fight against terrorism, the need to ratify the twelve existing anti-terrorist conventions, and the need for a comprehensive convention.
In the aftermath of 11 September and in line with the efforts of the global coalition against terrorism, there will be increased scrutiny and less tolerance of states attempting to build arsenals of weapons of mass destruction.
In this regard Iran has adhered to the relevant treaties and conventions, but we want to see additional steps and increased transparency.
Full compliance with these agreements is essential.
So we still have to adopt UN resolutions on this subject.
I believe we should explore other ways of conducting a more effective human rights dialogue with Iran, and I have begun this dialogue with the Iranian Foreign Ministry.
The potential for EU/Iran cooperation in trade, energy and economic matters is enormous.
That is recognised in our draft mandate for a trade and cooperation agreement.
The discussion among Member States in the Council has already got under way and I hope it will soon lead to a decision allowing us to start negotiations.
Finally, I share the honourable Member's pre-occupation with the drugs control issue.
And in terms of the structure of our dialogue with Iran, I wholeheartedly support the suggestion of closer parliamentary contacts.
I take note of the constructive comments, and am pleased to see that the report encourages the line pursued by the Commission, including the establishment of contractual relations with Iran.
However, I thought it would be more appropriate for the competent Commissioner to speak at this time.
This is why it makes sense to call for a dual-track policy: on the one hand, to maintain effective cooperation in the field of trade, the fight against drugs, against terrorism and such like, and possible cooperation in the reception of refugees, which is a full-scale problem in Iran at the moment, and on the other hand to level tough, clear and honest criticism on everything that contravenes the rule of law, democracy and human rights.
In my view, backed by the underlying attitude that we would like to see more democracy in Iran and the introduction of the rule of law - this can be encouraged in all kinds of ways - we could break through the deadlock which has come about in Iran in the wake of its conflict with the United States.
In any case, I should like to subscribe to the rapporteur' s conclusion that it is a logical step for us to contact the parliament in Iran, and offer my congratulations to the rapporteur.
However, at the same time, the ultimate point of reference for us, for the European Union and for Parliament must be respect for human rights.
In this sense, I think we can say to the rapporteur that we do not support some of the amendments he has submitted for the perusal of this plenary in that they seem to be inspired by excessive indulgence in the area of human rights, an area in which we must never make any concessions.
I believe our task is to encourage the democratic forces, civil society and the many women and students who feel that, in the struggle between theocracy and democracy, it is possible for democracy to prevail.
Lastly, we must promote political dialogue between the European Union and Iran.
In this sense, we are in favour of sending an ad hoc delegation to Iran and we hope, in particular, that the European Union will be able to play a full, useful political role to help Iran find its own path to democracy as soon as possible.
Encouragement and persuasion are part of the spirit of this report and must also characterise the way the European Union reinvigorates its relationship with Iran in the future.
As Commissioner Patten and Mr Gahler have said, positive moves are being made, but there is also much that is negative.
In contrast, we believe that the Gahler report has its merits, but that it is too weak and must be made bolder on a number of points.
Amendment No 13 is based on the proposal submitted by the EU to the UN, in which the Council is stronger in its criticism than Mr Gahler is in his report.
Amendment No. 19 states that Iran is not a safe country for refugees.
Mr President, what I want to say is that the events of 11 September have, I think, made us all much wiser.
I think that both the troika and Commissioner Patten have done interesting work and I think that the report and the motion for a resolution are generally on the right tack.
I think that the logic behind our past and present approach to Turkey, which is now a candidate for integration into the European Union, should also inform our relations with Iran.
Mr President, as an historian and ex-journalist, I have been quite fascinated by the emergence of, and developments within, the Islamic Republic of Iran over the years.
An interesting phenomenon in this connection is that quite a few current reform-minded people were once advocates of the power system they now denounce.
They pursue a more open society and openly denounce coercion in religious matters.
Our hesitation about endorsing a formal trade and cooperation agreement between the EU and Iran is epitomised by two concerns.
These are the violations of constitutional rights - think of the beleaguered position of religious minorities in that country - and the material support to terrorist Lebanese and Palestinian organisations.
Thank you, Mr Belder.
If he wants to repeat his whole speech as an explanation of vote, he will have the opportunity to do so tomorrow.
The debate is closed.
I should like to focus on my report on port state control, which is an essential part of our regime to make sure that events such as that involving the Erika never happen again.
It symbolised to me and my colleagues in the European Parliament the fact that the flag state controls had failed.
It is only because of the collective action of the European Union and its institutions that we have stimulated in the last two years unparalleled levels of activity in the field of maritime safety.
Without the European Union, we would not be as advanced today as we are.
It means that the most dangerous ships will be inspected in future.
In other words port state control authorities will have to inspect certain types of ships in certain ways.
Fourthly, we want the Member States that have been a weak link in the system to train and recruit adequate numbers of port state control inspectors.
They will have until 2003 to do that, but it is a challenge for them and it is a challenge, I hope, that they can rise to.
Fifthly - and this is absolutely critical to the success of this new regime - we want public access to the information.
Sixthly, we want the Member States and the port state control authorities in particular, to convey the information to the Commission so that the Commission can do its job in making sure the amended directive is uniformly implemented across the European Union.
A very important message will be going out from this Parliament.
But also there will be the power to detain, in particular the power to detain ships which, by 2008, do not have a fully functioning voice data recorder, a black box.
Again the message can go out tonight that by 2008 all categories of ships, if they want to come to a European port, must have a black box voice data recorder.
Once more, I welcome the fact that we have all worked together to secure that particular achievement.
Our duty now must be to make sure that the laws we pass tomorrow are implemented by everyone - the Commission, Member States and port state control authorities.
Mr President, Commissioner, after the sinking of the oil tanker Erika on 12 December 1999, this Parliament and the Council requested a significant strengthening of the Community rules on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution.
After the Council' s adoption of its common position, we moved on to second parliamentary reading, where we insisted on issues relating to resolving the conflicts of interest which may arise between classification societies or organisations and the owners and/or charterers of ships, as well as on financial liability in cases of negligence or omission in judgements.
However, the delegations of the two institutions considered that this issue should be examined within the framework of the evaluation report, which the Commission will present within three years, on the economic impact of the liability regime and, in particular, its consequences for the financial equilibrium of recognised organisations.
Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the relevant legal authorities to the fact that certain people harmed by the Erika accident are yet to receive any compensation for the damage suffered, despite the fact that two years have passed since this tragic event took place.
Today, we can see that, on the basis of the Commission's initial proposals submitted two years ago now after the tanker crashed, our joint efforts have brought progress, and I again wish to thank you, Commissioner de Palacio, for the committed support you and your colleagues gave us in the conciliation process.
By means both of these two results from the conciliation process and the common position, we have significantly increased not only the safety of ships, but also that of their crews, the environment and of people who live in coastal regions.
On the one hand, we have managed to find an effective response to the concerns of the citizens of Europe, especially in France following the shipwreck of the Erika, as regards environmental protection.
I think that credit for this has to go to the European Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament because, thanks to our initiative, thanks to our - how shall I put it? - our threat that we would proceed unilaterally if the International Maritime Organisation failed to act, the International Maritime Organisation which, we must admit, has not always acted quite as fast as we would all like it to act, has pushed ahead and adopted a number of measures which mirror the initial proposals submitted by the Commission and the Member States.
Mr President, I would like to join those who have spoken before me in expressing thanks to you, to the Commissioner, to your colleagues and also to our rapporteurs, for I do think it was a good thing that we, as Parliament and Commission, worked together so closely on this issue.
The Member States now have 18 months in which to transpose all this.
The legal framework is in place.
These statutory proposals belonging to the "Erika I" package contain essential measures for the increasing of marine safety.
As the rapporteur stated, the classification society must not be under the authority of the owners or builders of the vessels, or of others engaged in commercial activity in the sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should at any rate like to thank everyone, including the team behind the Commissioner, for example, for the quality and volume of work they have all done.
We should, for example, call the French Transport Minister to account for the fact that his country scores exceptionally low in the percentage of inspections that are carried out.
I therefore intend to monitor annual surveys of the Paris memorandum of understanding and other matters in the next few months with the help of others, and check whether inspection of this kind is, in fact, on the increase.
Mr President, it is by sheer coincidence that today we are sadly commemorating the second anniversary of the sinking of the Erika oil tanker.
The various measures that we are currently debating in the three reports by Mr Watts, Mr Ortuondo Larrea and Mr Hatzidakis have taken too long.
Yes, we must strengthen State port controls, Mr Watts; yes, we must ensure the work of classification societies is more efficient, more reliable and more transparent, Mr Ortuondo Larrea; yes, Mr Hatzidakis, we must take concerted action at international level to phase out single hull oil tankers, whilst bearing in mind that double hull tankers cannot guarantee that ships will not sink or run aground.
But why will we have had to wait more than two years after the disaster for such basic measures to be taken in these three areas?
And, more importantly, there are two fundamental questions that remain unanswered, and it has also not yet been established whether it is appropriate to take these decisions at European level.
The first question relates to compensation.
This situation is particularly hazardous.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am optimistic.
The decartelisation of the interests of the classification societies, the shipowners and the other actors means that we are now already achieving a high degree of transparency and independence for the inspectors.
I consider this regulation to be a fair one, which takes all sides into account in an appropriate way.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Conciliation Committee, I am delighted that we have achieved a positive result and can now press on and apply effective measures to protect our seas and our shipping industry.
Mr President, Commissioner, today being the anniversary of the sinking of the Erika on 12 December 1999, my group and I are pleased to see that conciliation on three sets of proposals has been successful.
With regard to Mr Ortuondo Larrea' s report, the question of the conflict of interests has been resolved in such a way that classification societies can no longer have any links with shipbuilders, shipowners, operators or charterers.
Likewise, there is the question of the limits of the financial liability of these companies with regard to the financial balance of recognised organisations.
Intermittent spills and substandard 'dustbin ships' , such as the one that recently sunk off the coast of Brest, are still all too topical and it is a test of the EU' s credibility to resolve this situation once and for all.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, following the Erika accident, the profound, and totally legitimate, concern of the European citizens and the urgent need to consolidate the Community legislation in the field of maritime safety became clear.
I also congratulate the rapporteurs on the wonderful work they have done, completing this package of measures.
The Erika I package and future approval of the Erika II package will make it possible to create a genuine European area of maritime safety and must guarantee an optimum level of protection for the maritime environment and the European coastal regions.
This Parliament has shown its great interest throughout the negotiation process.
Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate all of my fellow Members, who, in my view, have done some excellent work.
I therefore believe that we have worked as quickly as possible and yet, it will take a total of three and a half years to draw up a text on Erika I after the law has been transposed by the national governments.
We discuss this elsewhere, outside the context of transport, and I think that these subjects require the codification of urgent parliamentary procedures that will allow us to proceed legally.
We now have a body of texts and of maritime law without equal at European level, and also the Erika II package which is currently under discussion.
The Member States will no longer be able to play hide and seek with the European Commission, as they could at the beginning of the Erika I crisis.
Furthermore, we have no guarantee - as President Prodi recently said - that the directives are being transposed into national law within the time allowed.
Lastly, I think that the controls do not give enough reassurance, and this is true of all the operating provisions.
The report on port State control also looks significantly better now.
In this case too, Parliament has had almost all its amendments included in the Council' s common position.
It was also a test of the European Union' s capacity to react quickly and to offer its citizens a suitable response to their concerns.
I must say that, despite the fact that all has not gone perfectly, that perhaps we could have adopted it on first reading - as I would have liked -, that perhaps both Parliament and the Council could have shown greater flexibility, the reality is that, despite everything, within one and a half years of the Commission presenting its initiative, today, two years after the accident, we are finally approving the Erika I package.
In this respect, we must remember that there was a serious disaster off the same coast ten years ago and initiatives were presented by the Commission, but they did not overcome the hurdle of the Council.
I would therefore like to point out that the considerable success of approving this Erika I package today would certainly not have been achieved had it not been for the insistence and firmness of this Parliament, which has maintained systematic pressure on the Council throughout the negotiation process.
Their determination, which I welcome, has allowed us to persuade the Council to approve texts which initially enjoyed only a very small majority yet have been able, at the end of the day, to overcome any reservations.
The Member States must recruit a large number of inspectors in order to deal with greater obligations in controlling ships in ports.
Finally, I believe it is important to highlight another point of fundamental importance: Europe has once and for all made its mark as an indispensable partner in the international arena in the field of safety and all aspects relating to the maritime sector.
In this regard, on the delicate issue of double hull ships, the States of the Union have not only reached an agreement so that, from 2015, no single hull oil tanker will be able to stop in any Community port, but also, and above all, the Union has persuaded the International Maritime Organisation to approve these requirements for all the oil tankers in the world.
I believe it is also important to point out that the Erika II package which completes the whole initiative has made considerable progress recently.
But I would like to say that it is already a great success that the Community initiative has led the current international debate - specifically within the IMO - towards the creation of an international fund which takes up the principles of the Commission' s proposal.
I would like to end my speech by thanking Parliament and the three rapporteurs, who have worked brilliantly, for their support to the Commission.
I would also like to ask them to cooperate with the other parliamentarians so that the Erika II package may pass through this House as soon as possible and that it may enter into force without delay.
For your information, I am going to give you a piece of information on the subject of governance: the services relating to the maritime sector in the Directorate-General for Transport - including secretaries - comprise no more than 40 people, and they are the human team behind all these initiatives, as well as a series of other tasks and functions relating to the maritime, port and other sectors.
This time the European Union has demonstrated that we have taken the fight against marine pollution seriously.
Thank you so much, Commissioner, for your important statement.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
I was appointed rapporteur for this topic more than a year ago.
Meanwhile, the report has already had its effect in part.
The ECOFIN Council of 16 October decided to take a pro-active approach based on my recommendations.
The Ministers have committed to starting a process of open coordination; Member States will be presenting reports before September of next year, and at the spring summit in 2003, more detailed policy on this subject matter will be outlined in the European Union.
As you can see, in my report on the fiscal treatment of pensions, I too have called for the introduction of open coordination process of this kind.
The fiscal policy of Member States is closely intertwined with Member State policy on the content and qualitative aspects of pension schemes.
Indeed, the fiscal incentive to accumulating a pension and fiscal levies on pension payments are conditioned by requirements based on the view of Member States of what a sound pension scheme is, and the conclusion in my report is not by any means that we should simply put these requirements to one side to make way for opening the pensions market within the European Union, as some may be inclined to do.
The alternative situation is that all workers, including those who simply remain in their own countries to live and work, should be eligible for tax deductions in respect of contributions to a foreign pension scheme.
As far as I am concerned, you can also plug into the time schedule that was chosen there and take the 2003 spring summit as a point of reference instead of that of Barcelona, because the topic will not feature on the agenda there.
Finally, I think I can make a brief reference to the recommendations of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and the Committee on Petitions.
I would also like to thank the rapporteurs in these committees for their contributions, and I hope that this report can help stem the flow of complaints and petitions, to which the Committee on Petitions, in fact, makes explicit reference, for that is, after all, the reason why we do all this, of course, namely the EU citizens who look forward to a truly border-free and obstacle-free Europe in terms of the movement of capital and labour, and in terms of encouraging the effective accumulation of pensions and fair taxation at retirement age.
I should like to thank the rapporteur warmly, not only in general, but also because she has indeed adopted significant sections of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Member States apply different fiscal systems to occupational pensions in terms of taxation or tax exemption from contributions, investment income and capital gains of the pension institution and from pension payments.
Eleven Member States use the EET system, three Member States an ETT system and two Member States a TEE system.
These differences in fiscal treatment may well lead to problems in labour mobility and mobility for the retired.
Several measures, such as increasing the retirement age of an ever healthier population and thus increasing the size of the active workforce, are a crucial step in improving the ratio between the active working population and retired persons.
The importance of occupational pensions schemes will rise in many Member States.
More and more Europeans work for relatively short periods of time in another Member State.
The Commission communication sets a strategy to resolve these obstacles that are a clear disincentive to individuals who wish to contribute to pension schemes outside their home Member States, as well as pension institutions that wish to provide pensions across borders.
This system serves to defer taxation to the moment the pension becomes payable, thus avoiding double taxation without the need to harmonise the level of taxation and without thus interfering in the Member States' taxation practice.
Tax issues are in the hands of the Member States.
It is the only way we can achieve the results which our fellow European citizens need.
It is the task of the Member States to remove the existing fiscal obstructions in the short term based on proper consultation, and to better attune the different pension schemes.
If the European Union wants to create an internal market for its citizens in a credible manner, cooperation among Member States will need to lead to the harmonisation of fiscal measures with regard to pensions.
The EET scheme, in which premium contributions are not taxed but in which the payments are taxed, can then offer a direction for the mutual harmonisation of the fiscal rules concerning pensions.
We propose the EET system of deferred taxation, on the grounds that it is already a reality in the great majority of Member States.
However, the resolution mentions the need, inter alia, for tackling double taxation and double non-taxation, and this means, by definition, that there is a cross-border element that, by definition, is one of the aspects of the internal market.
There is, therefore, probably little scope for a formal process of open coordination which, as already mentioned, relates to topics which fall within the decision-making remit of the national states.
Having said this, the ECOFIN Council of 16 October expressly approved the Commission proposal to take measures in order to tackle double taxation and double non-taxation.
Last week, 6 December, the Court of Justice heard the Danner case, and this concerns, as I believe the Members are aware, a German citizen who emigrated to Finland and who wanted to continue with his German pension scheme, but unfortunately, the Finnish tax authorities refuse to grant him tax deductions on the contributions already made to the German scheme.
As the Commission has indicated in its communication on tax policy of May of this year, a pro-active strategy for infringement procedures forms an important component of its approach aimed at making headway in the field of taxation.
A circular letter, a questionnaire, has been distributed to the Member States.
Thank you very much, Mr Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Mr President, the Commission' s proposal on financial collateral arrangements establishes the European legislative framework for this type of arrangement and is an essential proposal in terms of the functioning of the financial market on a European level.
This proposal is an essential element of the package of legislative proposals intended for this purpose.
In summary, it is a question of creating a sound and efficient regime for limiting credit risk and thereby ensuring a reduction in its cost and, at the same time, improving the functioning and stability of the European financial markets.
The initial proposal consisted basically of reducing the scope of the Directive to financial institutions and to very large companies other than financial companies, that is, large commercial, industrial or service companies, whose capital base exceeds EUR 100 million or whose gross assets exceed EUR 1000 million.
The European Parliament, or at least the rapporteur, considered that this proposal raised two problems.
The proposed directive resolved this problem by means of the technique of delegating this updating within the Commission, assisted by the Securities Committee, the so-called 'Lamfalussy Committee' .
This is a legislative delegation, a delegation of powers which is unacceptable to Parliament, or at least to part of it, as is well known, since this is not the first time we have dealt with the Lamfalussy Committee, in this field and in others, with Commissioner Bolkestein himself.
This solution has the advantage of resolving, at the same time, the two problems I mentioned, that is, the problem of the exclusion of not very large companies and the problem of the delegation of powers - or of the Lamfalussy Committee, shall we say.
Mr President, I must end by pointing out - and this is very important - that, from the outset, I have tried to work in close contact with the Commission and with the Belgian Presidency, whose help, in both cases, I am very grateful for at this time.
The purpose was to achieve a consensus which would make it possible to approve the proposed directive on first reading or at least to reduce the second reading to a mere formality.
We based our approach on this intention, since most of the actors, both the Member States and the actors within industry, agreed on its importance and on a basic consensus, except on certain points, in relation to this proposal.
It appeared that this objective had been achieved, since it appeared that the Council' s working group had reached an agreement which also satisfied Parliament' s essential intentions.
At the last moment the initial agreement in the Council' s working group has been broken and tomorrow, possibly, in Ecofin a different agreement will be approved, which includes other points which Parliament has not been able to consider in detail.
The rapporteur has also mentioned a second angle of significance to us in the Legal Affairs Committee, namely the fact that the boundaries as regards preferential creditors have - I would say - been drawn relatively generously.
I can say on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee that we are in agreement with what the rapporteur has presented, and we will also, for our part, support it.
Mr President, this is all going more quickly than any of us thought.
The Commission generally supports all the amendments except for Amendment Nos 16 and 21 which deal with extended protection of top-up collateral and the restriction of the scope respectively.
In addition, and subject to some rewording, which we do not expect will cause any difficulties for Parliament, we can also accept in principle Amendment Nos 3 to 15, 17 and 20.
Nonetheless, as provided by Amendment No 1, it would be possible under national law to protect that kind of collateral.
To be more precise, Amendment No 16 is not acceptable to the Commission because it could strongly conflict with insolvency law policy which generally discourages improvement of a creditor' s position as a result of an insolvency-related event or at least in a context of deteriorating credit-worthiness.
Amendment No 21 is not acceptable to the Commission because the Commission would like to see as many non-financial companies as possible benefiting from this directive.
Those companies are already using these techniques in the market.
In conclusion, I should like once again to thank Members of Parliament for their sterling cooperation.
The Commission is in the hands of Council on the one hand and Parliament on the other.
I am sure Members present would also have been very happy.
Despite the time and the fact that Parliament is not so well represented, the debate has been of high quality and I, as President for the sitting, am very glad to have been able to take part at this hour and in this final nocturnal Strasbourg debate of 2001.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 10.55 p.m.) Award of Sakharov Prize 2001 Mrs Nurit Peled-Elhanan, Mr Izzat Ghazzawi, Archbishop Zacarias Kamwenho, it is with great pleasure that the European Parliament welcomes you today in this Chamber, in order to award you the Sakharov Prize for freedom of thought.
Since 1988, the Sakharov Prize has been awarded every year by the European Parliament in recognition of individuals or organisations who have left their mark on the struggle for human rights and freedom in their home countries.
At the centre of their actions has lain a deep-rooted conviction: the right to live in an environment of respect for the dignity of all human beings, whatever their ethnic origins, gender or beliefs.
This year it has been decided, for the first time, that the Sakharov prize is to be shared between three recipients.
In awarding you the Sakharov Prize, our aim is to show our deep attachment to supporting all those who, through their daily actions, in spite of such difficult historical circumstances and in spite of the pressure of events, are working tirelessly to improve relations between peoples.
You have tirelessly promoted the cause of peace and encouraged dialogue between the Israeli and Palestinian peoples.
Archbishop Kamwenho, your country has been at war for 25 years.
The European Parliament has always been committed to the promotion of a political solution to the conflict in Angola, and we have repeatedly stressed the urgent need for all parties to embark on a global dialogue with a view to a lasting peace based on the promotion and protection of human rights.
As Archbishop of Lubango, as President of the Catholic Episcopal Conference of Angola and São Tomé and of the Ecumenical Committee for Peace in Angola, you have been an apostle in the service of fundamental rights and peace and a symbol of the hopes of the Angolan people, of its desire for peace, liberty and justice.
We also salute you as a spokesman for the aspirations of all those in Angolan civil society who are working for dialogue and reconciliation.
Today and for all these reasons, Archbishop Kamwenho, we award you the Sakharov Prize for freedom of thought.
I shall conclude by expressing our wish to honour the memory of the victims of these conflicts, of all those, children, women and men, who have fallen in Israel, in Palestine and in Angola.
It is a great honour to be here today with you, as winner of the Sakharov Prize.
And all the children who are there with them have been let down, because the world goes on, as if their blood had never been spilled.
In Jerusalem, where I am from, the men who call themselves our leaders have allowed death to hold sway.
It appears, however, that these gentlemen know how to live in peace when they have to.
On Friday 1 December, the editorial of a local newspaper in a Jerusalem in mourning told us that there had been peace in Jericho for two months.
Do not believe that the Americans have succeeded in convincing Ariel Sharon to stop sending young eighteen-year-old Israelis to kill innocent Palestinians, nor that they have succeeded in convincing the Palestinians to stop blowing themselves up along with their innocent Israeli victims.
And yet, I was not very surprised, since I always knew that our war was not that of the Israeli people against the Palestinian people, but that of people who destroy lives who call themselves our Heads of State against the people from both sides.
None of this is new in the history of mankind.
Mothers are the only ones who know that the death of a child, any child, whether from Serbia or Albania, Iraq or Afghanistan, whether Jewish or Palestinian, is the death of the whole world, of its past and its future.
But then I thought that the prize had not been awarded to me as a person, but to this voice that I took on through death and which transcends nationalities, religions, and even time.
The only feeling that remains, the only desire, the only need, that can never be satisfied, is that of protecting the child.
This prize is an act of faith in the ability of the world to promote a sustained dialogue of tolerance and understanding.
The event changed the taste of everything in my life, but I knew that a good human being is a living one.
There is an amazing imbalance between the rich and the poor, and there are a great deal of injustices that threaten the very principle of tolerance in our globe.
Yet, our insistence on dialogue between cultures is at its highest now, because we have to search into the roots of terror.
It is important to see it as a part of a human culture and not a divine call for a holy land that eats up its children.
No nation can be defeated if it insists on the meaning of life as a value in itself.
Our isolation and anxiety is beyond any proportion, but our faith in the future is also great.
From that land I bring greetings to you, Mrs Fontaine, President of the European Parliament.
Finally, and this is where I probably should have begun, from Angola I bring greetings to this historic city of Strasbourg, home to the European Parliament, a city that I discovered when I was still young, attracted not only by its cultural climate but mainly by the memory of the many missionaries from Alsace who, together with Portuguese missionaries, brought the gospel to our land.
So, to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I bring a warm embrace from Angola.
Mrs Fontaine, honourable Members of the European Parliament, Mr José Ribeiro e Castro, the party that has accompanied me here, amongst whom I wish to mention the Deputy Minister for Culture and the Ambassador of Angola, the President of the European Parliament, in her kind letter officially announcing the distinction that befell my unworthy person and congratulating me, wrote that peace has always been one of her main objectives and that my commitment to the ecumenical cause had raised her awareness.
In fact, the Episcopal Conference of Angola and São Tomé, which I have chaired for almost four years, wrote in its pastoral message of March 2000 "we cannot spread the gospel without promoting peace" .
The Interdenominational Committee for Peace in Angola, also formed last year, seeks to be the voice of believers on the crucial matter of peace.
In a letter dated 11 January 2001, His Excellency the President of the Republic, José Eduardo dos Santos, in response to a Christmas message of mine, wished me every success in the pastoral action that I am undertaking in the quest for peace and for the happiness of the Angolan people.
Living side by side with a simple and suffering people qualifies us to speak in their name both in recognising the efforts made by the government and in the quest for improvements that the people themselves are calling for.
I said a few days ago that in the 14 years of anti-colonial war there was just one year, 1973, that recorded an unheard of rate of financial growth, whereas in the twenty-five years of the civil war, we have only seen a decrease, that has grown worse day by day, particularly since 1998.
Thinking about the Lord who brought us here, to Strasbourg today, 12 December, half way between the 10th, the day of the Declaration of Human Rights, and the 14th, the day of His death, I see that I could focus on one of the causes: intolerance.
It was not by chance that the UN declared 1995 as the United Nations Year of Tolerance.
In the case of Angola, tolerance would be given form in the specific aspect of national reconciliation, whose foundations can only be reached through permanent and inclusive dialogue, able to break this never-ending cycle of war.
In this 'South' where we live, wealth generates both war and signs of solidarity.
Speaking of mining in particular, I would say that it is already time to increase the transparency that would make it more difficult to finance conflicts but which would also encourage social investment ... ...
To the MPLA and to UNITA to whom we repeated with a breaking heart: twenty-six years of history have been stained with blood - the blood of brothers killed by brothers, and closing the doors to dialogue would open them to a war without a visible end.
Today, with the confidence of the European Union, whose parliamentarians have placed the prestigious Sakharov Prize in our hands, I humbly call for a bilateral and simultaneous cease-fire that will open the way to a cessation of hostilities, as we have called for so many times.
