In accordance with the legal basis of Article 165 of the treaty, the Council Recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases calls for Parliament to be consulted.
We want to know whether the Council can confirm its intention to adopt conclusions on this issue during the Competitiveness Council of 3 December 2009.
Next, regarding possible future joint programming of research activities, can the Council confirm its opinion that these initiatives should, in principle, be adopted using the same legal basis?
Mr President, the proposal for a Council Recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases, in particular Alzheimer's, which was adopted by the Commission on 22 July, is based on Article 165 of the treaty.
Article 165 accords with the objectives for joint programming initiatives.
In a declaration issued in February, Parliament called on the Commission and the Member States to recognise this fight as a European public health priority.
The Presidency will try to ensure that Parliament's views are, as far as possible, incorporated into the conclusions that are to be adopted when the Competitiveness Council meets on 3 December this year.
Neurodegenerative diseases pose a major health problem in Europe.
Advances in medical science and the standard of living in developed countries have created conditions resulting in an increase in life expectancy, but the number of people affected by neurodegenerative disease has also risen.
The Commission's proposal focuses on the research-related aspects.
In fact, Article 182 of the Treaty of Lisbon ensures a suitable legal basis for future developments in this area.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, today we are debating a motion for resolution on neurodegenerative diseases.
Well, not in the sense that this should become the norm, that in such major undertakings, working together should be the norm, not just a voluntary thing, but something that would really bind all Member States into working together effectively.
What happened on the issue of joint programming on neurodegenerative diseases and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease, was that the rules changed in the middle of the process.
Programming research activities, in any area, is a political choice and not a technical choice and, in this regard, Parliament's role should be emphasised and strengthened.
The number of Alzheimer's cases worldwide is predicted to grow from 35 million today to 107 million cases in 2050.
In Ireland, for example, there are 50 000 listed carers to cater for Ireland's 44 000 sufferers.
The further role of the European Parliament in the fight against Alzheimer's disease should not be discounted.
I believe that the priority and main approach should be in the field of prevention and not in the field of medication.
It is a disease that affects many people and that number is growing.
Madam President, Alzheimer's and other dementia-related diseases are dreadful.
in writing. - I support this Resolution welcoming the proposed pilot project for joint programming of research activities in the field of neurodegenerative diseases.
The Commission should consider using Article 182(5) as a legal basis for all future proposals for joint programming of research activities.
