In my view, there are, first of all, excellent methodological reasons for adopting the report.
Indeed, if the directive enters into force, any subsequent proposal on this topic will have to go through the system of qualified majority voting, not unanimity any more, and it will have to go through the codecision procedure involving the Council and Parliament.
The directive is certainly just a first step, but you will all recall the Tampere Council several years ago when it was actually decided that Europe’s asylum strategy would be a step-by-step strategy, that is to say the procedure and the substance would not be put into effect at the same time together, but would proceed in stages.
A number of concerns remain, as expressed by this Parliament and by the Commission, and also by me personally and in public, about the need to harmonise the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers.
As you well know, the case law of the Court of Justice is often highly advanced in its interpretation.
What is needed are common European minimum standards for the treatment of refugees, founded upon the rule of law and upon international conventions and obligations under international law such as the Geneva Convention on Refugees.
The Council presented us with its proposal for this directive, for consultation purposes, only in November 2004, having already taken its decision.
What the Council has now presented us with is also a long way removed from the objectives formulated at Tampere in 1999, and one consequence of that is that the majority of us in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the advisory committees have come to the conclusion that the directive falls short of all expectations in that it makes no significant progress towards harmonisation, in that there are too many instances in which the Member States are allowed to retain their own legal arrangements.
The person seeking asylum must have the opportunity to set out the reasons why his or her safety cannot be guaranteed in the ‘safe third country’ or in his or her safe country of origin.
Secondly, we want to reinforce the asylum seeker’s right to an effective legal remedy in accordance with Article&#160;38.
The report that I have presented, which has been adopted by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, offers the opportunity to create Europe’s first body of asylum law, and a balanced and fair one too.
If we abandon the heart of asylum policy, we jeopardise human rights and take an axe to the pillars supporting that community of values that is the European Union.
Human rights and human lives are at stake here, and neither we nor anyone else must forget that.
I am very pleased about Commissioner Frattini’s concession.
I urge you to vote in favour of it for the good of all, and, not least, in remembrance of all those Europeans who were forced into exile by war, ethnic cleansing and persecution. &#160;&#160; .
One danger arising from the planned introduction of a minimum common list of what are termed ‘safe third countries’ is the major one that the Member States will return asylum-seekers to countries of origin that are regarded as ‘safe third countries’ without either the reasons for these individuals having become refugees being heard or their entitlement to asylum being examined.
It is for that reason that I, in the opinion I drafted on the report for the Committee on Development, attach particular importance to the European Parliament being fully involved in all future decisions affecting the common list.
This is demanded in the report on which we are to vote, as are improved protection for children and minors and the rules relating to the Member States’ obligation to inform refugees of their rights and obligations in a language that they understand.
The report includes a number of very important amendments aimed at ensuring that no Member State can deport asylum seekers or return them to areas where their life or freedom would be at risk by reason of their race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or their holding particular political views.
The first proposal was tabled five years ago; in 2001, Parliament tabled over one hundred amendments in the Watson report; the Council spent two years in negotiations and finally arrived at the general approach in April 2004.
This must, moreover, be done without breaching the 1951 Geneva Convention, with particular regard to the principle of , whereby no State will return such people to countries or territories in which their lives or freedoms will be endangered.
We disagree, however, on two key points, namely the disappearance of the lists of safe countries, which already existed in some Member States, and the scrapping of the concept of the ‘super-safe’ country.
The concept of ‘super-safe’ country certainly applies to European third countries, such as Switzerland, which uphold very high standards of human rights and refugee protection.
We also reintroduced an amendment that was not adopted in committee, which proposes that an effective system should be in place whereby the asylum seeker will always have the right to appeal a decision and to await the subsequent decision in the country in which he applied for asylum.
If these amendments are adopted, I feel that we will have a report that matches our responsibilities, and the Council would do well to follow our lead.
As it stands, the Council’s text does not, in fact, really allow harmonisation of the asylum policies to take place at European level.
Furthermore, these derogations prevent us from attaining a good common denominator; it is, rather, the case that the lowest common denominator is given precedence: the levelling down of the asylum policy in Europe.
Everyone has the right to make an individual request and to have his or her request individually assessed.
The safe country principle can be very dangerous if it is not strictly controlled and, consequently, it would be unacceptable to end up with 25 different lists.
We must also address our people in order to explain to them, and thus to make them understand, the hardship that literally forces these refugees to make their way to Europe. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job.
Our guiding principle must be that the European Union, as an area without internal borders, must find a common and effective way of managing its external borders.
Under pressure from public opinion, for which, in fact, national governments and parliaments are often to blame themselves, most Member States are currently adopting their own asylum and migration policy that is as closed off as possible, even though a change to the asylum and migration policy in one Member State has a direct impact on the migration waves and policy developments in the others.
Advice may be very useful, but it can, above all, also be ignored, and that is exactly what the Council will do.
However, as soon as the final vote has been taken on this report and the directive thereby enters into effect, the European Parliament will acquire codecision in the areas of asylum and immigration, which means that the Council will no longer take decisions by unanimous, but by majority, vote.
This amendment to the decision-making procedure is vital, as is the need to adopt common asylum and immigration policy in the short term.
In order that we may send out a powerful political message to the Council, I would urge the Members belonging to the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats), particularly Mr Coelho, but also those of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, to opt for the most viable compromise and thus refrain from voting against this report.
My group has demonstrated its willingness to do this.
There is one area that remains difficult for us, namely the concept of the supersafe countries, but I would be very surprised if a majority were to be found for that this afternoon.
A powerful political signal from this House is what is needed to demonstrate that we, across the political divide, dare fight for a speedy, balanced European approach to the asylum and immigration issue.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, who has had an extremely difficult task in trying to improve the deeply flawed document received from the Council, which some of us see as an affront to human rights and to those seeking sanctuary.
Reference has already been made to the concept of super-safe third countries and indeed safe third countries.
My political group has a major problem with this.
At the moment the British Government, for example, is prepared to send asylum seekers back to Iraq, Congo, Zimbabwe and Afghanistan.
There are many in this House who do not believe any of those countries to be safe.
We welcome the amendment from the rapporteur and Mrs Roure that keeps open the possibility of testing the human rights dimension of this in the courts.
The committee's amendments have strengthened the text quite considerably.
There is much greater emphasis, for example, on the rights of children and procedures for the vulnerable.
There is much greater clarity as regards the need for adequate legal representation and an individual interview, which assumes even greater importance in the context of the single asylum procedure currently under consideration.
Some major unresolved issues still remain, however, which we cannot sidestep.
In our opinion, these people should not be held in the same places; indeed, we believe that asylum seekers should never be shut up at all.
In addition, we are concerned about the use made in the report of the safe third country concept, about the criteria for defining a safe third country, and also about how the list of such countries will be drawn up.
I believe that safe third countries and the concept of safe third countries endanger the lives of asylum seekers, and that is something that we must not allow.
Mr President, today, we are debating refugee status; in a world in which millions of people are on the run, we are fortunate enough to be able to discuss their status.
It is our duty to treat refugees kindly and fairly.
I fear that Lampedusa is no exception.
Instead, alongside the Council’s political agreement, this House has produced a very extensive document.
In a consultation procedure, there is little scope for re-writing a Council proposal.
This proposal makes it possible for an application for asylum to be rejected on the basis of a combination of different exceptions.
Member States are apparently not prepared to allow their own exceptions to be discussed in order to reach an even-handed directive, and that is unacceptable.
Ladies and gentlemen, while I agree with the rapporteur in calling for greater cooperation among the institutions and in considering that Parliament should always be consulted before the Council comes to any kind of agreement, I should, however, like to express my disappointment at the contents of the report.
If this Parliament – perhaps because it is too politically correct – wishes to ignore the fact that immigrants, especially those who come through my own country, Italy, get into Europe and almost always end up committing crimes and jeopardising the safety of our citizens, then perhaps it would be better to have the courage to say that each country should regulate itself as it sees fit, that is to say with 20 different kinds of legislation.
It is therefore right and proper that we should look for an answer to this problem in the shape of a common European refugee policy, and I would certainly endorse the drafting of a list of safe countries, even if this was a first step and even if – subsidiarity being properly understood – it was left to the individual Member States to use additional lists.
That is the only way to drastically reduce the number of bogus asylum applications and combat human trafficking.
Moreover, this is also the only way of reconciling our citizens, whom we represent, in our own countries, with the need to receive genuine asylum seekers.
For the time being, though, we lack the political will or courage to adopt such bold and necessary policy, certainly with regard to everything that this entails, such as, for example, the refusal of development aid to countries that refuse to conclude repatriation agreements for bogus asylum seekers.
It is an humanitarian obligation incumbent on us not only as individual states, but also as a European Union, and the fact that that Union’s internal borders are open makes it important that we at least lay down a minimum standard for asylum procedures, with it made clear not only to asylum-seekers but also to the host countries what prior conditions apply, what form the procedures take, and how long they should take.
It is also a matter of humanitarian obligation that procedures should be transparent and quick, and that they should treat people with dignity, and this is an obligation that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats takes very seriously, as is evident from the amendments tabled by our shadow rapporteur Mr Coelho – which the Committee accepted – in contrast to the approach taken by the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, which does nothing to help us meet our humanitarian obligations.
The fact is that what matters is not that we should accept as many people as possible, but that we should offer a safe haven to those who are persecuted in their own country and for whom Europe is their only possible place of refuge.
Using a list of safe third countries helps to do this.
Practice in Germany has shown this to be a sensible and workable arrangement, although it must be noted that inclusion in the list of safe third countries is conditional upon acceptance and implementation of both the Geneva Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights – a high standard that we have set for ourselves.
It is this concept of safe third countries and safe countries of origin that the rapporteur rejects, with the consequence that, for example, neither Canada nor Norway nor Switzerland are regarded as safe countries for asylum-seekers.
I have to tell him that they should be included in any procedure, and, while our Green and Socialist Members reject Bulgaria and Romania as safe states, they nonetheless want them to accede to the EU in a few months’ time.
Moreover, in the original version of his report, Mr&#160;Kreissl-Dörfler went as far as to demand that criminals for whom an arrest warrant had been issued should be granted asylum before they were arrested.
He also, citing cultural sensitivities, rejected the fingerprinting of asylum-seekers, even though that is often the only way to positively identify those who have arrived without papers, and that would make it virtually impossible to determine whether a person had applied for asylum in more than one Member State.
Unfortunately, as the rapporteur said, the problem is the fear which exists in certain countries from terrorist attacks and the fear created in other countries by unemployment or the violation of social protection networks.
We have the same obligation to protect our geographical borders as we do to protect our humanitarian borders.
The international conventions we talk about here bear the stamp of European humanitarianism and we cannot, on the basis of fear, insecurity and even sometimes racism, attack and violate our own humanitarian borders.
So congratulations once again to the rapporteur; I am sure that his report will fare well. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the rapporteur for his report and for the unambiguous stance he has adopted.
Heads of Government are not in the least aware of the fact that it goes against our culture for ministers of the interior, ministers with responsibility for the police, to make laws for themselves, to interfere with fundamental rights, to make the most difficult decisions about the balance between security and human rights without reference to Parliament.
The object of this initiative by the Council is to put Europe beyond the reach of refugees, to make a mockery of the right of asylum and to make it, in essence, null and void.
That is the state we are in. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the directive on minimum standards for granting refugee status being debated today also revises and abolishes legislatively any protection which existed for refugees on the basis of the Geneva Convention and the Dublin II Regulation.
The directive follows on from the overall anti-refugee policy of the European Union because, as you know, the percentage of applicants granted refugee status has plummeted in the European Union over recent years.
In Greece, for example, it is less than 1% of applicants and last year the number of asylum applications plummeted.
Maintaining the concept of a safe to super safe third country, which means repatriation to it without the application being examined, refusing in practice the right to asylum and imprisoning immigrants pending a decision by the authorities demonstrate the European Union’s indifference.
There is the persecution of disabled people in some communist countries and the persecution based on tribal origin in the Sudan.
It is a human imperative, but also a deeply ingrained cultural imperative in Europe.
I have lobbied for genuine refugees in my own country, largely unsuccessfully.
Those doctors – a consultant oncologist and a paediatrician – who sacrificed their whole careers for their courageous action, have been in Ireland for over a year in an overcrowded hostel with no certainty that they will not be sent back to persecution and death.
Our response in Ireland, from what I know of other EU countries, tends to be slow and ungenerous.
Regardless of third countries, can we even call our own EU countries safe countries?
We should not automatically presume. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, I am very much in favour of respecting human dignity and international conventions and therefore giving due consideration to every request for asylum.
For instance, I have encountered many asylum seekers in Belgium, but none of them really met the relevant conditions.
A clear distinction should be drawn between asylum and immigration, to allow us to deal more appropriately with requests for political asylum and to control immigration more effectively. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make two general remarks and three more detailed observations.
Unfortunately, progress has been very slow.
My second remark concerns the Constitution, which Franco Frattini was also involved in drafting.
It is regrettable to hear how those who opposed the Constitution here in Parliament would at the same time like a firmer policy on asylum.
These go hand in hand, and I personally, at least, hope that the Constitution comes into effect in some form or another as soon as possible.
What is most important is that this programme should now be carried out.
My second observation concerns the list of safe countries.
It is my opinion that a list of safe countries at EU level is vitally important and a very sensible idea.
Finally, I wish to express my support for the rapporteur.
Above all, with regard to the new definition of a safe third country, we must avoid – if I may say so, Mr President – certain fanciful interpretations that we have heard today from the benches on the right: a safe third country for us means adopting a European list of safe countries, and adopting it under the responsibility of Parliament as a party in the codecision procedure.
It is also a case of changing the function of Parliament.
In view of all that, we must ask ourselves whether the problem is that we receive the asylum applications or rather whether the problem is the war and persecution from which those refugees are fleeing.
It is quite clear to me, and to my group, that the ‘super-safe third countries’ rule is unacceptable.
Mr Kreissl-Dörfler has already referred to this, and I endorse his criticism of it.
It is obvious that the Council needs to make improvements here. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the consistent asylum policies adopted by Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland have enabled these countries to deter innumerable people who would never have had any right to asylum from undertaking a dangerous journey and to thereby deal a severe blow to the people-traffickers.
On the one hand, this prevents the exploitation of the social security system; on the other, the effect was to make the proceedings more humane and welcoming for genuine refugees and enabled them to be speedily integrated by means of obligatory courses on the country’s language and customs, essential in making a new start in a new home.
If we want to wipe out Europe’s people-trafficking industry, which is a cause of suffering and unending misery, if we want to prevent those granted asylum from being drawn into the criminal milieu and to help those refugees who have not come to us for economic reasons alone, applications for asylum without a genuine need for asylum being demonstrated are simply no longer acceptable.
As for whether this report constitutes a step in the right direction, that is, in my view, a matter of doubt. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is right that the European Union takes concrete steps towards a common policy regarding immigration and asylum which includes clear provisions regarding the repatriation of illegal immigrants.
Unfortunately, Europe is still far from the situation where the burden of this problem can be shared equally between everyone and there are countries who are carrying a much heavier load than they can actually carry.
I say ‘Yes’ for a common European policy, but a policy of solidarity where the burden is shared equally, and a policy which is coherent and insistent with third countries, so that they too should burden their responsibility.
We must be careful, because if this Parliament imposes on the Member States burdens which are too heavy, then we should not be surprised if the Council ignores us. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Kreissl-Dörfler, for a constructive report.
It is important for us all to work towards the same goal: that the EU should, in the long run, conduct a policy on refugees and asylum that is the same for everyone everywhere.
Rules concerning safe or very safe countries give rise to a disturbing and unclear legal picture and lead to refugees being treated differently in different countries.
A Member State can then assess refugees’ individual histories and their need to have their reasons considered.
I naturally also view with unease the fact that, in both international contexts and the EU, children’s and young people’s age of majority is tampered with.
That is what people in the EU want us to do because they want to see the EU as a single entity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to join with previous speakers in congratulating the rapporteur.
The aim of the directive we are debating is to establish a simple, clear, effective and humanitarian system for dealing with refugees in the European Union according to a common set of minimum standards.
Immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees are a problem for the Union as a whole.
Consequently, issues and policies pertaining to refugees have a European dimension and should be dealt with at European level.
It is important to keep the right balance between our normal justified fears for our own security on the one hand, and traditional European hospitality on the other.
We would like to point out to the House that the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees is not being complied with, and in addition, the 1967 Additional Protocol has not been implemented.
I have taken good note of their comments.
I believe that the European Union should acknowledge and uphold this basic right for anyone who is truly fleeing persecution or war, but I mean truly fleeing.
That is why the directive can and must enter into force as soon as possible.
That, too, is a serious violation, when someone in one Member State is in the same situation as someone else in another Member State but is treated differently.
Many of you – I will mention Mr&#160;Fava and Mrs&#160;Lambert in particular – have brought up a very important issue: the European list of safe countries.
These never-ending negotiations affected the trading environment in a negative way.
The United States left the International Wine Organisation in 2001 and created the World Wine Trade Group.
Community exports to the United States amounted to almost EUR&#160;2&#160;billion in 2004, which is about 40% of our wine exports.
Considering, therefore, the importance of the United States market for the European Union, the evolution of our trade relations over recent years and the situation in the Community wine sector, it is my view that this first phase agreement is a very positive one for our wine sector.
This deal will secure what is our biggest export market in terms of both value and volume.
In addition, this first phase agreement contains some provisions that clearly benefit the Community.
There is now official recognition by the United States of our wine geographical indications, which will be protected under their labelling rules.
There are the 17 European wine names, such as port, sherry and champagne, which are currently considered as semi-generic in the United States.
We have agreed that their use will be limited in the United States and that they will change their legal status to restrict them to wines originating in the Community in future.
I can assure you that all these requirements would have been very costly for our export sector.
I wish to highlight two other very important points.
The United States ultimately agreed to spell out more clearly in a joint declaration the issues that should be part of these second phase negotiations.
These include important issues for us, such as the future of the 'ex' semi-generics, geographical indications, the use of traditional expressions, wines not covered by the agreement, wine-making practices, certification and the creation of a joint committee.
Lastly, I have heard some criticism to the effect that the Commission has granted the United States mutual recognition of its wine-making practices.
However, it will only be possible for the United States to export those wines after the status of the 17&#160;semi-generic United States names has been changed.
The production and manufacturing of wine in Europe is subject to clearly defined conditions.
The ‘most favoured nation’ principle laid down by the WTO means that, later on, the same concessions will have to be made to other states.
Even maintaining the current status quo strikes me as going too far.
On the other hand, you too need to take account of our proposals and concerns in connection with this agreement.
Over the last 20 years, the European Union, as you quite rightly said, has constantly granted the USA derogations relating to wine-making practices and the labelling of American wines imported into the Community.
Consequently, in the second phase, the question of wine-making and maturing practices will need to be addressed responsibly, in order to create a stable reference framework.
Fifthly, the creation of an international register of protected geographical indications needs to be promoted within the framework of WTO negotiations and this objective needs to be integrated into the top priorities of the European Union.
That may be a bitter pill, but we have to swallow it; its effect will be only temporary and the labelling rules – which will result in greater freedom for what we hope are emancipated consumers – will help it go down.
Furthermore, you are considerably weakening the principles that the European Union has always upheld with regard to geographical indications.
This first wine agreement with the United States, the fruit of 20 years of bilateral negotiations, is an important one and yet it also raises concerns.
In light of the massive concessions given to the United States, this agreement appears to have been brokered more because of the ongoing negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, than for the purpose of defending the interests of EU wine producers.
Furthermore, as regards the United States, Mrs Fischer-Boel must explain fully how she intends to guarantee the interests of wine producers from regions of Europe in which wine production is crucial to economic development.
With regard to both labelled designations of origin and traditional wine-making practices in Europe, this is what must be done if the quality of wine is to be maintained and consumers are to be protected.
When we checked the detail and listened to your explanations, we became very concerned as regards the guarantees that must be given to our farmers and to the regions concerned. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent European Union-United States agreement is only a first step – and certainly an inadequate and insufficient one – towards the international recognition and safeguarding of protected traditional names.
It was time to change course after the harmful effects of the infamous Regulation (EC) No 316/2004, which effectively authorised producers in non-EU countries to make improper use of protected traditional names, thus causing enormous damage to quality wine production, both in Italy and, of course, in Europe as a whole.
Commissioner Fischer Boel also stated in this Chamber that the agreement protects European names and will safeguard the European Union’s largest export market.
Well, under the agreement, the European Union recognises the wine-making practices of US wine producers.
We believe that, during the talks, the Commission should above all try to obtain a final commitment from the US authorities to put an end to the illicit use in the United States of geographical indications protected by Community legislation within two years at most.
Faced with this situation, the European Union must take action with more vigorous measures in order to defend its production of traditional quality wines.
Your Munich Agreement of the wine industry changes the definition of wine and the nature of wine.
For five years, the United States will be able to use bogus châteaux and bogus Clos wines in exchange for the peace clause.
Commissioner, I come from a region that invented the great revolts in the 1950s.
I thank the visitors in the galleries for their understanding and warmly welcome them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, if I were to be banished to a desert island, in the farthest ocean, which would be the Pacific, and someone were to ask me which European agricultural products I would like to take with me, I would say, apart from bread, two bottles.
And since I am from La Rioja, the wine would naturally be a Rioja, which has an international reputation and whose renown and prestige are due to an ancient wine-making culture.
I therefore believe that the Agreement reached with the United States could lead to a profound change to our wine-making culture, which would not always work to our advantage, because, fortunately or unfortunately, the commercial success of our wines has always been linked to a production method that conforms rigorously to the most purist definitions of the wine.
The definitive authorisation of the import of wines treated by means of dubious wine-making practices that are very different to ours could jeopardise our own wine-making culture, upon which – I would insist – the commercial success of our products has always been based.
It is clear that the chapter on wine-making processes will be one of the sticking points to which particular attention will be paid in the forthcoming reform of the COM in wine, because the agreement that the European Commission has just reached with the United States will, I fear, have repercussions which will go beyond trade with that country.
My region, La Rioja, is lucky enough to benefit from good protection in the United States’ market, but the same cannot be said for other Community designations such as Burgundy, Port and Sherry and Málaga wine, which are still considered by that country to be ‘semi-generic’.
I would therefore like us to call upon the Commission to include the creation of an international register of geographical indications and designations of origin amongst the main priorities of the negotiations in the World Trade Organisation.
The current negotiations in the World Trade Organisation offer a golden opportunity which we must not waste.
The Commission should also urge the United States, on a bilateral basis, to stop using names protected in the European Union within the maximum period of two years mentioned in the recent wine Agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, it is true that after twenty years of contacts between the European Union and the United States, the first agreement has been reached.
However, they do leave the Community market open to United States wines produced according to wine-making practices not authorised in the European Union, such as watering.
My country, Spain, is disappointed by this first agreement and we hope that the second phase will be far more convincing.
It is true that the United States have committed themselves to not using typical European designations, but only for wine that they export to third countries.
It would also be desirable for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to produce an initiative report so that what has happened does not happen again and so that this Parliament’s opinion is taken into account in order to try to save the European wine-making sector. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the challenges of the wine market are huge.
The United States remains a key market for the European Union with 60&#160;million wine drinkers and an average level of consumption that has grown from 8 to 13 litres per inhabitant per year over the last ten years.
France is ranked third among exporters to the United States, behind Italy and Australia.
Commissioner, it is necessary, therefore, in the second phase of negotiation, to ensure that the commitments undertaken by the US authorities are observed: to cease using semi-generic terms, such as Burgundy, Chablis, Champagne and Port, and to improve the level of protection of geographical indications, as well as improving labelling.
In this global wine market, which is often controlled by the large US wine traders, the type of vine has become a brand name.
The diversity of the designations reflects the diversity of the wines, our cultural diversity.
Mutual recognition of the geographical indications, that is to say the designation of the soil from which the wine is produced, will contribute to preserving our respective cultural identities, to boosting our trade with the United States but, above all, to encouraging European wine growers who, for years, have constantly improved the quality of their production in order to satisfy our demands, and serve our enjoyment, as consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the agreement between the European Union and the United States on trade in wines, which was initialled by the European Commission on 14&#160;September following 20 years of negotiations, divides opinions.
There are the European operators for whom this agreement will safeguard their exports to the United States, which is their most important market, with exports valued at EUR&#160;1.6 billion.
They believe that this agreement will also enable a climate of confidence to be restored in the sector and trade to flow smoothly, provided, of course, that a prompt start is made to negotiations for a second phase of the bilateral agreement and for defining common positions in the multilateral negotiations, particularly in Hong Kong with regard to aspects related to intellectual property.
Yet there are the other operators too, in particular the European wine growers, including my colleague, Mrs&#160;Klass, to whom, moreover, we owe the initiative behind this debate, and for that I offer her my thanks.
She has expressed very competently the concerns which, as chairman of this Parliament’s ‘Wine, tradition, quality’ intergroup, I share to a very large extent.
According to these concerns, this agreement is in danger of further aggravating the crisis that is currently hitting the wine-producing sector and, in the long term, of destroying once and for all the individual nature of European wines, which are characterised by their traditional roots in the soil and by natural and quite specific wine-making practices.
Mutual recognition of the wine-making practices on both sides of the Atlantic poses a problem – my fellow Members have spoken at great length about it – all the more so because some of these practices used by European wine growers are also banned by the WTO.
Being traditionally attached to production models in keeping with their environment and subject to an arsenal of stringent Community regulations, European wine growers, who are anxious to deliver quality products, are in danger of ending up in a situation of unfair competition if the United States’s practices are accepted, so much so that, in the long run, they will find themselves forced to abandon their ancestral practices which have, over hundreds of years, created the individual nature of Europe’s wine-making sector.
Therefore, Commissioner, it would be wise to pull out all the stops in order to protect this sector, which is undoubtedly fragile from being subjected to a large number of varying factors such as the climate but which has always been at the centre of European culture.
It is therefore a question of continuing to defend and promote our wine-making practices; it is a question of supporting the quality-focused efforts of our producers, in particular at the WTO, and, finally, of agreeing on a definition that restricts the production models that are unacceptable and that give rise, as I have already said, to a kind of competition that is detrimental to our quality products.
I took part in a seminar in Washington on this matter.
Yet they wanted us to buy back – to pay in order to buy back – our designations of origin.
I believe, therefore, that there should be an end to the costs and, Commissioner, that it is crucial to protect our designations and to implement, once and for all, a system for registering geographical indications within the WTO.
We hope that you will vigorously defend this point of view in Hong Kong, because it is a question of the future of quality products and of Europe’s wine-making culture. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, wine production in Europe is not merely a matter of applying techniques learnt in a laboratory or in marketing handbooks to the agronomy sector.
Under no circumstances must the Commission neglect the issue of protecting semi-generic names in the US internal market.
The next phase of the negotiations must get underway without delay so that the 17 designations of origin in Annex II can be accorded recognition.
The US market, as has been pointed out several times since it was mentioned earlier, is extremely important for Europeans.
We have been witnessing the spread of plantations throughout the world – in Chile, in Australia, in New Zealand – and, above all, and this is what is fuelling the debate this morning, an explosion of ‘Canada Dry’.
Commissioner, this agreement that you are going to finalise in the weeks and months to come must prevent consumers throughout the world from feeling cheated and deceived.
You have talked about a first phase agreement on the issue, and you have talked about a second phase that will take into due consideration a number of factors that we wish to emphasise, regarding quality, wholesomeness, protection and tradition.
Our wine-making traditions, Commissioner, are no less important.
This morning we have invoked our ancient culture, our specialities and our territorial diversity.
In a word, it means ensuring that the geographical indications for our wines are respected and that our production in this sector thereby remains competitive.
The agreement does not respect our producers; it does not respect our consumers; it does not respect our market; and it does not respect the European Union’s identity on the international stage.
It is not a case of closing the market – far from it – but of ensuring fair, undistorted competition, in which both product quality and consumer protection really can prevail. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union-United States wine agreement provides a stable legal framework for our trading relations and is therefore a worthwhile step forwards.
I believe my fellow Members’ concerns on this matter are justified and I trust that, through close dialogue with Parliament, the Commission will press for these objectives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all agreed that wine is among agriculture’s most elegant products.
The Wine Agreement between the EU and the USA is first to be concluded with the object of securing this important market for sales from the EU.
The conclusion of this first agreement is meant to create the conditions for future close cooperation with the USA in the wine sector and protect designations of origin in the EU.
The Commissioner herself described this agreement as an important first step, and said that it is still not without faults.
The Member States had hitherto always argued that there should be what they termed an international code of definitions for wine and the processes involved in its manufacture.
As far as the protection of European designations of geographical origin is concerned, the concessions made in this agreement go too far.
While there is no doubt that we need a trade agreement with the USA, what we need is an agreement with unambiguous legal provisions that do not undermine existing European law and requirements and offer a secure future to our European high-quality wines.
These aspects, which one might call non-quantitative, must be taken on board in any agreement, including this agreement with the United States, a country that imports 40% of our wine exports.
For example, from what I have read in the newspapers, we do not know whether or not Madeira wine and Port wine are included among those that the United States accepts as designations of origin.
We are prepared to make some concessions and adjustments to winemaking practices, but we cannot accept the idea that our designations of origin, which are genuine intellectual property and which characterise our culture even more than trade, are not respected in full.
To conclude, I therefore feel that if an agreement is necessary – and I accept the need for one – then such an agreement must not be at any cost, and especially not at the cost of our traditions and our culture when it comes to designations of origin. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the only reason I can imagine for your self-satisfaction with the signature of this Agreement is the fact that it has brought to an end twenty years of negotiations and that the United States absorb 40% of the external market in our wines.
Our adversary in the negotiation has once again been paid in advance.
Furthermore, Commissioner, we have lost our main weapon in this contest.
Furthermore, we are running the risk that, from now on, certain Community producers may also call for greater flexibility in the Community rules on wine-making practices, which could lead to unwanted changes and put an end to our ancient wine-making culture for good.
All these things we once fought long and hard to secure for Europe, and now it seems that we have to do the same again for a global market that has shrunk.
Now, Commissioner, we are all agog to learn how you propose to sort out the problems with wine.
As I mentioned in my statement, I welcome the conclusion of the first phase agreement on trade in wine between the European Community and the United States.
I welcome the conclusion of this agreement on trade between the European Community – which, as many of you have mentioned, is the birthplace of wine – and one of the leading countries in the New World Wine Trade Group.
I am also convinced that the conclusion of this first phase agreement will pave the way for further discussions and cooperation with the United States in the wine sector, which is in the clear interest of the Community, and in particular its wine sector.
However, I also believe that most of your remarks go far beyond the conclusion of this first phase agreement and in a sense confirm that it is the right moment to start the analysis and discussions on reform of the wine sector.
Besides, several provisions of key interest to the United States, such as the approval of their existing wine-making practices not covered by current Community authorisations and much simplified certification requirements, will only kick in once the United States has notified the Community it has changed the status of the 17 famous European wine names that are semi-generics in the US.
On the most-favoured nation risks mentioned by several of you, I can state that the Commission's aim in these negotiations and those with other new wine-producing countries, is to improve the dialogue between us and our negotiating partners and avoid the trade conflicts and WTO panels that would be extremely costly for European producers.
The most favoured nation clause is well-known with regard to tariffs, but the situation is completely different when it comes to its application in relation to procedures for recognising wine-making practices.
In order for the same concessions to be granted to another third country, that third country would have to be in a similar situation as regards acceptable wine-making practices and monitoring of those practices and of the wine.
It is not used in other third countries and the most favoured nation risk therefore seems to be very small.
We have no defined limits for the addition of water to wine, but, for example, a limit of 7% has been defined in respect of adding water to concentrated grapes, as it is impossible to detect the addition of water below that threshold.
On the question of mutual recognition, as I said in my introductory statement this agreement does not grant the United States mutual recognition of its wine-making practices.
However, since the US did not agree to phase out the use of the 17 EU semi-generic wine names used in the US, we did not agree to grant them mutual recognition of their wine-making practices.
We will accept the other existing US wine-making practices only when the United States has changed the status of our semi-generics.
Finally, it is very important that discussions be opened on the reform of the common market organisation in wine.
The impact assessment work has already started and consists amongst other things of an economic analysis of the sector, which should be completed by the end of the year.
The Commission will involve all stakeholders within the sector in a public debate that will hopefully be held in February, before presenting a proposal.
The Commission communication could be submitted by June next year, with a Commission legislative proposal being presented before the end of next year.
Finally, the whole issue of geographical indications is of huge importance to the Community and I have constantly made this clear to our trading partners in the WTO negotiations.
Something on GIs must come out of our final discussions in Hong Kong.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 29 September, at 12 noon.
To those who may be asking why we are doing this rather earlier than usual, I will say that the Bureau has discussed how we might avoid the situation that always occurs at 12.00, 12.05 or 12.10 p.m., with the representatives of the Council of Ministers or the Commission having to talk rather over the noise of all the Members pouring into the Chamber for the vote.
Therefore, we who dealt with this legislation at the time are envisaging setting up a major investigation next spring to examine its implementation within the Member States and, where appropriate, to study any impact this legislation has had and hence the progress it has made within the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to make reference to the principle whereby Parliament defends democracy and the rules of the constitutional state.
While we know that the Constitution of Cyprus provides that, before the public prosecutor of the Republic of Cyprus may address Parliament, he must ask for the opinion of the Supreme Court, we have to check that he has done so.
You know as well as I do that, no matter what the colour of your politics in this place, there is one factor that uniquely unites nearly all of us: whether black, blue, yellow, red or green, we all try our best to represent the people who kindly gave us this job.
Indoctrinated by old adverts and TV celebrity, they believed that, as we say in the UK, the future is bright, the future is orange.
A few months later and alas, one of our new representatives disappeared from the scene and from this Parliament.
There are many concerns for his safety: some believed he had been kidnapped, others that he was a relative of Lord Lucan.
The various bilateral agreements established in the field of air services are the main instruments whereby we can guarantee that our relations with third countries run smoothly, with particular regard to aviation safety.
Accordingly, and in light of the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has recognised the Community’s exclusive competence in this area, the Council has authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries aimed at replacing certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement.
The various bilateral agreements established in the field of air services are the main instruments whereby we can guarantee that our relations with third countries run smoothly, with particular regard to issues of aviation safety.
Accordingly, and in light of the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has recognised the Community’s exclusive competence in this area, the Council has authorised the Commission to open negotiations with third countries aimed at replacing certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with a Community agreement.
The proposal will in any case have consequences for budget headings 3 and 2 of the new financial perspective for 2007-2013.
It is therefore of vital importance that this Agency be given a solid and up-to-date financial framework.
I therefore voted in favour of the Florenz report on fees payable to the European Medicines Agency. &#160;&#160; EU fisheries policy should be aimed at guaranteeing abundant fish stocks, quality food products for consumers and sound basic conditions for the European fishing industry.
EU fisheries policy has unfortunately been turned into a permanent policy for subsidising an unprofitable fishing industry that cannot survive by its own unaided efforts and without aid policy guaranteeing the fish stocks.
Following the very good level of utilisation of fishing opportunities between 2001 and 2004, the new protocol proposes a reduction in the total number of vessels, despite an increase in the permitted annual catch from 4&#160;670 to 6&#160;000 tonnes.
Although the rapporteur has produced an excellent report, which I broadly support, I must point out that the new agreement reduces the number of Portuguese longliners licensed to fish in the area covered by the agreement.
The adoption of this agreement will make it possible to provide fishing opportunities to Member State fleets operating in these waters, including Portugal.
From the EU side, it is calculated that each EUR invested by the Community in the agreement generated an added value of EUR 5.7, an impressive return on investment.
The number of purse seiners remains the same (21 Spanish vessels, 18 French and 1 Italian), while the number of longliners decreases from 25 to 17 (12 from Spain and 5 from Portugal).
The Commission has taken this criticism on board and has reiterated the huge importance of continuing and stepping up dialogue with the fisheries industry within the framework of the partnership agreements.
We therefore chose to abstain in today’s vote in anticipation of a new position being adopted. &#160;&#160; We believe that the initiative by, for example, the Swedish Government on the retention of data processed and stored in connection with the provision of services such as telephone communications, text messaging, e-mail and the Internet etc for the purpose of combating terrorism and other cross-border crimes goes much too far in relation to the expected benefits.
The Member States should facilitate the exchange of information between each other in order more efficiently to combat these crimes.
Quite apart from the countless doubts and questions as to the actual scope and effectiveness of this measure, this measure would, as far as the rapporteur is concerned, be tantamount to storing four million kilometres’ worth of files.
Yet the British Presidency and the Commission, despite widespread criticism, have presented fresh initiatives in this area this week.
Portuguese law provides for a security system which, in conjunction with the judiciary, already includes a balanced range of measures, rules and controls.
If the system is used judiciously and rigorously, and assuming it is given the required human resources, it will certainly be capable of combating crime, even the most organised crime, effectively. &#160;&#160; .At a time when several European countries are in the grip of the terrorist threat, it is unthinkable that the Member States should be called on to withdraw an initiative that is intended to ensure more effective cooperation, in order to ward off, trace, detect and pursue the perpetrators of terrorist acts and their accomplices.
To reject this initiative solely on the grounds that it comes from the Member States and not from the Commission is irresponsible, given what is at stake: protecting the safety of our fellow citizens.
Once again, this report is guided not by the interests of the general public, but by ideological considerations, with an attempt made, without revising the Treaties, to deprive the Member States of their powers more and more each day for the benefit of the Commission.
Being unable to rely on the people in the wake of the French and Dutch referenda, the supranational institutions of the Union seem to have embarked on a quest, outside the Treaties, to gradually seize the Member States’ powers, following the example of the landmark ruling pronounced on 13 September 2005 by the Court of Justice, which precisely authorises the Commission to legislate on criminal matters.
The blanket monitoring of all telephone calls, -mails and text messages without any well-founded suspicion cannot be justified on the grounds that it might, under certain circumstances, with a little bit of luck, or at some unspecified point in time, perhaps, help with the investigation of a terrorist attack.
It is small and medium-sized enterprises that will be particularly hard hit by this initiative, for they lack the organisation and funding to cope with such mandatory storage.
Accordingly, let us now hope that the Commission justifies the trust placed in it and, at the earliest opportunity, presents the proposal required to regulate this important area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the introduction of a list of safe countries is a step in the right direction if we are to have a common minimum policy on managing the flow of refugees to Europe.
The rapporteur vehemently refuses to recognise this possibility, though.
This report has, in fact, one goal and one goal only, and that is to undermine the very principle of the list of safe countries.
We cannot therefore support the Council’s proposal, be it with or without the changes proposed by the report, and we have thus abstained from voting since the directive is part and parcel of devising a common policy for this area.
As our Group has pointed out, Parliament’s report sets in stone some of the worst aspects of the agreement reached by the Council on the same proposal, such as the removal of the ‘super safe country’ concept, which is criticised by the United Nations Commission for Refugees, and the possibility of appeal in the event of an asylum application being refused and the applicant being allowed to remain in the country until the appeal process has been completed.
Despite the fact that the EPLP still have certain reservations concerning the Kreissl-Dörfler report, British Labour MEPs voted to support the report in the final vote.
During Mrs&#160;Liotard’s visit to the Italian refugee camp on the island of Lampedusa on 27 and 28 June 2005, she was able to see for herself how important it is for refugees to have specific rights.
If an EU Treaty can do something to improve the situation of those people, then we are in favour of such improvement.
Nevertheless, given the fast changing international climate, the need for some flexibility to be retained at the national level in the listing of 'safe third countries' leads me to abstain on aspects of this report.
As regards the treatment of asylum seekers and ‘illegals’, the text makes no distinction between them, not even in relation to their being dumped in ‘deportation centres’.
It gives legal standing to the concept of ‘safe third countries’, along with the criteria for them and a list of them, with the consequence that such things as the deportation of refugees from one country after another cannot be prevented.
Take, for example, the issue of the suspensive effect of appealing against a decision not to grant refugee status.
However, the European Parliament voted against the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance’s proposal totally to abolish the concept of safe countries and instead to follow international human rights rules on giving individual consideration to asylum seekers.
When we vote today on this directive, it will instead be the Council’s proposals, which are inimical to human rights, that we shall in practice be voting on.
Sweden’s Green Party is opposed to a harmonised asylum policy because such a policy is in danger of becoming undemocratic and of precipitating the lowest standards.
This draft directive is disturbing and is the ultimate proof that the Home Affairs and Justice Ministers are playing their own games and refusing to consult with the European Parliament.
Some people in Belgium believe they are. &#160;&#160; The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Kreissl-Dörfler’s report on the amended proposal for a Council directive on minimum standards on procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing refugee status (A6-0222/2005).
It is worth pointing out that there have been repeated and insistent calls from a large number of European regions over many years for this concept to be taken into account in EU policies.
The accession of 10 new Member States, which has manifested itself in a worsening of regional disparities and the emergence of new territorial inequalities, has singularly amplified the calls for this major necessity.
The draftsmen of the draft Constitution for Europe were well aware of this, since Article 3 of the draft Treaty refers to economic, social and territorial cohesion among the essential objectives of the EU.
It is probable that popular referenda organised on the same basis would have produced the same result in several other Member States.
For our Europe.
One of the answers is provided by the cohesion policy, this policy of solidarity that is the original model for the EU and that sets it apart from a simple free-trade area.
Besides ensuring that it has the necessary resources, which assumes that it will be taken properly into account in the financial perspective 2007-2013, it is important for it to integrate the territorial dimension into all its aspects.
The principles are as follows: the principle of equality between citizens throughout the territory, which in particular implies appropriate accessibility of services of general interest and services of general economic interest; integration of the territorial aspect into the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies; multicentric development of the European territory; the role of small and medium-sized towns and their connection with rural areas; strengthening all aspects of territorial cooperation; supported decentralisation to the regions, which are best acquainted with the needs and potential of their territories; multilevel governance, and the participation of non-public partners.
Finally, we need a system for assessing the impact that various Community policies have on territorial cohesion.
These are the characteristic features of what are referred to as the outermost regions, and are unique within the EU.
The fact of the matter is that it would be a grave violation of the principle of proportionality and equality were the outermost regions treated in the same way as the other regions of Europe.
The model of integration in these outermost regions must take account of their highly specific characteristics and must therefore be subject to adaptation, adjustment and in some cases derogation.
What is different must be treated differently, and the differences evident in the outermost regions have a very detrimental effect on their economic and social development, resulting in unacceptable competitive disadvantage and an inability to make the most of the benefits triggered by the internal market, the recent enlargement, the Lisbon Strategy and globalisation.
The second big idea is to promote the competitiveness of the outermost regions, which will be achieved not only in terms of the extent to which we reduce the significant extra costs inherent in being an outermost region, but also by means of decisive action on dynamic elements such as competitiveness, education, training, innovation, research, the information society and entrepreneurship.
The Commission’s proposal is, however, a major step in the right direction, because it is timely, because it correctly establishes its strategy and its priorities and because it proposes innovative policies.
We welcome the Commission’s initiative, but we urge it to be more ambitious and to take on board the suggestions and comments made in my report.
I wish your enthusiasm was shared by all our Member States, but, as you know, the current version of Structural Funds draft regulations has weakened the Commission's proposal on territorial cohesion.
Another example is the substantial decrease in terms of financial resources regarding the new European territorial cooperation objective in the Financial Perspective, according to the latest compromise proposal of the Luxembourg Presidency.
It must be said that in the draft Community strategic guidelines – which were adopted by the Commission at the end of June – we asked Member States and the regions to pay particular attention to a balanced territorial development when preparing their future regional programmes.
In this context, the future national strategic frameworks represent a key opportunity for promoting development models respectful of territorial balance.
As you know, Espon – the research programme – is helping us to improve the understanding of territorial trends and the impact of sectoral policies on the enlarged Union.
In addition, other networks, such as Interact or Urbact, contribute to this.
With regard to the regular reports on economic and social cohesion carried out by the Commission, I propose to devote part of the fourth cohesion report – due for publication in 2007 – to the territorial cohesion issue.
I would also like to inform you that my services are currently preparing a working paper on the cities' contribution to growth and jobs in the regions.
This paper will complement the Community strategy guidelines and will be presented to the informal ministerial meeting on sustainable communities in Bristol in December of this year.
Finally, I am also convinced that we can take forward our work on territorial cohesion through better coordination of Community policies and national policies.
So, once again, I am grateful for the emphasis you put on the role of territorial cohesion in our regional policy and I am willing to take forward the territorial cohesion issue both in the context of the new programmes and in our exchange of best practice.
It is about stronger partnership for the outermost regions, with a number and diversity of recommendations which are clear proof of the strong commitment and dedication of the European Parliament to this important subject.
I am very pleased that the Commission succeeded in establishing a good foundation for a strong partnership with the outermost regions, at both political and technical levels.
As you said, we have indeed proposed a significant number of measures to promote economic development of the outermost regions in line with our communication of last year.
Our proposals cover many areas such as cohesion policy, agriculture, fisheries and research.
Those proposals are currently under negotiation in the Council and Parliament.
I sincerely hope that we can swiftly come to an agreement.
Your draft resolution constitutes an important milestone, which we will take into account in our daily work.
In our next report on the outermost regions, possibly in 2007 or 2008, I plan to assess the progress made.
As Commissioner in charge of the coordination of questions related to those regions, I am committed to ensure that all measures taken by the college are adapted to the specific situation of these regions.
With regard to financial perspectives and the cohesion policy and the outermost regions, we certainly welcome the UK Presidency's stated aim of reaching a consensus on the package of regulations as soon as possible so that it can be finalised very quickly once the outcome of the future financing negotiations is known.
I pay tribute to Parliament, which quickly recognised the urgency of the situation and voted through the regulations at first reading by an overwhelming majority and with very constructive amendments.
An urgent deal on the budget is particularly important for the outermost regions.
Such a deal must include, in our view, the special programme that the Commission has proposed for the outermost regions in order to compensate for the additional costs those regions have to bear.
On this basis, I am of the opinion that the Commission must always apply the precautionary principle where appropriate, unreservedly and without delay.
It should also look to increase compensation levels in respect of the additional costs involved in marketing certain fisheries products. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to comment on Mr&#160;Guellec’s report on territorial cohesion and should like to begin by thanking him for the extremely constructive cooperation we have had while the report was being drafted.
The big difference between now and 15 to 25 years ago is that the regions are very active in their own development.
There is a huge amount of knowledge throughout Europe, and that is something we must make the most of if we are to develop our continent.
The whole of Europe has an incredible amount of wealth, which is often to be found out in the regions or city suburbs.
A lot of people are employed in these areas, which are ones that we can develop and that our good for the whole of our continent.
I therefore wish to emphasise a number of points in the report that I think are important.
I think that this is a constructive report, and I really do hope that the Commission will listen to what Parliament has to say. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, we simply changed places because Mr Galeote will be along later.
With regard to the report by Mr Marques, I should like to point out very briefly – because I do not come from one of these regions and my honourable friends from such parts know more about this matter than I do – that the Union needs to give priority to the issues of the outermost regions by honouring the commitments which we all made within the framework of the Treaty on European Union and I am sure that the Commission, insofar as it is able, will proceed in this direction.
For its part, the European Parliament will indeed do what it can in its negotiations with the Council to ensure that this principle of territorial cohesion is promoted through the regulations on the Structural Funds.
I should like to say that the ratification of the Constitution, in relation to the principle of territorial cohesion, will give us many more tools than we presently have at our disposal for proceeding beyond regional policy and seeing territorial cohesion within the framework of competition policy, within the framework of the transport policy of the European Union and so on.
Consequently, Commissioner, I should like to come back to what was also said yesterday in this Chamber.
Of course, as long as this period does not turn from a period of concentration into a period of hypnosis.
Catchment areas are zones covering both a town, whether small, medium-sized or large, and all the surrounding rural areas up to 5,&#160;10,&#160;15,&#160;20, or even, to take the French capital, Paris, as an example, up to 200&#160;kilometres outside it, where a number of people travel every day between their homes and their workplaces.
These catchment areas, in particular, must play a central role, which is currently not the case.
Housing is more expensive in the town centre, and cheaper on the outskirts; people choose to live in the outskirts because it is quieter there, or because housing is cheaper.
All of this results in problems with daily commuting.
These include housing associations, decision-makers in the employment sector, and, of course, political decision-makers operating at local, regional and national level.
In this regard, Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the European Union currently has a central part to play, in providing a stimulus to create, over the years to come, true cohesion in all of these areas, and harmonious development within these catchment areas.
I am much obliged to Mr Guellec for what is a really good report, and I believe that its being an own-initiative report makes it a good means whereby we in this Committee of the European Parliament can develop our own approach.
It will help to secure the acceptance of the principle that all EU citizens should be valued equally and treated fairly irrespective of the region in which they live; it will also help to get this incorporated in all our important documents, for example those relating to the Structural and Cohesion Funds, but also in the implementation of the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies.
These regions are characterised by permanent structural disadvantages which set them apart from the other regions of EU Member States.
This is referred to in the Treaties, and for this reason, the specific characteristics of the outermost regions must be mainstreamed across all Community policies, bearing in mind their development needs and the need for effective implementation of economic and social cohesion, a principle that is also enshrined in the Treaties.
The most recent key date for Mr&#160;Guellec is 29 October 2004, when the Constitutional Treaty was signed in Rome.
The day of the French referendum, 29 May 2005, is not even a minor detail for him.
He said that territorial cohesion becomes an essential objective of the EU in the Constitution.
The rapporteur says that regions are the best qualified level to determine needs.
It is therefore entirely appropriate for us to consider this very important issue, and I should like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
Cohesion policy involves more than implementation of the provisions of a treaty.
The existing differences between Member States and their regions mean that the Union’s cohesion policy must adopt a variety of approaches.
It does rather seem as if little account has been taken of the actual situation in the new Member States in the work undertaken to date.
According to the latest figures published concerning Union expenditure over the last year, two countries of the old Fifteen, namely Greece and Portugal, head the list of net beneficiaries with reference to GDP.
It aims for territorial integration.
Thirdly, within the context of cohesion funding, talk of territorial cohesion in my region is somewhat ironic, since we were excluded from cohesion funding from its inception, while our neighbour in the Irish Republic was included.
I, of course, take a completely different view of Mr&#160;Guellec’s splendid own-initiative report from that of Mr Allister, who spoke before me, for Mr Guellec is right to emphasise territorial cohesion as one of the EU’s strategic goals in terms of the promotion of harmonious and balanced development throughout its territory.
It is in this respect, as he also rightly points out, that the EU marks itself out as something more than just a free trade zone, and quite right too.
The eastward enlargement brought a new and significant dimension to the challenge of cohesion, as the EU had never before had to face such a marked increase in disparities.
This means that the policies that affect the EU’s spatial and urban structure must promote its territorial continuity, without – let me emphasise – standardising local and regional identities, as these have a vital role to play in enriching the quality of life for the public as a whole.
It is the regions, however, that will in future remain the appropriate territorial level for the implementation of cohesion policy, in line with the principles of subsidiarity and decentralisation.
I should also like to congratulate Mr Guellec on the quality of his report.
Consequently, in line with the view expressed by the rapporteur, I would suggest that the outermost regions deserve to be treated as a special case in view of their specific constraints, under Article 299(2), regarding the conditions for access to the Structural Funds, whereby priority financial support should be given to them, irrespective of their income level.
Furthermore, the action plan for a wider neighbourhood should be clarified within the framework of the future ‘European territorial cooperation’ objective and the Union’s new ‘Neighbourhood Policy’.
The concept of neighbourhood should encompass both neighbouring regions and countries such as Morocco, Cape Verde and Brazil, and countries hosting large communities of immigrants from the outermost regions that retain strong traditional ties.
One of the European Union’s basic aims concerns cohesion policy, especially since the latest enlargement and in view of the imminent future accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
The European Parliament has distinguished itself precisely on cohesion policy during this first part of the parliamentary term, since it has approved all the regulations on regional policy for the 2007-2013 programming period.
A credible and effective cohesion policy cannot, indeed, exist without adequate financial instruments, and that is why we are hoping for a prompt decision on the financial perspective.
Among all the positive effects that such working methods would bring about, I would mention the further transfer of responsibilities to local authorities and actors, who must increasingly be seen as leading players and promoters of development, and greater flexibility at the implementation stage of measures, leading to a more appreciable effect on the territories. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am delighted that we have the opportunity today to debate and vote on two important reports on the regional policy of the Union.
Territorial cohesion is desirable but on the right bases, bases which relate to social opinion, not on the basis of market pressures. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, one of the European Community’s strategic aims often referred to by advocates of integration is to reduce the disparities in the level of development of the regions of Europe.
Citizens of the new Member States placed great importance on this and still do.
Along with economic and social cohesion, territorial cohesion has an important part to play in achieving that aim.
In view of the differences in development across the 25&#160;Member States that will soon become 27, actions concerning transport, tourism, environmental protection, research and innovation are particularly important.
This approach will allow the periphery and surrounding rural areas to benefit from the economic growth of the centres too.
At present, dynamic economic and urban growth is only taking place within the largest urban centres, namely the metropolitan areas.
The Lubelski region I come from is one of the largest in Poland.
There are 40 mainly small and medium-sized towns in this region, the largest being Lublin, the regional capital.
The latter has a population of approximately 400&#160;000 inhabitants, and the population of the other town varies between 20&#160;000 and 70&#160;000 inhabitants.
If the unsatisfactory level of infrastructure is taken into account also, the Lubelski region could serve as an example of the practical implementation of territorial cohesion in a decentralised manner.
Specific measures are needed, and provision should be made in the Union’s budget for the next few years, and also in the long-term Financial Perspective. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the Commission for the good work it has done, for defining the special nature of the outermost regions better, and for meeting the needs of those areas, which suffer particularly from their geographical location in terms of development and market competitiveness.
It is good that increasingly effective measures in support of those regions are being assessed and that a wider neighbourhood action plan is also foreseen in the Marques report, to encourage trade between those regions and their adjacent markets.
The wider neighbourhood action plan is a good opportunity both to establish economic, social and cultural links with those countries that host emigrant communities from the outermost regions and to bring down the barriers that limit trading opportunities with the surrounding geographical areas, such as the West Indies, the Americas and Africa.
In its communication COM(2004)0343 of 26 May 2004, the Commission set itself two goals: to reduce the difficulties of access to the outermost regions, not just in relation to continental Europe but also from one region to another, and to improve the competitiveness of businesses.
In the present context, however, efforts must first be directed towards having some certainty on the financial perspective, because only then will we be able to judge whether the funds available to the regions will allow for the fair distribution of resources in line with the requirements that the Commission has outlined.
In conclusion, then, I welcome a greater commitment to the outermost regions and a stronger partnership for these regions, so as to enable them to escape from isolation and to make them increasingly competitive on the common market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I know I have one minute, and you would not let me go over it, would you?
The regions are artificial.
Carry on trying to divide us, because what you will do is inflame the English and English nationalism and we will assert ourselves and we will insist on governing ourselves again. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Kilroy-Silk.
It is not my will, nor my responsibility.
I am just reading the list in front of me, as you very well know. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr&#160;Guellec and Mr&#160;Marques on their excellent reports.
As I come from one of the outermost regions, I will concentrate on Mr&#160;Marques’s report, which focuses on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions, because it makes it possible, thanks to some in-depth work, to provide a comprehensive assessment of the European Union’s activities in those regions.
I give my full support to the rapporteur, who, while noting that the most recent proposals drafted by the Commission in favour of the outermost regions are promising, nevertheless calls on it to be more active in exercising the right of initiative accorded to it under the Treaties, with regard to the cohesion policy, of course, but also to other Community policies and more generally to areas important for the development of the outermost regions.
It seems to me to be essential to point out once again, at a time when everyone is preoccupied with the financial perspective and the reform of EU regional policy for the period 2007-2013, that the great majority of the derogations implemented or proposed for the outermost regions can in no way damage competition or the fundamental principles of Community law.
With reference to another of my amendments that was adopted in committee, I hope that the wider neighbourhood action plan will have a specific budget aimed at transnational and cross-border cooperation and that the much hoped-for coordination between the assistance funded by the ERDF for the outermost regions and the assistance provided by the EDF for their ACP and OCT neighbours will finally come into effect, with or without the inclusion of the EDF in the budget.
In conclusion, I think this is an opportune moment to state, with modesty, but without an inferiority complex, my conviction that the outermost regions of the EU are just as important as its centre.
I sincerely hope that this vision is shared by all the Member States, old, new and future.
Indeed, in an increasingly globalised world, there is no benefit for the enlarged Europe in doing without its outposts in the Atlantic Ocean, the Caribbean, Latin America or the Indian Ocean.
Have no doubt that the overseas populations will be particularly grateful to you for this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while I welcome Mr&#160;Marques’s work, I would like to comment more specifically on the report on the role of territorial cohesion in regional development.
The Constitutional Treaty makes territorial cohesion an objective of the European Union, in the same way as social cohesion and economic cohesion.
In my opinion, regional policy primarily aims to reduce development disparities at local and regional level and thus constitutes an indispensable counterbalance to convergence and economic competitiveness policy.
The reformed regional and cohesion policy must also be integrated in the Lisbon Strategy but, above all, ensure solidarity and equality between areas and the visible continuity of the efforts previously agreed to in the old Member States.
We must take into consideration the diversity of the European area and the often cumulative handicaps of certain areas, be they natural, historical or demographic, such as low population density or imbalances in the age pyramid or in the active population.
Of course, that requires resources and I hope that the financial perspective will soon reach a favourable outcome, so as to give the regional policy an adequate budget and to help the areas that still need it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Marques’s report once again bears witness to the attention that the European Parliament pays to the outermost regions.
Indeed, the Ligios report on the French overseas departments, back in the second parliamentary term, laid the initial foundations for the concept of the outermost regions, a report that inspired programmes already intended to compensate for remoteness and insularity.
During the current period of uncertainty about what will happen after 2006, Parliament’s support for the outermost regions is very valuable.
Indeed, although the European Union’s support has made possible a number of achievements in our underdeveloped regions, there is still much to be done.
The geographic situation of Kourou in Guiana makes a significant contribution to the competitiveness differential enjoyed by the European space industry.
So, there is the ocean, space, and we could also cite the exceptional biodiversity of the outermost regions, their importance for improving knowledge of climatic phenomena and their contribution to cultural diversity.
The great distance from the continent in which the outermost regions are integrated and the geographic proximity of other continents with which the European Union has agreements also sometimes give rise to contradictions.
The EU’s ability to respond to the question of the development of its outermost regions will bear witness to its ability truly to be a decisive player in fair and controlled globalisation. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, this debate is particularly important for the new Member States of the Union and especially for my country, Poland.
To put it bluntly, any changes in the policy on providing equality of opportunity for poorer Member States must not have a negative impact on the new Member States.
If the Union is to demonstrate solidarity and unity in practice, it must respond to the aspirations of its new members on the basis of existing principles.
At the same time, this policy must take greater account of the needs of small and medium-sized towns and regions than has been the case in the past.
I fear that the proposed changes we have been hearing about this last year are aimed exclusively at extending the flow of funding to the poorer countries of the old Union.
We have nothing against that, but at the same time we would like it to be possible to make use of all the existing opportunities and support for the new Member States.
I can assure her that she can always count on our support on these issues. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Union has been pursuing its policy of social and economic cohesion for the last 30&#160;years, with notable cohesion not meaning putting the brake on the development of the most powerful and dynamic of the regions of Europe.
On the contrary, it means increasing the potential for development of the weakest and enhancing their opportunities in terms of competitiveness.
For example, cohesion policy must be adjusted appropriately in response to new conditions and challenges.
More emphasis should be placed on the need to reduce the differences emerging between centres and the hinterland, between metropolitan areas and small and medium-sized towns, and between towns and rural areas.
The new conditions also make it necessary for local authorities to be much more involved in efforts to do away with the disparities between all the social groups mentioned.
The democratic deficit will not be reduced without the active participation of representatives of regional and local communities in the implementation of Community programmes.
I would remind the House that in January&#160;2003 the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the European Union.
I have in mind partnership between authorities at different levels and also joint activities increasing effective use of European financial instruments. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament showed its desire to give special assistance to remote and peripheral regions when it voted in July on a major package of cohesion policy measures.
However, in July, the Committee on Regional Development adopted the own-initiative report drawn up by Mr Sérgio Marques, in response to two Commission papers on a stronger partnership for the outermost regions.
The report called for support for the outermost regions and for areas that are important to their development: agriculture, fisheries, competition and state aids, enterprise policies, services of general interest and services of general economic interest, taxation, customs measures, environment, energy, research, technological development, vocational training, transport, trans-European networks, new information and communication technologies.
Public transport is important to all our local communities, and in Scotland ferries provide an essential service for some of the European Union's most peripheral and vulnerable communities.
Given the Commission's general position on the needs of the outermost regions, its position here would appear to be contradictory.
Lifeline ferry services are too important to be ignored. &#160;&#160; Mr President, that the outermost regions need our support is self-evident.
The Marques report offers many good proposals for strengthening the infrastructure of, for example, isolated islands or mountainous regions.
Much as I welcome the Marques Report as a first step towards a realistic outlook, we need to move even further away from indiscriminate ongoing subsidies and towards economic growth that maintains its own momentum.
If we are to do that, the EU needs more encouragement to move in that direction, not least from those who make regional policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU is not only a political project; it is also a project that is synonymous with solidarity and should be based on economic, social and territorial cohesion.
As an area that cuts across all areas, territorial cohesion should be mainstreamed in all EU policies, so that we do not fall into the trap of exacerbating the differences between the existing 25 Member States and those that are on their way, whom I should like to take this opportunity to greet.
We must break down some of the barriers faced by the outermost regions and invest in a sustainable development model that takes account of the disparities between not only Member States but also regions, even within the same Member State.
The purpose is therefore to give tangible form to the aims of the Lisbon Strategy, without making the mistake of achieving efficiency and competitiveness by promoting an unequal Europe.
It is essential that we do not use per capita GDP as the sole eligibility criteria for the Structural Funds, which is after all the classic indicator.
Subjecting a region’s actual needs to an indicator that is often determined at national level is notoriously error-prone.
I should like to draw your attention, Mr President, Commissioner, to the issue of phasing out in certain regions, 19 of them in all, which since enlargement have acquired the status of being statistically wealthier, whilst their actual economic situation has seen no improvement.
For this region, just as for all of the other 18, a balanced solution must be found whereby they remain eligible while structural problems are still apparent, and they are helped to achieve more balanced development.
In my country, in Greece, many people live in island areas, which may not be particularly remote but where living conditions are difficult and the people there often remain totally cut off for fairly long periods of time, especially in winter.
These people are doing us a favour by living there.
If we start to abandon these people to their fate without a second thought, then the destruction of the European Union will come about.
In particular, following the recent accession of 10 much poorer countries, the disparity between the development of individual regions has become even more marked.
For example, if the British Inner London region boasting 270% of average GDP for the Union is compared with the Lubelski district in Poland whose GDP is barely 30% of average for the Union, one can appreciate how much still remains to be done.
The European Union needs a Community strategy for cohesion, and the territorial aspect should be taken into account when implementing all Community policies.
All aspects of territorial cooperation should be strengthened.
I refer to cooperation at cross-border level and also at inter-regional and supra-national levels.
In practice, this means that the citizens should have appropriate access to public services and to services provided in the general economic interest.
Consequently, the failure to agree on a new budget for the Union and the lack of a new Financial Perspective are particularly worrying.
Territorial cohesion is the basis for lasting social and economic cohesion.
What can a Europe that has not yet reached agreement on the financial perspective, a Europe in which six governments of large countries are calling for further reductions in their financial commitments, promise to those countries and those peoples who have believed in the European dream?
Well, I think we need to reflect on that, because that is what our fellow citizens are expecting and that is what we are duty-bound to do for our future and for that of our children. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one of the most efficient ways of implementing community policies is to strengthen the cohesion between regions with different levels of development.
Cooperation and cohesion between regions contribute to stronger integration; they create the foundation of sustainable development in each region and facilitate the universal use of best practices.
They enable the regions to cooperate in various ways within the framework of regional cooperation across borders, between states or larger geographical entities.
Exploiting heterogeneity and the national, regional or local opportunities may increase our workload, but if we consider the task on a European scale, it promises more substantial results and larger benefits, and it is definitely worth the effort.
The government must also take part in the national, regional and local cooperation.
Dialogue, the exchange of opinions and a lively relationship between the three levels of nation, community and region are essential prerequisites to cooperation, as are the public and private sectors.
Its fundamental objective is to raise the standard of living which in turn is a precursor to the equal treatment of citizens.
The economic and social convergence of the regions helps the cause of gender equality in all areas and at all levels.
To get there, we have to initiate dedicated programmes and fight all forms of discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to thank both rapporteurs, Mr&#160;Marques and Mr Guellec.
As Commissioner Hübner has already said, territorial cohesion is under pressure, and she was actually asking for this Parliament’s support.
We know that competition on a world scale requires that a distinction be drawn between regions, top regions and regions of excellence, which are mentioned in the Seventh Framework Programme for research and development.
Although that may be the case, knowledge is one thing, but innovation in the regions, production and marketing are quite something else.
In short, specialisation within the regions is necessary.
There is nothing wrong with it, but the strategic actions plans requested by Parliament and the Commission that are in line with the Lisbon objective are tailored to national scale.
So, although territorial dimension and cohesion are important, they are also being restyled.
In the enlarged European Union, with the rapid increase in regional inequalities and acute intra-regional inequalities, we need a dynamic and effective regional policy, which not only must reach the poorest regions of the Union, but also must help to bring about a balanced relationship and integrated development between urban and rural areas in each region, while at the same time strengthen inter-regional cooperation.
The budget which will be allocated in order to apply regional policy and cohesion policy must respond to the risks which are now visible.
I trust the outcome of this debate will be that most of the resources the Commission proposed should be devoted to regional policy in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective will escape cuts, in particular as concerns the new Member States.
At the same time, Mazowsze is the region with the most marked internal differences.
According to estimates of GDP per head of population, it is likely that in the seven years between 2014 and 2020 Mazowsze will exceed 75% of the average GDP per head of population for the European Union, and will no longer qualify for support from the Structural Funds.
I therefore hope that the European Union will devise additional instruments for use in such situations, and that territorial cohesion will become an important aspect of the Union’s future regional policy.
In conclusion, I should like to thank the rapporteur for highlighting the role of spatial planning in cohesion policy, as it often goes unrecognised when planning regional development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for two hours, many Members of the European Parliament from 25 different countries, using twenty different languages, have been expressing their views on regional development issues.
I believe that the two reports demonstrate a European reality which is very different to that of other territorial political entities and models.
It is very different, for example, to the great North American quadrilateral, which is enormously consistent, and it has great territorial diversity, which makes it very difficult to remain competitive compared to other similar territorial entities.
Recognition of this regional reality and these regional policies is very important.
But it would be impossible to try to redirect the whole of this population – we are talking, for example, in the case of the outermost regions, about 4 million inhabitants, who face difficulties competing in the Union’s great internal market — solely by means of economic protection measures.
What emerges from these reports is that the stakeholders share a view of an ideal Europe that sees the priority of cultural diversity in their regions as the most important element of the EU’s development model.
Regional policy is therefore a separate initiative and must not simply be subject to replicating the implementation of national policy at national and European level.
Regional policy is an area of concepts, policy measures and action, which takes the relevant parts of national policy and adapts it to its own objectives and strategies.
Regional policy in the EU has always been seen as something of a focal point, given public policy does need to intervene; after all, not everything is resolved merely by means of a functioning market, as some would still have you believe.
I therefore add my voice to the calls for the Commission to draw up a White Paper on this objective of territorial cohesion and to create a system of gauging the impact of Community policy on territorial cohesion.
This has become even more of a priority, in my view, owing to the impact of the phenomenon of globalisation, given that some EU regions will be successful and others will lose out.
In these new circumstances, regional policy requires a new driving force and for this reason I wish to commend the Commission for stepping up the integration of territorial issues into existing Community policies. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin, if I may, by congratulating Mr Marques on the thorough work that he carried out and wish to thank him for the attention he gave to the Azores perspective.
Community policies have presented many challenges to the outermost regions.
The setting of insignificant quotas as regards quantities and products solely destined for exotic destinations such as Morocco, which has no traditional business links with the Azores, at the same time as a ban on shipments to traditional markets such as the Portuguese mainland, the United States and Canada, would be a sick joke if it did not feature, in black and white, in one of the Commission’s regulations.
It is now crucial that, in the same way, all remaining legal provisions proposed are carefully reviewed.
My first remark is that I like the way in which the reports focus on one fund and one programme, as this streamlines the way in which we conduct our business and makes it more effective and less complex.
That is a very welcome approach from both rapporteurs.
My second remark concerns the territorial indicators.
Coming from Finland, I think it very important that we do not just focus on GDP but broaden our view and look at how difficult it is to get to a place.
This was mentioned in Article 218 of the Constitution, and it is unfortunate that it is not going to be adopted on time.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the rapporteurs for including competitiveness and Lisbon in the reports.
All in all, I support them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity of thanking Commissioner Hübner for the fact-finding missions that she keeps undertaking in various parts of the Union.
Secondly the EU’s sectoral policies must therefore acquire this new territorial component and with it added European value.
This is one instance where the ‘less is more’ principle is particularly applicable. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one of the main aims of territorial policy, as is correctly pointed out in the two reports, is the application of the principle of equality among citizens regardless of where in the European Union they live.
Particular attention needs to be paid to the 9&#160;400&#160;000 inhabitants of the 284 islands of the European Union: 3% of the total population living in an area of 95&#160;000&#160;km2.
In many cases, these islands are mountainous and they are also less-developed outermost regions.
These islands are part of our Union’s natural heritage and are particularly suitable for many kinds of activity, such as tourism, cultural and leisure pursuits.
With regard to Mr Guellec's report, I have taken note of the strong support in this House for the recommendations it puts forward: to consider territorial cohesion as a major element in the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies; to give a boost to all dimensions of territorial cooperation; and to place greater emphasis on cooperation between urban centres, suburban areas and the countryside, particularly those with specific disadvantages, so as to contribute to the development of sustainable communities.
First, with regard to the adoption of new territorial indicators, alongside GDP, to measure the development of regions and evaluate obstacles, I would remind you that there are no standardised and generally-accepted indicators in the field of territorial cohesion and, as you know, any new indicator needs to be accepted by Eurostat.
There are currently only a small number of indicators available at regional level that have been harmonized: GDP, employment, unemployment and population data.
On the issue of establishing a system for assessing the impact of the various Community policies on territorial cohesion within the Union, it is true that current impact assessment does not take into account territorial cohesion issues.
I have taken note of your proposal to develop such a system through Espon and I will ask my services to analyse this.
We will also discuss it with the Member States, which, as you know, cofinance this programme.
On your suggestion that a White Paper on territorial cohesion be drawn up by 2007, indicating in particular how this objective is to be incorporated in the national strategic plan of each Member State, you may remember that I raised the possibility of preparing a White Paper in order to promote territorial cohesion on the European agenda in the perspective of a ratified Constitution.
On Mr Margues' report, I have also noted a number of concerns and recommendations and I would like to respond to as many of them as I can in the time available to me.
Concerning the wider neighbourhood action plan, I fully agree that we have to strengthen the economic, social and cultural links between the outermost regions and their non-member neighbours.
We have to take this forward on two fronts: first, trade and customs measures that would allow for the integration of markets in goods and services, as well as in trade-related fields; and second, the preferential agreements with non-Member countries.
This mainly concerns the ACP countries through the European partnership agreements.
These new agreements are to enter into effect as of January 2008.
We are currently in the process of negotiations, but we are also examining the needs and interests of those regions, together with the Member States concerned.
I share your view that economic integration needs to be supported by exchanges of a social and cultural nature and cooperation in fields such as new technologies, health measures, combating illegal immigration and measures on the environment and risk prevention.
With regard to agriculture and fishing, some of your recommendations are already part of our legislative proposals, as some of you must know.
The Commission is convinced that the sugar sector in the outermost regions is expanding, also in the context of its contribution to energy security.
On the new agricultural fund, here, as you know, we have proposed maximum co-financing rates that are higher for the outermost regions, while the intervention areas have also been extended.
On bananas, you know how difficult the negotiations are for us, but I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to protect the interests of Community producers.
On fisheries, at the Council meeting of 21 June, the Commission declared that specific treatment was needed for this sector in the outermost regions.
In the area of research, we have introduced specific measures for the outermost regions in the draft seventh framework programme.
With regard to state aid, the latest proposal for the rules on national regional aid contains a number of positive measures in favour of the outermost regions.
I believe that, at a time when so many proposals affect the situation of the outermost regions or regions in general, constant cooperation and communication are a must for all of us. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
I would also like to say that all the things that may have appeared in this or that newspaper do not amount to a decision by the Commission, and that most of them are wrong.
Today’s communication is a first step, and a relatively small one, towards the completion of the far greater and more demanding project of ‘Better Lawmaking in Europe’, with which we have two ends in view, namely both to build up the public’s confidence in European integration and to counteract the impression that the European Union is a regulation-crazed and bureaucratic monstrosity.
At the same time, we want to liberate the forces for growth in the economy that have been tied down by excessive or excessively complex rules and regulations.
From my many, many conversations with representatives of European businesses, I know that many of them regard it, indeed, as the most important.
This policy forms part of a broader-based strategy, which is itself founded upon three pillars.
Firstly, the Commission regularly submits to systematic examination all the legislative proposals it has presented, yet which have not been adopted by the legislator within a given period of time, the object of this exercise being to decide whether the proposals can be withdrawn, or whether decision-making can be made easier by other means.
The Commission has, this year, reviewed all the regulations that were still waiting for adoption on the cut-off date of 1&#160;January 2004, looking to see whether proposals had become obsolete, had been held up in the legislative process for some considerable time, whether their review was called for by reason of new scientific knowledge, changes in the market or other considerations, or whether they met present-day standards in terms of their expected cost and their likely effect on competitiveness.
I would like to point out that some proposals are being withdrawn as part of a wide-ranging review of Community policies, although the Commission is retaining the option of, after this process, submitting revised proposals accompanied by a comprehensive assessment of their cost.
The proposals selected will be regarded as formally withdrawn only as and when an announcement to this effect is made in the Official Journal.
Today’s communication is concerned with pending proposals for legislation, which constitutes the first part of the Commission’s strategy.
In two-thirds of all cases, the review has led us to the conclusion that there are good reasons for the proposals to be retained, and only one-third of them overall fall short of our requirements in terms of better regulation.
This screening process represents the first test for the credibility of our ‘Better Lawmaking’ policy and will be a trial run for the implementation of the real project, to which I shall now turn.
The Commission will now respond to the European Parliament’s resolution, adopted earlier this year, on the renewal of the Lisbon Strategy by proceeding to a comprehensive and systematic review of the European Union’s .
It has recently adopted detailed directives on the methodology to be used and will, next year, commission an external analysis of all the impact assessments already submitted.
Some Member States have already adopted a policy of this kind and are achieving remarkable successes with it, freeing business and administration from unnecessary costs and thereby achieving measurable added growth.
This, honourable Members, is something that we will need to discuss in depth, and, while the Commission will have the utmost regard for Parliament’s responsibility, this policy will need to be supported by the Member States.
One thing we all agree on is that we need better laws and less bureaucracy.
Even at this early stage, I can tell you that this project of codifying disparate pieces of legislation is very far from being the end of what we shall do.
We shall also be considering whether regulations are still needed at all or whether they need to be made more user-friendly, that is to say, rewritten.
I am afraid I am not sure how I should pronounce your name, Mr Stubb. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Stubb is a very common Finnish name: you probably only need an 'inen' or 'onen' at the end to turn it into Hakkinen or Raikkonen or something along those lines.
We will also be discussing this with representatives of the national parliaments.
The second point I want to make is that complaints from the national level about over-regulation are a regular occurrence, and it often turns out that, rather than the over-regulation originating from Europe, its cause is in fact to be found in the complicated way in which the Member States transpose it.
Let me take the timetable first: the Commission will come to a decision about the methodology and organisational principles of the great ‘Better Regulation’ project at the end of October.
We will in any case have to decide what our priorities are, and we will do so in such a way that we start with the areas that there is reason to believe really are over-regulated by reason of the vast amount of legislation.
Until this afternoon, and indeed until I stood up to speak here, neither I nor any of my staff gave the media any information about what is in the list.
I have a certain reputation to maintain where my respect for your House is concerned, and so I hope I have made that perfectly clear.
Turning to the final question, for which I am extremely grateful, my concern about the economic future of small and medium-sized businesses in Europe was one of the reasons why I proposed this project in the first place.
The external expertise on which we will draw will of course include that of the representatives of the small business sector.
There are indeed some quite fascinating examples of how Member States have managed to take a short, clear and straightforward European directive and turn it into a bureaucratic monster with many times the number of words needed.
I am grateful for the political support offered to me by three of your speakers, and offer you close and trusting cooperation in this project, which will have a particular impact on all three institutions. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I too welcome the Commission statement, particularly as far as the optical radiation directive is concerned.
It is all very well to withdraw a few directives; indeed there are some that we would really love to see withdrawn, such as the Bolkestein directive, but unfortunately it is still there.
Even though it is not provided for in the Treaty, in view of the interinstitutional agreement, how do you see the participation of our parliamentary committees?
Finally, with regard to simplification, which is very important, we must take care that it does not lead to deregulation.
Meddling with the Community acquis in the field of social affairs, the environment or consumer protection could lead to social dumping.
We will therefore be very vigilant.
I am able to inform you that I have invited the Member States, the business associations, the consumers’ groups, the trade unions and all members of the European public to submit their own proposals to us, and these have been coming in in their hundreds, many of them very detailed and very precise.
What this tells me is that this project really does enjoy widespread support.
In response to Mrs Frassoni’s question, I would like to say that this is something I have tried to explain.
The initiative is not intended to deregulate in the sense in which the radical ideologues of the free market use the term, but to simplify the existing system of legislation, making it more transparent and more user-friendly.
In saying this, I am saying, as I have already said in your hearing on numerous occasions, that the European model actually consists in balancing growth and employment, social cohesion and sustainable development, and that is something of which we are not, of course, going to let go.
I would, however, advise that we should, together, look for a way in which we can come up with a generally acceptable method of assessing the impact of legislation.
I do indeed agree with Mrs Grossetête that we do not necessarily need less lawmaking, but that lawmaking does need to be better in future.
Let me reiterate that we are talking here about two different things.
The actual result of the other project, the new method whereby we draft legislation, will be a significant increase in its quality, and you, the Members of the European Parliament, being the people who make the laws, will be enabled to arrive at a very precise account of the costs and benefits of every individual decision. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Commissioner made his statement in a rather solemn fashion, as if we were witnessing an historic moment, and I think it is one.
Finally, since you have a website where citizens are invited to add their comments, could you give us an idea, in a nutshell and on a regular basis, of the feedback you get from this? &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his statement.
We too are in favour of the scrapping of needless or redundant laws, but we do have some concerns, partly fed by the way President Barroso came out shooting from the hip in the on the subject of deregulation.
The Commissioner has also already provided the honourable Member with information in writing on the action taken by the Commission to control these threats.
The discovery of outbreaks of avian influenza and foot-and-mouth disease in Asia of course gave rise to fears that these diseases would arrive in the European Union.
These include, in particular, the requirement to inform passengers in international ports and airports of their obligations in this regard.
It is in this connection that the Member States were recommended to strengthen the application of existing measures and controls at the EU’s borders in order to ensure that only animals and products that meet Community requirements are imported.
As regards vaccination, emergency vaccination is already possible if outbreaks of avian influenza are discovered.
With regard to foot-and-mouth disease, similar provisions have already been put in place.
Those are the answers I wished to give on behalf of Mr&#160;Kyprianou, Madam President. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I thank the Commissioner and his colleague, Mr Kyprianou, for the response.
Poultry already receives 10 different types of vaccines, so why not add one against avian flu?
We know, of course, that vaccination is a preventative measure but that it is not enough and that we must, at the same time, draw up a whole series of provisions that the draft directive aims to lay down.
In this case, no financial compensation is laid down as it is for denied boarding and cancellations.
This assistance is compulsory in the case of denied boarding, long delays and cancellations, even if they are due to .
However, on the basis of Article&#160;16(2) of the regulation, passengers may now complain, if necessary, to national monitoring bodies specially authorised to deal with their complaints and their differences with airlines.
In this specific case, it would be necessary to check whether replacement staff were available at the local airport for a return flight or whether organisational provisions were in place.
As I said, though, the passengers in question now have the option of turning to the body set up at national level to deal with their complaints. &#160;&#160; It is an interesting case.
So I wonder whether in this case the systems were just not in place.
According to the Europa website, where there is a delay of five hours or more the airline must offer to refund the ticket.
It goes without saying, Mrs&#160;Stihler, that we will ensure that these new provisions on passenger rights can indeed be implemented in practice; I can assure you that we will see to it that, as of 2006, we will be able to make an assessment that will enable us, where appropriate, Madam&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Stihler, to further strengthen, if need be, the measures taken.
I would stress, however, that we are in the early stages of a policy that aims to provide passengers with a guarantee of new rights.
You must, of course, give us some time to assess the implementation measures and, perhaps, to strengthen or correct them. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, like the questioner I too have received queries from my constituents.
I would like to say to Mr&#160;Pafilis that we cannot draw a connection between liberalisation, the opening up of air travel to competition, and any safety issue that could be attributed to this opening up to competition.
It could also be borne in mind that, at the same time as liberalising the internal market in air travel, the Commission strengthened the safety rules.
The Community in the field of aviation safety has grown considerably and changes in safety-related data show that the numbers of accidents and deaths have continued to fall since the launch of the liberalisation process.
With regard to pre-flight checks, the provisions in force require Community airlines to comply with very strict safety standards.
These rules specify that an operator shall ensure that all personnel assigned to, or directly involved in, ground and flight operations are properly instructed, have demonstrated their abilities in their particular duties and are aware of their responsibilities and the relationship of such duties to the operation as a whole.
I would really like European texts to be simpler, but this is a text by the Joint Aviation Authorities.
What I would like to say, in response to Mr&#160;Pafilis, is that, since the beginning of February, I have taken the initiative of asking the Council of Transport Ministers about the possibility of drawing up a European list of companies that have been subject to bans or flight restrictions.
It has to be said that, due to the cautiousness of the Member States, we have progressed less quickly than I would have liked.
I will therefore be able to draw up this European blacklist, which, obviously, will enable citizens to be better informed regarding the quality of the air operator they are using.
Then there is the problem of third countries.
That is indeed a directive, and it must be transposed in all Member States.
Those are the various points I wanted to make to Mr&#160;Pafilis who, quite rightly, questioned me on the safety of air transport. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, if this situation continues until 2020, we shall have one accident a week.
It is precisely on this point that we consider that the policy of liberalisation, of so-called 'free competition', has created a situation of unaccountability which, among other things, makes victims both of its passengers and the workers themselves.
I am very happy to see that we are going to have absolutely identical criteria in all the Member States where, as you know, the civil aviation authorities are responsible for safety.
We will therefore have common criteria that will enable us, with regard both to European companies and companies from third countries, to ascertain that a company cannot transport passengers because it does not provide the necessary security guarantees.
That is what happens when small airlines fly without checks being carried out.
We in Greece have Olympic Airways, a company which has not had the slightest accident in 30 years.
That will also be the purpose of the blacklist, the updating of which will be greatly facilitated by the work of the European Aviation Safety Agency. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, we have no need for sentimentality and bombast on such a serious issue and we believe that you really do need to get a grip on this problem.
Indeed there is a question about the project data and IT infrastructure for a modern land registry that is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund.
We are confident that this project can be completed quickly and quite cheaply.
The legal validation of active property rights is not included in the project co-financed by the European Union through the ERDF; that action will be financed exclusively from national funds.
In our view that is sufficient explanation for the apparently low level of Community funding for the project to which the honourable Member referred.
I believe that answers Mr Papadimoulis' basic question. &#160;&#160; – I thank you, Commissioner, for your reply, but I want to ask you a specific question: on 5 October 2001, the Commissioner responsible at the time, Mr Barnier, announced the conditional continuation of cofinancing for the entire national land register in Greece.
That is the reason for this low level of financing and why the Commission cannot provide financial assistance for the remaining part of the project. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I too join my voice – the voice of opposition against the previous Greek Government – with that of Mr Papadimoulis: his opposition stance is understandable, since he has referred to the year 2001.
Madam President, I should say one more thing to help explain why the level of funding is so low.
I can offer to look into it more deeply and, with my colleagues in the DG, to see whether this limited participation is justified on the evidence available.
I will ask to be informed once more about all the details that prompted this funding level of EUR&#160;40 million.
The question is straightforward.
You ask whether we have received a letter from the Greek authorities containing the information to which you allude.
I can tell you that the Commission has not received such a letter, but we have discussed the forecasts for payment with Greece, as we do with all the Member States several times a year.
In the context of our discussions with Greece on the forecast for payments in 2005 we noticed the potential risk of an absorption shortage by the end of the year.
As I mentioned, I am planning my own visit and will discuss this issue when I meet representatives of the Greek Government in October.
It is my understanding, from the meetings the services have had, that there is a clear commitment not only on our part but also on that of Greece to do everything possible to avoid any decommitment this year, although such a risk does exist. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, we are talking about the loss of one-third of the third support package.
As you know, for the structural funds the amount which might be at risk is the amount allocated in 2003 because now the N+2 comes automatically at the end of this year, and within the 2003 allocation we have not only ERDF, but also Social Fund and EAGGF funding.
We are holding meetings at all levels and our missions are very often to Greece.
We are trying to address the problems we have uncovered this year and help the Greeks. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, is it not the case that the previous Greek Government amassed a huge debt potential, and that is why Greece now has problems fulfilling the Stability and Growth Pact? &#160;&#160; .
I cannot say so with 100% certainty, but my feeling is that it is not so much co-financing problems as the national contribution to the funds which makes it difficult for the Greek projects to be finalised properly.
I am not sure whether I heard all the questions, but normally if we receive the project proposals by the end of October we should safely be able to allocate the funds towards the end of the year.
As the honourable Member will be aware, this is the subject of an interinstitutional agreement and also the subject of negotiations between the three institutions on the basis of a proposal tabled by the Commission.
The Commission is involved in negotiations but nonetheless it defends its own proposal, if I may use that verb.
The Commission has no power when it comes to deciding how a potential reduction of the total budget amount is to be distributed, and it cannot take decisions on how budget cuts are to be spread across the individual headings within the framework of cohesion policy.
The proposal envisaged a disproportionate impact on the individual objectives of cohesion policy.
Objective&#160;II, intended to help create more competitive regions and provide new jobs, suffered a budget cut of about 18%.
In principle this would have a disproportionate impact on the so-called old and new Member States, as 80% of the cuts would affect the 15 older Member States and the remaining 20% would affect the countries that have recently acceded to the Union.
This is all I can say about the Commission’s involvement in decisions concerning budget cuts. &#160;&#160; &#160;I am taking the floor to prove that Greek Members are not the only ones to attempt to debate with the Commissioner.
Firstly, the UK is a source of best practices in Europe when it comes to regional policy and the way funds are used.
You have wonderful partnerships at local level and achieve unbelievably good results, very often from a tiny catalytic contribution coming from the Structural Funds.
We estimate that from the moment the decision on the budget is made we will need about 18 months to launch the new generation of cohesion programmes and projects.
The ISDC has sub-contracted out part of that study to a UK university – the Centre for the Study of Gambling (Manchester) – which apparently receives funding from bookmakers.
In view of the indisputable impact that the study will have on the rules governing the gambling sector in the future, what steps does the Commission intend to take to ensure that the study is objective, and what guarantees to that effect can it give to all those involved in the gambling sector in Europe? &#160;&#160; .
Firstly I would like to remind the honourable Member that the study, which is looking at a wide variety of gambling services, will report factually on the various laws applicable in the Member States and on economic aspects.
The study will assist us all in gaining a better understanding of the issues involved, but it is my intention to consult fully before taking any decision.
The report of the contractor will be given to all interested parties and will be published on the Commission's website.
Even if the Swiss Institute for Comparative Law’s study is just a preliminary study on all systems, it is quite clear that contracting all the economic aspects to a university centre with companies such as Stanley Leisure, Gala Group, London Clubs International or the Camelot Group on its administrative board is nevertheless, in my opinion, far from being as objective as it should be. &#160;&#160; .
May I remind the Commission that while Austria prohibits and prevents foreign gaming operators from advertising their business in Austria, no such ban applies to national operators.
In my previous reply to the honourable Member, I stated that the Commission is prepared to examine the legislation in question on the basis of more specific information.
This study is due to be completed by the end of this year and I expect it to include a legal and economic review to help us all better understand the complex issues involved and to inform us of the laws applicable in the Member States, including Austria.
Thank you for your cooperation. &#160;&#160; .
The difficulties faced by thousands of EU citizens who invested in Equitable Life, only to find their pension greatly reduced, is a clear example of a failure of the EU to protect its citizens.
With moves to open up banking across borders, how does the European Commission intend to protect its citizens/consumers, given the experience with Equitable Life?
This is particularly important in light of efforts to reach agreement on and subsequently implement the proposed Services Directive (2004/0001 (COD)), where there are concerns about the country-of-origin principle and consumer protection. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission has the greatest sympathy for the many thousands of policy-holders and pensioners who have suffered severe financial loss as a result of the serious problems encountered by the Equitable Life insurance company.
With respect to the Community regime for the insurance and pension sector, the Commission is currently working on the Solvency II project, the aim of which is to achieve over time a more harmonised risk-based system for the supervision and prudential regulation of all insurance undertakings across the European Union.
As far as the banking sector is concerned, the Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive already obliges Member States to set up schemes which offer a minimum guarantee level of EUR&#160;20&#160;000 to depositors, although the threshold is higher in a number of Member States.
The Commission has consistently acted in full conformity with the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice on the role and purpose of infringement proceedings.
The objective of such proceedings under EU law is to establish or restore the compatibility of existing national law with EU law, and not to rule on the possible past incompatibility of a national law, which has since been amended or replaced.
If the Commission concludes that the application meets the requirements for registration, the name and a summary of the specification will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Karlsbad Wafers were produced and sold in Karlsbad and Marienbad.
They were being produced and sold worldwide back in the 19th and 20th centuries, and nowadays the best Karlsbad Wafers in the world are produced in Dillingen an der Donau by a company called Wetzel.
If that should be the outcome, then you have that possibility.
The Commission can confirm to the honourable Member that it has received an application from the Czech Republic to register 'pravé olomoucke tvarůžky' as a protected geographical indication.
This would not pose any problems from the point of view of Austria or Germany, the countries in which these producers from the former Czechoslovakia have settled, as the relevant distinction would be rendered by the term ‘genuine’ Olmützer Quargel. &#160;&#160; .
The Commission is aware that the Polish soft fruit sector has had major problems in the last two years, owing to the low prices of several of the products in question.
Following the Presidency's conclusions concerning the simplification of the common organisation of the market for fruit and vegetables in November 2004, the Commission started several months ago to carry out an analysis of the Community market for soft fruit intended for processing, with a view to making appropriate proposals to address the specific problems.
The work will be completed by the end of the year and will be published by the Commission at the beginning of 2006.
The investigation is ongoing and no conclusion has been drawn at this stage. &#160;&#160; &#160;Commissioner, I should like to begin by thanking the Commission and you personally for taking such an interest in this problem, which is a very serious one for Poland.
My main concern is the length of the decision-making process.
The Commission forwarded to the European Parliament indicative information on the breakdown of CAP direct payments by Member State, the size of payments, and types of farms in 2000 and 2001.
Since the 1992 CAP reform, the original price support policy has been replaced by a policy aiming at greater competitiveness.
The shifts in policy have been achieved by the gradual reduction of the EU support prices and compensation for farmers for the consequent revenue loss in the form of direct payments.
Owing to the fact that those direct payments were first introduced by coupling them mainly to production factors through per hectare payments and reference yields in the arable sector, and to headage in the livestock sector, those farmers with larger farms or greater livestock numbers received more compensation in the form of direct payments.
At the end of the day, however, the Council and the Member States rejected this proposal and it is therefore not part of the current CAP reform. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank the Commissioner for her response.
Secondly, I would like to say to the Commissioner that, following in the UK’s footsteps, the Netherlands has now also publicised the data.
For the period between 2005 and 2009, the Commission made transparency into one of its strategic objectives.
Commissioner Kallas stated very clearly in two speeches, one in Nottingham and one in Berlin, that money that is allocated via agriculture, among others, is the taxpayers’ money and that citizens ought to know where it ends up.
When we last had discussions on trying to find a compromise political agreement on the CAP reform in 2003, there were various discussions on how to target the payments to different types.
The objective of this third package is to supplement the regulatory framework for the railways at European level, so as to make progress on interoperability and to achieve greater integration of the market in passenger services, while at the same time safeguarding passenger rights.
The measures also seek to improve the often poor standards of freight services.
The legislative texts that we are examining today are also justified by the fact that transport services play a key role in the economic growth of our continent.
The strategy launched in Lisbon recognised their significance in this respect.
The second proposal seeks to amend the current directive on opening up the market in rail transport.
I would remind you that it concerns opening up the market in international passenger services to competition.
This proposal is a direct response to a request made by Parliament to the Commission at the conciliation on the second railway package, when it expressed a desire to be consulted on specific proposals on opening up the market in passenger rail transport services.
Specifically, the Commission is proposing that, from 1&#160;January 2010, those railway undertakings possessing a licence and the necessary safety certificate may operate international services throughout the Community.
The proposal therefore provides for the possibility of passengers being picked up and set down all along an international route, including between two stations in the same Member State, while at the same time safeguarding the balance of public-service contracts.
I am particularly anxious that it should dovetail properly with the revised proposal for a regulation on public transport services that the Commission adopted in June 2005.
I turn now to the third part of the package: the proposal on passengers’ rights and obligations, which supplements the proposal to open up the market in passenger transport services.
Before going into the details of this proposal, I would recall that hitherto the on passenger protection has been limited to air transport.
It therefore considered it necessary to extend the rights of rail passengers as a way of counterbalancing its policy of market opening.
The second component of our third proposal is the possibility for international passengers to obtain information about the main destinations in Europe and to buy direct tickets.
The third component of the proposal is a modern system of civil liability, comparable to that in other transport sectors and based on a system of compulsory insurance.
The Commission believes that civil liability in the case of accidents should cover as many accidents as possible and that it should be accompanied by obligatory insurance, the only way to guarantee that proper compensation will be provided for all of the damages suffered by the passenger.
Passengers holding tickets that are sometimes very expensive should not have to suffer prolonged delays or service cancellations without any information from the service provider or any support from the railway undertaking.
The precise content of the undertakings on quality is left to the contracting parties to determine.
In conclusion, I should like to address a key issue about the reading of the third railway package.
As for previous legislative proposals in the railway sector, the notion of ‘package’ is very important for the Commission.
I would therefore like to stress our support for the position of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which is recommending preserving the logic of the package.
The Commission can also endorse the proposal made by your Transport Committee to coordinate the reading of the railway package with that of the new proposal for a regulation on public-service obligations.
It is obviously desirable to ensure that the two proposals are mutually complementary, which pleads in favour of such a coordinated reading.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank your rapporteurs, who have examined our proposals so thoroughly.
That is why I attach a great deal of importance to this debate, Mr&#160;President, and I should like to thank Parliament in advance for its active participation, which I value so highly. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr Barrot.
As you said, this is a very important debate.
We do know, of course, that French voices are sometimes particularly important.
Even I, as a lawyer, shall not put forward the argument that, almost 13&#160;years after completion of the internal market, we really should set about completing the internal market in passenger transport.
The intention with the third package is to make long-distance and regional transport more reliable and customer-friendly.
That is why the issues of opening up national railway networks on a non-discriminatory basis for use by all railway undertakings, uniform passengers’ rights throughout the EU and the use of the same train drivers belong together.
This is why we need the third railway package.
Competition can already be seen in traffic in the Alpine region, and customers have the choice between the services of two different alliances of railway undertakings.
I should now like to introduce several aspects of my report.
To give all the parties involved more time, however, the Committee is proposing that the opening-up be staggered: 1&#160;January&#160;2008 for cross-border rail transport, but 1&#160;January&#160;2012 for domestic rail transport.
If, however, Parliament called for all rail networks to be opened up as of 2008 two years ago, it must stay on this course.
I hope that the Vice-President comes round to Parliament’s way of thinking and decides to regulate not only cross-border transport, but also transport throughout the internal market.
After all, we have to make headway sooner or later.
Our fellow-Members from smaller countries can put aside their reservations in this regard.
I do not wish to go into detail on our desire to amend Directive 2001/14/EC in order to give high-speed railway lines a better chance of planning for the longer term.
That is why we also put back the date for the introduction of this package in plenary.
We have said, however, that these four parts belong together, and they also belong with the proposal on public transport.
The Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism informed us this afternoon that the British Transport Secretary, Mr Darling, has assured us that this package will be kept intact.
For this reason, we, too, should take the leap tomorrow and not just vote on the amendments, but also on the legislative resolutions, so that tomorrow afternoon we are able to state our position on the third railway package, to state our opinion.
In line with our general thinking regarding freight, however – that it must be taken off the roads and put onto the rails – our line of thinking must be to make passengers an offer that tempts them out of cars and aeroplanes and back onto trains. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should first like to thank the chairman of our committee, Paolo Costa, and all of our colleagues, be they rapporteurs – one of whom has just spoken – shadow rapporteurs or coordinators, for the very intensive and quite remarkable work that they have done on behalf of the European Parliament.
This is not because it was the subject of fairly broad agreement in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but quite simply because liberalisation is underway.
It is an exercise – a fairly straightforward one at the end of the day, because the work has been done – that consists of transposing a historic, social agreement into substantive European law, an agreement that calls for others, perhaps one day collective agreements enabling railway workers to feel that they all have a stake in opening up rail networks.
That is why I will take the liberty of asking for as broad an agreement as possible on my report tomorrow, a report to which the committee has made many improvements, which may appear trivial, but which are actually important.
We have also made the text more precise in terms of training, in terms of the benefits that each worker gains from his experience and in terms of how the training is financed, given that some drivers that have been trained by one railway undertaking may subsequently move to another.
I think that Mr&#160;Sterckx’s report on passenger rights is absolutely essential.
There is no reason to establish passenger rights in air transport and not in rail transport.
Moreover, given that there are significant disparities between the Member States and also problems with the system, in particular in my own country, I am pleased that Mr&#160;Sterckx is tabling a report along these lines and I hope that the opposition in the Council will be overcome.
When it comes to Mr&#160;Zīle’s report, without wishing to offend the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, I am of course more cautious, quite simply because the railway undertakings value the contractual relationship and goods are a great deal more heterogeneous than passengers.
Finally I turn to Mr&#160;Jarzembowski’s report, and here I am personally more cautious.
I voted in favour of liberalising the freight market because freight was not working.
It is cabotage that troubles me more than anything else.
We all know full well that in reality there is no market for services from Paris to Rome.
However, there is a market between Paris and Lyon and between Lyon and Marseilles, and that is what the large companies are eyeing up.
I am concerned about the small countries, countries of limited size, whose national lines are actually on international lines that might disappear tomorrow or be absorbed by large operators like SNCF or Deutsche Bahn.
We have to think in terms of transport policy and the essential factor is not simply competition within the rail sector, which is the objective that we have been pursuing obsessively for years, but providing the conditions to enable there to be competition between road and the other modes of transport.
Commissioner, I should like to thank the Commission for its proposal, for I regard all those railway packages, like the passengers’ rights proposal, as being an important element of the EU’s transport policy.
If we want to establish an open European railway market, it is vital that the passengers should have minimum rights within that market if people are to gain, or retain, confidence in rail.
I have to tell you, though, Commissioner, that Parliament, or at least the Committee on Transport and Tourism, has made some amendments to your proposal.
The Commission has opted for a small area of application, namely international rail traffic, and a strict package of requirements, while Parliament has slightly altered this balance, in that it opted for a large area of application, that is to say rights for all rail passengers, as is the case in aviation in fact, and has adapted the strict basic requirements to allow more room for manoeuvre for railway undertakings, regional authorities or local authorities.
I would first like to say a few words about the requirements package.
The same applies to tickets, except that in this case, a distinction needs to be drawn – and we make this quite clear – between a public service, where tickets have to be made available to a wide public, and commercial, specialist services, where, to my mind, far fewer resources can be used, such as the Internet only, which has happened in some cases, and which could bring the cost down.
I do think, though – and we have tabled amendments to that effect – that we must give railway undertakings that wish to join forces every encouragement we can, and we must ensure that, for example, they set up a joint reservation system, such as is already in place for a number of airline companies.
I would now like to turn to the subject of compensation for delays and cancellations, in respect of which we proposed a simpler system.
The Commission has made things rather complicated, but if we are to extend the scope to include all passengers, we think we should have a simpler system for compensation, and at the same time a system not only for compensation pertaining to delays that exceed one hour, but also for people who face delays on a regular basis, so that they too could obtain compensation.
One difficult chapter that attracted amendments by a very large number of Members was the chapter on people with reduced mobility.
We have defined those in considerable detail, and we have more or less followed the Commission’s lead in this.
If the passenger has not given prior warning and turns up without notice, then I think that the railway undertaking must do everything in its power to help those people.
In fact, I think that most railway undertakings, most railway staff, see it as a matter of honour to help those people out.
I think that whilst we should encourage the railway undertakings to do everything they can for the people who have more difficulty in finding their way round in a railway station, and whilst we should expect much of them, we cannot expect everything.
A complaints service must be set up, but we should not go overboard with regard to the used.
I believe that annual quality reports are unnecessary.
We must achieve a more flexible system that allows room for initiative, for a broader application, for commercial initiatives of railway undertakings that are prepared to submit those, and for regional initiatives.
Undertakings can therefore go beyond what we require, but – and that is, to my mind, essential in our position as Parliament – we think that those rights should apply to all passengers; not just to the elite of 5% that travels internationally, but to anyone using the train.
We are about to discuss this with the Council, but as far as I know, if my sources are reliable, this very issue, namely making the rights apply to all passengers, is a sticking point in the Council.
I would like to say to the representative of the Council that this is one of the points that I as rapporteur will fight tooth and nail and I hope that I can count on the combined support of my fellow Members of this House.
On a final note, I would like to say to the Council, as did the two previous speakers, that this is a package.
I invite you to treat it as you wish, but return it as a package and accompany it with common positions that we will be able to hammer out together at second reading.
This is a cohesive whole; I would press you to keep it that way. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, in submitting to Parliament a draft regulation on compensation in cases of non-compliance with contractual quality requirements for rail services, the aim of the European Commission was to improve the quality of rail freight transport in the European Union’s internal market and thus to promote a shift of freight transport from road to rail.
The intention was to increase, by this means, the proportion of freight transported by rail, which is currently very low.
Basically, the draft regulation contains administrative measures and rules which are to be worked into contracts between rail companies and their customers.
I should say right away that in competitive situations such a measure would not be conceivable, hence to a great extent the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on whether to support this regulation was based on either optimism or scepticism concerning increased competition in rail freight transport in the near future.
For instance, in the Baltic States over 50% of freight transport is by rail, as compared with almost 90% by road in other states.
Secondly, in the three Baltic States almost all transportation of rail freight crosses European Union external borders connecting the sea ports of the Baltic States with the markets of Russia, Belarus and other CIS states.
Leaving aside the above, as rapporteur I hoped to balance the draft text and to find a compromise between extremely diverse interest groups.
At least to date, however, there has been no basis for such a compromise, and even after many debates at the Commission the majority of my colleagues on the committee believed that an administrative regulation was not the way to improve the quality of rail transport.
I am concerned by the fact that if we do not adopt any measures in the sphere of freight transport shortly, then access to infrastructure will of course become even more of a priority for passengers, which in itself is not a bad thing, but the quality of freight transport will probably fall even further.
For me, the most important conclusion from this study was that, clearly, we cannot draw up regulations on the basis of the problems of individual transport corridors without studying the particular features of European Union Member States, and using administrative methods only in places where competition is weak.
Such a ‘one size fits all’ approach would clearly create a lack of trust among European Union citizens concerning the legislative plans of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council.
Finally, I would like to say that I am very satisfied with the joint work by all the rapporteurs on this package, as well as by the shadow rapporteurs, and I do not understand the attempts to break up this third rail package, which might give practically nothing to customers.
If, for example, the idea contained in the report by Mr Sterckx, that passengers should also be given rights in respect of domestic transport, is removed and replaced with international transport only, then I can say that in the countries in my region — in the Baltic States — the entire third package will have no effect at all.
The effect of all the three or four legislative acts will be of zero value.
This model would only be a real success, however, if, in the final reckoning, it were to mean less tape.
We have agreed on a two-stage process, whereby the Railway Agency shall decide on the necessity of certification for other on-board staff at a later date.
By way of conclusion, I should like to say a few words about the report on passengers’ rights: more particularly Amendment&#160;138.
Mr&#160;President, I think that, when it comes to the transport sector, this Parliament has a good tradition of boosting rail transport and thus the rail sector.
The Committee has borne this in mind, and it is likely, therefore, that we shall join together in plenary tomorrow to adopt, by a large majority, all the reports relating to the rail sector.
In my opinion, the Savary report is very important.
For this reason, I believe that the Savary report regarding freight transport is an important step forward.
I think that the Sterckx report is also important, in that passengers’ rights, too, are being properly regulated in Europe at last, and in that the customers – the passengers – are to be entitled to reasonable compensation, as is the case with other modes of transport, in the event of delays for which the operator is to blame.
With regard to the Zīle report, I must say that the Commission sometimes goes too far.
Today we have this last chance, which requires great vision on the part of this Parliament and its co-legislator the European Council, because it requires the European institutions, the political institutions, to take responsibility for something which the national rail undertakings lack the courage, skill or ability to do, namely to stop defending shrinking monopolistic market segments, which are increasingly unable to generate traffic revenue to cover their costs, and instead seek to expand the total market, with potential benefits for all.
The third package is a vital component of that strategy.
The way ahead in terms of technical interoperability is clear, but we must acknowledge the contribution of the third package in its proposal for a directive on the certification of train crews, contained in the Savary report; only by training the staff can we make the system interoperable, even before it becomes technically interoperable.
The issue of market liberalisation has been left to the proposed directive on the development of the Community's railways, which it is planned to apply to passenger transport from 2008 on international routes and from 2012 on domestic ones.
This is the crucial point for Parliament to add value to the proposal: these facts and deadlines, particularly the second of 2012, do not match the urgency of the situation, even if the compromise may be a reasonable one, taking account of the concerns of national railway companies less able to face up to market challenges in what will, in any event, continue to be their natural monopolies.
These concerns should not be accorded such importance that the type of authorisation is overlooked, with the possibility of awarding domestic public rail transport contracts and services directly and without a competitive process, which is what the revised version of the proposed regulation on public service transport obligations implies.
Parliament views that proposal favourably, as it offers the possibility to move ahead on the Meijer report, which has been awaiting the Council’s common position for years.
Until now, unrestricted travel through Europe, from Lisbon to Tallinn, from London to Athens, has been possible only by road or air.
The rail network, on the other hand, resembles a patchwork quilt with 25 patches, and so the railways are being left behind.
I shall give three examples.
In Germany, the rail operator Deutsche Bahn AG is planning to stop mainline trains from calling at Berlin Zoo station.
Passengers are up in arms, with the unanimous support of Parliament and politicians in general.
Yet Deutsche Bahn&#160;AG is not yielding: politicians have had to capitulate.
Yet Deutsche Bahn&#160;AG will not budge; politicians are helpless.
Passengers’ rights are to be strengthened in the passenger-rail services of all EU Member States, with the possibility of legally enforceable claims for compensation in the event of delays.
No compensation mechanism is necessary for freight transport.
The experiences in Britain and Estonia have shown that the infrastructure must remain fully in the public sector.
In conclusion, we, too, are in favour of the package remaining a package, and we hope that the Council also comes to the sensible decision and treats it as one.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, other colleagues from my group will be taking the floor in this debate, in particular my colleague Erik Meijer.
The sector’s unions have some very carefully worked out proposals on all of these aspects.
They should be our natural partners when planning and implementing this kind of project.
In this context, the aspiration to achieve a more balanced use of rail – and, moreover, inland waterways – is in every respect legitimate and Europe is of course a relevant arena in which to address these issues.
This would at the very least merit a serious evaluation of the various different experiences with this model so far and the initial impact of opening up to competition before any new measures are taken.
You pass very swiftly, Mr&#160;Barrot, over the fact that the first private train in France, owned by Connex, is not carrying any additional traffic, but is happy to occupy a place held until now by the public company SNCF.
Our group calls on all of our Members to vote in favour of Amendment 14, which rejects the proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of rail transport. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, rail issues are by their very nature of interest to all of those living in the European Union and all of its Member States.
Nevertheless, reading the three reports that have been tabled today, it seems to us that three simple principles, governing how nations are ordered, have been disregarded.
But this imperative could be the subject of a simple injunction of principle to COTIF.
The second principle that we feel has been abused is the respect for sovereignty.
There is also a lack of prudence in the Sterckx report in that it tries to deal with everything in one single dossier: with disability, ticketing, compensation in the case of accidents and penalties in the case of substandard services.
Similarly there is a lack of prudence in the failure to first include these proposals in the report on very competitive modes of transport.
In conclusion, we acknowledge the painstaking and commendable work done by the Commissioner, but once again we remain doubtful about such an avalanche of legal provisions and the effectiveness of this Parliament’s methods. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although it is late in the evening, I am approaching this debate on the third rail package with one certainty, namely that we have a duty to Europe to support a project which aims to revitalise rail transport, both for the sake of passengers and also – perhaps above all – for the sake of the intermodal transport of goods.
We view it as a duty not only for environmental protection, but also for the safety of the transport system, in the widest sense of the term, in the hope that revitalising rail transport will help to cut death rates and road accidents in general, which, we should remember, have an extremely high social cost for Member States.
I hope that greater guarantees can also be demanded in terms of the number of drivers, which in my view should never be less than two.
I should also like to thank our colleague Mr&#160;Jarzembowski, whose report aims to foster an improvement of rail services through greater competition, thereby benefiting the consumer, although I have some doubts on this, because improvements will only occur if liberalisation does not result in yet another rush to cut labour costs.
Finally, I approve the Zīle report, which has attempted to respond to the concerns of our committee for compulsory compensation in the event of failure to meet the deadlines for freight delivery.
I therefore urge Members to support the reports already approved by the Committee on Transport and Tourism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to start in a similar vein to our oft-quoted colleague Mr&#160;Jarzembowski, by raising what you might call a point of order.
I have been a Member of this House for ten years now, and still do not know exactly who is really responsible for work programming with regard to our plenary sittings.
This week and this evening’s discussion are quite typical examples that prove this point.
After that digression, let me pass on to the main issue, which is the Sterckx report and passengers’ rights.
This text makes a constructive contribution to creating the much-discussed level playing field for the various modes of transport in Europe.
The text presented by the Commission on this subject was – shall we say – capable of improvement, and, sensibly, we have made a few changes to it: some of them quite fundamental.
Firstly – probably the most fundamental of the changes – we have subsumed all transport services, not only international services, under this new regulation, although special arrangements, which we are sure to need, will have to be made within the framework of the regulation on public local passenger transport services.
Secondly, we have attached particular importance to providing and demanding proper information on passengers’ rights.
This has been a specific instance of subsidiarity in practice and, in this sense, has also been a kind of complementary action to the Commission’s ‘better regulation’ initiative, for which we are grateful and which, in plain English, means tidying up European legislation, which is frequently verbose.
It is important to bear in mind that the European Union is a Union of 25&#160;Member States, and that the rail networks in the new Member States are relatively weak and being restructured.
Commissioner, the road and air transport sectors are enjoying market success in Europe.
A solution that would reconcile market roles with the provision of a public service should therefore be found for the railways also.
Allow me to refer to the journey between Warsaw and Brussels by way of example.
If you fly with LOT or SNBrussels Airlines you pay EUR&#160;300 and it takes two hours to get to Brussels National airport.
My group is satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the committee, where the proposal for compensation in connection with freight transport was rejected.
Unfortunately, there is a lot to suggest that the quality is not improving and that, in certain areas, it is perhaps even on the decline.
Lack of punctuality and flexibility mean that, directly contrary to all political intentions, freight transport by train is falling behind.
I am in no doubt that, as liberalisation and free competition progressively take root, train services will become more efficient and we shall see better value for money and a greater focus on passengers.
Liberalisation is therefore important as well as investment if, regarding not only freight transport but also passenger transport, we are to guarantee railway services an increased market share.
The common framework for the training of train crews is, of course, a logical consequence of the liberalisation that has already been agreed.
Mr&#160;Savary’s report is therefore the least controversial of those relating to the third railway package.
My group is generally satisfied with the result we now have.
A suitable balance has been found whereby train drivers and other staff directly involved in safety are included.
Once we have used a cost-benefit analysis in order carefully to weigh up the advantages and disadvantages, we can then, in time, look at whether staff involved in purely national services should be included.
I myself come from a small country in which free competition for railway services has progressively been introduced and in which the national railway company, DSB, is in competition at home and, at the same time, now operates in Sweden and has been given permission to offer routes in Great Britain.
That is the way forward. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am not going to philosophise on the notion of a package but I can tell you that my group intends to vote enthusiastically for the Sterckx report and the Savary report and is delighted to be able to do so tomorrow.
The question we are asking ourselves is this: will this objective be achieved through the liberalisation of international rail passenger transport under the conditions outlined in this report?
We have experience, within the Member States, of passenger transport being opened up to competition; we have the first and second packages.
Let us take a closer look at what happens in terms of quality, of real transfer from road to rail, of prices and of safety.
We wonder about the compatibility between the opening up to competition of national corridors through cabotage and respect for the obligations of public service as set out in the July regulation.
We ask ourselves, as indeed do other Members, whether we are not going to move, in some countries, from a monopoly situation to an oligopoly situation or whether we are not going to see the emergence, as in air transport, of low cost companies, to the detriment of working conditions and safety.
In short, for the majority of my group it is inconceivable for us to support Mr Jarzembowski’s proposals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the liberalisation plans have far-reaching consequences not only for railway staff, but also greatly affect the quality of service to passengers.
The close cooperation of national railway companies with their neighbours is much older than the European Union.
Elsewhere, it is becoming more and more difficult to buy tickets for foreign destinations further afield.
That is what drives those passengers to use aircraft and cars, while the Commission’s White Paper on transport took for granted that there would be more medium-distance transport of passengers by rail by 2010.
Over the past six years, I have demonstrated on many occasions, on the basis of practical experience, how our rail transport is deteriorating.
It is unfortunate that Mr Sterckx, the rapporteur, has not taken the crisis in international passenger transport by rail as his point of departure, but rather the irritation of railway companies that would prefer self-regulation to a requirement imposed from the European level that they should achieve the German quality standard.
This proposal is a missed opportunity for improving conditions for international passengers and for putting a stop to worsening trends.
My group has tabled a number of amendments in order to prevent that from happening, as well as to ensure that European railways show a united front to the public and that shortcomings can be more speedily remedied. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report proposes the harmonisation of rail passenger rights and compensation liabilities throughout the European Union.
There is already a perfectly good international agreement in place between 42 nations, including many non-EU countries, to facilitate cross-border railway travel.
To be fair, the Commission only wanted regulation to cover cross-border rail travel, but Mr Sterckx goes further by proposing regulation for in-country domestic rail travel.
Perhaps a simple word association test would be useful.
If in response rapporteurs used the words 'integration', 'harmonisation' or 'regulation', they should be immediately disqualified from holding office.
This might possibly cut down the amount of this kind of nonsense, but not, I suspect, until we have first legislated for harmonised and integrated psychology tests. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the train is the only mode of transport in Europe to be experiencing a worrying period of stagnation, despite the increase in trade.
To revitalise and modernise rail transport is a matter of priority for the future of the Union.
The Commission has made considerable efforts towards increased harmonisation and liberalisation of the markets, but it is the European Parliament which has had – and still has – a central role to play in this area by overcoming national self-interest.
In this context, the amendment on reciprocity, which I proposed and with which the Commission concurred, ensures that countries which opt to open up their markets prior to the set deadlines should be protected against unfair competition from rail companies operating in protected domestic markets.
I also believe that the regulations on passengers’ rights and their extension to domestic traffic are particularly important.
For this reason, it is vital that Parliament takes a strong and clear stance on this package and does not hesitate to opt for a strategy of innovation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, in my speech, I will confine myself to two sections of the package and will obviously start with Mr Sterckx’s report.
Our group considers it important that we did not only work out a general compensation scheme for delays exceeding one hour, but also for repeated short delays, so that undertakings are encouraged to work more efficiently and be more punctual, and can in that way also attract new customers, which is, after all, what we set out to do.
I would like to say a few words about assistance for people with reduced mobility, on which we have tabled two additional amendments.
Secondly, the training of rail staff should also give attention to that aspect of the job.
It remains important to us that rail passengers can readily purchase their train tickets at all times, whether from ticket offices at train stations, from ticket machines, or, in the absence of ticket machines, on the trains themselves.
The rapporteur would now like to make exceptions for cases where seat reservations are compulsory, which I can understand, but also for the purpose of combating fraud.
I too am against fraud, but I fear that if we follow your line, then we will end up with an empty box, and that is something we cannot endorse.
I am a little surprised at the ease with which a majority of my fellow Members in the Committee on Transport and Tourism want to rush the Commission and intend to liberalise the whole railway system by 2012, without too much research, or without carrying out a thorough analysis of the impact this would have on national rail networks, which, as you know, differ greatly from each other, not least in terms of structure, or without asking whether that is the universal remedy that will enable us to attract more rail passengers.
In the public transport sector, however, this is not, in my view, the case, as it is not a commercial sector and we also want to achieve objectives other than cost-effectiveness or profit, such as environmental objectives or people’s mobility.
In the case of the Thalys, I would not object to competition hotting up, as long as there were sound guarantees in place that all Member States, both now and in future, would be able to develop good public services.
Therefore, it would have been preferable had we had a package on liberalisation on the one hand and the provision of public services on the other, rather than the package that is before us now. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr Sterckx, Mr Jarzembowski, Mr Savary and Mr Zīle on their reports on the liberalisation of rail transport networks and services in the European Union, the quality of service, the certification of crews and the rights and obligations of passengers.
We believe that this opening up should be carried out in a regulated fashion and without jeopardising the economic viability and survival of pre-existing services of public interest.
We do not want to prejudice either the citizens or the urban, metropolitan or regional transport services which currently exist under the aegis of the public institutions.
We have advocated that, if the relevant objective economic analyses carried out by the regulatory bodies of each Member State show it to be advisable, the States should be able limit the right of access of an international service to a particular infrastructure on a regional route or restrict the right to pick up or drop off passengers at stations on that route.
We believe that the opening up and liberalisation of passenger services with every guarantee of quality, safety and certification of drivers, as well as appropriate regulation of the rights of passengers, will provide the Union’s citizens with the mobility necessary for the sustainable development and progress that we see as our future objective. &#160;&#160; – The third railway package, the individual reports comprising which have little in common, is an example of a hurried, uncoordinated and therefore damaging approach to railway transportation.
I believe that the time has come to adopt a directive dealing with a harmonised locomotive operator’s licence, which is something we all agree on.
The other matters are far from being as pressing as they are presented here.
In the course of our work in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, many negative opinions were expressed concerning the dates and programme proposed by the rapporteur for opening up passenger services for competition.
As Vice-Chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee on Transport and Tourism, I appeal to the House to support the original European Commission proposal regarding dates and programmes for liberalisation namely opening up international transport without cabotage from 2010.
It is high time rail transport in Europe became more efficient and more customer-friendly.
After all, and that is my belief, the effective introduction of those two railway packages in practice is far more important for the improvement of train services than decisions on new rules.
The certification of train drivers is desperately needed and the abandonment of the quality requirements for freight transport will not create any problems, since that sector is quite capable of organising these things for itself.
Member States must retain the freedom to organise necessary competition differently, like in the Netherlands, for example, with concessions for a core network to one railway company.
Since the Council is unenthusiastic about Parliament’s far-reaching position, the necessary discussions will undoubtedly follow in due course. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am from a country and a region which, as a result of their history and geography, are particularly sensitive to the need to achieve the greatest possible diversification and rebalancing of the different modes of transport, with particular recognition of the railway.
In short, no, we cannot legislate in relation to goods by rail as we do with other products, as if we were talking about socks.
And that will be achieved through modernisation and investment. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the debates on the Constitutional Treaty over the last few months suggest that the European Union ought to take its citizens’ interests into account when adopting legal provisions.
The European Commission proposed liberalising international passenger transport services from 2010.
In his document, Mr&#160;Jarzembowski suggests bringing the date forward by two years, so that liberalisation would begin in 2008.
These countries are suffering from under-investment in railway infrastructure and they lack modern rail equipment.
At present, however, it is important to get the technical quality right and the appropriate infrastructure in place.
It is therefore necessary to retain the five-year period proposed by the Commission, so as to allow the conditions for competition on the European transport market to even out.
Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, liberalisation of the market in rail transport services should go hand in hand with a great European venture linking west of Europe to the east, and north to the south by means of a high speed train similar to the TGV.
That would be the ideal project through which to demonstrate the unity of our continent and the relevance of European institutions, including the European Commission and the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I first want to thank our rapporteurs.
It is not always so easy to put together a journey from A to B, and freight is often left at the borders.
In the second railway package, we are opening up the market to freight transport nationally and internationally.
We really have seen the opportunities, but we have also seen the difficulties when certain lines are profitable and others are not.
It is important to open up the markets for passengers as well, and I am convinced that we shall in time have a national opening-up of passenger traffic too.
The fact is that to decide at this stage about opening up passenger traffic would merely be a case of the European Parliament adopting an idealistic position without its being aware of the consequences. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the Chairman responsible for Traffic in the Intergroup on Sustainable Development, I welcome each community-level law and programme that contributes to the development of railway networks and promotes environmentally friendly traffic.
With respect to the third rail package, we have to take note of the fact that the railway networks and their development greatly differ in the various member countries.
This makes the issue of liberalisation, the opening up of national railway networks to the railway companies of other Member States a complicated one for the East-Central European observer.
On the other hand, however, Eastern railway companies have been underfinanced for decades.
Correcting development policy errors and concepts would take a long time and an enormous amount of money; not a task to be reasonably concluded by 2008 or 2012.
This creates the dangerous possibility that the railway companies of several Member States, including my own, may go bankrupt due to the unfair competition, which would put a severe social, financial and political burden on the respective governments.
I stand for competition that serves the interest of citizens and the environment at the same time.
Firstly, with regard to the report by my colleague and friend Mr&#160;Savary, I must say that it is particularly important to adopt this proposal for a directive.
I actually see this dossier as belonging to the second railway package and, since rail-freight services have already been liberalised, it is imperative to create harmonised European conditions for train drivers and the whole on-board train crew.
This directive could also contribute significantly towards making a lasting improvement in safety, and it is desirable that it be implemented as quickly as possible.
As Mr&#160;Jarzembowski is probably aware, I have considerable reservations about the content of his report, and my view is still that we are on the wrong track here.
The bad experiences of those countries that have already done this do have to be taken into account, too.
If Parliament really takes this path tomorrow, it will find itself on the path already described by a late Austrian cabaret artist, who said ‘I don’t know where I’m going, but the main thing is I get there soon’.
I certainly agree with Mr&#160;Jarzembowski and Mr&#160;Rack that this time scheduling of legislative resolutions is not exactly the most sensible thing for Parliament to do. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, being more environmentally-friendly, safer and more cost-effective, rail transport ought to be used more by both European business and private users.
We are seeking to grant Member States the right to restrict the opening up of the network in certain cases, whilst respecting the rights of the workers, thus ensuring the safety and quality of the service provided.
The truth is that blocking the passenger rail transport market to various operators from the Member States cannot be justified by simple protectionism, often on the part of state monopolies.
Yet in this rail package there are other issues that merit more detailed analysis.
Secondly, without prejudice to the Member States’ responsibilities, powers to issue certification for international train drivers and other on-board staff should also be defined in order to promote the safety and the free movement of workers.
In our view, the directive should apply to both in order to make the system simpler and more coherent.
For this reason, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs and to express my hope that the package will be adopted in Parliament and in the Council.
As has been said before, this is an opportunity that must not go to waste. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to commend the Commission for taking the initiative to present this third rail package.
I should also like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and the Members of this House who helped to enrich the proposals aimed at revitalising rail transport by creating an internal rail transport market, thereby increasing competitiveness and economic, social and territorial cohesion in the EU.
I welcome the position taken by the Committee on Transport and Tourism as regards the Zīle report and, as a whole, I endorse the reports, in particular the Savary report, for its social and safety elements, and the Sterckx report.
As regards the Jarzembowski report, I should like to say that I welcome the idea of opening up the market for international passenger transport services in principle, but I have reservations and indeed objections with regard to his intention to bring forward the liberalisation of international transport, including cabotage and, worse, the liberalisation of national transport services from 1&#160;January 2012.
Liberalising international transport may indeed help to revitalise rail transport in the Union, by boosting growth and creating a better balance in relation to air and road transport.
It is also true, however, that a somewhat hasty and scarcely harmonious liberalisation could have a terrible impact on some countries such as Portugal, in which specialised infrastructures such as high-speed links have yet to set out and implement their management model and in which the provision of public services in the area of transport will continue to play a key role in terms of employment, economic growth and responsiveness to users.
Even if we are able to overcome these doubts regarding national transport and cabotage, we feel that establishing 1 January 2012 as the date for the liberalisation of national transport services is unacceptable, which is why we are seeking a rethink whereby the final say on the matter is left to the Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin with stating that I fully agree with the tabling of the rail package and with the principle of liberalisation, since I believe that it leads to more efficient railways that will attract customers.
I suggest that we establish a transition period that allows us time to prepare, to give a chance to our national railway company, especially considering the fact that the new Member States are very large ‘transit chunks’ and huge transit markets.
The public services sector is also underdeveloped.
I fear that we would be left with secondary railway lines operating at a loss, with all the main lines taken over by the large railway corporations.
The third railway package now concludes our legislative efforts.
The current proposal decided, and decides, on the necessary harmonisation in the technical, administrative and, partly, the social field, along with the gradual liberalisation of all railway services by&#160;2012.
The liberalisation efforts in rail transport are not prompted by ideological convictions, but by necessity in terms of transport policy.
This comprehensive reorientation is the only way of countering the heavy losses in terms of transport volume suffered by the railways: in favour of the roads in the case of freight transport, and in favour of the low-cost airlines as well as the roads in the case of passenger transport.
Yet the 18&#160;years that have elapsed between 1994 and 2012 serve to guarantee that it has been, and continues to be, possible to carry through all these changes in a socially viable way.
In order to proceed with further revitalisation of the railways, we must put on our agenda the full harmonisation of the conditions of competition between the various modes of transport, finding new sources of finance for the rail infrastructure, and particularly a strategy for improving integration of modes of transport as intermodal passenger transport. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Jarzembowski, the rapporteur, very much for his detailed report on the liberalisation of national railways.
The report is particularly important for the new Member States.
To start with, I would remind the House that the first two railway packages have not yet been fully implemented in certain Member States.
All this significantly hinders discussion on the Third Railway Package.
Secondly, as regards the Third Railway Package, I am convinced that it is largely based on the experiences of the old Member States, and that it does not take account of the situation in the new countries.
Anyone who is acquainted with the current situation of passenger transport in the new Member States will realise that such measures would be very detrimental.
Indeed, the opposite is the case, the Union is all about acting together in solidarity for the benefit of a single strong Europe whose Member States are not categorised in terms of their strength or weakness. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider these three proposals on passenger transport, as they have emerged from the debate and with the amendments approved by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, to be fairly well-balanced.
In my view, it is clear that rail services must leave room for public services, with well-defined obligations set out in public service contracts, while the remainder of the market operates on the basis of regulated competition with uniform standards for all.
However, this is the problem, Commissioner, because we need a rapid approval of the regulation on public service obligations.
This aspect is fundamental and Parliament must again take responsibility for it.
The context is crucial, and it involves more than French animosity towards Polish plumbers, butchers or bakers.
Small undertakings in local European markets are being driven out to make way for a cavalcade of European locomotives transporting thousands of passengers who will pay for their tickets in euro, not in zlotys.
Once again, we are supposed to do so with a smile on our faces, because after all we are supposed to be in favour of opening the market, are we not?
We are in favour of a more gradual liberalisation of international passenger transport.
Despite any differences we may have, we shall vote in favour of the proposal, because we believe that liberalisation may help upgrade passenger rail transport.
Finally, as regards passenger rights, we agree with the report, especially as regards facilitating access for people with disabilities to trains and railway stations, but without exceptions: it must apply everywhere, for both domestic and European transport. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is my conviction that the third rail package is an important finishing stage in the creation of a common European railway transport services system.
I agree with the principles set forth in the directives of the third package.
I support that the overall principles required to open up the European market of passenger services be implemented in national law by 2006.
Rail services hold values in new Member States, values that may fall victim to an overly swift transformation.
I am asking Parliament to consider this during the voting procedure tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Before the Commissioner replies, a number of colleagues have made reference to the importance of the legislation and the timing of this debate.
I noted, in what Mr Savary said, that his report sends a strong signal and contains a fine example of bilateral agreements between branches.
I thank Mr&#160;Zīle for having sought an acceptable compromise and I would like to say to Mr.&#160;Jarzembowski that I appreciated his insistence on the fact that opening up to competition should facilitate transfer from road to rail, since that is indeed what we also wish to achieve.
First, since I have been asked the question, I should like to remind you that the first railway package has been transposed by all the Member States except two for certain directives.
For the second package, the Commission is following very closely the process of transposition into national law.
Having made these points, I am going to try, without going into all the details, to give you an idea of the Commission’s opinion on the work of Parliament and of the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
The purpose of a package is to make it possible to place the different texts in relation to each other in order to achieve a balanced, global reform that allows both an opening up of markets, which is beneficial for consumers, and the establishment of a regulatory framework that ensures the safety and rights of citizens.
I must stress, however, the importance of this text because one has to admit that the situation in the rail freight transport sector has scarcely progressed since the Commission’s proposal in March 2004.
Furthermore, according to the European rail sector, in conventional rail transport, less than one contract in three contains a quality clause that provides for compensation in the event of delays.
From many quarters we have heard the question: why has the Commission proposed this piece of legislation on the quality of freight?
The mere fact of having posed the problem has already had a positive effect on the sector.
These negotiations have focussed on commitments to quality.
Of course, I shall take note of what Parliament and the Council decide and, if they confirm their opposition to the choice of legislative instrument, it will be necessary to ask the people involved to find other ways and means of achieving the objective shared by the three institutions: that is, the improvement of the quality of international rail freight transport services by rail.
This is the way in which we shall achieve a transfer from road to rail.
That is the first point and, again, I thank Mr&#160;Zīle.
This directive sends a social signal enabling all rail transport personnel to feel involved in the regeneration of this means of transport.
These give rise to certain reservations on our part because they impinge on labour law, the flexibility of the market and the right to mobility.
All that, Mr Savary, does not in any way detract from the quality of the work accomplished.
There are also provisions that apply to other staff, which seems to me legitimate.
Finally, there is the problem of periodic checks.
The Commission proposes referring to the safety management systems that each railway undertaking has to put in place.
I am sorry, Mr President, at this late hour, to bring into the debate a number of very technical points, but that is due to the quality of the work of the Committee on Transport.
The Commission appreciates Mr&#160;Jarzembowski’s report and supports the idea, which several Members have mentioned, of linking this proposal to our amended proposal on public services in land transport.
Nonetheless, Mr Jarzembowski, we have reservations about the amendments that involve bringing forward the date for opening up international passenger services from 2010 to 2008.
The Commission is of the opinion that 2010 is a more appropriate date because it is only on that date that most of the required institutional and procedural framework will be in place and properly operational.
In addition, most of the planned international high-speed lines will not be completed until 2010 and it is on these infrastructures that international passenger traffic will be concentrated in the future.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot support opening up the domestic passenger market in 2012.
This is a balanced approach and it respects different national situations.
That is what I wanted to say about this proposal for a directive.
I now come to Mr Sterckx’s report on the regulation on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations.
Since March 2004, the debate on passengers’ rights has made much progress within our institutions.
The regulation on the civil responsibility of rail companies, incorporated into the new COTIF-CIV agreement of 1999, should finally come into force before the end of the year.
The second point of your report is the application of the COTIF-CIV international framework in relation to civil responsibility.
The Commission is inclined to respond favourably to your requests.
Finally, I shall confine myself to two key points for which the Commission would like your support.
The impact analysis on the consequences of opening up the international passenger service market shows that its success depends very much on efficient access to information and tickets.
European rail passengers must have the right and the possibility of travelling with a ticket that allows them to cross several borders within the European Union.
Secondly, as regards the regulations for civil responsibility in the event of accident, there is no doubt that there must be compulsory insurance.
What I can tell you is that if, as I hope, Parliament and the Council accept this proposal, I shall make it my personal responsibility to see to its effective application, because I believe that it is an essential point in terms of giving railways the image of quality that they must acquire.
So, Mr President, I hope very much that, improved and enriched in this way by Parliament, these texts will also meet the approval of the Council.
I should like, once more, to thank Parliament.
We are well aware that, for the sake of the environment, but also for the sake of saving energy and because of the risk of congestion on our motorways and roads in Europe, we must encourage this modal transfer, more precisely, this combination between different modes of transport, given that travel by rail, by river and by sea are, without doubt, good options for long distance traffic.
Moreover, I have heard several Members of Parliament speak about subsidiarity and we are in agreement.
That is why I warmly thank Parliament and the Committee on Transport for having carried out this in-depth work which will be particularly useful for us in the days to come. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at noon. &#160;&#160; – This report is, in a word, unacceptable.
The proposal, which forms part of what is termed the ‘third rail package’, has been euphemistically dubbed ‘the development of the railways’ and seeks to liberalise international passenger transport by 2010.
The report goes even further, advocating the liberalisation of international passenger transport (2008), and national transport (2012).
The Commission and Parliament are seeking to press ahead with the process of liberalising and privatising rail transport even before the ‘first’ and ‘second’ packages have been fully implemented and before a progress report has been drawn up of the actual impact of the – let us be clear on this – detrimental measures laid down therein in terms of both the services provided and the working conditions of railway workers.
In order to defend public rail transport services and the working conditions of those who work on them, we have tabled a motion to reject this directive. - The Commission can accept the following amendments: and The Commission can accept the following amendments subject to editorial modifications: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments in principle: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments in part: and - The Commission rejects the following amendments: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments in principle: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments in part: and - The Commission rejects the following amendments: and - The Commission can accept the following amendments: and The Commission can accept the following amendment subject to editorial amendments: - The Commission can accept the following amendment in part: - The Commission rejects the following amendments: and &#160;&#160; The sitting is closed.
