Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 March 2000.
Madam President, I would like to talk about a quite different matter, which concerns Iran.
Thank you, Mr Blak.
As you can see, Mrs Banotti, you still have your work cut out for you.
I too would like to say thank you for the fact that here we can watch a Finnish television channel.
Then I would like to say thank you for the fact that we have got cold water in the taps.
Thank you, Mr Seppänen.
Special European Council (23-24 March 2000 in Lisbon) The next items are the Council and Commission statements on the Special European Council in Lisbon, which is to be held on 23 and 24 March.
And it is true that in the United States of America, venture capital works much more effectively than it does in the European Union, even today.
According to the German philosopher Habermas' s concept of democracy, there is a communication flow between political society and civil society, which is essential to the decision-making process in a modern democracy, and although it may work well in each of our countries, we must admit that it does not yet work well in the EU as a whole.
There is, however, also a strategic deficit as regards the major economic and social issues.
There must be a European commitment to establishing conditions for a genuine venture capital market which can in particular support small businesses which have come into existence as a result of the technologies of the future.
What is particularly crucial here is the Commission' s action plan for venture capital and the excellent work currently being done by the European Investment Bank for the Lisbon Summit.
I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the initiatives the Commission has prepared on the subject of business policy and innovation policy, which seek to create a framework for coordinating our action in the Member States and between Member States and the European institutions.
I would like to mention what I think is perhaps the most relevant issue for the future, and that is the issue of lifelong learning as the fundamental basis for social transformation and as a prerequisite for a new stage in social dialogue, that is in dialogue between Europe' s social partners.
So there is a political deficit, a strategic deficit, and also a deficit in the coordination of our policies and measures.
Secondly, we want to supplement them with fundamental new approaches, such as those relating to the information society, and to the knowledge-based economy, and also those relating to the modernisation of social protection and to combating social exclusion.
This will depend on us, on whether we are able to boost the economic growth of the European system sufficiently, on the extent to which we are able to generate employment, on the level of education of our citizens and on the training we give our workers.
The challenges awaiting us in Lisbon are therefore very simple: we must meet the challenge of technology by regaining lost ground in the areas of knowledge and technical skills, especially retraining technologies.
Human resources mean education, training and reform of the Welfare State in order to deal, in particular, with the problem of an ageing society.
To achieve results, we need a new method, and, as the Portuguese Prime Minister said in his speech, clear macroeconomic parameters for this activity.
The processes which have been put in place, by common agreement, to improve levels of employment, boost economic renewal and increase social cohesion within the territory of the Union are extremely important.
We have to consider in particular the future creation and maintenance of resources in promising sectors in terms of employment.
The modernisation of the European social model and its increased effectiveness are as important for our competitiveness as the corresponding modernisation of the economy.
It will be difficult to conduct a sober policy, one that produces results only very slowly, which must be implemented here and now, if we are presenting the citizens of Europe with such a picture of the future as this, while they themselves fear for their jobs.
With regard to the content of his speech, I must say that my Group identifies very closely with his confirmation of the fundamental values of the European Union.
Mr President-in-Office, all democratic systems have deficits, but you are right to point out that we are currently at the beginning, under the Portuguese Presidency, of an Intergovernmental Conference aimed at reforming the Treaties.
This is an affront to individual and collective dignity and it gives us at least 15 million reasons why we should carry on with the project that you have highlighted here today, Mr Prime Minister.
The potential is clear: if the European Union, today, in its Member States, were to attain the best practice already achieved by its existing states and by its competitors we would have 30 million more jobs, twice as many as are currently unemployed.
The task of Lisbon has been correctly identified by you, Prime Minister, and by President Prodi as no less than shifting European policy towards a new practice, towards a new paradigm.
The Lisbon challenge is to delineate policy and methods for redressing these deficiencies and to release this potential dynamic.
Mr Barón Crespo has described it as a Social Democrat project.
But for too many of the excluded and the long-term unemployed, the young, women and other marginalised groups, passive welfare dependency is not enough.
What we have to do is release this new dynamic at individual level by saying the resources are there, even within the framework of sound finance.
We can best guarantee the fight against unemployment and encourage social cohesion in Europe through having an employment-rich economy and through having sustainable models of welfare.
Finally, on the knowledge society, it is very clear that we need to convert our thinking, not just at a technological but also at a social level.
It is very clear that we need to convert old social spending methods into new economic and social opportunity.
If Lisbon can meet the targets spoken of here today, it will be an important step on that road to releasing the dynamic to which I have referred.
We would also like to believe, along with yourselves, that there is generally a clear awareness that the scale of the changes that must be envisaged in terms of the qualifications needed to address the new technological challenges facing companies itself brings with it the inherent risk of creating new mechanisms for social exclusion, to cite you once more.
We know that over half the jobs currently being created in the European Union are precarious, temporary or perforce part-time, and as a result provide the employee with neither the conditions for self-reliance nor, very often, an income that offers them a decent standard of living.
We know that new technologies do not, in themselves, generate greater democracy, but simply greater collective and personal autonomy for those citizens who are better integrated into mainstream society.
Lastly, we know that anyone who claims to meet the needs of the citizens must first ensure their total involvement in public policy decisions.
We have heard nothing about support being provided to all practical trials involving the public-minded use of new information technologies by the general public, nor about the role of associations for learning and information being promoted for all sectors of society.
We have heard nothing about the possibility of public funds being freed up to promote innovation in the field of products and services liable to improve the quality of life for all.
We have heard nothing about the universal telecommunications service being redefined in order to make it possible for everyone to access the Internet under the best possible technical conditions and at affordable rates.
In short, we have heard nothing to suggest that the citizen will be anything more than a customer.
We can find nothing in the document from the Portuguese Presidency, nor in the Commission' s strategic guidelines for 2000, that reveals the slightest trace of a legislative programme in the field of social policy, be this to bolster the rights of employees threatened with redundancy or to prevent social dumping.
We can but share the concern of the Council and the Commission to see the European Union, after the single market and after the euro, finally equipping itself with a political project that is accessible to all its citizens, but the new governance of which you are - in my opinion unfairly - priding yourselves lacks the democratic and participatory ambition to which nascent European civil society aspires.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office and Prime Minister of Portugal, the current situation in the Union and in most of the Member States is bound to raise legitimate concerns, in spite of the overall economic recovery.
It is our opinion that it is not only necessary to change this state of affairs, but that it is also possible to do so.
It is necessary because employment, and I mean quality employment with employee rights, is a fundamental right of every human being.
An appeal for the coordination of social policies or an insistence on a society based on innovation and knowledge or on information technology will therefore not be enough, however important they may be.
We reached joint conclusions on 14 points, of which we will officially inform the Presidency.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Prime Minister of Portugal, as we have been paying close attention to employment-related issues, we must note the Portuguese Presidency' s initiative to put the future of the European social model on the European political agenda once again.
Nevertheless, before I discuss this matter, I would like to mention some aspects of the path that Europe has already taken over the last ten years, so that we can approach the next ten years in a realistic way, as the Portuguese Presidency has proposed.
Around ten years ago, when the single currency and nominal convergence were being discussed, some people, in various decision-making and discussion forums, warned of the need to give priority to the issues of employment, the real convergence of economies, and economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully read the Portuguese Presidency' s document for the Lisbon Summit, which goes far beyond employment issues and which trumpets an information society and social cohesion.
We are not, of course, questioning the strategic objective of making Europe into a world-class economic area based on innovation and knowledge, a more dynamic and more competitive area, with a view to increasing economic growth rates, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
On the other hand, I would also like to say quite clearly that we support the European social model as opposed to certain other social models from around the world, but we support it on the assumption that it remains to be perfected and implemented in a participatory way.
As long as there are rates of unemployment in double figures, or genuine pockets of hidden unemployment in the EU, the real Europe has not yet been built.
Whilst there are such disparities between the quality of social protection systems and particularly the retirement pensions of one Member State in relation to those of another Member State of the European Union, the real Europe has not yet been built.
Lastly, until we have real convergence, until economic and social cohesion is a reality for everyone and until the European social model is developed, the real Europe, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, has not yet been built.
But we must surely oppose some of your policies, some of your principles, and a certain economic fundamentalism.
I must at this point stress our conviction that there can be no social policy nor full employment policy without national and European preferences, and without protecting our markets from fierce international competition.
You are facilitating it, collaborating with it, and are in fact orchestrating, despite your declared intentions, the disintegration of our social welfare systems, precariousness, and social decline.
There is no requirement that unemployment should be below 5% or - better still - below 2 or 1%.
My group hopes that Danish voters will decide to keep the Danish krone when they take part in the referendum on membership of EMU on 28 September of this year.
The question that I would like to ask very clearly is this: are you representing 14 EU countries here or 15?
From this point of view, this question is perfectly sensible and requires the clearest possible answer.
This is not the first time during the Portuguese Presidency that there has been a different and politically stimulating relationship between the Council and Parliament, but this is a significant gesture which, as my friend and colleague Mr Barón Crespo noted, we were delighted to note.
My congratulations, Mr President-in-Office, for making this issue topical once again without rejecting social cohesion and values which we hold to be fundamental, because they are not only at the heart of the founding project of the EU, but they are at the heart of our civilisation and, above all, of our understanding of the need for solidarity between all Europeans.
Something that we said here in January and that I would like to repeat is that we must not be satisfied with this strategic objective being the priority of one presidency, a priority for just six months.
We challenge the Council and the Commission once again to include it, not as a priority for six months, but as a goal for the EU, as important as the goal of enlarging or deepening the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to express my delight at the fact that a bullish agenda has been set for the issues of employment and economic development at the Lisbon Summit.
A joint effort is needed to strengthen research and development, including research in connection with information technology, and there is a need to strengthen the internal market and to create the necessary conditions for receiving the full benefits from the new technology and for developing trade via the Internet.
I would say that it is important that we should aim to achieve common objectives, but that it is also important that individual countries should retain their responsibility for, and sovereignty in, establishing social and employment policy and that we should have a certain degree of competition between systems so as to ensure that social and employment policy is shaped in a progressive and dynamic way.
The result is sobering.
The growth in media, mobile radio communication and software was not able to compensate for the job losses in the telecommunications sector and in the electronics industry, and for the rationalisation resulting from the introduction of information technology in other sectors of the economy.
Mr President, the European leaders will be primarily addressing three key issues when they meet in Portugal later this month.
However, the arrival of globalisation will not and must not mean absolute and free market access for all products and services operating at this time.
It is clear that each country has different priorities in terms of the different economic sectors it wishes to protect.
The European Union as an economic entity is very strong but there are still large-scale social problems which need to be addressed in a structured manner.
Mr President, Prime Minister Guterres has been most convincing.
The most minor of accidents is depicted as an irreparable ecological disaster.
I am not making the case against stability policies nor against necessary structural reforms.
Mr President, I should like to thank Prime Minister Guterres for his very committed speech.
I want to end by saying that social cohesion is to be created both in the individual countries and in Europe as a whole, but that this will not be achieved if the individual countries do not continue to be cohesive within themselves for many years to come.
The right to data protection does not appear in the Euro Paper nor is it part of the current debate on e-commerce.
If we wish to remain credible in developing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights then the fundamental right to privacy must of course be included in each of our individual programmes, in particular where new technologies are concerned.
Mr President, the agenda for the Lisbon Council, which is to be held on 23 and 24 Match, is liable to induce dizziness.
The conclusion of the document issued by the presidency on 12 January holds the key.
We must revise the broad guidelines of our economic policies - which at present only have the status of an annual recommendation from the Council to the Member States - with a view to amplifying their scope and above all, consolidating their status as a 'framework document' .
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in the speeches which we have heard a noble aim has been mentioned, that of we Europeans becoming competitive with the United States, of developing ourselves into equal partners with the United States.
If, on the other hand, we look, for example, at the issue of filling top posts - when it is a question of finding a new Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund - and see how the Europeans behave towards the Americans, then without a doubt we are still a very long way from this equal partnership.
We have banned them here in the Chamber, rightly, because they are instruments of torment.
Establishing additional rigid rules - such as, for example, introducing a rigid 35-hour week in France - can, I admit, create jobs in the short term, but I am convinced that in the long term it damages our competitiveness and thus destroys jobs.
In Europe we are also still a long way from a common domestic market.
We have 15 domestic markets and a common European internal market.
There are many challenges involved with creating that full employment.
Some of those challenges will be very difficult to overcome, but the important thing is that we have to turn the rhetoric of what we have been saying for many, many years - about full employment, about a socially inclusive society, about a society that is based on innovation and knowledge - into reality.
But this is important if we are to have a genuine achievable outcome from this Lisbon Summit rather than perhaps setting off down another road - a road which I know Prime Minister Gutíerrez does not want to embark on, because he actually wants to see something achieved in the process of the Lisbon Summit.
Mr President, while the heads of state of the European Union are preparing for their meeting in Lisbon, where they will discuss employment, economic reform and social cohesion, ABB/Alsthom, a European cartel if ever there was one, has revealed in no uncertain terms the truth that hides behind the empty words uttered by policy-makers.
I welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in Europe, on developing content industries and on speeding up broad-band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society.
We live in the time of IDEA - the Internet digital electronic age.
But I welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in Europe to improve competitiveness and innovation.
One of the priorities which has been identified under the Cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge.
The aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone.
I think that the Special Summit in Lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the European Union.
Mr President, Prime Minister, President of the Commission, the Portuguese Presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the Special Summit.
In this context the Ciampi Group also mentions the European company statute.
It puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at EUR 30 billion a year.
The straitjacket of Agenda 2000 will not provide you with the requisite means.
The public services have played a key role throughout the entire existence of our European social model.
Lastly, this knowledge society hinges on research and development and I would like to applaud, at this juncture, the Commission initiative that aims to create a European research area.
Mr President, the Commission and Parliament will nevertheless have need of the Council in order to secure the requisite resources to create this European research area.
I believe that the proposals you will put forward in Lisbon, which should help to merge these infamous broad economic policy guidelines, these 'Employment' guidelines, to form guidelines for the European policy on growth and employment, mark a step in the right direction.
It is up to each and every one of us to work on this.
One can but welcome the ambitious objective which you have set, within the ten-year strategy you propose, of lifting the taboo on the notion of full employment in the European Union, and of providing us with the means to do so by setting a quantified target of 3% growth.
But over and above that, as regards your objective of a knowledge economy, Claude Desama has just spoken of the contribution that public services can make to attaining this objective, although I myself would stress the importance of a strategy for lifelong learning.
Lastly, a final word on social cohesion.
We will offer you our support in Lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the European Union' s economic policy.
Mr President, along with my colleagues, I would like to welcome the very clear document that the Portuguese Presidency has given us today.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is, I think, thanks to your and the Commission' s commitment that the Lisbon Summit can finally prove to be an ambitious and social summit where the European social model is at long last seen as a new driving force behind European integration and where full employment can become a concrete goal.
But if Lisbon wants to become the summit of these political ambitions, it must also take on board methodology.
I would like to draw your attention to three points, in particular, which seem essential to me if this summit wants to succeed as a major social summit.
Secondly, I would very much like to second your commitment to lay down clear objectives, regarding both economic growth and the level of employment.
I think it is important to formulate an objective in this respect, Mr President-in-Office, that is to say to challenge all Member States to stamp out social exclusion of all citizens in our society, not only children, but also their parents and the elderly.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Special European Council in Lisbon on employment, economic reform and social cohesion is to pursue, as you have told us, an objective which is ambitious, very ambitious, at the risk of disappointing our fellow citizens, conscious as they are that decreeing full employment and the eradication of poverty in Europe cannot, in itself, ensure that this objective is attained.
But, when all is said and done, this summit will have a major benefit - that of outlining, in the wake of Cardiff and Luxembourg, a political desire for greater social cohesion, particularly as regards the 57 million people who are living in a state of poverty within the Union, including single mothers, large families and children, and whose numbers will in the future be swelled by other outcasts from society, specifically those people who will not have access to new areas of knowledge, since this will engender new social imbalances.
Mr President, there is an idea in the Portuguese Presidency's statement which I like very much.
This idea is the notion that the strength of our European economy is rooted in the capabilities, imagination and creativity - quite simply in the knowledge - of the people in the European economic process.
If we are to take this seriously, however, if the intention is for this really to become a political programme, then no additional justification is required for a policy of social inclusion, because participation in society would in itself be the strongest productive force in our shared economy.
I wish you much strength, pledge Parliament's support and assure you that this Parliament will have more to say on the issues of economic and employment policy in the future, as the people of Europe also expect.
It is clear that we must redefine the role of Europe in the world economy, creating a competitive Europe, opening the way to new and better jobs and organising this process with an appropriate strategy for social cohesion.
The central role of employment and social policy, in the creation of this new society, is based on two factors.
On the one hand we have economic efficiency, since, in this new technological context, the quality of human resources is essential.
It has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries.
The Special Lisbon Summit must fundamentally reaffirm, for the European citizen, the notion that the European Union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion.
We need a greater sense of responsibility and greater participation from our social partners - new actors, as the Pintassilgo report calls them - so that we can implement employment agreements and achieve competitiveness in business.
It seems to me, Mr President, that this is probably the case because we Europeans see Europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests.
All of this will lead us to the need to define the role of Europe in the world economy, of Europe as a competitive platform - and I stress 'competitive' - opening the way to new and better jobs, higher quality jobs from the point of view, of course, of guaranteeing social cohesion.
Social risks, social breakdown, unemployment, social exclusion, imbalances in the social security systems, are unavoidable challenges presented by globalisation, technological change and an ageing population.
Of course, today' s Europe has organised institutional procedures for developing these policies, to create an economy, and above all a society, based on innovation and knowledge, by means of a European policy on the information and knowledge-based society, the construction of an educational society on a European scale and the development of a European area of science and technology open to the world.
I would like to draw your attention to three specific points.
The first point concerns corporate governance.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, there has already been a great deal of discussion, and I hope that I will not repeat any of what has gone before.
I would, however, like to thank the Portuguese Presidency most heartily for the document presented and for the excellent address given by the President-in-Office of the Council.
However, this is the first time in many years that a strategic objective has been put forward, and I feel that it is extremely important: to transform the Union into an economic area based on innovation and knowledge, in order to boost economic growth, achieve full employment in proper jobs and bring about social cohesion.
The fact that Parliament has a crucial role to play in this is also important.
My second example is this: a great deal has been said about the participation of women in the labour market and about equal opportunities for women and men in society in general.
Practical measures relating to what I spoke about earlier - a common goal for support services for families and particularly for children - are a key factor in creating jobs and at the same time creating equal opportunities and ensuring much greater participation by women in the labour market.
Obviously, in order to achieve this, there are two issues which are crucial in all areas.
Lastly, I would like to answer a question that I have been asked, which is whether I am speaking here on behalf of 15 or 14 countries.
This does not prevent the Portuguese Government, and many other European governments, from being not so much in dispute with a particular country, as being engaged in a battle to preserve certain principles and values.
Strangely enough, these very principles and values existed even before political movements such as the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats.
It is not yet single because of the delays in public and private services; it is not single because of the delays in achieving transparency and in introducing the use of modern technologies to make the markets fully functional in terms of information technology and, therefore, in terms of efficiency.
Now then, we have to increase productivity in these areas sufficiently to sustain economic growth without inflation.
We may be breaking this debate on Lisbon down into constituent parts, but we have a clear objective constantly in mind: we have to create the economic and social conditions needed for sustained growth.
I warn you that here our direct, and I stress, direct commitment at public and the other different levels is to build telecommunications highways, the roads for these new vehicles to run on.
The market, private individuals and companies will build the vehicles, but it is our responsibility to build the new highways.
There is therefore a very clear strategy for Lisbon.
It is clear that, at this point, the three processes have to be combined.
rapporteur. (SV) Mr President, ever since the Brundtland report of 1987, it has been clear that a policy which emphasises only economic growth cannot be sustained in the longer term.
The challenge for us all consists in integrating social and environmental considerations.
This is something we ought to support, a fact which also emerges from Amendment No 11.
As regards this regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries, the Council has broadly taken up the amendments that we presented and voted upon at first reading.
Whenever I have been involved in development work I have observed that this approach has, thankfully, over the past few years been taking the place of the old paternalistic aid-oriented ideology, where the so-called developed countries thought development was a matter of transferring our way of life to the less developed countries.
Since integrating the environmental dimension is a long-term commitment, I am in principle against limiting the duration of this regulation.
The previous regulation expired at the end of 1999.
However, in view of the Council's views on this matter and in order to avoid conciliation, we support the compromise proposal put forward by Parliament for a split comitology procedure whereby decisions on strategic guidelines for the actions to be financed would be subject to a management procedure while project approval for the limited number of projects over EUR 2 million would be subject to an advisory procedure.
Hence the Commission supports, in principle, Amendment No 16 but prefers the wording of Amendments Nos 19, 20 and 21.
The final important issue common to both this regulation and the forest regulation are the amendments concerning bank guarantees.
For this reason the Commission took a decision in July 1999 only to require bank guarantees for advance payments of over EUR 1 million.
For these reasons the Commission does not support the proposed Amendment No 10 on bank guarantees.
With the aim of finding a compromise solution which would make it possible to avoid conciliation the Commission could support Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, although it considers that they bring little added value to the text overall.
Amendment No 12 proposes the raising of the threshold for submission of projects for consideration by the Council from EUR 2 million to EUR 5 million.
Given that most projects are already under EUR 2 million this amendment is considered not relevant.
The amendments on procurement and access to the markets - Amendments Nos 13 and 14 - would mean a departure from standard and carefully agreed formulations.
Lastly, we do not support Amendment No 17 as it does not conform to the usual rules or formulation of regulations and is considered to be redundant.
The debate is closed.
I would be happy to speak now, but there is another report first.
The aim of the regulation under discussion today is to establish measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries, in order to guarantee the funding necessary to maintain and make progress with the actions and projects which have been under way for this purpose since the adoption of Regulation 3062, valid until December 1999.
Between 1990 and 1995, over 56 million hectares of forest, distributed unevenly in various parts of the world, were lost but, without a doubt, this particularly affected developing countries as a result of the increased amount of land used for agricultural purposes, the construction of infrastructures, or due to natural disasters and fires.
We are therefore facing a problem of the first magnitude, not only for developing countries, but also for the whole planet and all the living beings that inhabit it, a problem that Parliament has already spoken about at first reading at the end of the previous legislature on 5 May 1999.
At first reading, Parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the Council, in its common position, has totally or partially taken up 18.
Finally, I wish to request the support of the House with regard to Amendments Nos 1, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and a negative vote for the others, which, if successful, would break the agreement reached during the discussions with the Commission and the Council, which would oblige the whole negotiating process to begin again, paralyse some of the actions and projects under way and undoubtedly cause serious problems in the policy of conservation and rehabilitation of the tropical forests that we are trying to develop.
I believe that this is an absolutely fundamental point, especially when we are talking about the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries.
But we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be.
The Commission has thus acted appropriately in proposing a new Council regulation on tropical forests and I fully subscribe to the thrust of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, the pinpoint relevance of whose work I salute.
The Council regulation of 1995 perhaps focused in too exclusive a manner on the protection of tropical forests and not sufficiently closely on the harnessing of their productive potential.
There are, of course, forests in which there are no production activities of any type, but there are also forests that continue to fulfil an economic function.
With reference to the amendments listed in the Fernández Martín report, the Commission's position on the main horizontal issues is as follows.
Financial reference account: the Commission accepts the compromise figure of EUR 249 million over seven years proposed in Amendment No 9.
Comitology - the Commission supports in principle Amendment No 11 but prefers the wording of Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 15.
The amendments propose a split comitology arrangement with annual guidelines and priorities being subject to a management procedure while Council would examine projects over EUR 2 million under an advisory procedure.
Concerning the other amendments, our position is as follows.
We do not support Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 6 as we consider that the concepts have been taken into account elsewhere in the regulation following the first reading.
Amendment No 1 is not supported as in our opinion it brings little added value.
Thank you, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
I would mainly like to home in on one very important point.
Northern countries apply a system in which this financial element is handled in a different way.
Everyone pays, whether they dump their waste in the sea or dispose of it elsewhere.
It could also be 75%, but there should at least be a minimum level, which should be quite inflexible.
The other system is the pure polluter-pays principle: anyone who lands ship-generated waste has to pay extra for doing so.
I believe that in the interests of protecting the environment and of a permanently thriving tourist industry in many countries of our Community it is better to have an effective system.
In its first reading, Parliament said by a large majority that the ships must make a significant contribution, of at least 90%.
But a contribution might also only mean half a euro and in this case God knows this would be too little.
The same conditions must apply to all ships in port and only if Parliament, the Council and the Commission create these conditions together will this fair competition be restored for ports and ships.
This consistent directive is an important step towards doing this.
I believe - for environmental and competition reasons as well as on the basis of the decisions made two months ago, in January - that we should adopt these amendments tomorrow, in the form in which we debated them in the committee, with a broad majority.
It is a sound directive.
As such, this directive is already coming into effect in a sense.
But should he pay an automatic full amount or a huge amount in port dues, or do we opt for a flexible arrangement, as is being proposed by the Council.
In fact, ports in one and the same region apply different standards and percentages.
These days, we know that waste has a habit of reappearing, often in a more harmful form.
Large-scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of the animal life caused by shipwrecked tankers always attracts a great deal of attention.
Historic museum ships and ships which, proportionately, call at many ports over a short distance have to pay more often as a result.
Waste management facilities are to be built in ports and I believe this directive will definitely help considerably in limiting marine pollution.
I also commend the work of the rapporteur, whose commitment reflects the strength of feeling within our committee to tackling this particular problem and a strong desire amongst parliamentarians of all parties to call a halt to this environmentally disastrous practice.
I particularly welcome his strong support for the proposal that, in the interests of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition, the environmental requirements should apply to all ships irrespective of the flag they fly and adequate waste reception facilities be made available in all ports throughout the Community.
For example, in the UK the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities, without the port getting involved, works well.
The Baltic is also more vulnerable from an environmental point of view than many other seas.
Mr President, I would like to state briefly that I do not believe that anyone doubts the need for a directive to tackle this problem, which is a serious problem not only for Europe, but for all seas world-wide, and that urgent and effective measures are therefore necessary.
I would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal, and with which we are therefore in complete agreement.
It is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because, if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution, then this directive will end in outright failure.
I believe that the work we are discussing today is a great step forward.
It is true that we are not specifying what percentage will have to be paid by the ships arriving at the port.
It is true that we are leaving a margin of flexibility for the Member States, but it is also certain that, theoretically, 0.01, although it is a contribution, is not necessarily a significant contribution.
That is, we are talking about practically all of the amendments and, in fact, the one we cannot accept - and I regret it, but I have already explained the reasons - is Amendment No 6.
Many thanks, Mr President.
This is obviously nonsense because if I am going to carry out inspections there have to be penalties which I can use as a threat in borderline cases.
That is why - as discussed in the committee - I have now tabled an amendment to Amendment No 2 which contains no reference to the concept of 'harmonisation' .
But when it comes to penalties and the word 'harmonisation' a good many people in this room give a start - on the left and on the right of this House, both those higher up and those lower down.
The first principle, Madam Vice-President, is for us all to attach the same degree of importance to the need to improve road safety.
The second argument is that there must be no distortions of competition in the Community.
We are all very aware that one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, quite rightly, is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the European Union.
I know they are familiar figures, but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year.
Lorry traffic on EU roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important.
Mr President, Commissioner, reforming the directive on annual inspections of commercial vehicles is both urgent and vital.
Roadside spot checks are also necessary because heavy goods vehicles from non-member countries often enter the area of the Union in bad condition, presenting a serious risk to safety.
A considerable number of the vehicles in bad condition were from non-member countries.
What is happening in effect is the following: drivers who do not have an employment permit in an EU Member State and who do not have a work contract in the third country benefit from the situation in that they drive a car which is registered in a particular country and which subsequently passes all inspections without a hitch, but do so outside the country where they are registered and where they carry out their activities.
In any case we must prevent this from being dealt with thoughtlessly, precisely because this is about a directive which provides for rules not only for heavy goods vehicles but also for commercial vehicles carrying people.
Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio, the purpose of the proposal the Commission made in 1998 is to replace the directive concerning annual inspections of commercial vehicles.
The simplest thing is to talk about the inspection of lorries, which is what we are really discussing, and perhaps we should all think about not only putting the technical title in some of our regulations, but also, in brackets, the colloquial title or one that is more readily comprehensible to our citizens, a matter which I shall transmit to the services and which we shall consider with a view to the future.
The proposal requires that the Member States supplement the annual technical inspection by carrying out spot checks in proportion to the fleet of commercial vehicles in circulation annually on their roads.
These inspections may be carried out by the roadside, in ports and in other places where vehicles park, or, as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles, on the operator's premises.
This may in fact be the best way to effectively monitor the state of the vehicles in circulation on our roads.
I would like to say that the Commission is aware that Parliament is concerned that this proposal might lead to discrimination against certain transport contractors, or lorries from certain countries or even certain makes of vehicle, and that the intention of the principal recommendation of the rapporteur is for the fines imposed on operators by the Member States to be harmonised as a condition of application of the directive.
We share this concern, but we consider that Amendment No 2 is too drastic and, in this respect, we would support Amendment No 3 which encompasses the spirit we are all aiming for, and which, at the same time, offers the necessary flexibility.
On the basis that great progress has been made in the past few years, I believe that a great deal still remains to be done, as the death of 42 000 - 43 000 European citizens on the roads is too high a figure and there is still an effort to be made.
The debate is closed.
