rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, Commissioner Fischer-Boel, Minister Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has tabled an extremely constructive proposal for setting up a school fruit scheme in order to reverse the unfortunate trend of increased obesity amongst European schoolchildren.
In the EU, 22 million children are overweight and approximately 5 million children are severely overweight.
Until we have achieved the objective of getting children to eat 400 g of fruit per day, it will be the case that the more fruit that children eat the greater the savings.
The Commission's original proposal of EUR 90 million would, unfortunately, only stretch to a single piece of fruit once a week for 30 weeks for children aged six to ten years.
The optimum solution would be for all children to receive one piece of fruit every school day.
I hope therefore that in the vote today we can sort this matter out, as I have retabled a proposal on behalf of my Group to the effect that we should mobilise EUR 360 million.
This should be supplemented by the Member States' contribution and therefore will, overall, provide a far higher amount than the EUR 500 million.
It must therefore be the Member States which decide - from the list compiled by the Commission - which fruit can be distributed and which fruit will be included in the scheme.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, we in the Presidency are very happy to discuss this scheme with the European Parliament, as proposed by the European Commission and brought personally - and I should like to pay tribute to her - by Mrs Fischer Boel.
That is why I am naturally paying close attention to Parliament's position on this issue so that I can include your position and your support in the debates of the Council.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to offer my sincerest thanks to your rapporteur, Mr Busk, for the very detailed and impassioned work he has done on this issue, and now I am happy to listen to you, and the Commissioner.
Then when we review the Scheme in 2012 we would really focus on the end-value to be gained from parental contributions.
I have seen some different figures, as Niels Busk rightly said - from EUR 500 million down to EUR 360 million - but the EUR 90 million that we have proposed is certainly not written in stone for the future.
I think that we should also take into account in our review of the whole programme to be made in 2012 whether we need to increase the budget.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (RO) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Barnier, first of all, I would like to thank our rapporteur for the work he has done and the efforts he has made to reconcile the different points of view.
The EUR 90 million proposed in annual funding is not enough.
I would also like to encourage, as part of the scheme, the provision of fresh, traditional fruit, produced on the Community's territory.
This scheme must therefore be financed by the Community so that it can be applied uniformly.
In addition, the free distribution of fruit and vegetables in schools should be aimed at combating the problem of overweight schoolchildren; it is a well-known fact, unfortunately, that over 22 million children are affected by obesity.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, there is nothing to dislike in this proposal and I commend our rapporteur for coming up with it, especially with an election in the offing.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (GA) - Mr President, this proposal will fulfil the objectives of the Union in relation to the common agricultural policy (CAP) and will provide a funding framework for initiatives aimed at increasing the amount of fruit and vegetables eaten by children.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, this project is being dressed up as all about concern for the welfare of children.
Five portions per day, or around 400 g of fruit and vegetables, is the recommended daily allowance for a healthy and balanced diet.
I therefore expressly support the Commission's proposal to introduce a school fruit scheme funded to the tune of EUR 90 million.
Based on the report of proceedings, I am proud that on 10 May 2005, in the debate on the reform of the market in fruit and vegetables, I proposed this scheme, and I am grateful to the Commissioner that it is now to become reality.
This is downright protectionism.
We must, however, provide more funds to ensure that our young people are able to access, partake of and utilise this opportunity to the full, because this is one of those rare occasions when we can offer something.
Introducing a proper diet for children of school and pre-school age is part of the health education we need to provide for the younger generation. (PL) Mr President, providing primary and secondary schoolchildren with fruit is undoubtedly the right idea, since it has not only an economic dimension, but a much broader social one.
There is no doubt that EUR 90 million is too little to ensure proper functioning of the scheme.
Let me say to Mr Titford that I am not worried whether Europe provides it, whether Britain provides it, France provides it or whatever, but what we have to be sure of is that school fruit goes into our schools. (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, in fact, opposed to agricultural aid and any extension of this, but when it comes to improving our children's health, I think that we should actually do an awful lot.
The debate shows that there is virtually unanimous support for this scheme proposed by the European Commission to encourage young Europeans to eat more fruit and vegetables.
I shall report on this proposal to the Council and I agree with Mrs Fischer Boel that the sum of EUR 90 million referred to in the proposal is not, as she said, set in stone.
I believe that the image that we are projecting through this Commission initiative is one of a positive Europe that is focused on citizens.
rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for the many positive contributions and, in this connection, I would also like to thank you, Commissioner, for your particularly constructive cooperation.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 18 November 2008.
in writing. - (RO) The proposal for a regulation concerning fruit for children at school is part of a series of initiatives launched by the Commission with the main aim of combating obesity and promoting a healthy diet.
The budget of EUR 90 million proposed by the Commission would have proved to be insufficient to achieve the scheme's objective.
The ALDE Group's initiative to increase Community funding to EUR 360 million is an important step in the right direction.
Member States in turn will make their contribution to give a final budget of EUR 720 million.
Long-term studies have shown that eating habits acquired in childhood serve as a model for life.
In Poland, fruit and vegetable consumption is approximately 250 g per person per day.
The Community average is 380 g, whereas the World Health Organization/Food and Agriculture Organization recommended minimum daily consumption of fruit and vegetables is 400 g.
While, at the start, we were happy to offer this benefit only to children in primary schools, since 2006 this measure has also been extended to pre-school children and since 2007 to secondary school children.
I am thinking in this case too of the European Parliament resolution of 25 September 2008 concerning the White Paper on diet-related health problems.
Let us not forget that food and the way we eat play a decisive role in helping us to maintain our health as it is.
in writing. - (ET) In the White Paper on Nutrition, Overweight and Obesity, which has also been adopted by the European Parliament this year, experts emphasised the fact that there are today in Europe 22 million overweight children and 5 million obese children.
The amendments proposed by Parliament will improve the Commission's text considerably by allocating EUR 500 million per year to finance the introduction of the scheme to provide pupils with fruit and vegetables, which will consequently boost agricultural production at European Union level.
