Control of the acquisition and possession of weapons (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Kallenbach, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons - C6-0081/2006 -.
I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, Mrs Kallenbach, and the Chairman of that Committee, Mrs McCarthy.
We have also decided to ban the acquisition of firearms by minors under the age of 18 in future.
Of course, we will still allow junior sports marksmen and hunters under the age of 18 to pursue their hobby but only under adult supervision; that means parents or coaches, for example.
That is important, as compliance with Article 5 of the UN Protocol requires sanctions to be applied by Member States.
The Commission notes that the Community has competence to establish criminal sanctions in conformity with Article 5 of the Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms, Their Parts and Components and Ammunition, supplementing the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.
Let us consider for a moment: we will thus be implementing a partially harmonised firearms law in 27 Member States.
Mr President, I do not think there is much to be added to what Mrs Kallenbach has just said, other than that it has been a pleasure for me to work alongside the Chairman of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, Arlene McCarthy, and my colleague on that Committee, Gisela Kallenbach, with whom I worked very closely with great confidence during this phase of the process.
Not least, I would also like to thank the Commission, represented in this case by Commissioner Verheugen.
The age limit of 18 years old which is stipulated in the directive and its exceptions is sensible, in my view.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, I too first of all would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Kallenbach, for a very well drafted report.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, it is very important to control possession of firearms if we wish to ensure the safety of people living in Europe.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, the proposed changes to the EU's weapons directive are aimed at improving the control of weapons.
I would like all EU legislation to be on this basis.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, hunting is an old-established custom.
Today's debate therefore represents the conclusion to a long process.
In Sweden training in hunting performs an important function in teaching future generations about hunting and game conservation.
The EU countries have perfectly serviceable firearms legislation and if more stringent provisions are required or necessary, the relevant decisions should be taken in the countries concerned. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the starting point of this dossier and look at how far we have come, I think it is fair to say that we have managed to put this very controversial issue back on an objective footing.
This was not a simple matter for the various groups involved, but I think we have achieved a compromise solution which - given the background in the Council - was the only possible route.
Colleagues, this is a 9 mm Smith &amp; Wesson copy - a convertible weapon designed to fire blanks or CS gas pellets - which, when converted, fires live ammunition.
Therefore, I thank Commissioner Verheugen, Ms Kallenbach our rapporteur, Mr Alvaro and 25 of the Member States for supporting my amendments to crack down and tighten controls on these convertible weapons.
The tragic and senseless gun deaths of young people in my region - 15-year-old Jessie James, 11-year-old Rhys Jones and 12-year-old Kamilah Peniston - are a deeply sensitive issue.
We have to tackle the issue of illegality in a rigorous and consistent manner, but we must apply a judicious approach and a lack of bureaucratic complexity as the appropriate benchmarks in the legal sphere. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the text we will be voting on tomorrow is a compromise which finally satisfies almost all legal gun users.
The IND/DEM Group was invited, it appointed a rapporteur 18 months ago, it did not turn up to any meetings in committee or to any hearings, and it did not turn up to any trialogues.
