I should also like to take this opportunity to state that during yesterday's vote on the European Institute of Technology, I intended to vote in favour of adoption of that report, and not as I did in error. (PL) Mr President, the amendments contained in the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products as regards the national quotas for milk seem entirely justified.
The plan to increase the current limits on milk quotas by 2% is particularly welcome.
In addition, I should like to state that I support the opinion contained in the text of Amendment 13, namely that milk production is particularly important in regions with poorly developed agricultural infrastructure, where comparable alternatives in agricultural production often do not exist. - (LT) Recently we have observed a continuous increase in market demands for milk.
In my country, Lithuania, the milk procurement price increased by 40% in 2007.
To increase EU milk supply, these countries, as well as the other Member States, should be allowed to produce more milk.
I welcome the Commission's decision to increase national milk quotas by 2% from 1 April 2008.
However, looking towards the future, I would like to encourage the Commission to examine the possibility of increasing national milk quotas by 5% and gradually lowering fines for overproduction. (DE) Mr President, like the Green Group, I voted against the report on national quotas for milk.
I object to the 2% increase in quotas because such measures lead to an erosion of milk prices and threaten farmers' livelihoods.
I voted against the report because, like my Bavarian CSU colleagues, I am against raising milk quotas.
Prices for some products have fallen by over 30%.
In Bavaria we have 48 000 farms employing 90 000 people in the rearing of dairy cattle, and another 50 000 jobs in upstream and downstream sectors, making a total of 140 000 jobs.
It is time to scrap the quotas and trust the free market. (PL) Mr President, I support this report, which only proposes a 2% increase in the quotas for 2008-2009, because that was what was required in order to achieve a compromise.
I actually requested a 4% increase, because I believe that would enable us to ascertain how to retain the market, which in turn would allow us to draw conclusions on the basis of which we could take a decision on potential departure from the quota system in its present or amended form.
I am referring to changing the quota system after 31 March 2015.
The notion that these large farms are in the hands of one owner who is the recipient of generous subsidies is wrong.
So I did vote in favour, but with a heavy heart. (DE) Mr President, for the same reasons that I gave in the case of the Jeggle report, I and my CSU colleagues voted against Lutz Goepel's report.
Both Elisabeth Jeggle and Lutz Goepel have delivered excellent reports, and we could certainly agree with 98% of the points made in the Goepel report.
However, the key question is this: it says in the report that milk quotas should be increased by 2% on a voluntary basis, and I cannot agree to that.
That is a scandal. (GA) Mr President, as regards the health check on the Common Agricultural Policy, I would like to say that I am against the clause contained in it about payments that are taken from farmers to increase rural and environmental development schemes from 5% to 13%.
I therefore consider it very important to encourage local authorities in particular to increase solid communal waste collection, to separate and further use bio-components, and to create special financial instruments or possibly simplify the use of EU Structural Funds. (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in rural areas of the European Union as this is a very important and interesting subject.
The aforementioned subject is very close to my heart, because of my origins, my professional interest and also my activity as a Member of Parliament.
Women are particularly overburdened in rural areas.
Mr President, it is always a pleasure to rise on a position taken by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality in this place.
If you look at some of the recommendations in this report - of which I know the rapporteur on my particular side has done an awful lot of work to make sense - we call on Member States 'to provide [...] financial support for unremunerated work'.
I think that the subsidiarity of this report in particular has been trampled underfoot.
We are not the ones preventing these countries from exporting, therefore; other countries entirely are responsible for that.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (PT) In its January 2007 energy package, the European Commission presented a proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on energy statistics.
Developments over the last 30 years have gradually resulted in an increasing gap between the original aim of such instruments and their ability to represent energy realities.
It is noted that the Commission proposal is the result of work carried out in 2003, 2004 and early 2005 and largely ignores some key documents on energy issues published by the Commission itself in March 2006 (the Green Paper on energy) and in January 2007 (the energy package).
in writing. - (FR) I voted for this text, which requires the Member States to participate in collecting the necessary data to put together effective energy statistics.
The EU has undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and to make renewable energies account for 20% of total EU energy consumption by 2020, with the target set at 10% for biofuels.
in writing. - (SV) The collection of independent and accurate statistics helps consumers as well as business and the public sector to take a variety of decisions.
I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by my colleague Belge Bart Staes on statistics on pesticides.
As a result, I voted in favour of the Staes report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for this report.
This category must also be clearly defined and taken into account in the statistics.
in writing. - The need for mandatory collection of figures regarding the sale, use and distribution of plant protection products is a move that I support.
I am satisfied that the report moves to meet these requirements and voted accordingly.
in writing. - We support the Jeggle report on national quotas for milk, which provides for a 2% increase in the milk quota.
In the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development I put forward amendments calling for a greater increase in the milk quota of 3%.
We support the idea of providing for a milk quota balancing mechanism which would allow countries with overproduction to use up underused quota in other member states.
That said, today's vote is a signal to producers that the quota regime is being slowly loosened up in the run-in to the phasing out of quotas in 2015.
in writing. - (PT) Although the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development moves away from the Commission proposal by arguing for a voluntary 2% increase in milk quotas for Member States and ignores the end of the quota regime, the fact is that it does not take a stand against the dismantling of the current quota system or against the liberalisation of the sector after 2015, as planned by the Commissioner, but which we reject.
Despite recent variations in the milk market, both Portugal and the EU produce less than their quotas, which is why, instead of increasing these, balancing adjustments should be made between countries as 18 out of the 27 are producing below capacity.
in writing. - The compromise reached in the Agricultural Committee on Elisabeth Jeggle's report dealing with milk quotas is satisfactory.
A 2% increase in milk quotas is needed to allow Europe to respond to increased market demand.
This, it should be said, is also done for a 'soft landing' because quotas will be abolished in 2015 and the market handed over to integral liberalism, with the consequent risks for our stockbreeders in the mountains.
Now we are heading for increased desertification in mountainous agricultural areas if there are no longer any quotas to roll out as a safety net.
in writing. - (DE) Droughts and feed shortages, for instance in Australia, have led to a rise in milk prices.
Some Member States have not exhausted their original milk quotas even now, while others are reaching the limit or even struggling to remain within it.
For that reason milk quotas have in any event been raised by 0.5% in some countries.
Consequently I have voted against the Jeggle report on a further increase in milk quotas.
The Commission's proposal for a 'soft landing' policy and a 2% increase in quotas every year until 2014, when the current regulation expires, amounts to an intensification of the unequal distribution of quotas between Member States.
We believe that a non-linear increase in national quotas is vital so that additional increases can be given to Member States where production quotas have traditionally been insufficient.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted against the report on the CAP 'health check', as the report opposes improving the cross-compliance system and transferring money from direct support to rural development, as the Commission had proposed.
in writing. - (SV) I am voting against this report because I think that an increase in quotas should have been allocated to producers of organic milk.
in writing. - On behalf of the British Labour Members I wish to explain the reasons why we voted as we did on this report.
We strongly support the 2% increase in milk quotas for the year 2008/2009 proposed by the Commission, allowing European farmers to respond to increased market demands.
This is in line with the soft landing ahead of the milk quota system in 2015, as envisaged in the CAP Health Check.
in writing. - I was in favour of the position that the EU milk market should be opened up more rapidly than planned in an existing draft proposal and voted for an increase of the milk quota, although an increase of 5% as demanded by Poland was not presented to plenary.
The raising of the milk quota can be seen as the beginning of phasing out the quotas as the EU milk quota system is due to expire in 2015.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the adoption of Amendments 18-21, namely block 1.
The amendments were in fact rejected, but I nevertheless voted in favour of adoption of the document as a whole, because increasing milk quotas by 2% is at least a step in the right direction, even if it is too small a step.
Increasing quotas by 3% and then abolishing them altogether in the future, as our Parliament has already called for in the course of debates, would be a far more beneficial solution.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Goepel report on the CAP 'Health Check' to honour the work done in the Committee on Agriculture by the Socialist delegation.
We need to be more ambitious, in particular as regards a fairer redistribution of aid, greater transparency, better rural development policies, an effective safety net for risk management in the event of natural disasters, and the role of agriculture and its contribution to combating climate change as well as concerning biofuels.
in writing. - (FR) It was important for the House to issue its opinion on the general guidelines for the future 'Health Check'.
However, unlike the PSE Group, I was keen to support a number of points: partial decoupling of direct aid must be maintained for animal premiums, but care must be taken not to include only intensive or large-scale animal husbandry (para. 26, para. 32) historical references cannot gauge certain farmers' compliance with high environmental standards (para. 16) maintenance of progressive capping of direct aid, since this would permit a fairer distribution of CAP resources (para. 67) criticism of surveys on GMOs, reminder that it is impossible to implement coexistence, support for the precautionary principle (Amendment 30) rejection of the abolition of milk quotas in 2015 (para. 76) in writing. - We support the general thrust of the report on the Health Check on the CAP.
Farmers have budgeted on the current system remaining in place until 2013.
We would have welcomed a high increase in milk quota but in line with our view on the Jeggle report we have accepted the consensus opinion on a 2% increase for the coming marketing year.
in writing. - (PT) This resolution's criticism of the Commission proposal is inadequate, although it does include two of the many proposals made by ourselves.
However, its general approach is negative, particularly as it insists on decoupling production subsidies by calling on the Commission to push through the decoupling policy at a faster rate.
in writing. - (SV) The current health check on the common agricultural policy offered the Commission and the European Parliament a chance to take ambitious and determined steps in order to get the continued development of the policy under control.
We have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - I abstained on the final vote on this report.
Any CAP reform must first decrease subsidy and increase the role of the market in agriculture.
The Goepel report improves it in many aspects, although it does make some amendments with which I cannot agree.
For all these reasons, I abstained from voting.
in writing. - (FR) The CAP 'Health Check' established by the Commission is not a health check at all: it is an unconfessed new reform.
in writing. - (SV) In Sweden both the previous and the present governments have made positive statements on the forthcoming 'health check' of the EU's long-term budget and the common agricultural policy over the next few years in the expectation that it will lead to very considerable changes and reforms.
The Christian Democrat/Conservative and Social Democrat majority in the European Parliament thinks that reforms are only to take place after 2013.
All other solutions would be a betrayal of the voters in the six Member States which, in 2005, did not want to expand the EU's long-term budget.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for this report, which recommends, in particular, taking into consideration the special characteristics of regions in difficulty and sensitive sectors such as livestock farming, and making the rules for farmers simpler.
The aim is to improve the functioning of the common agricultural policy on the basis of the experience gained since 2003, and to adapt this to the new challenges and possibilities presented in 2008 in a European Union with 27 Member States.
The report claims that direct aid will still be necessary after 2013, not only in the event of problems on the markets, but also to offset the services rendered by farmers to society and the very high standards in terms of the environment, health and animal welfare.
In relation to risk management, the Commission should receive a message from the House in this report in the perspective of the future CAP reform.
in writing. - (DE) In order to prevent high-quality food in Europe from becoming scarce and very expensive, many people must now come to understand that agriculture in the EU needs to be competitive, sustainable, multifunctional and comprehensive, as well as being competitive internationally.
The compromise we are voting on today represents a commendable job of work by our rapporteur, Lutz Goepel.
This compromise does not fully satisfy me, however, particularly because the proposed modulation of over EUR 10 000, even if it is apparently only 1%, cannot reasonably be expected of farmers in my country.
It must also be clear that Article 69 is not a panacea, even though it is acceptable to make more use of these facilities to finance measures to assist, for example, young farmers, afforestation and early harvests.
The abandonment of agricultural land and reduced production are leading to the decline of the countryside and the devaluation of the role of the primary sector in the social and economic framework.
The central axis of this reform must include certain key ideas, such as the importance of the rural world's viability, the need to prevent the disappearance of European agriculture, farmers' incomes, the need to bring into this market young entrepreneurs and creative models of production and management, and also consumers' interests, which, even though we are all consumers, are very often not vigorously represented.
The Goepel report adopted entirely the wrong approach; I therefore voted against it.
The Commission has made a fair amount of progress in changing over to a more up-to-date system of support to agriculture.
in writing. - On behalf of the British Labour members I wish to explain the reasons why we voted as we did on this important report.
Therefore I and the British Labour delegation will be voting in favour of amendments in favour of increased funding for rural development, opening up trade with developing countries, and against amendments that seek to employ protectionist measures for EU farmers.
We will not vote against the report but abstain in the hope that when the legislative proposals come forward Parliament will recognise the need for radical reform. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 163(1) of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - The need to reform the CAP has to be on-going.
in writing. - (CS) Regarding the report by Mr Lutz Goepel on the CAP 'Health Check', since I am one of the Czech Republic's representatives in the European Parliament I consider it my duty to draw urgent attention to the following facts.
The Proposal by the Commission for the revision of the common agricultural policy should result in legislative texts that the Council and the European Parliament will table in May 2008 at the latest.
in writing. - (NL) In the Lisbon Treaty the five CAP objectives remain unaltered in relation to the current Treaty.
The Treaty stipulates, among other things, that reasonable prices must be ensured.
Small and medium-sized farmers are suffering from the results of the 2003 CAP review: unemployment has risen because thousands of small and medium-sized holdings have disappeared.
In Greece, tobacco-growing has fallen by 70%, two in five sugar factories have closed, agricultural revenue has dwindled and vineyards are set to decrease.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Klaß on the situation of women in rural areas of the European Union because I consider that rural development policies must take account of the gender dimension.
I believe that women play a vital role in promoting local and social growth.
However, we regret that our other proposals on the situation of women in rural areas were not adopted.
We therefore continue to stress the need for an in-depth review of the CAP with priority being given to the protection of family-based agriculture and small and medium-sized holdings in order to support production and guarantee incomes.
in writing. - (PL) Whilst not undervaluing the importance of towns and large conurbations, it is important to keep in mind that the major part of European social and economic life takes place in rural areas.
I support the main idea contained in this report, namely that the development of rural areas cannot be based exclusively on agriculture.
The EU's agricultural policy aims to ensure genuine sustainable development for rural areas, thus providing the local population, women included, with additional opportunities to better develop their potential.
This involves women assuming a more important role in the life of local communities, playing their part in the creation of new enterprises and becoming involved in the developing service sector.
Unfortunately, female employment indicators are lowest in rural areas, because women who work on farms are not always counted as part of the labour force.
Such women also have fewer opportunities for paid jobs than women in urban areas.
in writing. - I supported the Klaß report, which deals with many important issues facing women in our rural areas.
Member States must work to ensure that these issues are addressed and that living conditions in rural communities are fair for all our citizens.
in writing. - (DE) I am in favour of measures to assist women in rural regions because this particular group is severely affected by unemployment and, as a result, by poverty and possible social exclusion.
in writing. - I welcome the Christa Klaß report on the situation of women in rural areas of the EU.
By introducing measures to recognise, protect and promote the role of women in the rural sector we will not only improve equality between men and women in such areas, but stimulate economic growth and encourage sustainable development in the sector.
in writing. - (FR) Equality of the sexes in rural areas ought to arouse much greater EU interest.
The situation of women's rights, in fact, and their place within rural society require substantially more determination by the Member States and the Commission.
The European Commission must make a clean break with this legal inequality, which deprives certain European women of access to social security, maternity and sick leave, or acquisition of pension rights in the event of divorce.
The Member States must, for instance, offer economic incentives to businesses that diversify women's work, and in a more general sense support the development of infrastructure and new technology in rural environments.
in writing. - (FR) The situation of women in rural areas has been discussed many times at numerous international conferences on women (1975, 1980, 1985 and 1995) on agricultural reform and rural development (1979) and on population (1994), and also by the European Commission and Parliament.
It is high time strategies were developed to curb the exodus of women from rural areas, particularly women with qualifications.
in writing. - (FR) I wish to congratulate Csaba Tabajdi on his excellent report, and the research and summary he has carried out so successfully.
However, I wish to state that I voted against paragraph 27: '27.
in writing. - (PT) This report covers several important issues and makes some findings which we support.
In particular we agree that, before using 'dedicated' biomass, we should firstly use the various sources of waste that have an energy and an economic value, thus reducing or solving serious environmental problems.
However, we feel that certain issues should have been considered in greater detail, in particular the difference between biogas and the extremely important biomethane, which is an upgrade of biogas.
Switzerland and Sweden are already producing biomethane and using natural gas networks for its distribution.
In the Gothenburg area in the south of Sweden, there are already around 4 500 vehicles powered solely by biomethane.
in writing. - (PT) The Tabajdi report stresses the potential of agricultural biogas and suggests adopting a directive on biogas production.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a need for review of EU legislation.
I agree with the statement that investment in the production of biogas from different sources should be encouraged, drawing on EU funds allocated to regional and rural development for that purpose.
There is a need for biogas policy formulation to be encouraged across the EU if we want Europe to adequately diversify its energy production.
in writing. - (DE) Biogas installations operated by small farmers are a rational solution: here, slurry and other waste can be utilised for the production of biogas before being composted into high-grade fertiliser or coupled to fodder drying, in both cases closing the ecological cycle.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report by Mr Tabajdi on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a need for review of EU legislation.
In my view, there are significant economic and environmental reasons for supporting the motion for a European Parliament resolution on sustainable agriculture and biogas, especially as this will entail the need to undertake a more detailed study of European Union legislation on the matter.
This would represent considerable progress towards achieving the target set by the European Commission in the White Paper with regard to increasing the amount of energy obtained from renewable sources from 6% in 1995 to 12% in 2010.
I support the stance of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which is urging the European Commission to incorporate the new biogas production strategy into the Kyoto mechanism at the earliest opportunity.
