Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 8 September 2000.
Thank you, Mr Tajani.
I would like to urge you, Madam President and the Bureau members - I understand this is coming on your agenda very soon - to think very carefully before taking this decision because constituency weeks are a very good idea.
There is a desperate need for MEPs to communicate with the electorate in a much more effective way.
The fact that we had such a poor turnout in the European elections proves that this is the case and, if we allow people to sign in during constituency weeks, we are undermining the whole point of them.
I wish to draw our fellow MEPs' attention to a demonstration which is leaving Brussels today for Paris and to ask them to exercise the utmost vigilance where this is concerned.
They are weeks without meetings but they are weeks when the Commission, the Council and all other agents of this Parliament, including the political groups, are hard at work.
Consequently, we believe that those Members - and there are many of them - who are writing reports, chairing committees, running groups and have legitimate reasons to be here should, on declaration of those objectives, be able to come and do their work in the place that they were elected to do it.
On 13 September, a homeless person was found dead.
Thirdly, on 4 September, right-wing extremists beat up a person whose parents are of Tunisian origin.
With regard to the joint discussion on racism, I must inform you that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left has also tabled an oral question to the Commission on right-wing extremist violence in Germany.
If I am to believe the relevant committee in my own country, they amount to approximately thirty per year out of a total of almost four million crimes and offences, including a million committed by foreigners against native Europeans.
I suggest that the two issues be examined concurrently.
In the course of tomorrow' s debate, I should like us, on the basis of what many of our fellow MEPs have said today, to be able to agree upon at least one amendment, namely that, within the confines of this Parliament, no MEP may make racist remarks.
Measures to be taken following the fuel crisis and the rise in oil prices The next item is the Commission statement on the measures to be taken following the oil crisis and the increase in the price of oil.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak to the whole House after having spoken yesterday for two hours with the Energy Committee.
Recent times have been marked by the fact that oil prices have been rising for the last 18 months, and the European public is feeling the full effect.
Clearly, the people who will suffer most as a result of this rise will be the least-favoured social groups and also certain specific sectors which are particularly affected.
At the beginning of 1999, the price of a barrel of crude oil stood at around 10 dollars, whereas today it stands at around 33 to 35 dollars.
The reason for this rise is very clear: the restriction on production on the part of the OPEC countries which coincides with a world economic recovery and the resulting increase in demand.
The impact of this rise has been particularly great in the European Union and especially in the euro zone, owing to the euro' s value against the dollar.
We cannot ignore the consequences of this rise on Europe' s economic development.
We would all benefit from prices being established in a market of free competition and not, as is happening now, in accordance with a monopolistic situation in a market which to be honest is less than transparent.
Furthermore, the European Union' s level of dependency currently stands at around 50%.
However, unless we introduce new measures, we will reach more or less 70% by 2020.
In the specific case of oil, our dependency on external sources stands at between 85% and 90%.
This must clearly lead us to a debate on the increase in our energy dependency on external sources and, therefore, on our vulnerability in this respect.
That is why ensuring a sufficient level of independence and, above all, of availability in the European Union' s energy supplies, must be a priority policy and furthermore a policy on a Community scale.
Little more than a year ago, when I first came into contact with this House as future Commissioner with responsibility for energy, I indicated very clearly that, from the Commission' s point of view, there were two crucial elements which needed to be considered in the coming years.
On the one hand, the need to strategically promote dialogue on energy policy in international fora, and especially with the large producing and consumer countries, and, on the other, the need to adapt our priorities so that we can better focus our changes in the face of adverse energy situations such as the current one.
The Commission intends to fulfil these fundamental objectives and has been working on them for several months.
I hope it will serve as a starting point for a broad debate amongst the interested parties to examine the role and place of each of our energy sources over the next twenty or thirty years.
Furthermore, we must promote international dialogue in the short term and step up this dialogue with the producing countries in order to convince them of our common interest in price stability - an issue which they themselves have raised - putting forward the objective of a price band.
At the same time, we have to take account of the geopolitical context in which we are moving, especially of the peace process in the Middle East and the complex political situation in the whole area.
The European Union must send a clear and forceful message to all the OPEC countries and highlight the need for appropriate measures to be taken in order to fulfil what they have indicated to be their objective, that is to say, for oil prices to return to a reasonable band.
We must say that we are the main net importer and the second largest consumer of oil in the world.
The European Union therefore has the means and reasons justifying its voice to be heard but perhaps political means are not sufficient.
As for the fiscal aspect, an issue that has been much discussed in recent times, the Commission understands the concerns of the professional sectors most affected by the sudden increase in oil prices.
In this respect we encourage the Member States to enter into and maintain social dialogue with all the interested parties in order to find solutions which are suitable and conform to Community law.
One of the lessons we can learn from the blockades which have paralysed economic activity in various States, is the need to raise the level of coordination between Member States and, of course, with the support of the Commission.
To this end, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few minutes I will leave this meeting to depart for Luxembourg, where a special Council of Transport Ministers is taking place.
For both environmental and economic reasons, Member States must not give in to pressure and change their overall medium-term policy on oil.
However, the very difficult situation we are in at the moment probably requires, in the short term, the adoption of aid measures by the competent public authorities.
The Commission intends to continue the contacts established with Member States in order to detect any practices which contravene competition rules.
Any agreements between companies or abuses of dominant positions must be severely penalised.
It is probable that the barrel price, in normal economic circumstances, will not in the long term return to below 20 dollars - and, of course, in no event to what it was 18 months ago, that is to say, 10 dollars.
We must tackle this dependency and this situation through two fundamental fields of action: diversifying our sources and saving energy.
The management of demand and energy saving is the other area on which we must focus for the long term.
With regard to oil, we are today 50% more efficient that 25 years ago, but it must be said that the transport sector still has to make a special effort in this area.
More than 90% of the increase in oil consumption in the Union from now until 2020 will be absorbed in principle by the transport sector.
Measures must also be adopted for construction and savings in this sector, which is one of the fields that consumes most energy, not to mention the promotion of competition in the gas sector and the emergence of gas as a competitor and alternative to oil.
Nothing would now be easier than calling on all Member States of the Union to substantially decrease taxation on oil products up until the price of a barrel of crude hopefully returns to the 22 - 25 US dollar mark, or thereabouts.
The Member States now have to find a common approach in both the short and the long term.
Measures taken separately by individual countries under pressure from the protests will only make the situation more problematic and will distort competition.
The responsibility for action clearly lies with national governments.
That is to say, we need a virtuous policy, but at the same time we are now facing a particularly complex situation in that there are a series of professions who are in a very difficult position and which, as forms of Community-scale protests are developing in Europe, has lead to blockades and disorder and disparate reactions from our governments.
I would like very briefly to point out that, in recent times, thanks to more rigorous budgetary management, there has been talk of lightening the tax burden.
We must be able to understand this reaction and, at the same time, we must explain to our citizens the reasons for our decisions.
Above all, we must try to see to it that our governments react jointly and that, finally, we create a European energy policy that is in keeping with the common economic and social area.
There is a lack of internal coherence, both in the reactions to the protests - protests which I can often understand very well - and in defending the currency, as well as a lack of external coherence in our attitude to OPEC.
This is why I believe that a cut in the general tax burden, as proposed by my party in Belgium, is to be preferred to a specific tax burden on fuel.
The end result would surely be that there would be more drug addicts than before and a greater crisis.
Our group has today proposed an integrated programme such as this to serve as the European Union' s new energy policy programme.
We need to establish a genuine long-term partnership between these countries and ourselves.
And then, all the other root causes of the current situation need to be looked at: cases of speculation, the inadequate stocks in the United States and the fall in the value of the euro.
The second problem revealed, in my view, by this crisis is the lack of coherence between our strategy choices within the Union.
The third fundamental problem illustrated spectacularly by this crisis is the extreme difficulty many European leaders have in making an accurate assessment of grass-root demands.
They have not seen, or have not wanted to see, the serious problems which this rise in fuel costs presented for people obliged to use their cars or dependent upon domestic fuel oil.
Mr President, the excessive rise in the price of oil is not without its causes, but there is a risk that, because of its own large share of responsibility for these causes, Europe will not take account of them.
You really would have thought you were back in 1973 after the first oil crisis.
Many of these solutions are perfectly rational and obvious and, occasionally, ideological such as restrictions on vehicles or the eco-tax but, as you reminded us, none of these is a panacea that will in itself sort out the situation.
For, if this crisis affects people in their working lives, it also affects people in their private lives, especially in rural areas where the car is still too often the main means of transport and communication and the one to which people resort.
Whether the price drops again in the short term is of no consequence because there will be a steady upward trend in the long term.
In other words, the price of oil will rise to between USD 40 and 60 in the future.
Nevertheless, the price increases and the tax protests are timely, to remind us both about our dependence in Europe on imported energy and about the difficulties we face in achieving environmental objectives such as CO2 emission reduction.
Mr President, the explosion in the prices of oil products illustrates the need to make the euro into a genuinely international currency.
The Socialists are asking the Commission to encourage European oil importers to sign contracts in euros.
According to the ECB, monetary policy cannot remedy this situation in the short term.
Economic policy cannot offer a solution to the rise in oil prices either, and must, in addition, be subject to a rise in the cost of capital.
They get the same prices in the same market but their costs are different.
This is an intolerable state of affairs for the transport sector.
British Conservatives still are but it is time to wake up.
We have two choices.
We must adopt alternative fuels - biodiesel, fuel cells, gas and electric cars.
Let us put more money in the budget, change the decision on programmes like SAVE and Altener.
We do not need a new budget heading.
Let us negotiate - but as the European Union - because stability is in the interests not only of oil - importing countries but also of oil - exporting countries.
Ten dollars per barrel of oil was far too low a price and, furthermore, it had negative effects on our economies, although this seems more complicated to explain.
On the other hand, 35 dollars is too high a price for us to bear.
Much of our energy is destined for this specific sector in particular.
I would like us to try to communitise this, but, in the mean time, we must coordinate the energy policy of the Member States.
It is also necessary to continue making progress on transport policies and we must avoid, as a result of a crisis such as this, suddenly changing our transport policy and energy policy which has been established over recent years.
We must not therefore use the method of lowering taxes as a solution to this circumstantial rise in oil prices.
Perhaps, in a very limited way, some countries may resort to that method, above all because there may be an exception in the directive on hydrocarbons.
Energy and transport policies are medium- and long-term policies, which cannot be modified under pressure from very specific circumstances, which I am sure are going to change within a year and a half or two years although, no doubt, we will not return to prices of 10 dollars per barrel.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, I have no doubt that in the age of new communications technologies, in the age of the Internet, which is well under way at the beginning of this new century, we legislators are faced with a very exciting challenge: to protect people from intrusion and from attacks on their private life, their dignity or their reputation.
The protection of these rights is recognised in numerous legislative texts of a universal nature, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, of a transnational nature, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Liberties, or of a national nature, such as the constitutions of the Member States, but the legislative diversity in this area requires that efforts be made in terms of the harmonisation and unification of criteria.
The Council' s proposal for a decision is correct but is, in my view, timid and does not go far enough.
In this delicate field of data protection we must achieve two fundamental objectives: transparency in the future functioning of the secretariat and the independence of its work.
I therefore believe that the final objective should be the establishment of a single body corresponding to a single legal framework within the European Union and that that body be provided with its own budget and staff, even exceeding the normal distribution between pillars, taking advantage of the option provided for in Article 42 of the Treaty of the European Union.
I therefore believe that this Parliament must go further than the Council' s decision, which, as I have said, falls short on aspects such as the election and appointment of the secretariat, its dismissal or the guarantee of professional secrecy in its functioning.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are legislating in a field which is fundamental to the future of our interpersonal, economic and commercial relations.
In order to combat this duplication of supervisory bodies, which leads to inefficiency, the Portuguese have drawn up an initiative for a proposal with a view to the adoption of a Council Decision to create a single secretariat for the three joint data protection supervisory bodies.
In the current circumstances, it is generally accepted that this is a viable solution which would reduce the problems caused by the existence of three data protection supervisory bodies within the Union.
The rapporteur recognises that it is not feasible to set up this single body in the European Union in the short term, and refers in his report to establishing it in the medium term, under the third pillar.
It might have been wiser for the report to have set a fixed and reasonable deadline for this body to be established, which would give more force to the proposal put forward by the rapporteur and the European Parliament.
Mr President, rapporteur, I welcome any initiative that aims to improve data protection for the people of the European Union.
Fundamental human rights such as the right to freedom of movement, the right to asylum, or in many cases, even the simple right to human dignity, will be compromised, and these institutions will support and control this.
A new supervisory authority must be able to cover all the relevant registers, including the Eurodac register which has a major role to play in the EU' s asylum policy.
Moreover, the Sirene organisation established under the Schengen agreement must be covered by a new supervisory authority.
The whole of the Sirene organisation suffers from a palpable lack of public and parliamentary control.
Public and parliamentary control must be reinforced, especially when it comes to Sirene and Schengen.
In matters of data protection we have to make the difficult compromise between the protection of privacy, the safety of our citizens, and the stability of the Single Market.
The level of data protection in today' s bit streams is still not adequate in the European Union.
The rapid growth in ecommerce in particular is posing new threats to the protection of data concerning our citizens.
The workload is increasing at a ferocious rate.
We must recognise that this is not an easy task, not only because of the sophistication of the technology, but also because it is particularly important for us to find a solution that strikes a balance between safeguarding citizens' rights and freedoms on the one hand and on the other, having the instruments needed to ensure that the democratic rule of law is respected and that we can effectively fight transnational and organised crime.
This approach also involves - as various speakers have already pointed out - introducing, either under the Europol Convention or under new laws based on the Schengen Convention, clear and transparent principles of democratic and judicial supervision, which will guarantee the fundamental values on which a Union governed by the rule of law must be based.
Perhaps the most difficult issue that this report raises is the problem of deciding whether a separate budget heading should be created for the joint secretariat.
The idea that we are therefore advocating, even if this issue can potentially only be resolved in the long term, is to create a separate budget heading.
So in practical terms the Commission understands the Council' s desire to use existing financial structures, but only as a provisional measure.
To conclude, I am delighted that this report and its underlying principles have received such widespread support in the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The object of the exercise was simply to deal with Articles 22 and 23.
Firstly, the Council' s move is contrary to Article 202 of the EC Treaty, which establishes the principle that the implementation of the rules which the Council lays down shall be conferred on the Commission.
This is particularly important in this case.
For these two highly convincing reasons, we are in favour of the proposal submitted by the Commission and Commissioner Vitorino, to the effect that implementing powers should be bestowed on the Commission, and I would urge you all to attend tomorrow' s vote.
The Dublin Convention in itself has always been important but it is the flaws in the Dublin Convention and our failure to administer the Dublin Convention properly, which has caused issues to arise which could even threaten the human rights of some of the applicants and individuals concerned.
All the countries that are signatories to the United Nations Convention of 1951 are well aware of the criteria for determining whether someone should be granted the extremely valuable and significant status of a refugee and I hope that nothing we ever do here would affect the right to make an application within those criteria.
Last time it expressed its opinion on the proposal as a whole and I believe that the position Parliament adopted was very close to what the Socialist Group wanted.
I wish to defend Parliament' s position, which this House voted for a few months ago in relation to the Eurodac Agreement.
I therefore believe that we are now being consulted on an amendment which the Council is introducing in this communication, and that it affects the allocation of competences for this action by the Council.
The Treaty established that the Commission must have responsibility for implementation - for Eurodac also, we believe - and also established that Parliament can supervise what the Commission does.
For this reason, my Group is tomorrow going to abstain in the vote on all the amendments which do not relate to this change to the Council' s communication.
We are going to abstain on those amendments which we feel have already been approved by Parliament and which are already included in this Parliament' s previous report.
I hope that it does so taking account of Parliament' s decision and it is important that tomorrow' s vote shows Parliament' s strong support for the previous proposal.
And when - rather than if - we achieve codecision in this area, this will enable Parliament to require the Commission to re-examine the measures if the implementing measures are exceeded.
My group supported these amendments when the focus was on the substance but at this stage it is better to concentrate on the issue of whether the Commission or Council has implementing powers so that we in Parliament state loudly and in unison that our interests lie in backing the Commission.
Last November, the majority of the European Parliament adopted a report on the creation of the Eurodac system.
Following this vote, the Council modified its proposal for a regulation, stating that the Eurodac system for comparing fingerprints should be established and administered by the Council rather than the Commission.
This important change is the reason why this report is being re-examined by this Chamber.
However, the new proposal being examined today has not taken any account whatsoever of the amendments Parliament has voted in favour of.
Whether it be about specifying 18 years as the minimum age at which an applicant for asylum can be registered on the Eurodac database, about erasing personal data once legally recognised status has been acquired or about substituting the expression 'third-country national' for 'alien' , the Council has not seen fit to take account of Parliament' s opinion and has been supported in this by the Commission, which has also declined to take account of it.
This means voting on the text adopted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which includes the amendments relating to the lower age limit of 18 years, the erasing of personal data in the case of any applicant who has achieved legal status and the use of the expression 'third-country national' rather than 'alien' .
Once the applicant concerned has obtained legal status, there is in fact no justification for retaining the personal data and fingerprints of someone whose situation has been regularised in law.
It is not solely in the future Charter that the protection of fundamental rights, close to our hearts as it is, becomes an issue, but also in every European text, where we must be vigilant in their defence.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak about the issues underlying the proposal for a regulation, which have been so thoroughly studied and discussed in committee and in this Chamber, a process that culminated in the vote on Parliament' s opinion last November.
We are unhappy with this, firstly because Parliament, as has already been pointed out, is seeing its rights diminished, specifically its right to remain informed.
In fact, the Commission is, in general terms, obliged, under the terms of Article 7 of the decision on comitology, to keep Parliament informed of committee proceedings and whenever the Commission transmits relevant measures or proposals to the Council.
Secondly, there is a lack of legal coherence and above all a lack of legal justification in these transfers of competence.
Article 1 of the decision on comitology has not been respected and therefore this course of action breaches Article 202 of the Treaty, since this article contains no provisions that would justify this procedure being adopted in this specific case.
Mr President, I am grateful to Commissioner Vitorino for his work.
I speak for some Members on this side of the House in saying that there are concerns about this report.
What is under discussion today is merely a new consultation on the specific issue of comitology.
Therefore, on the only issue which is still under discussion - comitology - the Commission wishes to remind Parliament of the position it adopted towards the Council: we disagree with the Council' s decision to reserve to itself the power to lay down most of the implementing rules here.
This factor was crucial in the commitments that the Commission made to you, the European Parliament, with regard to our reasons for being prepared to participate in a Eurodac system.
Lastly, I should like once more to make it clear to Parliament that we have not used these doubts or this quarrel about interpretation in relation to Eurodac as an excuse for inaction: the Commission has already submitted a working paper on revising the Dublin Convention, which it has in fact sent to the European Parliament.
I am particularly pleased to be able to tell you that the Commission has today given substance to a key aspect of the Tampere mandate on asylum by approving a proposal for a directive on minimum rules for a common procedure for requests for asylum.
Once again, I would like to thank you - even the honourable Members who have criticised the Commission - for the support expressed by various political groups for the Commission to manage and implement the Eurodac system.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It is very interesting when you look at the statistics because the exact reasons become clear.
Many of these accidents - many of which can be avoided - come about because of the poor use of scaffolding or ladders.
Figures published recently by the European Agency for Health and Safety in Bilbao suggest enormous variations between Member States in the incidence of falls from heights.
The current cost, both in personal terms and those of the workers and families affected and in terms of economic costs to industry and the social and health protection systems, warrants legislation in this area.
This is an amendment to an existing directive on the general minimum requirements for work equipment at work.
The directive finally adopted covered only two specific types of work equipment: mobile equipment and equipment for lifting loads which are very important areas in their own right.
This directive will rectify this serious omission.
Also it is important to stress as some seem mildly confused about this, that this proposal is based on Article 138, previously Article 118a, which laid down the minimum requirements for ensuring a better level of protection for workers health and safety.
What it does is provide for safe use of ladders and other equipment.
I wonder whether they would accept that there are many people who know exactly what this legislation can bring about.
Finally, concerning the amendments tabled, which I have only just seen today, I welcome Amendments Nos 22 and 25: Amendment No 22 as a second choice if Amendment No 5 falls and Amendment No 25 as a recital as it hits the tone of my report very well.
Inform us of any situation of risk.
Unfortunately, every day we hear news of accidents at work.
Or perhaps it may fall to the worker, because they ignore the risks, or because of a lack of caution, or because adequate measures or precautions have not been taken, mainly in activities such as construction, in which the temporary nature of works and of the sector itself - a bridging sector, between primary activity, mainly agricultural, and the industrial and service sectors - require even more precautionary measures.
Health and safety at work, especially where the risk is very high, is the responsibility of society and of all the sectors concerned, and the whole of society must assume its fair share of responsibility and commitment.
In this way, European citizens will see Europe as being closer to them, a Europe that addresses their problems, concerns and interests.
The risk assessment has been carried out at a snail' s pace in the European Union, and this second revision is a positive sign that we really want to support and encourage.
Although fatal accidents have decreased by 13%, which is to some extent linked to Community action between 1994 and 1996, there were still 5 549 deaths in 1996.
It is estimated that the damage caused to the European economy in that year was around 146 million working days lost.
It is particularly relevant to the debate on the directive that I mentioned earlier that, although the construction industry does not have the highest number of accidents, it does have the greatest number of fatal accidents, comparable only with the road haulage sector.
Since the famous survey conducted in 1907 in the United States, when identification, compulsory registration, cause of death, the employer' s age, the worker' s age, name, circumstances and the accident itself were studied to establish costs and duties enabling workers to be better protected... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as a number of speakers have already mentioned, falls from heights are among the most serious categories of industrial accident and, by means of this report which is a stage in the elaboration of the directive on minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment, we are setting to work on doing something about the problem.
I believe that the work begun with the European Agency for Health and Safety in Bilbao will make a positive contribution to a reduction in the accident figures as we find the answers to these questions and use them constructively.
Mobile scaffolds must be prevented from moving about, but this cannot always be legislated for sufficiently.
Mr President, I think it outrageous that the problem of accidents due to falls at work can give rise to some much opposition and cannot be sorted out more quickly.
As the rapporteur is careful to point out, however, building firms are opposed to regulation of any kind and, as a result, the report carefully avoids implicating them.
Mr President, we support and value Mr Skinner' s work, although we do feel that, given the premises and, above all, the implications of the issue, he could have been a little more incisive, in view, moreover, of the fact that eleven years have passed since the first directive on the subject was produced and of the shortcomings of its amending directive which entered into force five years ago.
In effect, occupational accidents continue to be the scourge of the world of employment in all the countries of the European Union, although there is a higher incidence in certain sectors.
Safety measures are not the only things that cost.
Preventive action is also better, cheaper and more humane than a social policy that deals with the consequences.
It cannot be the answer to deal with social policy at a purely regional, or even provincial, level.
Mr President, as the rapporteur' s fine report points out, the figures recently published by the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work, whose headquarters are in Bilbao, indicate very differing results in relation to work accidents between the various Member States, owing to the fact that the States are not applying uniform statistical criteria.
The Commission has proposed an amended directive on health and safety at work.
It is not a question of whether or not the recommendations in the report are sound.
Or we can answer that the EU, through the Commission and Parliament, is about deciding whether or not it should be legal for one person to stand at the bottom of a ladder holding on to it while another person climbs up it.
I am very grateful to be able to follow my colleague, Philip Bushill-Matthews, because I share many of the concerns he has expressed.
There can be no reason why Member States, acting in a uniform way, would necessarily be able to tackle this problem more effectively than individual Member States and, above all, there can be no reason for taking such a close interest in ordinary aspects of people' s working lives.
A common and uniform and centralised standard on how you climb a ladder is not necessary and it is an undesirable interference with the way people run their work environment.
I believe that it is not necessary to conduct a risk assessment every time it is proposed to use a ladder.
As anyone working in the home can tell you, ladders are used very commonly and very frequently and, yes, there are accidents but I do not believe this kind of directive will ever eliminate those accidents.
It is a very important issue and survey after survey, including those in Eurobarometer, and surveys of SMEs including by the last British Government have shown that SMEs themselves recognise the importance of good health and safety legislation.
It really is absolutely deplorable and we should all - right across the political spectrum - make it clear that we will not tolerate that sort of behaviour from that minority.
Mr President, first of all I would like to say that my delegation intends to back the Skinner report on the Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive amending for the second time the Directive concerning minimum health and safety requirements.
I certainly cannot see why mature adults should be dictated to on how they should climb ladders, or get down them, or why a risk assessment should have to be completed before a ladder is used; or why there should be an instruction to the effect that, two people should not climb a ladder at the same time, if at all possible, or even one stating that time spent up a ladder should not exceed half an hour, or - a peculiar refinement - 25% of total working hours.
The Skinner report will go down in parliamentary lore as 'the ladder report' , and the people of the European Union will justifiably ask themselves whether we do not have anything better to do than produce legislation on things they take for granted, which should in fact be a matter for in-house experts and have no place either in an EU directive or an associated report produced by the codecision-making Parliament!
We need more Europe where internal and external security is concerned, more Europe when it comes to looking after our interests in the global competition, in currency policy and in the completion of the single market.
Let us make it clear that no one in this Parliament wants anything other than that the number of accidents, especially fatal accidents, should fall in all workplaces around our splendid continent and in our Member States.
What is it, then, which leads us to believe that it is at the level of the European Parliament, representing countries with more than 15 national parliaments, that the right forum for decision-making is to be found?
Using the enterprises' language, I should like to say that this directive is based not only on social solidarity and social justice, but on competition issues as well.
It aims to prevent falls from heights by setting minimum requirements for the use of the relevant work equipment such as ladders and scaffolding.
Falls from heights account for more than 10% of occupational accidents and one in ten of such falls results in permanent invalidity or death.
On your amendments and the ideas behind the amendments, we are happy to accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 9, 11, 15, 20 and 22 as they stand.
On the text of Amendments Nos 10, 13, 14, 18, the Commission agrees with the principles behind the changes proposed and can agree with most of the texts put forward.
However, we do propose a few changes or additions, mainly to be sure that we take account of all possible situations and do not create any unintended holes in the safety net we intend to provide with this initiative.
We agree with the main idea behind Amendment No 18 and the references to the securing of the decks and the prevention of unintentional movement.
Finally, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 21, 23, 24, 25 and 26.
This is not a question of a political disagreement but simply that Amendments Nos 6 and 7 change accepted standard texts while the other amendments repeat what is stated elsewhere.
We must endeavour to keep Community legislation as straightforward as possible and avoid any inconsistencies in the overall framework.
In the same way, the definition of "collective fall protection safeguards" given in Amendment No 8 is not necessary.
These safeguards have already been mentioned in the basic directive and there is no risk of confusion.
Amendment No 5 is covered by Amendment No 22, which is accepted as it stands.
Amendment No 6 covers training, which is already incorporated in Recital 7, and research, which is beyond the scope of this directive.
Furthermore, Recital 7 uses a standard form of words.
There are thus several reasons for not accepting Amendment No 6.
Amendment No 7 advocates a change in Article 2(3).
Amendment No 23 cannot be supported by the Commission as the issue of health and safety committees in enterprises has been appropriately addressed in the framework directive and according to it, detailed regulation is a matter of subsidiarity for all Member States.
Amendments Nos 24 and 25 must be rejected because training is already adequately covered, especially following Amendments Nos 16, 19 and 22.
The basis is Article 138, which was previously Article 118a - and if I am right, we must look into the costs - administrative and otherwise - for small-to-medium-sized businesses, as laid down in the Treaty already.
If only Mr Bushill-Matthews had been here when I first started, he would have heard some of the arguments which I wish to place before this House as to why it is important to have EU legislation.
The debate is closed.
We are awaiting the outcome of the Commissioner' s review of over 100 responses to his White Paper on the reform of restrictive trade practices and the abuse of market power.
Competition is not an end in itself, as far as we are concerned, it is a means of achieving growth and employment, and if, like the Commissioner and ourselves, you champion a functioning single market organised along the lines of the social market economy, you do not favour unlimited competition, but competition governed by the necessary principles of political organisation, keeping in mind that we have a responsibility towards the future and our fellow human beings.
The rapporteur touched on some of them, and I would like to explore them again.
I therefore ask myself whether treating horizontal restraints and vertical restraints differently will really lead to greater legal certainty, or whether it would not be better for both, to have a block exemption regulation.
I have said in other interventions that, in my opinion, it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction.
Having been in force for 40 years, Community competition law had begun to show signs of exhaustion.
There is no doubt whatsoever that the competition rules included in the Treaty, and in the law derived from it, have contributed significantly to the growth of a culture of competition, and have been fundamental to the creation of the single market.
The European legal tradition, especially the continental tradition, concentrated more on aspects relating to unfair competition; the free competition elements were imported from the United States.
It is no longer possible to apply competition rules which do not take account of the economic analysis and a consideration of the market' s power.
In the field of vertical restrictions, the new regulations on exemption by category and the guidelines for their application have been approved.
In this area, the Commission is now presenting us with two proposals for regulations, one on research and development agreements, and the other on the regulation of specialisation agreements, accompanied by guidelines.
With regard to horizontal restrictions, however, there are guidelines which are, to a large extent, broader than the two specific aspects regulated by the two proposals for regulations.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has presented Parliament with five amendments which express some of our concerns.
I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of these amendments.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the reform, the Commission will be able to focus on tackling the conduct of those who hold power in the market, because it is that conduct which is genuinely anti-competitive and damaging to the market.
On the one hand, the Commission has drawn up a revised version of the block exemption regulations on research and development and specialisation agreements, and, on the other hand, it has prepared draft guidelines on the applicability of article 81 to horizontal cooperation agreements.
In this way, it is the Commission' s intention to codify the relevant case law and working practice as they have developed on the basis the evaluation of individual cases over all these years, without making any major changes to the criteria for evaluating horizontal cooperation agreements on the basis of Community law.
However, in the absence of basic restrictions, it is necessary for the agreements to be examined in their economic context, so that it can be ascertained whether they would have a negative effect on the market.
Consumers will benefit from these economic advantages, but only if effective competition is maintained on the market.
The line taken is similar to that recently adopted on vertical agreements, and primarily responds to two objectives: preventing the Directorate-General for Competition having to examine cases which have no bearing on competition policy, and enabling the businesses themselves to establish whether or not an agreement would restrict competition and whether it would be eligible for an exemption.
However, a compromise does need to be reached between the businesses' interests in exploiting the results of their own research and the public interest, in guaranteeing competition on the new markets.
I do not have the time to comment on all of them, but I would just like to make a couple of observations.
Mr Theonas, you raised the question of mergers.
We have already done so for distribution - vertical agreements - and we are now doing it for horizontal agreements.
Our block exemption regulations and notices will give companies more certainty on the contents of our rules and in self-assessing their agreements in the spirit of an overall modernisation effort.
The debate is closed.
That is important in our own countries, but we still have a long way to go throughout the European Union.
It is also important, of course, in the developing countries, especially in connection with the development cooperation initiated by the European Union.
We have achieved what we were aiming for in a number of important areas.
We have gone from EUR 50 million to EUR 93 million.
Secondly, the degree to which the Member States were to be involved in the implementation itself was a major issue.
Mr President, this draft regulation is one of the first regulations in the sphere of development policy to be adopted by means of the codecision procedure.
Many people felt that this regulation should be passed as quickly as possible, which has meant Parliament having to distance itself from many of its proposed amendments.
Mr President, eight years after the Rio conference, where the countries of the United Nations acknowledged that development and the environment were inextricably linked, the European Union is finally adopting regulations to ensure that the environment is integrated into the development projects of developing countries.
Although we have cause to congratulate ourselves on the financial contribution agreed in the course of the conciliation - and I should like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group - the budget in question is still modest, given the considerable needs and still greater expectations of the populations concerned.
Are we not merely salving our consciences by granting just a little more than EUR 15 million over a period of six years to developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean and South America when we are aware of the social, economic and ecological conditions in these underprivileged lands?
This budget line, designed to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process, will be of no significance whatsoever if the environmental dimension is neglected in the case of other projects.
The Commission supports the proposed regulation currently before you.
Fortunately, our activities in the field of environment and development are not limited to actions funded under this regulation.
Hence, we intend to use it in a strategic fashion focusing, in particular, on support for the various international environmental conventions.
However, time will be against us since we are fast approaching the end of the financial year.
Once more, I wish to thank Parliament for their work in ensuring the passage of this regulation and the interest that many Members have shown.
I am confident that the regulation will provide us with a useful tool for ensuring that the environmental dimension is fully taken into account in our development cooperation.
Sustainable management of forests in developing countries The next item is the report (A5-0216/2000) by Mr Fernández Martín, on behalf of the Parliamentary delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on a joint text, approved by the Conciliation Committee, for a European Parliament and Council regulation on measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of forests in developing countries [C5­0284/2000 - 1999/0015(COS)].
It has taken the procedure a long time to come to an end, since we have spent almost three years on the first and second readings and on the debate in conciliation.
The tropical forests and their various functions and usefulness to humanity can contribute to a large extent to the achievement of the Union' s aims, not only in terms of development and the environment, but also with regard to its objectives of fighting poverty and sustainable economic and social development.
With the regulation, the European Union provides appropriate financial and technical aid with a view to promoting conservation and the sustainable management of tropical forests and other types of forest in developing countries, so that the forests may play their role as generators of wealth and social development with the sustainable environmental criteria which is expected of them at local, national and international levels.
To this end, it is necessary to improve coordination and the flow of information between Commission projects - those that the Commission will present in the coming years - and those of the Member States, in order to achieve more coherent actions and therefore a more efficient use of resources.
In terms of the budget, we should be pleased that, after the restrictions which, in general, have resulted from the plans for reconstruction in Kosovo, we now have a contribution of EUR 249 million, having started with an initial Council proposal of EUR 9 million, for a period of 6 years, from now until 2006.
Nevertheless, in the field of commitology the differing positions of Parliament, especially the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and the Council are well known.
Our position is more inclined towards giving greater competences to the Commission in this area.
The active participation of the local communities and those who are directly affected, in the development of the national forestry policy and development planning, is now one of the objectives of the regulation, and this represents a major step forwards in terms of content, to my mind.
The Council' s proposal earmarked a ridiculously low sum of EUR 63 million for the period between 2000 and 2006.
Parliament demanded EUR 249 million for the same period and achieved it, making the point very clearly in so doing that it is unacceptable as far as we are concerned to play the reconstruction in the Balkans - as important as it is - off against EU development policy and development cooperation.
Together with Article 11 of this regulation, which lays down an annual reporting obligation in respect of financed projects and measures, this provides us with the basic tools we will need to draw attention, in good time, to disturbing trends.
Now, this rich biodiversity - which, moreover, is not confined to plant species - has a financial consequence which is in itself truly impressive.
I congratulate Mr Fernández Martín and the other members of the conciliation delegation for their efforts to achieve a satisfactory conclusion on the tropical forests regulation.
As with the environment budget heading we intend to use the tropical forests budget heading strategically and in coordination with actions funded under the other instruments at the disposal of the Commission.
Once more, I offer my congratulations to Parliament for this successful conclusion and I also wish to express my appreciation for the input it has made during the first and second readings of the regulation.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in poverty, despite the gradual growth of world GDP over recent decades, the current tendency of Member States to reduce the funds intended for official aid to development in favour of direct investment, of which only 1% goes to the least-developed countries - which increases the gulf which separates those countries from the rich or developing countries - and the conviction that the globalisation process may increase the difficulties of the poor countries, are all factors which demonstrate the urgent need to improve the effectiveness of policies on development cooperation.
In this context, it is essential to strengthen the complementarity of policies on development cooperation implemented by the Community and the Member States.
Firstly, because complementarity enables us to take advantage of the synergy resulting from a coordinated approach in the actions to be implemented, not only by the European Union but also by all the international donors, which will improve the impact of those actions.
Thirdly, because it would improve the visibility of the European Union and make its development policy more credible, which will allow it to exert the political influence it deserves as the main provider of funds - let us remember that between half and two thirds of development aid comes from the European Union - and both the NGOs and the recipient countries would like this influence to be greater given that nobody is more sensitive than the European Union in the field of social justice and human development.
Lastly, improving complementarity is important because the Treaty on European Union clearly establishes that the Member States and the Community must coordinate their policies on development cooperation and harmonise their aid programmes.
That is why we must take a positive view of the Commission' s presentation of the communication on the complementarity of Community and Member States' policies on development cooperation, since the measures it proposes may contribute to removing the obstacles which hinder significant advances in this area.
Therefore, I believe that, in order to really improve the impact of European development policies and safeguard the credibility of the Union, it would have been much more appropriate and would have made things much clearer if these aspects had been tackled jointly within the framework of the communication on development policy, since that would have better highlighted the essential and inseparable nature of these elements in relation to the formulation of a development policy in accordance with the Union' s objectives.
My second point relates to the very concept of complementarity, which must not be viewed as a protective principle for preserving the competences of the Member States in this field, but as a manifestation of a political will to unite our efforts to improve and contribute more effectively to implementing the objectives of our policies on development cooperation.
The Commission should therefore take the initiative and make a qualitative leap in that direction in order to allow the European Union to establish its strategic priorities in the field of development aid.
For that, the political will of the Council must, as a precondition, make progress towards greater integration in the field of cooperation, because what has hindered the progress of complementarity has been above all the fact that the Member States define their development cooperation policies more in accordance with their geo-strategic economic interests and their colonial pasts than with the objectives of the Union in relation to development.
In any event, and to sum up, I would like to reiterate the timeliness of this communication - even though we would have liked it to have been part of a global package - and say how fitting the measures are and that, together with the measures also proposed by the Committee on Development and Cooperation in my report, we hope that they will help to guide our action, providing better operational management.
I would similarly like to say how satisfied I am that the importance of the work of NGOs, which work independently of governments, is being acknowledged and taken into account in development cooperation with the express purpose of strengthening civil society as a result of such cooperation.
At EU level, we must also see to it that our values are reflected in our policy on development cooperation.
Thus, we cannot aid countries that show no interest in their citizens' human rights or democracy.
At EU level we must really be aware of the political effects of aid, as we already know from experience that aid can be damaging.
In fact the risk is considerable.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before this debate we would have liked to ask the Council a question on the policy of complementarity.
As well as being a requirement of the Treaty, complementarity between Community aid policy and that of the Member States, is an invaluable instrument for helping the Union and the Member States to progress along a common path in the field of aid.
Complementarity is currently expressed in operational coordination on the ground and in the commitology procedure in Brussels.
Some of the programmes approved by this committee, such as the regional programme for the reconstruction of Central America in relation to Hurricane Mitch, are still to be implemented.
There is a clear lack of political will to implement the measures which we decide on in Parliament, and that leads to inefficiency in the achievement of our political objectives, to a gradual paralysis of the functioning of the European institutions and to a bad image which, as the previous speaker said, is sometimes projected to the public.
Complementarity with the Member States, coherence between Community policies and coordination between departments must form the basis of development aid policy if this policy is to fulfil this Parliament' s minimum requirements in terms of efficiency.
There are problems with the diversity of instruments and the duplication of procedures, but the real problem is the lack of political will.
As has been said before, the States must overcome their individual tendencies - which often reflect their concerns about former colonial relationships or other factors - and commit themselves to a common European project.
The Commission now has the opportunity to include these elements in its reform and the Council has the historic responsibility to involve itself in the definition and implementation of Community policies.
Both institutions can rely on the strong support of the Socialist Group in Parliament in relation to development aid policy.
The policy of complementarity between national and Community policies has a total of 16 players (15+1).
The lack of efficient Community development cooperation therefore serve the Member States as an excellent alibi for not having to attain complementarity, and certainly not coordination and cohesion.
This, in my opinion, is a sine qua non.
We do not want to be an extension of the Bretton Woods institutions.
The reason why the Council and Member States suffer from a lack of 'political will' , as highlighted by the rapporteur and Commission, can therefore be found in this fundamental difference in approach to development cooperation.
Long-term programmes, on the other hand, fare better within bilateral, often historical relations between developing countries and Member States.
The European Union could, however, help coordinate Member State aid and intervene if the Member States fail to take any action.
The problem I am referring to is the notable lack of harmony and coordination in development cooperation action and policy between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and between some of the Member States themselves, on the other.
What has been described and condemned by many authoritative voices and, in particular, by organisations that work in this area - and also by our own Parliament - is that over the years the different Member States have been acting independently in the field of cooperation, often according to individual national views and interests, sometimes honourable and sometimes less so, but in any event without any significant effort to be coherent and fairly distribute roles, not even in terms of providing mutual information and even less in terms of coordination.
Furthermore, until very recently, the required effort has not been made to reasonably coordinate Community policy in this field with the policies that at the same time were being carried out by the 15 Member States, although this is certainly not exclusive to the area which we are dealing with.
It was truly regrettable to see how Community actions were being implemented, sometimes without even an awareness of what each of the Member States was doing in relation to the relevant countries or sectors.
This is not the first time we have discussed this issue in Parliament, of course.
Nevertheless, by taking account of a situation which is particularly pressing, but also particularly favourable, we are taking an important step forward and we are doing so at a time when both the Commission and the Council seem convinced that we have to adopt specific measures in order to leave behind the previous situation and produce the coherence which will enable the resources which Europe intends for development cooperation to be more substantial, in both qualitative and quantitative terms.
Furthermore, in this way, we will achieve for Europe a much more decisive role in the challenge, which is of such concern to us, of creating a fairer, more balanced and therefore more stable world.
Complementarity, coherence and coordination are the notorious three C' s at the centre of the debate on European development cooperation.
Since then, a further EUR 9.65 million have been made available as emergency aid, and EUR 21 million are to be provided in addition, to deal with the consequences in the medium-term.
The European Union and its Member States have provided a total of EUR 85 million in aid, whereas the UN contribution brought the overall international package to only EUR 115 million, including the European funds.
The political leaders and the civil society of the partner States must have their decision-making powers strengthened, as must the EU delegation posts in situ, which is already happening with the elaboration of national indicative programmes within the scope of ACP cooperation.
We need to redouble our efforts, in order, not only to further coordination between the EU and the Member States in this sphere, but also with the international bodies.
I therefore welcome Mrs Ferrer' s report.
We need to increase internal EU coordination, country by country and sector by sector, following the 1998 guidelines on operational coordination.
We should help partner countries in their efforts and reinforce the role of EU coordination as regards wider global coordination between donors, whether they be the World Bank, United Nations organisations or bilateral governmental or non-governmental organisations.
The Commission has already taken the first step.
The country strategy papers will guide us when reviewing our assistance programmes.
These country strategy papers are the first practical tool, not only for improved donor coordination and complementarity, but also for overall coherence of development cooperation policy with other EU policies.
The country strategy papers should also steer us in the right direction for achieving an optimum division of labour between the Commission and Member States.
However, if we are to succeed in this, our Member States must join forces and participate in this exercise.
The quantitative aspect of how much each and every Member State is mobilising and putting into this effort is also part of our collective success or collective failure.
Firstly, I note that at several points in the resolution, the issue of complementarity is placed within a broader framework connected with a need for greater consistency between the various policies of the EU.
On coherence - which we have often discussed - we have now established the coherence focal point in the Directorate General for Development.
Next May we are organising a conference with Unctad, in this Chamber, on the least developed countries and we are also organising a conference with WHO and UNAIDS on 28 September concerning malaria, HIV-AIDS and tuberculosis, the three major communicable diseases.
Thirdly, specifically relating to the recommendations of the motion for a resolution, I welcome your support especially on two essential issues: firstly, human resources and, secondly, the role of management committees in development cooperation.
The lack of human resources is a serious and real problem that for too long has been ignored.
As regards the Member State committees that work in parallel with the Commission in the management and implementation of the development programmes, we believe that their key role should be to discuss political priorities and overall strategy with us.
The support of Parliament is also vital.
In any case, Member States warmly welcomed the overall policy statement which is the basis for what we do.
In conclusion, I should like to thank the rapporteur again for her excellent work.
This is a very useful report and I am determined to move forward on complementarity and will use the new tools available: the country strategy papers, the new and improved programming systems and a more effective management of external assistance, which also includes greater responsibility for our delegations in third countries.
I am confident that the European Parliament will provide us with the necessary support in these endeavours.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
Annex 1 of the Treaty defines the list of products eligible for a COM under the CAP.
Non-Annex 1 products are those that have been processed a second time.
For these products, additional access to agricultural product refunds at least constitutes a partial, quick fix solution which, in the absence of alternative proposals, makes it possible immediately to guarantee the competitiveness of non-Annex 1 products.
That said, agricultural product refunds present a range of risks and disadvantages.
This implies that, despite the extension proposed to us, the agricultural product refunds ought definitely not to become a structural tool but ought to remain a residual scheme and a last resort solution, to be implemented only when there is a real shortage of refunds.
We believe that any extension to the agricultural product refunds should be subject to very strict supervision and follow-up.
In that way, we shall have a tool of superintendence and control with which to ensure that agricultural product refunds are of limited availability, that the amounts concerned are no more than are really needed, that they do not have an adverse effect upon our own producers of raw materials and that they are not concentrated upon a limited number of COMs at the risk of destabilising these.
The latter ought to be given easier access to these refunds, which remain more straightforward to administer, and, in this context, they ought to be exempted from presentation of certificates up to an adjustable ceiling of EUR 50 000 per year.
In the longer term, however, there will only be a lasting solution to the issue we are to deal with today as a matter of urgency if, when the WTO agreements next come up for renewal, Community negotiators receive clear instructions to the effect that adequate account must be taken of the interests of our non-Annex 1 products and that the close links forged by our processing industries with our producers of agricultural raw materials and their countries must be maintained and consolidated.
Mr President, the Commission' s plans to slash export refunds will cost the EU' s food and drink processors an estimated EUR 145 million per year.
Other sectors, such as pasta, confectionery and some dairy products that also receive export refunds, have escaped relatively unscathed.
Those food and drink exporters who through adding value to their products, constitute a vitally important part of the EU agricultural economy must receive alternative compensation exactly equivalent to the value of the export refunds they have lost.
Export refunds are essential to ensure the international competitiveness of non-Annex - I processed food.
In addition, the food and drink processors in the EU purchase around two-thirds of all their agricultural produce within the 15 Member States.
This deliberate attack on non-Annex - I export refunds further undermines our farmers who are suffering their worst recession in decades.
However, these cuts should not be targeted in such an arbitrary manner on a small number of industries, as the Commission has chosen to do.
There is no doubt that the whole system now needs to be dismantled and rebuilt in a much more sensible and less complex manner, in line with our WTO and GATT requirements.
This is a very delicate area and, furthermore, the system of inward processing, in its application, is extremely complex and slow and therefore harms numerous small- and medium-sized businesses.
In this delicate area, our decisions, as politicians, should be directed towards maintaining the competitiveness of the European food industry in the world and towards strengthening the close links between the processing industry and the producers of raw materials.
The greatest responsibility in this area falls to the Commission.
He has been correct, specifically in his proposals to limit and rationalise the use of the system of inward processing by adapting it to the situation of the markets, the regulatory framework and the budgetary framework.
Many thanks, therefore, to the rapporteur and the European Parliament, and I hope that the Commission will improve its work in this area.
It may be necessary to act in this way, but certain principles have to be adhered to in this issue.
For that reason, the wording of Amendment No 8 is justified.
Then they have a brainwave to the effect that industry will no longer buy agricultural raw materials on the EU market but on the world market instead, which the EU, for its part, will export its raw materials onto, and in dumping its goods will also be partly responsible for world market prices.
But what we in fact need to discuss, is whether the sale prices on the world market call for a price discussion, because no one in the world can produce goods in an environmentally and socially responsible manner under these conditions.
That is why, despite the fact that we agree with many of the rapporteur' s findings, we disagree with his conclusion on the opening of inward processing arrangements, even on a provisional basis, precisely because we believe that, under present circumstances, provisional measures will turn into permanent measures and will exacerbate the situation.
Mr President, according to this regulation, the Commission is stuck with a limited budget, and this is due to a complex of three reasons: firstly, the guaranteed prices for agricultural products of European origin; secondly, export refunds to companies which sell these agricultural raw materials in processed form on the world market; and thirdly, the agreements within the WTO.
In the case of shortages of raw materials on the internal European market, the food industry can import these from the world market without any import duty and under inward processing arrangements, as has been the case to date.
We back the amendments which have their interests in mind.
Together with the rapporteur, we would call on the Commission to keep a close eye on the balance between agriculture and the food industry in Europe during the forthcoming negotiations within the framework of the WTO.
The first is that this proposal is not driven so much by the restrictions imposed by the WTO, but particularly by the well-known budget restrictions currently being applied in the European Union, specifically due to the need to reallocate means and resources to commitments that the Union has given in the field of external affairs, notably Kosovo.
What is not acceptable is that little more than a year ago, the Financial Perspectives up to 2007 were approved, and now, a few months later, resources that had been earmarked for agriculture are being withdrawn.
The second risk is that the increasing use of inward processing could put us in the extremely dangerous situation of no longer producing many agricultural products within the European Union, since it would be more profitable to import them in their raw state, process them and re-export them.
The third risk relates to our negotiating strategy for the Millennium Round.
This week, the Commission has approved a document on the competitiveness of our exports, which reveals its fundamental position on the various types of export aid.
The Commission' s position is quite clear: the European Union will not in future accept reductions, within the WTO, only in support for export refunds - there will also have to be reductions in all types of support provided by our main competitors in the international markets, ranging from export credits to food aid and state-run businesses.
The European Union' s stance on this issue is totally correct: all types of aid which have a similar effect must come under the WTO rules, not only the refund system used by the European Union.
Mr President, in complimenting Mr Souchet on his work, I express my disappointment and concern with regard to the Commission proposal to reduce subsidies worth EUR 145 million per year to the food and drink industry.
I fully support the rapporteur in his proposals that the measure should only be introduced on a temporary basis and that aid should be introduced to cushion the effects on the sectors which are most affected.
It is only right and proper that we negotiate a new regulatory framework for exports or products not covered by Annex I as part of the WTO Millennium Round.
With the proposed enlargement of the European Union to central and eastern Europe, we must take a strong hand in safeguarding our European objective which, of course, is to develop agriculture as a major and competitive player in world trade.
Already our competitors have demonstrated their negotiating skills in this crucial area of international policy.
In this sense, an interim regulation is essential.
I hope that your deliberations will lead to a consensus that opens the way for a rapid implementation early in the new budgetary year.
Export refunds are an important instrument in sustaining the industry' s competitiveness by compensating for high prices of basic agricultural products in the Union.
It is for this reason that the Commission has proposed, within a balanced package of specific measures, an additional facility of inward processing relief - IPR - that will help compensate for the industry' s loss of international competitiveness.
The Commission can agree with your proposed Amendments Nos 2, 6, 10, 13 and 15.
The Commission can broadly agree with the purpose of Amendments Nos 1, 3, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14 but does not consider them entirely appropriate for a number of reasons.
The remaining flexibility under the 2000 budget has already been used, which relates to Amendment No 9.
Finally, the Commission is not ready to accept Amendments Nos 4, 5, 12, 16 and part of Amendment No 1.
This relates to part of Amendments Nos 1, 4, 12 and 16.
Moreover, the use of C-sugar in processed products for export is not possible under current market organisation: this concerns Amendment No 12.
Operators importing products under the IPR do not receive any refund for the export of processed goods, so the assumption in Amendment No 5 is incorrect.
Mr President, permit me to address two comments to the Commission.
Firstly, the Commissioner said: in view of the "high prices of basic agricultural products in the Union" .
The debate is closed.
Enforcement of civil and commercial judgments The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0253/2000) by Mrs Wallis, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a Council regulation (EC) on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters [COM(1999) 348 - C5-0169/1999 - 1999/0154(CNS)].
I hope she would approve of where we have got to today, and how the European Union is now able to allow lawyers to move and practise in other Member States by choice rather than force of circumstance and that by this regulation our committee will further assist a step forward in giving greater access to justice to our citizens across Europe.
I want to use this occasion to say something about the importance of what we are doing here.
The original EC Convention on Jurisdiction and Judgments of 1968 was an important landmark in this field of international private law, marking a departure from a previous patchwork of mainly bilateral treaties between various countries.
The committee has been at pains throughout this process to point out and highlight the importance of the internal market dimension of this proposal which gives us a chance to ensure even more strongly than before that our businesses and citizens can have confidence that contracts and obligations they enter into across the Union will be upheld by a common framework of procedural law on jurisdiction and enforcement.
The issue that has, of course, taken most of the committee' s time and attention has been the fact that this proposal for a regulation has coincided with the growth of e-commerce which in itself offers enormous opportunities to business and consumers within the internal market.
The committee has, as the Commission will be well aware, grappled long and hard with the issues raised in Articles 15 and 17 of the proposed regulation.
These two articles, in whatever combination, have to be read together.
The Commission proposal in line with previous consumer protection legislation took the view in dealing with Article 15 that all such disputes should go to the consumer' s court whilst willing to defer to a general proposition that contracts concluded at a distance should fall under this category.
There can be no doubt that the Brussels Convention made enormous strides in simplifying the jurisdiction rules applicable to cross-border disputes but they are still a lawyer' s dream and a litigant' s nightmare.
The opening up of a simple effective system of cross-border disputes is the committee' s goal in introducing the concept of ADR and we welcome the way in which this has already been picked up and worked on by the Commission.
There was also agreement in committee that in this evolving area we remain deeply concerned as to the impact of legislation on Europe' s e-business.
I wish to conclude with a note of thanks to my colleague on the committee, especially to our chairman who I know feels as passionately as I do about this area of law, whatever our differences, but my biggest set of thanks must go to the committee secretariat and to Mr Robert Bray for all his help and advice throughout this process.
Mr President, firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of her presentation for what is a very fair and balanced report.
My committee considers it important to give a positive response to this Commission proposal, which strives to make the recognition and enforcement of judgments between Member States almost automatic.
My committee also considers that the provision of the regulation which seeks to protect the weaker parties in a contract should be approved.
To differentiate between the rights of those buying on line and those shopping in the high street would go against the valuable work that the European Parliament and the EU in general has already done in championing the rights of the citizens.
E-consumers, in common with all weaker parties to a contract and indeed European citizens in general, deserve and should be given the right to a fair hearing.
Finally, my committee welcomes the introduction of alternative dispute resolution procedures and hopes that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible.
Rarely have I felt as proud of my position as I am today in relation to this report, due to the work that has been carried out in committee over the last year.
We have had disagreements, Mr President, but I am sure that whatever the result achieved in this House tomorrow, the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs will have moved this issue forward significantly.
I shall now continue, Mr President, on behalf of the PPE.
The internal market must be a genuine domestic market, both for businesses and for consumers.
As for the consumer, it is proposed that the scope of the special system be extended to those who sign contracts at a distance within the internal market with no distinction whatsoever between directed and undirected activities and, as the rapporteur has highlighted, it incorporates the extrajudicial resolution of disputes into the regulation.
With regard to the promotion of cross-border electronic commerce, it is proposed to allow businesses, under certain very specific and very restricted circumstances, to insert jurisdiction clauses which the consumer could accept.
Furthermore, Mr President, that committee worked alone, with no transparency, with no interministerial consultations and without consulting the interested parties.
It is clear that the Justice and Home Affairs Council expected that, given the weak institutional powers of this Parliament in this field, even after Amsterdam, the final adoption of the regulation by the Council would be a mere formality.
After more than one year of discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I can say simply that the arguments levelled against its report lack foundation and are more the result of intimidation and demagoguery than of basic reasoning.
In conclusion, Mr President, it seems to me that in this field of judicial cooperation Parliament must send a clear signal to the Council and the Commission that it will not accept being sidelined or manipulated by dogmatic arguments that represent purely nationalist interests.
Instead, by dint of its thorough work, Parliament has here a great opportunity to demonstrate that pragmatic and reasonable solutions can be found to rebalance this proposal whatever the result tomorrow in this House.
Both business and industry can gain from a common sense approach to this.
The way to persuade those consumers to take the plunge is to ensure that their rights are intact and this has to include, in my group' s view, the right to take action in their own national court.
In reality we know that regulating the e-commerce world in the interests of both business and consumers requires a more innovative approach.
America Online, for example, runs its own merchant business programme where it guarantees to support the consumer in getting legal redress from any of the businesses that use them as a provider.
Even in the US, where only 8% of websites have trustmarks, there are still considerable problems gaining legal redress.
The consumer cannot be bound to lose his right to go to court by contracts, as inserted in the report that is before us from the Legal Affairs Committee.
More work needs to be done in the area.
I cannot deprive my constituents of their right to sue in their own courts.
I am very pleased that in my country the CBI has backed Mrs Wallis' approach.
I appeal, therefore, for some common sense in this debate.
We are all struggling in the e-commerce world to get legislation that is right, to get the right balance between self-regulation and a regulatory framework which gives minimum guarantees.
This cannot be at the expense of consumers.
The shared aim of all of us is to try to find a balanced way of protecting consumers and shielding SMEs from differing Member State jurisdictions.
In these circumstances it is not unreasonable to build on the previous content of Article 15, use the concept of "directed at" , acknowledge that this is a concept also found in American jurisprudence and utilised by WIPO.
We are merely signalling a political direction but it is important that we should signal a legally certain and workable solution, not one that will create as many problems as it seeks to solve.
It has been a long and hard road.
The European Commission has made a proposal which would ensure that consumers would have the right to take action in their own national courts and legal disputes arising from cross-border e-commerce transactions.
The amendments shift the balance in the report towards traders and away from consumers.
The main problem with this approach is that it assumes that consumers first read the small print in such contracts and, even if they do, that they fully understand the implications of agreeing to forego the right to sue in their own courts and the differences in relation to costs incurred, legal systems, the choice of language used and so on.
Such a system will also promote the convergence and coordination of the different national legal systems and enable parties to check on the status of trading partners and suppliers, especially in an age of on-line trading.
I broadly welcome this report and I want to focus in particular on Amendment No 20, Recital 26 (new), which states that the Commission will consider proposals for the establishment of a Centralised Electronic European Union Causebook and Judgment Registry Database.
But we have yet to establish an infrastructure to enable the Brussels Convention, as amended and extended, to benefit our EU consumer citizens and to attract inward investment.
It is necessary to establish the causebook which has been inspired by a proposal from an Irish lawyer, Twinkle Egan who has worked diligently on this initiative for some years.
Any of us, while we are here in Brussels, could buy something from Hong Kong over the Internet and have it delivered to Buenos Aires.
However, in our opinion, the market requires the rapid settling of potential disputes by the transferral of these disputes to alternative systems of justice where experts are called upon to find solutions.
It is they who introduce new rules and new ways of settling disputes.
The globalisation of markets is producing a plurality of legal systems created by the same social groups which they are intended to serve.
What is more, we would be holding back the economic development and increase in employment which should, apparently, come with the new economy.
We do not support this approach, considering also that, in the directive on electronic commerce adopted a few months ago, we laid down rules governing the signing of on-line contracts and confirmed the validity of the principles of the internal market, rule of origin and on country control.
Therefore, my group fully supports the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market - which tends precisely towards greater flexibility - and throws down one final challenge: legal solutions for the markets now require global responses, especially in the context of the regulation of the new economy itself.
Mr President, Commissioner, unlike many other MEPs, I am not in the habit of routinely thanking the rapporteur.
I would like to join my colleagues in thanking Mrs Wallis for her tremendous effort and work on this very difficult brief and I also want to support the call by my colleague, Pat the Cope Gallagher, and my other Irish colleague, Nuala Ahern, with regard to the establishment of a centralised European Union Electronic Database on case-law, put forward by Twinkle Egan, a barrister from Ireland.
However, when we look at the difficulties which have arisen with regard to this report, when we look at the disparate views - the so-called purists on behalf of the consumers or the other so-called purists on behalf of business and e-commerce - we sometimes forget that a lot of small- and medium-sized enterprises are consumers themselves, who will be trading with larger companies or larger suppliers and who deserve the same protection that I, "as an individual" or anybody else, as an individual consumer, would have.
We need to enable Europe, which is lagging behind in e-commerce and Internet business worldwide, to put in place new arrangements with regard to creation of on-line business and the protection of consumer rights and also to ensure that Europe takes its rightful place at the top of the world trading system of Internet and on-line businesses.
No consumer, "as an individual" or as a company, can be denied the ultimate right to take legal action but that does not mean that this should be the first course of action.
Finally, I would once again like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission representatives for their work and remind all Members that there is another way under the Brussels I Convention and we can put other mechanisms in place.
Let us agree on this report and then make changes in other areas as they come before us.
In the world of networks traditional jurisdiction-based disputes-resolution procedures are of no real help to consumers and traders when things go wrong.
We have an opportunity tomorrow to vote for the 21st century, its consumers, traders and citizens by voting for the committee' s report or we can look at the future and then turn our back on it and find superficial comfort in the last century by voting for the amendments.
We, in my delegation and in this group, shall be voting for the 21st century' s solutions to 21st problems and supporting the committee' s report.
Mr President, I respect your tenureship of the chair and I yield to no one in that, but I wonder how you can justify the fact that you indicate a time and then in the case of several speakers absolutely ignore it.
In general, Members have respected the time limits for their interventions and, in any event, they have expressed their points of view.
The report, as it was approved within the committee, is in my view a fine example of a document which has struck a fine balance between the interests of all parties, both small- and medium-sized businesses and consumers.
We talk about 'contracts concluded at a distance' , terminology which, even to a lay person, is far more transparent than 'directed activities' , as is currently used in the amendment.
Secondly, it is crucial in my opinion that the report offers parties themselves the opportunity of building a competence clause into their contracts.
If we deny a party contractual freedom and, with it, the constitutional right to go to court, I can foresee various procedures needing to be instituted on account of denial of justice.
In my view, the Brussels convention is of major strategic importance for the development of e-commerce within the internal market and it will also have a major impact on the success or failure of small- and medium-sized businesses.
I therefore hope that this report, as approved in the committee, will be adopted in its unamended form in the plenary tomorrow.
Mr President, as I have said in this Chamber on previous occasions, I have the privilege of working in a very interesting Legal Affairs Committee and being one of the few non-lawyers on the committee.
Diana Wallis as a distinguished international lawyer has been the ideal person to work on this very complex file.
I want to pick up on what is a central point for me: we are, as my colleague Lord Inglewood said, trying to reflect a new world in which we want small businesses to take advantage of the most powerful, international marketing tool that they have ever been offered.
There are many business that we want to use the network, the Internet, to sell to consumers all over Europe.
Large businesses, even medium-sized businesses, will have offices all over Europe, they will have lawyers, they will be able to deal with consumers in that respect.
What we have done is offer small companies the alternative of doing something else.
They can offer consumers alternative jurisdiction but only under very specific conditions.
It gives them choices and it reflects their enhanced status in a new Internet world, which gives them more power and more choices than ever before.
Even more importantly, it will also threaten the new economy and the e-economy in the European Union.
We have uncertainty and legal risk for business without genuine consumer protection, because in many cases the right to sue in your own home court may be illusory if you cannot enforce the judgment without going overseas and incurring the same inconvenience as if you had to go overseas in any event to litigate this issue.
The scope of this regulation is therefore very broad.
To achieve greater flexibility and to adapt more efficiently to the specific needs of the parties in a given dispute, the proposal for a regulation lays down alternative rules for jurisdiction, essentially the jurisdiction of the courts in the Member State of the place where the contract was concluded or of the place where the damage was done in the event that an offence has been committed.
As long as certain conditions are met, these parties have the right to bring a case before a court in the Member State in which they reside.
It is therefore worth bearing in mind that in the field of contracts, we are dealing with legal rules on general contracts between companies, between companies and consumers, and even contracts between private individuals.
There is an enormous and immediate advantage in moving towards adopting a regulation on this matter on the basis of civil judicial cooperation.
Furthermore, we are convinced that it is possible to make use of new communication technologies, such as the Internet, the new network concept and flows to facilitate extrajudicial dispute resolution.
There must therefore be rules on the jurisdiction of the courts in those cases - which the Commission hopes will be rare - where an alternative form of resolution is not possible or does not produce a satisfactory result.
Accordingly, with regard to consumer contracts the Commission found the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs extremely useful and takes the view that the second part of Amendment No 23 contains a principle which is considerably clearer and more reliable than that contained in our original proposal.
This action would, however, have two consequences for Article 15.
First of all, its wording needs to be adapted so that it does not limit the scope of Article 15 to contracts concluded in the consumer' s home, which is an impossible condition to establish for contracts concluded electronically.
We are therefore not inclined to retain the first part of Amendment No 23.
The same thing applies to the amendment seeking to open up the system laid down in the Brussels Convention on jurisdiction clauses in consumer contracts.
I am referring here to Article 17.
The new Article 17(a) that has been proposed seeks to replace the guarantees provided by the courts by an extrajudicial and binding system of dispute resolution.
Such a solution would, in fact, raise constitutional issues in some Member States, in which it is not possible to prohibit access to the courts, even if only as a last resort, and would open the way for an interpretation of what is a question of law and what is a question of fact in this type of contract which, in my opinion, would vitiate the efficiency and speed of the system.
The Commission' s view is that this regulation should not depend on the adoption of a package of legislative and non-legislative measures on e-commerce between companies and consumers.
I would remind you of the revision of the Commission' s 1998 recommendation on the principles applying to alternative dispute resolution bodies, which in fact form the basis of what is known as the EEJ-Net - the European Extrajudicial Network - which has already been launched.
We therefore think that, in order to allow this process some time in which to develop, it would be appropriate if the entry into force of this regulation were postponed for a few months.
The debate is closed.
