Amending budget No 1/2008 - Solidarity Fund - Mobilisation of the European Union's Solidarity Fund (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Kyösti Virrankoski, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on Draft amending budget No 1/2008 of the European Union for the financial year 2008, Section III - Commission, and the report by Reimer Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund in application of point 26 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management - C6-0036/2008 -.
The extent of catastrophic damage must be at least EUR 3 billion or no less than 0.6% of the Member State's GNP.
The Commission is proposing EUR 162 million.
Similarly, the amendments to the staffing timetable for the border control agency, Frontex, which Parliament had called for have been made.
Parliament increased the funds for this agency by EUR 30 million in the budgetary procedure, and these now constitute the necessary additional funds.
The Commission is proposing EUR 2 million in the form of a transfer from operating appropriations to administration.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur on the 2008 budget, Kyösti Virrankoski, has really covered all the essential points.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, on 18 January the Commission adopted the proposal for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for the United Kingdom, and we are happy and satisfied that the Committee on Budgets' opinion is quite positive towards our proposal.
Along with amending Budget No 1/2008, we also proposed the allocation of EUR 162 million from the solidarity fund for the UK in order to compensate for the serious damage caused by last summer's floods.
However, I must say that the proposal of the Committee on Budgets to change the Commission proposal will delay delivery of the solidarity fund by about one month because it will have to go back to Council for another vote, but we understand the sensitivity and we cannot argue with the decision of the Committee on Budgets on this matter.
However, I very much hope that our proposal in general will be supported this week in Parliament.
I thought that was exactly right, and I note that this request is for the creation of 25 posts.
Last year's floods affected 48 000 UK homes and 700 businesses and the total damage is estimated at over EUR 4 billion.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, in a sense I have an easy task following the last two speakers.
A sum of EUR 162 million: it seems to be uncontentious, but it is hugely important on several levels.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, solidarity is the European Union's most important and finest principle.
The creation of the European Union Solidarity Fund followed naturally from this principle.
A billion euros has been reserved in the Solidarity Fund for this purpose.
Besides the Solidarity Fund, the EU budget contains a Globalisation Fund, which may spend EUR 500 million every year to ease the social problems that result from job transfers.
Last year less than EUR 20 million was mobilised for this purpose.
As regards natural disasters, we are being asked for aid of less than 4% to repair the flood damage in the United Kingdom in June 2007, costing over 4 billion.
That being so, EUR 162 million in solidarity for the United Kingdom of Adam Smith, Ricardo and Mrs Thatcher, who only believe in the market, Darwinism and natural selection, is an excellent lesson in pragmatism.
I hope that, mutatis mutandis, we shall at last have the Commission's proposal in our hands within the coming month.
I agree with all my colleagues from the Committee on Budgets and, as that committee's rapporteur for the Galileo Programme, I wish to be quite clear that we are not going to make any payment from the very considerable package of funds we have committed, unless we agree with the Council on the wider architecture of the programme.
I hope that we can conclude these negotiations so that we can set our minds on making genuine progress. - (LT) The EU Solidarity Fund is a very important aid to Member States and qualifying candidate countries in the event of natural disasters.
First of all, the minimum damage threshold of EUR 3 billion or 0.6% of GDP is too high, excluding any aid to countries suffering from disasters on a lower scale, which could nonetheless have serious consequences for the countries concerned.
Second, the mobilisation of EUR 162 million to help make good the damage caused by the floods of June and July 2007 in Britain and Ireland, the total cost of which amounted to almost EUR 5 billion, deserves our support.
However, we must not forget that in addition to the financial aspect, there has to be a Europe-wide organisational unit capable of providing immediate relief to the stricken areas. - (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity is a fine word, and an even finer concept.
rapporteur. - (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank all those who have taken part in the debate for their excellent, constructive input.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 11 March 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) I believe that the request formulated by Great Britain is pertinent and I support the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund in this case.
As in the case of Great Britain, much of the damage caused by floods could have been avoided by greater involvement in the prevention effort.
