&#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the European Council report and the Commission Statement on the meeting of the European Council (Brussels, 22 and 23 March 2005).
Today, as tradition dictates, I shall briefly present to you the results of the recent meeting of the European Council.
The result at which we arrived represents a balanced outcome, because it attaches all due importance to stability and because it does everything possible to ensure that the application of the stability rules will not restrict the growth potential that exists and should exist in Europe.
It gave me real pleasure to be able to work hand in hand with the Commission.
Everything has been said about the reform of the Pact, and much of what has been said borders on fabrication.
Neither the basic rules enshrined in the EC Treaty nor those set out in the Pact have been changed.
Accordingly, it is no longer a matter of being seriously concerned but rather of being seriously vigilant to ensure that the new rules are applied in a logical manner, and we shall make every effort to demonstrate, in the course of the coming months and in the decisions we shall have to take, that the Pact is far from dead but that it continues to apply and be applied.
The second item on the European Council agenda in Brussels was the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
After the Commission had presented its communication of 2&#160;February on the Lisbon Strategy and its communication on the social agenda, the Commission and the Council – again acting together – succeeded in maintaining the basic balance of the Lisbon Strategy.
On 12&#160;January, I told you that the Presidency would say yes to the opening of markets in services and no to social dumping and that it would like to see all risk of social dumping eliminated from this draft directive.
The new Commission, together with the other European institutions, will make the amendments required by the European social model.
It is wrong to present sustainable development as the third pillar of the Lisbon Strategy, because sustainable development is a cross-cutting strategy that affects all other policies and hence relates to all aspects of the Lisbon Strategy, such as the environment, fisheries, agriculture, public finance and social security.
For this reason, the Presidency will take the initiative of having the European Council adopt, at its June summit, a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development which is designed to serve as a basis for the renewal of the sustainable development strategy adopted by the European Council in Gothenburg in 2001.
It is now time to devise a medium- and long-term EU strategy to combat climate change, a strategy that must be compatible with the aim of limiting the increase in the global annual mean surface temperature to a maximum of two degrees above pre-industrial levels.
In view of the emission reductions that are required on a global scale, efforts made over the coming decades will have to be underpinned by the common consent of all countries.
The Union estimates that reduction profiles in the order of 15 to 30% in relation to the Kyoto reference values will be required of the developed countries by the year 2020; the long-term aim, according to the conclusions adopted by the Council of Environment Ministers, would be to achieve reductions in the order of 60 to 80% between now and 2050.
I know you could scarcely contain your delight at what we said about reforming the United Nations.
Indeed, the first paragraph of the conclusions is clear on the Commission’s strategic objectives for the period 2005-2009, which I myself put forward: ‘The Heads of State or Government took note and welcomed the close agreement between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission on the Union’s priorities, particularly with regard to legislative activity for the coming years’.
Firstly, the Stability and Growth Pact.
As we all know, consensus on the Pact broke down in November 2003.
A new consensus on a proper fiscal framework has now been reached.
The Commission made a very important contribution to this end.
The Commission launched debates in its 2004 public finance report and in September 2004 the Commission adopted a communication on strengthening and clarifying the Stability and Growth Pact.
The European Council’s agreement was a very positive outcome, restoring credibility to the Pact and preserving the Commission’s prerogatives.
They must step up their efforts to reduce deficits in growth periods, while a degree of flexibility has been introduced for periods of economic difficulty.
This is an ambitious timetable but one that can undoubtedly be achieved with the cooperation of all the players involved: the Member States, the European Parliament, and the European Central Bank.
I am sure that I can count on your cooperation in attaining these objectives.
The Commission will do what is necessary to ensure the success of this joint project and is ready to work closely with you to do this, as requested in the joint motion for a resolution.
Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the very active role played by the Presidency, the recent meeting of the European Council has generated the political impetus that was needed to relaunch our pursuit of the Lisbon aims.
We have put this strategy back on track by giving it clear objectives, namely growth and employment, together with targeted and effective initiatives and simplified instruments while respecting, needless to say, the permanent aims of the Union, particularly sustainable development.
The Commission is extremely satisfied with this outcome, because its proposals were the starting point for the deliberations and conclusions of the European Council.
This bears eloquent testimony to the role of playmaker that the Commission – supported, of course, by the European Parliament, whose major resolution on the subject deserves mention – can perform in fields which, we must recognise, are largely a matter for national governments.
The substance of our messages was well received.
In deciding now to relaunch the Lisbon Strategy, the Member States were also responding to the Kok report, which was discussed by the European Council in November.
Their next task is to designate national coordinators and to prepare, by the end of the year, reform programmes setting out in detail the measures to be taken to boost growth and employment.
The realignment of the strategy towards growth and employment within a context of sustainable development won broad support.
All available national and Community resources pertaining to the three strands – economic, social and environmental – must be exploited if these goals are to be achieved.
The European Council provided the necessary clarification regarding the Lisbon objectives and their relationship with the sustainable development strategy.
Improved governance, accepted as essential to implementation by the Member States, was also an important aspect, because it really served to test the credibility of the new Lisbon Strategy and to establish whether the Member States were genuinely disposed to accept a stronger system of governance.
The main elements of this system will be the integrated guidelines and the national reform programmes to be presented at the end of 2005.
The first milestone was the adoption by the Commission yesterday, on 12&#160;April, of the integrated guidelines which were presented to the House this afternoon by Vice-President Verheugen and Commissioners Almunia and Spidla.
This is an important exercise through which the Commission confirms the sharper focus on growth and employment and provides the Member States with a single coherent framework for the preparation of their respective programmes.
Our approach creates added value in three respects.
Secondly, it initiates the preparation of the first element of the new three-year Lisbon cycle.
Lastly, it provides the political and strategic framework within which the Member States are to construct their national reform programmes.
The second milestone in this process will be the presentation of a Community Lisbon programme.
The European Council expressed the wish that the Commission present a Community action programme as a counterpart to the national programmes.
The third milestone will be a communication in the form of a methodological guide to national reporting.
On the fringes of the discussion on the Lisbon Strategy, the European Council reaffirmed the importance of an internal market in services as a means of achieving the key aims of growth and employment while emphasising the need to preserve the European social model.
The European Council asked that every effort be made in the framework of the legislative process relating to the services directive to build a broad consensus behind each of these objectives.
The third major issue discussed by the European Council was sustainable development.
I am gratified that the conclusions of the spring summit served to reaffirm the importance of the sustainable development strategy while making it clear that the Lisbon Strategy contributes to the pursuit of the broader aim of sustainable development.
In this context, it is also important to note that the European Council acknowledged the immensity of the challenge of climate change, specifying in particular that the global annual increase in surface temperatures must not exceed two degrees Celsius in relation to the pre-industrial era.
The Commission intends to continue its activity through the second phase of the European programme on climate change.
The European Council wishes to see the adoption in June of a declaration on the guiding principles of sustainable development and intends to examine the revision of the sustainable development strategy in the second half of this year.
In this domain too, the Commission will make appropriate proposals for the achievement of the Council’s aims.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say in conclusion that the outcome of the spring meeting of the European Council, as you will surely agree, is an excellent platform from which to work towards reflation of the EU economy in the far broader framework of the quest for sustainable development.
I shall finish as I started, by referring to the idea of convergence between the institutions, convergence on medium-term objectives, and I believe that it is this same spirit of convergence – which was also present yesterday, by the way, when I addressed the Temporary Committee on political challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union – which must prevail in the period ahead.
The European Council managed to make significant progress at its spring summit, revising both the Lisbon Strategy and the Stability and Growth Pact.
In doing so, it is the joint task of the Commission, the Council and Parliament to formulate our European legislation such that we do justice to this objective.
This applies in particular to all the legislation connected with REACH, in other words to legislation on chemicals, where we, the European Parliament and the Council, have a huge legislative task to complete.
I call on the Commission to also make its own contribution to this.
That is good for the matter in hand, for the Lisbon Strategy, and also for cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments and it should also serve as an example in other political sectors.
As far as the stability of the European currency is concerned, the great majority of our group would have welcomed our adhering to the rules hitherto.
We stress very emphatically that confidence in the stability of the European currency is the basis for the confidence of Europeans among themselves and in the process of European unification.
I call on the Commission on behalf of our group to continue to resolutely perform its role as the guardian of law and stability in future.
As far as the Croatia issue is concerned, although our group does not believe that Croatia is being treated fairly, we do welcome the efforts being made, especially by the President-in-Office of the European Council, to ensure that, ultimately, not only the International Criminal Court in the Hague will decide or hand down a preliminary ruling on whether negotiations should begin, but also that a commission will be set up to examine the situation in Croatia.
In our joint resolution, Parliament's compromise resolution, we also take a stand under paragraph 35 on the weapons embargo with respect to China.
The top priority over the next few weeks is to adopt the European Constitution.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament were most interested to hear how he is coping now with the fact that a series of Christian Democrat Heads of Government hold a different opinion from the overwhelming majority in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House.
He was right to say – as were the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council – that signals were given at this summit about Lisbon and the implementation of the Lisbon objectives.
It will only be in the combination of the reform of the Stability Pact – and the need for greater flexibility which this also engenders for the national governments – and the defined objectives of the Lisbon process that the summit and its outcome will be correctly understood, Mr&#160;Poettering, because those who want to invest and should invest in the Lisbon objectives must also be in a position to invest in these objectives as states.
It is in the combination of the instruments needed to bring about greater flexibility now contained in this pact and the objectives of the Lisbon process, as described, that the particular attraction of the outcome of this summit lies.
We shall see this afternoon just how much reliance can be placed on the statements by the PPE-DE Group when it comes to drawing conclusions during accession negotiations.
If, however, those in Croatia putting their hopes in the reliability of your statements are perhaps treated this afternoon in the same way as Bulgaria and Romania, then we should tell them in advance in Zagreb that they should have another word with Mr Poettering.
The PSE Group emphatically welcomes the fact that the Council conclusions give hope in particular in a further area.
In recent years, as far as Europe's role in the world is concerned, we have placed our emphasis as social democrats – in our demands – on sustainable development and climate change.
The resolutions now being adopted – the President of the Commission referred to them once again – point the way.
We must say to the citizens – I refer to your apt comments with respect to the referendum in France – that no country in this world and no European country, not even a highly industrialised country, will be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century alone.
For Europe, that means in the Community alone: in the economic, monetary and social community and in the community which Europe can develop as a force, as a community for sustainable development and for reducing environmental dangers.
These are global challenges and there is no France, Germany, Great Britain, Belgium or Portugal which can face them alone.
It is the task of Europe as a continent and of the EU as the political form of organisation of that continent to counter these risks.
The social democrats in this House are also grateful for that and that is why we can agree to our motion for a resolution in the happy expectation of broad support, in good conscience, from the members of both the PPE-DE Group and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it often seems to fall to the smaller Member States to rescue Europe from the problems created by their larger partners.
Mr Juncker, I fear you find yourself once more the victim of high expectations.
The European Union is now facing major challenges which will test not only its capacity to provide for the hopes and needs of its citizens, but its very capacity to hold together.
The challenge which occupied the European Council is that of re-energising our economic growth potential.
The summit was billed as a relaunch of the ten-year Lisbon Agenda, yet it left Liberals and Democrats with the impression of Europe’s leaders sleepwalking their way forward.
The text was high on rhetoric but low on action.
Calls for undertakings to build new competitive factors, for consumers to benefit from new goods and services and for workers to acquire new skills were combined paradoxically with a demand for the Commission to rewrite a key piece of internal market legislation enabling growth in the services sector.
The European Council conclusions speak of financial perspectives to provide the Union with adequate funds to carry through its policy commitments, especially the Lisbon priorities, yet Member States still call for a restrictive budget in one breath, while tying up foreign spending for seven years in the next breath.
Liberals and Democrats in this House do not share Mr&#160;Barroso’s satisfaction with the Spring Summit.
The vacuum in leadership at national and European levels threatens to derail not just the Constitutional Treaty, but the whole project.
President-in-Office, I cannot escape the conclusion that your European People’s Party is failing our Union.
You have failed to use your majority in the Council to build a coherent economic strategy at home.
We are humiliated abroad when our Union conveniently discards its scruples to secure favoured trading status from totalitarian regimes in Russia or in China; when we turn a blind eye to such suffering in the Sudan; when we are silent in the face of American overreaction, imprisoning our citizens without charge, and denying airspace to our airlines.
Under these conditions the European Union does a disservice to its citizens.
It does not happen often, and perhaps that is why President Barroso said that the Greens are outside the system or anti-system.
The points are these: reform of the Stability Pact; precise target figures for the Kyoto Protocol, which the Commission unfortunately decided not to mention; redressing the balance of the Lisbon Strategy in terms of environmental and social sustainability, albeit still in a vague and imprecise way; and a kind of new-found understanding of reality with regard to the Bolkestein directive – although it is very hard to admit, even here in Parliament, that a directive on services of general interest needs to be drawn up before the Bolkestein directive is approved.
Even we believe that the reform of the Stability Pact has been a good thing and that it is now much more able to take account of the general economic situation and specific national situations.
Of course, these positive aspects are strongly counterbalanced by the fact that the rules on the quality of spending are still too vague.
In addition, unfortunately, we have to recognise that during the European Council no account whatsoever was taken of the fact that a healthy macroeconomic environment must include taxation reform, so that the tax burden that today falls on employment is shifted onto environmental degradation, helping to make regular employment more attractive.
That is what Jacques Delors was saying in 1992, and we have not made any progress at all since then.
We believe that we need to move in a different direction and, above all, we call on the Presidency and on President Barroso to take more notice of what we – and also the Commission – have called ‘the ecoefficiency revolution’.
The ecoefficiency industry and companies of this kind are growing at a rate of 5% a year at the moment, and we believe we should be investing much more in this sector and taking it more seriously.
This has had an adverse impact on unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and the increase in social and territorial inequality, borne out by the 20&#160;million unemployed and the 70&#160;million or so people living below the poverty line, whilst the large corporations in the EU saw their profits rise by 78% in 2004, and profits as a proportion of GDP in the euro zone are currently close to a 25-year high.
Accordingly, we wish to stress the need to remove proposals for directives on working time and on the internal services market and to revoke the Stability and Growth Pact, replacing it with a Growth and Employment Pact.
That way, priority can be given to creating 22&#160;million high quality jobs with rights by 2010, to meeting the targets set at the Lisbon European Council and to halving poverty and social exclusion, as adopted in the 2000 Lisbon Strategy.
In a year’s time this rotten pact will have to be fudged or dumped, as I suggested last time.
The meeting, however, was remarkable for something which it did not discuss: the UK’s budget rebate.
Perhaps you would like to justify the fact that the UK would pay into the EU 14 times more than France without the rebate, and, even with it, two-and-a-half times the French contribution.
Mr Barroso also said that 70% of Commission spending was on agriculture when the rebate was agreed, whereas new proposals would reduce it to one-third.
Our Foreign Secretary said that the Commission’s proposal could mean a 35% hike in the budget, but he said our rebate remains a veto.
We have an election in the UK on 5 May.
Worse is better because, in monetary terms, the EU will then be 14 times as bad for the UK as for France.
The results of the Brussels European Council have underlined the need for Europe to add a little flexibility to the rules that are paralysing the economy through too rigid and schematic an interpretation of the Stability Pact, which in the end has checked the development of many Member States.
We are delighted that the European Council has achieved a broad consensus on reform of the Pact, and we highlight the agreement reached on the structural reforms specifying the corrective policy that Member States must adopt to comply with the Pact criteria if their deficit exceeds the limit.
While there is no doubt that the Pact must be applied fairly in the countries that have signed up to it, it is equally true that the economy of the European Union of the 25, which is characterised by considerable heterogeneity and diversity, requires a richer, more structured, common framework that can allow its differences to be better understood, without negating the objectives laid down in the reference criteria.
I should like to remind Mr&#160;Watson, to whom I listened very carefully, that there is no economic strategy because there is no political strategy, and because we are still using the economic and financial rules of the last century to face the new horizons of this century.
The old strategy is in its death throes, the new one is still in short trousers, but they are both threatening Europeans with bouncing cheques, contradictory priorities and empty words.
The reaction to many of the Council’s proposals is ‘yes, but…’ and the ‘but’ is only strengthened upon closer reading.
It must not, however, become a back door through which membership contributions of the richest Member States can be renationalised.
The Council has referred to the reallocation of aid, and I am concerned that in practice this might mean less funding for the new Member States.
The Council has referred to reforming the system for regional aid.
The latter would be only too happy to forget about the principle of solidarity that is supposed to underpin the European Communities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, things being as they are, I have only two minutes’ speaking time, and so I shall confine myself to the Stability and Growth Pact and say that the existence of a political agreement within the Council to revamp certain aspects of this Pact is good news.
The Luxembourg Presidency can pride itself on a success which was by no means straightforward.
It is primarily a matter for the Commission, Mr&#160;President, to clarify these principles by incorporating the basic amendments laid down by the Council in its regulations of 1997, which form the framework of the Pact.
Not even the most benevolent of observers will have failed to notice that the debates on reform of the Pact have mostly been more akin to pleas before an industrial tribunal than to discussions with even a hint of objectivity.
I have to say that this detestable attitude has had devastating psychological effects, not only inflicting severe damage on the principle of equal treatment for all Member States but also apparently eroding the foundations of a community based on the rule of law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spring summit has been a success.
The Presidency deserves our congratulations for securing a decent compromise on the Stability and Growth Pact and relaunching the Lisbon Strategy.
Our Union is a haven of peace, an attractive political entity to which more and more countries want to accede.
At the same time, we are engaging in a sort of self-flagellation, wallowing in the predicted decline of the House of Europe.
Nevertheless, the unemployment rate remains excessively high in some of our largest countries.
Even with a growth rate of only 2%, the economy of our Union expands every year by the size of the entire Taiwanese economy.
The prevailing theory is that Europe is being left behind by the United States in terms of competitiveness and productivity.
The fact is, however, that the Union, and particularly the euro area, has never known such a high degree of stability.
We do need more growth and more domestic demand, particularly in some of our largest countries.
The fact that Britain, Sweden and Denmark are achieving faster growth than the euro area, even with their higher interest rates, should give the European Central Bank food for thought.
The Socialists certainly support the President-in-Office of the Council, even though he is an eminent member of the European People’s Party, when he reminds the European Central Bank that, while it bears sole responsibility for monetary policy, the conduct of European economic policy is the task of national governments.
This is another area where we need to insist on the ‘separation of Church and State’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Luxembourg President-in-Office of the Council on the conclusion of work to reform the Stability and Growth Pact last month.
At the same time, greater attention is being paid to the level of debt of the Member States.
The reform of the pact should help in reconciling the economic policies of the Member States and, at the same time, highlight the need for a sustainable financial policy.
I do have my doubts, though, as to whether these positive aspects are sufficient to push the eurozone forward.
This might soon force the European Central Bank to raise interest rates and jeopardise what is already only weak growth in the eurozone.
The Commission has emerged from the reform process weakened rather than strengthened, in my opinion.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe expects the European Parliament to be actively involved in the process of editing these regulations and supervising compliance with the pact. &#160;&#160; Mr President, yesterday an opinion poll was published in Scotland that included a question about the draft EU Constitution.
Five years ago, a much more positive response would have been delivered from Scotland.
Much has been said about the potential effects of the country of origin principle, but, if we are to be sensitive to the reality, there is much more to it than that.
With the changes proposed to the Stability Pact and to the Lisbon Strategy itself, the Lisbon Strategy cannot be made into a pro-grass roots strategy.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left disagrees in its entirety.
For a proper 35-hour week to be introduced without any reduction in wages, which would mean recruiting more people.
We are against a strategy of unilateral growth for the benefit of big business and the private sector.
This can only be achieved through radical changes to the Stability Pact and to the Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Council has declared that the services directive should be given a more social dimension.
After all, it cannot be the intention to take advantage of workers from Member States where working conditions are less strict, or to compete unfairly with service providers in Member States where strict working conditions apply.
The directive allows for the fact that, in accordance with European rules, service providers are bound by the labour law that is applicable locally.
Indeed, one cannot expect Polish authorities, for example, to check whether Polish workers in the Netherlands do their jobs in accordance with Dutch working conditions.
We need a different approach to establish a workable system for enforcing working conditions in all Member States.
The country of origin will at least need to declare that its citizen will become active in the country of destination.
It follows that the exchange of information is the first step in making the enforcement of labour law possible.
It seems as if the integration concept in the EU Treaty, with sustainable development as its ultimate goal, has been temporarily overlooked.
Despite this, the Council put the services directive on the agenda to accommodate specific interests of individual Member States, which has knocked the institutional framework off balance.
The result of debate on the Services Directive, which the Commission in its former composition has bequeathed as its legacy, is noticeably diminishing enthusiasm for the attainability of the Lisbon Strategy goals as rewritten by the current Commission.
To a surprising degree, most of the criticism was directed towards the application of the country of origin principle to the provision of services.
This is the guiding principle in all internal market legislation and the European Court of Justice has consistently upheld it in its decisions.
Thus, the Stability and Growth Pact, which was adopted in good times, is inconvenient in difficult times.
The difficulties created by a weaker common currency and higher lending rates will, however, be shared by all the Member States, including those which behaved well during both the good and the bad times.
The decisions of the European Council will have a knock-on effect in every respect.
I would like to hope that the attitude towards the Lisbon Strategy will differ from the Council’s reception of the Services Directive, that the positive aspects included within the Lisbon Strategy will provide the hoped-for impetus, and that a lack of fiscal discipline and of structural reforms will not endanger the European social model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it cannot be denied that the past European Council was actually dominated by an external factor, that being the referendums on the European Constitution that are due to be held in various European countries.
It is in the context of those referendums that we should see the decision to review the services directive.
It is, after all, a fact that European decisions are taken over the heads of the public almost as a matter of routine, and that there was, in the past, more than one occasion when such old-fashioned concepts as truth and democracy were not taken entirely seriously.
As far as the Bolkestein directive is concerned, we have to say that it has ambiguity written all over it.
It is a fact that the very broad definition of the concept ‘service’, coupled with the country of origin principle, will lead to drastic changes to states’ – and in some cases federal states’ – powers and responsibilities.
Moreover, the proposal undeniably impacts on states’ powers and responsibilities in terms of social security, health care and education – all areas to which, in my modest opinion, the principle of subsidiarity should strictly apply.
According to Mr&#160;Bolkestein, only the rules of the country of origin apply to the service providers.
It is a complete mystery to me how it is possible to avoid distortion of competition or even social dumping with those rules, and I also wonder whether this is of real benefit to the European consumer.
Allow me also to be particularly sceptical about the hundreds of thousands of new jobs that this directive is supposed to create in Europe.
As in the case with Turkey, EU policy is often a string of deceit and shameless lies, and I fear that, with the Bolkestein directive, we are getting more of the same today. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let me begin by addressing my congratulations to the President-in-Office of the Council for the role he played at the spring summit in achieving the necessary consensus among all the Member States at an extremely delicate period in the history of Europe.
As far as the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, I believe it is important, because it guarantees the stability required by the single currency.
Mr&#160;President-in-Office, Mr&#160;Barroso, we shall listen carefully to the proposals you make at the Council summit in June on the sustainable development strategy in conjunction with the economic and social reinvigoration demanded by the Lisbon process.
This is what we shall be trying to do here in Parliament in connection with the services directive, and I was astonished to hear the previous speaker expressing doubts about the role that Parliament can play in this respect.
Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that legislative power is shared between the European Parliament and the Council.
It is up to all of us to reassure and convince people, and that is what will enable our fellow citizens to embrace the Constitution which is indispensable to a Union of twenty-five Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, seldom has a Council document – even in this House – been so well received, and this is also reflected in our resolution.
In fact, I see a certain convergence between the Council conclusions, the Commission's conclusions and the views of the majority in this House.
The issue here is a social Europe in global competition.
This needs to be highlighted, because many members of the public have gained the impression over recent years that it was indeed all about competition, but not about a social Europe, or that social Europe was getting lost on the way.
One speaker today voiced the opinion that the political leadership in many countries was to blame for the Constitution being seen in such a negative or critical light.
What was said about the market in services – admittedly on a global scale – concerns the opening of a common market, not social dumping, as Mr&#160;Juncker mentioned last time.
That is also our line.
It is very important that we send our young people the signal that their Europe should be a Europe of employment and a social Europe.
One point which I should still like to mention in conclusion is research and development.
I hope, Mr President-in-Office, that you and, more importantly, your successors will manage to invest enough money, initiatives and energy in this research programme because, if we want to keep up with the competition, we must promote research and development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are very worried about the current growth rate of the European economy, the high unemployment rates and all the social and environmental problems we have to deal with.
Therefore I am glad that a couple of weeks ago Parliament adopted a resolution on the Lisbon process and that a lot of its suggestions were taken into account at the spring summit.
Uncertainty is very expensive.
Secondly, with regard to the social services directive, Parliament is much more agreed on the necessity of that directive than the Council.
Now, risk capital is essential to the work of SMEs.
At the same time that we talk about the SMEs, unemployment etc., in the aftermath of the Lamfalussy report there are now 240 sub-groups working on new legislation for the financial markets.
You have to be tougher, Mr Juncker. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not want a Europe that plays fast and loose with our social and environmental benefits, which are part of our European identity.
The conclusions of the spring summit are good European conclusions, have clearly put the Barroso Commission in its place, and shown it the error of its neoliberal tendencies.
These celebratory declarations must now, though, be backed up by visible action, especially in two sectors: in environmental protection, we need European efforts for climate protection at long last, and this needs to be reflected both in the financial perspectives and at the European Investment Bank.
In social policy, this means that we need a directive to protect public services at long last.
One of the priorities of the remaining months of the Luxembourg Presidency should be to set this directive on public services in motion, because otherwise the spirit of Bolkestein will continue to hang over Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if a house’s foundations are rotten, you cannot help it withstand the winter by improving the roof.
The proposal for a services directive is a new attempt to finally lay the European social modelto rest.
Seventy thousand people demonstrated in Brussels in March against the brutality of the neoliberal project.
They will be watching to see if the Council's criticism only had the imminent Constitution referendum in France in its sights or if serious deeds follow. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, at its latest meeting the European Council recognised that there is very little to show for the Lisbon Strategy at the half-way stage.
There are still significant obstacles to the free movement of goods and services within the Union.
The liberalisation process has been met with strong opposition on the part of officials and trade associations in the countries of the old Union.
Its opponents argue that the quality of the services provided by enterprises in the new countries is lower, and that the latter are engaging in social dumping.
I firmly believe that another key catalyst for economic growth would be to turn cohesion policy into something more than simply a propaganda slogan.
If the Lisbon Strategy is to be saved, the Council, the Commission and above all, EU officials must remember the true meaning of the principle of solidarity and how a free market actually operates. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising how impending elections can sometimes make politicians change tack and even get them to deny their own principles.
After all, before 1 May 2004, we did not hear anybody complain about the liberalisation of services, because the Dutch commissioner’s plans simply fitted in with the European logic that service providers too should be able to work freely in the EU.
The European Left have discovered that social dumping puts the jobs of their own people at risk.
It remains to be seen, of course, whether this hypocrisy will be enough to prevent the ‘no’ camp from enjoying a landslide victory on 29 May.
Now that we are being confronted with increasingly aggressive worldwide competition, along with an ever-changing world and an ageing population, we have to rise to the additional challenge of safeguarding our social model, which presupposes economic growth in the first place.
We are also pleased that the conclusions have highlighted the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, and we hope that this will be more than merely lip-service.
As co-legislator, we will do everything in our power to make the free movement of services possible and we will ensure that this is done in a way that is consistent with the task of our generation, namely securing our social model with its three dimensions.
Mr President, Parliament’s steering committee for the Lisbon strategy agreed yesterday to work flat out, and, for our part, I can assure the Council presidency, the Commission, together with my fellow Members of this House and the members of the national parliaments, that we will continue to be firmly committed to achieving the objectives, and our cooperation with that end in mind can be relied on. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I see that Mr&#160;Watson is not present in the House, and that is something I regret.
The truth is, of course, that Mr&#160;Juncker himself, via the European Council held in March of this year, has ensured that the rest of us are in a position to explain to the French population that we now have a sensibly designed Stability and Growth Pact, that the balances in the Lisbon process have been retained and that we are now in a position to tackle the next step, as pointed out by Mr&#160;Almunia, Economic and Financial Affairs Commissioner, who said that, by using the two instruments, together with macroeconomic initiatives, we are in actual fact in a position to create more, and new, jobs in Europe.
France and the French people need a new Constitutional Treaty, and this new European structure, together with the political approach now set out by the March European Council and, hopefully, continued by the June European Council, provide us with some sound arguments for making further progress with our work on Europe.
It is a matter of hard, sensible and purposeful work, and that is something on which I should like to compliment Mr&#160;Juncker today. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the Stability Pact has its positive aspects, but some major concerns remain.
First of all, it is essential that the Commission should have a stronger and not a weaker role in managing the Pact, as regards both the accounts side and the investments side, that is to say as regards both stability and growth.
Secondly, it must be clearly understood that the new Pact is for growth, and for growth in the economy, not growth in deficits: the two things must not be linked together, as some national governments, such as the current Italian Government, seem to do.
Otherwise, the very future of the Union will be in jeopardy if we do not maintain a Community approach in implementing both the Pact and the other main policies, primarily the vital Lisbon Strategy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 March there was an enormous demonstration in Brussels by trade unions and the peace movement against the Bolkestein directive, against free trade and war, and for a social Europe.
Faced with the paradoxical situation in which we find ourselves, characterised by a strong currency, a weak economy and a society in crisis, faced with the crisis of the Maastricht framework and the Lisbon Strategy, in our view this demonstration – which brought together tens of thousands of workers from the whole of Europe, and I stress the whole of it, including the new countries in the east – put out a clear call for a much-needed change of direction.
We want to try to put these aspirations into practice in this House through our proposals and help to bring into Parliament the strength of feeling that enlivened the streets of Brussels, to which this Parliament cannot fail to respond. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I really must say that we have become extremely modest when evaluating the results of meetings of Heads of State or Government.
We would enjoy much greater confidence and more credibility among the citizens if the actions by the governments of the Member States were more consistently in line with the decisions taken.
At the moment, we spend our time at summits correcting decisions instead of complying and pushing ahead with what has been agreed.
The President-in-Office is probably the only person who even brings about joint resolutions at this stage.
Croatia: we decide that negotiations with Croatia will begin on 17 March but we postpone the negotiation process, even though the conditions are being complied with.
Lisbon: we want the internal market and hence also an internal market in services, but some of us are misleading the citizens, by reducing the services directive to the country of origin principle.
I appeal to all of us, but above all to the Member States: we must become more accountable again, we must win confidence in decisions and we must abide by the rules which we set ourselves.
We need fewer corrections to what already exists; instead, we need more serious compliance with decisions by Heads of State or Government, the Treaties and directives. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, at its latest meeting the European Council took a number of important decisions amending the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact.
True, these decisions do weaken some of the provisions of the Pact and reduce their restrictive nature, but this need not imply relaxing budgetary discipline in Member States.
This is a very depressing situation, and confidence in the whole Union is being undermined.
Amendment of the Pact and in particular greater flexibility of the preventive elements will actually strengthen its disciplinary powers.
I also welcome the Council decisions on reinvigorating the Lisbon Strategy, and am pleased that these decisions take account of the findings of the High Level Group led by Wim&#160;Kok.
It is essential to implement the reforms contained in the Lisbon Agenda at the earliest opportunity, if greater sustainable economic growth and more jobs are to be created and the European social model preserved.
It should be remembered, however, that the main responsibility for implementation of the essential structural reforms now lies with the Member States.
They must be able to convince the citizens that swift and effective implementation of the Lisbon Strategy is in their long-term interest.
The European institutions can and must support the governments of Member States in this difficult process.
The Commission needs to strengthen its role as an effective enforcer of Council decisions, and it must monitor the progress of reforms in individual countries in a transparent manner.
There should be ongoing cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments of Member States.
Mr&#160;President, I propose setting up a standing forum where representatives of the European Parliament and the national parliaments could hold regular and well-focused meetings to discuss the challenges involved in implementing the Lisbon Strategy.
This summit should have prepared the European economy for the 21st century and should have brought in greater budgetary discipline and a free market in services, but instead we are stuck with the old formula of debts and protectionism.
Some say that the Stability Pact has been rescued, but to my mind, there has been nothing but demagogy in the vague formulations, get-out clauses and accounting tricks, not to mention the way in which the political leaders treat the services directive.
Finally, Mr President, I hope that following the various referendums and elections, long-term vision, courage, a sense of responsibility and political leadership can finally prevail once again. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European economy is in a very delicate situation.
The recent European Summit coincides with a downwards review of the European Commission's economic growth forecasts and, therefore, with a review not just of growth, but also of job creation.
What we are being told is that, in the Europe of 2005, the unemployment rate is going to rise and there is going to be economic stagnation.
The Lisbon agenda, the Stability Pact and the liberalisation of services are key elements in terms of increasing this confidence.
And we have missed an opportunity in March.
We have missed the opportunity to promote healthy public finances and there are examples of this within Europe.
The countries that have made the structural reforms contained in the Lisbon agenda are actually the countries which are growing and which are creating employment within the European Union.
We cannot talk about the European social model without looking at those countries and we cannot express self-satisfaction when what has been carried out is a review of the Stability Pact based on the political interests of large countries which are not growing and which are not creating employment, and when doubts are being raised about the very nature of the Stability Pact and when there is a lack of confidence in the economic reforms that the European Union requires.
This is the opportunity facing you, Mr Barroso, if your project to provide Europe with the growth and employment we all want to see is to be viable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this an issue that we have not yet raised, but I believe that the conditions in which you have had to negotiate within the Eurogroup and then within Ecofin demonstrate that there may be a problem with the coordination of the powers of the two bodies.
The first points, which I believe we have not discussed sufficiently, are the points that allow us to move ahead in terms of harmonising the bases on which each Member State will draw up its budget in the future, identifying the macroeconomic perspectives to be taken into account and improving the statistical instruments for assessing the results of a particular Member State.
Nevertheless, I believe that, with regard to the competences that essentially remain with the Member States, this is the best approach, and it in this spirit that, on 25 April, we will hold a debate in the European Parliament, with the national parliaments, on the challenges of economic policy in Europe and in the Member States.
When I look at the reality of this reform, there are disappointments.
Each Member State has come with its demands, and we have seen, as we often do, a kind of trading in which everybody has taken the credit, without at the end of the day achieving European added value or the real prospect of a tool for growth and employment.
We have more work to do in this regard.
I know that you share this concern, that is to say that, in the future, genuine coordination of economic policies should allow us finally to gain all the possible advantages from the introduction of the euro.
I urge you to state here today that it is utterly false and farcical. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Stability and Growth Pact has been much praised.
However, as soon as their debts are reduced, the stability and exchange rate of the euro will be called into question.
Of course the 3% and 60% criteria have been maintained.
The difference between 0% and 3% alone makes EUR 250&#160;billion in the eurozone.
That is money which could have been used for short-term economic cycles, for natural disasters or for international obligations.
As long as the European Central Bank is not in a position to orientate its own refinancing business on whether government bonds in the eurozone have a good or a bad rating, it will be unable to help the euro achieve the necessary stability in the long term. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome the outcome of the spring European Council.
Firstly, the Lisbon process is balanced, which also means that the pillars are interdependent.
Secondly, a lot of emphasis is placed on the European social model, which means not only more jobs but also high-quality jobs, social security systems that are secure and that need to be modernised and the reconciliation of working life and family life.
We need to be able to retain the European social model.
We have not fully complied with the Lisbon process, but there are nonetheless a number of countries that have fulfilled many of its requirements.
Any attempt to undermine our services directive is sadly a clear sign that the anti-reform forces in Europe remain active.
President Barroso said recently that some people think the European Commission is there to protect the old ‘15’ against the new ‘10’.
On the contrary, as the new Member States have demonstrated so clearly, it is the liberalising economies that are the successful job-creating economies.
I am afraid that this new model, whatever merits it may have had in former times, is now something of an Achilles heel to our economy.
There are some good Council conclusions, such as on the Kyoto Protocol and sustainable development, but I am afraid that the heavy-handed tactics of some leaders, trying to put a brake on our economic reform and playing games with an increasingly discredited Stability and Growth Pact, serve as a timely reminder to us all that we could have our interests sacrificed to short-term political interests if we are not vigilant. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, our debates are often repetitive, and so I should like to start with a news item that I read yesterday which I found quite striking.
That clearly shows us our role in the future international division of labour: designing and selling technologies to enable those countries to grow without repeating our past mistakes, such as pollution and social oppression.
In view of all that, I think the summit has had a positive outcome, because it has genuinely reinvigorated the Lisbon Strategy on the basis of the interdependence of the three pillars; it has revitalised the European Union’s global role as a leader in the field of sustainable development; and it has put forward a protocol for Kyoto 2 that is highly ambitious and important precisely in this context.
What I think is good above all is the political reform of the management of the Lisbon Strategy according to the principle that everyone must play their own part to the full – the Member States, the Community, local communities, the European Union, and so on.
We shall do so better, Mr&#160;President, if, as you hoped, the collaboration that has been occurring recently among the institutions on the task that concerns us – drawing up advanced legislation – continues.
I am sure that the desired collaboration will take place in the coming months in order to achieve this result. &#160;&#160; As chairman of this Parliament’s delegation for relations with the People’s Republic of China, I should like to say something to the President of the Council about lifting the arms embargo.
If, however, we want to make a political gesture, we must ask for one in return, and this we are not yet getting.
So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if the Council wants to make a political gesture, I urge you to demand gestures in return from the Chinese Government.
I hope that the Council will be prepared to adopt this line, which enjoys the support of a large majority in this House. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the outcome of the Spring Summit suggests that the European Union has unfortunately taken a step backwards.
Relaxation of the principles governing the Stability and Growth Pact is very worrying.
Regrettably, the Lisbon Strategy statements remain on paper.
The services directive is one of the best parts of the Lisbon Strategy.
Consistent action aimed at bringing about the single market is the best way of supporting the Lisbon Strategy.
As we work on this directive, we must make sure that it contains as much common sense and as few restrictions as possible.
The Union needs powerful economic catalysts if it is to attain its economic objectives.
One such catalyst was the accession of ten new Member States in the enlargement that took place last May.
The citizens of the Member States expect us to do our duty.
We must find the courage to face up to the future. &#160;&#160; The advantage of speaking at the end of a debate is that it is possible to elaborate on a number of matters that have already been discussed, and I should like to do this by mentioning three misconceptions that have been dominating the debate.
This was not just a matter of horse-trading among those Member States that struggled to meet the Pact’s standards; there was also discussion of economic policy and about what the Pact was meant to achieve in economic terms in the context of macro-economic policy.
A second point concerns the integrated treatment of the economic guidelines and the employment guidelines, as well as micro-economic policy as presented yesterday by the Commission.
All this does of course, fit into the framework of the Lisbon strategy, and my group argues that we should streamline these processes and opt for an integrated approach.
The Commission did not do its homework very well, and we must realise that the migration of labour is inextricably linked to the free movement of services and that, in this respect, much more should be done than has been done to date, quite apart from this services directive. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is done.
We have had the summit, the Stability and Growth Pact was – as many are saying – reformed or – as others are saying – abolished, and an attack was launched on the services directive.
I am grateful to you, Mr President of the Commission, for having said at the beginning of your speech that the discussion about the Stability Pact had been started because the consensus about compliance with the rules hitherto had broken down and there was therefore no choice but to do something new.
It is important for the Commission to concentrate on what Europe can achieve and not to produce too much paper.
On the services directive, I have just one thing to say: we shall probably vote on Romania and Bulgaria this afternoon.
Otherwise, we shall face the same problem. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions made at the Spring Summit appear to be good, but we are aware that they will only be judged by events.
Transposed directives and national reform programmes must consist not just of generalities but of genuinely focused and measurable choices.
That is why it is so important to make decisions that can guarantee integration and hence the Commission’s role in the coordination of macroeconomic policies, the improvement of basic statistics, the involvement of national parliaments, the genuine integration of national and European planning instruments, the strength of the Union’s budget, investments in infrastructure and research, the European dimension, and so on.
From this point of view, I hope that the European Union will not have to wait too long for the good will of Japan; that we negotiate with the Japanese, provided, Mr President, that the draft is launched on 14 July, because this is an essential issue, essential for Europe, for the future of energy and for young people, that is to say for those people who will be living here in 30 or 50 years’ time.
This is why I fully support the joint resolution that expresses Parliament’s positive view of this extremely important and extremely positive Council. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the good news about the Spring Summit was that a decision was taken to draw up a long-term strategy to reduce greenhouse emissions.
It is absolutely essential that steps should now be taken to make ambitious proposals for the time after 2012.
Unfortunately, recent history has shown that it has been considerably easier for the European Union to draw up and agree ambitious targets than it has been to implement them.
We need to consider the interests of the Community, commit to the agreed decisions, and act in such a way that all the Member States derive added value from European cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, you have both devoted the lion’s share of your speeches to the Lisbon process.
The President of the Council did this in broad strokes and with the emphasis on balance and economic growth, which cannot be achieved without environmental and social responsibility.
You illustrated this trinity, Mr President of the Council, by the integrated approach to which the Council conclusions also bear witness.
I have never before seen Council conclusions in which the words SME, innovation and the environment featured so often.
Mr President of the Commission, I would now like to turn to you.
I may be wrong, but I get the impression that an awful lot of paperwork is being inflicted on the Member States, and that less attention is being paid to the social policy agenda and that it is not being given teeth.
I also have the feeling that this with Parliament leaves something to be desired as regards integrated employment policies, in which area I would like to see a certain degree of consultation in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Luxembourg Presidency is, I believe, a good presidency, which already counts among its achievements the creative compromise on the Stability Pact, which allows the Member States in the eurozone to move forward on the basis of the rules of financial prudence but with the necessary degree of flexibility.
At the same time, the Luxembourg Presidency managed during the European Council in Brussels to make the Lisbon Strategy more specific, but it really is a pity that it was not possible to name at this point the Member States which are not managing to promote this strategy.
Finally, I would like to wish the Luxembourg Presidency success henceforth with a very major issue which we are dealing with, by which I mean the financial perspectives, especially the budget for the Union's regional policy, for its cohesion policies.
I personally believe that we are all doomed to reach an agreement by June, because otherwise regional policy programmes will be the victims of any disagreement at European level. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the last European Council gave the European economy a new direction, that is, the direction of pragmatism, flexibility and encouragement of innovation.
With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, I am delighted that realism and flexibility have taken over from dogma and blind respect for rules which were decided upon during a period of economic growth that was much more sustained than the one we are experiencing today.
Rules are necessary, of course, since the stability of our common currency depends on them, but the reform of the pact is positive in that it reconciles the fundamental principle of respect for the rule of law and the minimum flexibility required for the management of the Member States’ public funds.
This pragmatism has also been applied to the draft directive on the liberalisation of the European services market.
By recognising that the current wording of the directive does not fully respond to the requirements and by calling for every possible effort to be made in order to make the internal market in services fully operational while preserving the European social model, the Council has not – as the media have too often said – pleased France.
Rather, it has recognised that the country of origin principle raised clear problems in terms of the risks of social and fiscal dumping and has left it to the wisdom of the European Parliament to find an acceptable solution.
The future of our economy will be in jeopardy if we do not make an increased and huge effort in terms of investment in the field of education and training and in the field of research and development.
We are way behind our American and Asian partners in these two areas.
The 25 have confirmed their will to make the Union a more attractive area for investment and job creation, in order to promote knowledge and innovation and to sustain growth.
These ambitious and necessary objectives will be achievable provided that our States provide the political will and the necessary funding. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Council's enlargement strategy is wide of the mark.
There is discrimination against Croatia, a central European country which meets the criteria better than many a Member State.
Ukraine, certainly a European country, but one which will not be ready to accede for decades and which we too shall not be ready to accept within the next few years, has been put off until heaven knows when; no specific strategy is being developed.
Yet with a clearly non-European country such as Turkey, accession negotiations are to commence this year.
I really must call on the Council to rethink this strategy thoroughly and to ensure first of all that the green light is given for accession negotiations with Croatia without delay – by 21 May at the latest – and that the working party generously set up as a result of your intervention, Mr President-in-Office, reaches a result without delay.
Furthermore, I should like to call on you to prevent accession negotiations with Turkey, which will overtax and overstretch the EU, from commencing in the autumn, and to develop a good neighbourhood strategy here and also to develop a concept for Ukraine.
That seems to me entirely normal, coherent and logical, since and some people would do very well to read it the European Parliament's resolution that has been adopted on the Lisbon Strategy has been almost entirely reflected in the European Council's conclusions.
From now on, the national governments will have to consult their national parliaments on their national reform programmes, the Council will be answerable to the European Parliament, and the Commission will play the role it has always had, that is to say the role of facilitator and initiator, a role that consists of uniting all the Member States in a spirit conducive to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, which has been designed to ensure that, in the future, the European social model remains accessible to the greatest possible number of Europeans.
It is easier, Mr Radwan, to reach a compromise on the Stability and Growth Pact than to achieve coherence within the group to which you belong.
When a number of governments suggested that entire expenditure blocks should be written out of the Stability Pact, the criticism sounded exactly as it sounds now, now that it has not come to pass.
The corrective part of the pact has only undergone minor changes, compared with what the Treaty and the Stability Pact say on the matter.
Of course, if you imagined that, for the purpose of the pact, 3.0% really meant 3.0%, that proceedings would be instituted against countries with a deficit of over 3.0% and that these countries would be subject to sanctions if they did not get below the 3.0% limit the following year, then the reform of the Stability Pact does not come up to expectations.
I read – and it even amuses me somewhat – that the Council, the 25 Ministers for Finance, the 25 Heads of State or Government, bowed down before Germany and France.
The idea that it only needs a peremptory shout from Berlin or a clear signal from Paris to make the other twenty-three governments knuckle under is a totally un-European perception and contradicts the constantly recurrent need to achieve a viable working relationship in Europe and find compromise solutions.
I was not sure whether he was addressing me or addressing a group of Member States.
I hope you are not reproaching me for not having persuaded the Members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to take the same position on all the issues, because I do not represent the PPE-DE here.
The visitors to the European Parliament today have been surprised not to see more people at a time when Europe is debating some essential issues. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
What we have just produced, what the Member States have just produced with the active support of the Presidency and the European Commission, is a credible reform of the Pact.
I can also assure you that the Commission’s role has not been diminished by this reform, quite the contrary.
In fact, the range of situations in which the Commission will be required to give its opinion or to take the initiative on an action has been considerably extended.
Furthermore, with regard to Lisbon&#160;–&#160;and I have seen this during this morning’s discussion&#160;–&#160;there is clearly a very broad consensus on a system to enhance governance, in which there is a better distinction between the competences of the Union and the competences of the Member States.
The Member States have accepted this enhanced governance and, once again, this also increases the credibility of our Lisbon objectives.
I would like, however, to return to an important point from the conclusions of the European Council that I did not mention in my introduction to this debate: the development policy within the context of the Millennium Development Objectives.
I am pleased to announce that yesterday, right here in Strasbourg, the Commission adopted an important package of proposals, which Commissioner Michel and myself also announced yesterday.
It contains new mid-term objectives, more emphasis on the quality of aid and greater coherence amongst policies.
Within the European Council, we have established the objectives and the new instruments for the renewed Lisbon Strategy and we have also just approved the integrated guidelines, encompassing macroeconomic policy, microeconomic policy and employment.
I am well aware that, at the difficult times we are currently experiencing in Europe, our attention is often more focussed on controversial aspects, on the things on which there is no agreement from the Member States or unanimity amongst them.
No Member State can achieve 100% on all of its positions.
Our Europe is becoming increasingly complex.
So it is up to those of us who have a leading, and indeed political, role in the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament to explain to our fellow citizens that we have to make compromises, that Europe means compromise.
That is what responsibility means, and responsibility is the most important thing if leadership is to be effective, and leadership is what Europe needs at this stage. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President of the Commission.
Six motions to wind up the debate have been received in accordance with Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; . – To its dismay, the European Council of 22 and 23&#160;March was characterised by an issue that was not on its agenda but which was imposed upon it.
Despite the contradictions, a ‘no’ vote in France will be the best answer. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the Conference of Committee Chairmen, I would like to inform you, before the vote on the calendar for our 2006 part-sessions, that we have very great concerns about this draft calendar.
According to this calendar, the distribution of committee meeting weeks and the number of working days for committees will, in 2006, be at the lowest level since 1994, which was a non-election year.
Despite the increase in parliamentary work and the increase in the number of Members, the number of committees and the number of amendments, we all know that, since 1994, Parliament’s competences have increased in the field of codecision and that the order of the Strasbourg and Brussels part-sessions and constituency weeks will not allow the parliamentary committees to respect the time periods laid down in the code on multilingualism for the adoption and presentation of reports for part-sessions.
In terms of method, moreover, I would simply like to warn all the honourable Members that we are going to have enormous problems in 2006, because we have respected the dates of the European school holidays. &#160;&#160; Mr Daul, judging from the applause, I can see that many Members of Parliament share your concern.
Only partial amendments to the calendar can be voted on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a – positive – last-minute oral amendment to the report, which the Council supports.
Now this paragraph of the Joint Declaration should replace the report as such.
This is a message signifying agreement with the Council on the financial implications of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
We have recently concluded a trialogue, and I have had the pleasure of announcing that an integral agreement exists on this matter.
I should like to warmly congratulate all those who have contributed to it. &#160;&#160; I would like to make it clear that, if my interpretation is correct, that means that paragraph 1 of the motion for a resolution, rather than saying ‘Regrets that the Council has not agreed’ should say ‘Is pleased that the Council has agreed to adopt the joint declaration’. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have heard a truly very important statement by the President of the European Council and I should like to thank the Luxembourg President-in-Office, Jean-Claude Juncker, and also Mr Schmit, for withdrawing the Council's previous reservations and for safeguarding the financial and other rights of the European Parliament.
For those who do not know what has happened over the last few hours, we as a group decided yesterday evening that we would request that our assent to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania be postponed on the grounds that Parliament's rights, in other words our financial rights, had not been safeguarded.
We can indeed, as a result of the very tense and obviously very lively discussions that have taken place, especially yesterday evening in the PPE-DE Group, agree on how to proceed.
For Mr Cohn-Bendit's benefit: the first point of the draft due to be voted on, as it now stands, says that the European Parliament regrets the fact that the Joint Declaration contained in the annex to this draft report, according to which the three institutions must reach agreement on the financial repercussions of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, has not materialised.
That has now been replaced – and I would also propose this as an oral amendment – by our welcoming the fact, as the President-in-Office said, that agreement has been reached, because this means that all Parliament's prerogatives vis-à-vis the Council have been respected and we can therefore vote in favour. &#160;&#160; I would like to make it absolutely clear that the joint statement by the Presidency and the Council, which until now had not been accepted and which is now being accepted, is included in the annex to the motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the intention of our oral amendment is to replace the resolution as a whole by the declaration of the European Parliament that states that the European Parliament approves the Joint Declaration attached to the report as agreed in the trialogue of 13 April 2005.
With your permission, I shall read the Joint Declaration agreed between the Council presidency and Parliament’s negotiating delegation, which is very short: ‘1.
The Council, the Commission and the European Parliament confirm that the classification of the expenditure in Articles 30-34, Title III ‘Financial Provisions’ of the Act of Accession, annexed to the draft Accession Treaty will constitute non-compulsory expenditure after 2009.’ The second paragraph has caused the most controversy and reads: ‘2.
The financing of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania will be ensured without jeopardising the commitments for existing multiannual programmes and the decisions on the next financial perspectives. 3.
The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission recall the importance of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 in the functioning of budgetary procedures and that this can only function if all the institutions comply fully.’ This is the Joint Declaration attached to the amended paragraph. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we could have had all this earlier on.
We would ask you to vote on the oral amendment proposed by Mr Lewandowski instead of our report.
I shall pass on our common regret, the regret of the House and of the Presidency, to the three capitals with which we had to negotiate up to five minutes ago. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure in connection with the Van Orden report, I welcome the fact that the trilogue was successful and that Bulgaria and Romania did not become hostage to a tug of war between the Council and Parliament.
As regards Amendment 5, I find it outrageous that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is turning individual support from individual members of our group for this Amendment 5 to the Van Orden report into a proposal tabled on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I thank our group and our chairman for respecting and admitting the different stances with respect to the Kozloduj nuclear power station. &#160;&#160; The Presidency does not understand what your point of order consists of. &#160;&#160; – The intervention on a point of order was made because an amendment to the Van Orden report on Bulgaria – on which we are about to vote – has been moved in the name of the PPE-DE Group, whereas this amendment was supported only by individual members of our group, including my delegation.
I wanted to point that out before the report was put to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr Salafranca, I hope that your point of order is more intelligible. &#160;&#160; I hope so too, Mr President, and I believe that when I explain it, it will be easy to understand, particularly for somebody as intelligent as yourself.
Mr President, I simply wished to say that, in view of the oral amendment we have just voted for on the Böge/Dührkop report, Amendments 2 relating to the favourable opinion by Mr Van Orden and the one by Mr&#160;Moscovici, presented by our political group, no longer make any sense, and I wished to say before the vote that we are going to withdraw them because they are not compatible with what we have just voted for. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mrs&#160;Stenzel, I wish to raise another point of order, for the sake of clarification.
I again expressly thank individual members for their initiative in supporting this proposal concerning the timely shutdown of Kozloduj. &#160;&#160; I would like to make it clear that the amendment in question exists and is presented by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and other Members. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the request of the rapporteur, Mr Van Orden, we would like to add the word ‘illegal’ before the word ‘logging’ in the last line of this amendment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have an oral amendment that applies to four amendments.
In Mr&#160;Moscovici and Mr Van Orden’s reports, and also in the recommendations, we want to have a reference to the exchange of letters between you and the President of the Commission on the full association of the European Parliament in the forthcoming process over the next 20 months concerning safeguard clauses.
That will apply to all four texts. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in accordance with Article 170(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance calls for a postponement of the vote on assentfor Bulgaria.
The Verts/ALE Group in the European Parliament solemnly declares that it is in favour of accession, that it does not wish to vote against, but that, as regards assent, it can only say yes or no or not take part in the vote.
Mr Swoboda has the floor to speak in favour. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to speak out against this proposal on behalf of my group.
What we have achieved, as Mr Wiersma's proposal shows and with the assent of this Parliament, is this: according to the assurances of the Commission and the Council – I should like to mention both and also to thank Commission Rehn, we shall be fully involved in further consultations and in the possible application of the clause which should allow this accession to be postponed.
Mr Cohn-Bendit, if you had spoken with him more closely, you would have realised how much hard work we, and Mr Brok, have put into this, thereby reaching a positive result.
That is why I wish to vote against this motion. &#160;&#160; Mr Nassauer will take the floor to speak against. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know of nobody of any standing in this House who would not be in favour of us welcoming Bulgaria and Romania into the European Union.
Delaying today’s decision would therefore be an eminently sensible move, as it would allow us to indicate that although we are still very much in favour of Bulgaria and Romania joining the EU, we wish to wait for the Commission’s next progress report before we actually take a final decision on the matter.
This would be one way of addressing many of the concerns that have been voiced, without giving rise to doubts about our basic willingness and determination to welcome these countries into the EU.
I believe that it would be irresponsible on the part of this House to have any delay today.
I call upon the House to vote in favour of assent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I move the same revised amendment as I proposed earlier on Mr Van Orden’s report.
This is the same text that I want to put into the recommendation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I thought that you had understood the point of order I presented previously to call for the withdrawal of Amendments 2 to this favourable opinion and to the favourable opinion by Mr Moscovici. &#160;&#160; Alright, Mr Salafranca, it has been withdrawn and there is no need to vote on it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the same text that we adopted in the Van Orden recommendation and report.
We will be repeating the same text in the two votes on the Moscovici report and recommendation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would call for the vote on the accession of Romania to be adjourned in accordance with Rule 170(4).
The House has just voted in favour of the resolution by an overwhelming majority, yet if Members actually read this resolution, they will discover that, although the progress made by Romania on economic matters has been admirable, progress on political issues, such as freedom of the press and corruption, has been such that no&#160;one can claim that Romania could join the EU in its present state, at least not if we are to believe everything we have written in our own report.
The question we must ask, however, is why we should give the benefit of the doubt to a country experiencing such fundamental problems with democracy as corruption and a failure to protect the freedom of the press.
No country can overcome problems of this kind in a hurry.
Mr Wurtz has the floor to speak against the proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are some genuine shortcomings in Romania with regard to human rights and the fight against corruption.
The authorities have undertaken commitments in this area and it is obviously necessary, in my view, to impose strict controls over their implementation.
I believe, however, that the justifications given for such a postponement in voting do not rest on that point, since exactly the same request was heard with regard to Bulgaria, which is in a different situation.
That is the reason why my group wishes to focus attention on one of the consequences of a possible delay.
We would therefore send, against our will, a message to Romania’s people, the consequences of which would be extremely dangerous.
That is why my group, by a very large majority, does not support the call for a postponement, and will vote in favour of assent. &#160;&#160; Mr Voggenhuber will take the floor to speak in favour of the proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today finds us, for the first time in the EU’s history, voting on whether to welcome a country into the EU 20&#160;months before the planned accession date – a country, moreover, in which serious violations of human rights and democratic standards are committed, as became apparent from yesterday’s debate.
There can be no question that proceedings would be initiated under Article&#160;7 against any EU Member State that violated democratic standards and human rights to such an extent, and this should be obvious to everyone today.
There is, however, no good reason why Romania should be given 20&#160;months before the date of its accession, especially since this would be the first time such a thing has happened in the EU’s history, and would have the effect of removing the pressure that negotiations bring to bear on the country.
We should take steps to prevent such serious violations of democracy and human rights.
France is in the process of taking a decision on the Constitution.
Let everyone reach a decision in line with his or her beliefs, for or against, but surely not in favour of a postponement.
I have heard many Members say during the debates that they fear that our Parliament will be signing a blank cheque today or giving its last word on the matter.
As a matter of fact, we have had, through an exchange of letters between yourself, Mr President, the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission, every guarantee that our Parliament will be fully involved in all of the future decisions to be taken, and we know that there is the possibility of invoking the safeguard clause.
I therefore believe that all Members can vote today both with knowledge of the facts and with full peace of mind, because this Parliament will play its full role in the procedure that will follow between now and 1 January 2007.
I therefore call, in turn, for the rejection of this postponement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should merely like to point out that it is customary for voting time to end at 1.30&#160;p.m., as we all, of course, have guests and must attend to the public’s needs. &#160;&#160; My apologies, Mr&#160;President.
I have risen to speak on the basis of Rule&#160;160, as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has requested that the vote on a number of amendments be taken by roll call.
Our proposal to delete Strasbourg days does not imply that we wish to reduce our hours of work but to carry out our work where it is most effective and cost efficient, namely in Brussels.
Otherwise, enlargement will become an exercise in reducing the levels of prosperity and development enjoyed by the Union’s Member States.
Accurate evaluation is not a selfish gesture on the part of those already in the Union, but an example of an institution behaving responsibly. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I offer a welcome to the citizens of Bulgaria, who with this vote see the culmination of their desire to join the European Union.
In addition to congratulating the citizens and their current government, which has achieved this result, I should like to recall the major commitment made by previous administrations, particularly the government of Ivan Kostov, which started negotiations with the European Union in the early, most difficult days.
We are therefore convinced that – unlike Turkey, for example – both Bulgaria and Romania will be welcome in our political community before long.
It is now clear, however, that Bulgaria has made significant efforts to fulfil Community criteria and to move closer to the Union in political, economic and social terms.
Against this backdrop, the European Council of 17&#160;December&#160;2004 decided in favour of Bulgaria’s accession on 1&#160;January&#160;2007.
Parliament should follow suit.
The entire accession process has been characterised by other requirements that we feel are unacceptable, such as discrimination as regards the movement of workers and equal access to Community funding, and the existence of unilateral safeguard clauses that can be activated against the interests of these countries, and only these countries.
The enlargement is moving ahead within a political and financial framework that does not take account of Portugal’s interests, nor the needs of those countries applying to join.
I therefore feel that Parliament should add its opinion to those already delivered and publicly declare itself in favour of that country’s accession.
At the same time, however, the CSU has always maintained that countries must meet certain criteria before they join the EU.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that Romania has a great deal of ground to cover before it meets the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The fact is that, although we do not know the feelings of the Romanian people, accession gives rise to expectations, following enormous demands and impositions that we feel are unacceptable, not least structural reforms leading to privatisations, which have had a negative impact on people’s lives.
The new demands that various Members of this House have attempted to introduce strike us as excessive and unacceptable.
The truth, however, is that demands are already in place, such as derogations with regard to freedom of movement of workers.
On the contrary, the vote must encourage this future Member State to work twice as hard and to accelerate reforms, particularly in the fight against corruption, the defence of civil rights, the protection of ethnic minorities and the control of borders.
She points out that this will be the first time – owing to a proposal made by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and accepted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs – that the European Parliament will be fully involved in the decision process, particularly if the safeguard clause is implemented – a clause which consists of pushing back accession by one year, if either of the two countries is not ready by 2007.
This is the only way in which we can ensure that the EU – including all of its Member States – and the applicant country derive all of the potential benefits of accession.
The negotiations that have taken place and the efforts made by the Romanian authorities have led to significant changes in the country in recent years.
Accordingly, the Council decided in December 2004 to conclude negotiations, with a view to accession in 2007.
The EU’s doors are open to Romania, but the country must realise that there is an urgent need to find workable solutions to the most serious problems.
All that remains to be done is to convert this commitment into concrete actions whose effects can be measured, because it is the results that matter.
Everything seems to suggest that Romania has a great deal left to do in the areas of corruption, protection of minorities, competition, state support and the environment, and yet this House has been asked to deliver its verdict no fewer than 20 months ahead of accession.
Romania Europe and will become a member of the European Union.
The situation in the areas of corruption and administrative and legal stability in particular is a cause of major concern.
It seems entirely possible to me that in due course there will have to be a year’s delay.
At the moment however we can see that the new government is putting the required reforms into practice on schedule and also that the European Commission, as recently in the case of Croatia, takes a strict line in its assessment of candidate members.
Parliament always monitors the situation in countries that formally declare an interest in becoming an EU Member State, and it has naturally done this in the case of Romania.
After a number of postponements and Romania’s failure to be one of the ten countries that joined last year, I have no doubt that, if it meets the remaining criteria, Romania will, along with Bulgaria, be one of the next countries to join the EU.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, also with regard to the vote in favour of Romania’s entry into the European Union, I offer the Romanian citizens and their government my compliments and congratulations and say how pleased I am at this important step towards a better future.
In particular, I must emphasise how important it is that all the citizens in Romania, elderly pensioners as well as the young, should strive alongside the governments to make tangible progress for the sake of their collective well-being, instead of confining themselves to making plenty of promises that are followed by few tangible results, as many governments in Europe and throughout the world do. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted today against the recommendation for Romanian membership, for the following reasons.
Adherence to the criteria that have been jointly agreed and once again put to the citizens of Europe in talks on enlargement should be a normal gesture, not anything exceptional or remarkable.
Unless we keep to our agreed principles, we will drift into a situation in which we betray the tenets of representational democracy and drastically reduce our chances of keeping to agreements in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to explain my positive vote on Romania.
These efforts will be made easier with Europe, which must play a very great role.
I should next like to say to the Romanian people that, within the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, a large number of Members take their side and support the efforts to establish a genuine Christian Democracy in Romania.
I should like to pay tribute to the instigator of Christian Democracy in Romania, Cornelia Coposu, who, after the revolution, founded this party.
The Council has refused to adjust the Financial Perspective, even though the Interinstitutional Agreement requires this to be done in the event of enlargement.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria, as well as of the collapse of the trilogue on adjustments to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The Council has refused to adjust the Financial Perspective, even though the Interinstitutional Agreement requires this to be done in the event of enlargement.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that I particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria, as well as of the collapse of the trilogue on adjustments to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The evidence points to Bulgaria and Romania having their place in the Union.
I deplore, however, the way in which governments, particularly those of Chirac, Blair, Schroeder and the like, deal with these issues.
It is a natural consequence of the enlargement by 10 Member States that occurred in May 2004.
Mr&#160;Moscovici’s and Mr&#160;Van&#160;Orden’s reports confirm how great the problems are.
The economic or administrative criterion has not been fully complied with, but is expected to be so by 1&#160;January 2007.
An important objection to the resolutions comes from the Committee on Agriculture, which points out that the costs of Bulgaria’s and Romania’s EU membership have not been taken into account in the EU’s long-term budget for 2007-2013.
The process of negotiation and of adjustment to the EU has been going on for approximately eight years, which means that Bulgaria’s and Romania’s membership is more or less a .
At the same time, it is important that the process of adjustment be allowed to continue.
The issue of women’s rights has been neglected during the accession negotiations, whether with regard to the labour market, participation in social processes or violence against women.
I believe that human rights and humanitarian issues such as these are more important than problems relating to the EU’s institutional framework, for example the question of Parliament’s budgetary rights, even though it was only when Parliament had made certain that these rights would be fully respected that a last-minute compromise was reached.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that we particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The Council has refused to adjust the Financial Perspective, even though the Interinstitutional Agreement requires this to be done in the event of enlargement.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that I particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria, as well as of the collapse of the trilogue on adjustments to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The Soviet-style ‘limited sovereignty’ imposed by the EU is, moreover, resisted by some prominent citizens of these countries, who refuse to see their nation bribed by EU subsidies, and who call for the support of our no vote.
This is evident from the current impasses in decision-making and the suspicious attitude of various ‘old’ Member States towards ‘new’ Member States on matters such as the services directive.
Simply offering a juicy carrot and ultimately fobbing these countries off will lead to great dissatisfaction and given the objectives of political stability and economic prosperity that cannot ever be the intention. &#160;&#160; .
The way in which the Council decided on the financing of accession for these two countries, only recognising the budgetary authority of the European Parliament at the last moment, also detracts from the need to decide on the accession of these countries 20 months in advance.
It is the geopolitical benefits of the accession of these countries that are the deciding factor for me however.
The accession treaties also contain safeguard clauses that can be used to postpone accession.
At the same time, however, the Commission’s regular progress reports make it clear that both Bulgaria and Romania still have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet these accession criteria, and much work remains to be done, particularly with regard to the thorny issues of the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
The reform process must continue, and it must be concluded before accession.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that we particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that we particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria, as well as of the collapse of the trilogue on adjustments to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
The Commission’s latest progress reports note that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
Although the delay of 20 months between our assent and eventual accession on 1 January 2007 is ludicrously long, it is too late to have this debate now and our position on this should have been made clear earlier.
Not giving our assent now would send all the wrong signals to the people and governments of Romania and Bulgaria and would be a grave mistake, and I welcome both countries in the EU. &#160;&#160; .
The Council has refused to adjust the Financial Perspective, even though the Interinstitutional Agreement requires that this be done in the event of enlargement.
The Commission’s latest progress reports confirm that both countries have a great deal of ground to cover before they meet the accession criteria, in particular with regard to the fight against corruption and the establishment of a judiciary operating under the rule of law.
It is for this reason that we particularly welcome the efforts undertaken by the new Romanian Government, which is resolutely pushing ahead with reforms in order to overcome the delays caused by its predecessor.
It would be premature to take a decision on the matter at this time, in view of the fact that both countries are still a remarkably long way from meeting the accession criteria, as well as of the collapse of the trilogue on adjustments to the Financial Perspective.
The fact that we are still 20&#160;months away from the envisaged date of accession would have been further justification for such a delay.
We regret that we do not feel able to vote in favour of accession at this time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although, like most of my fellow Members, I am in favour of the EU including Romania and Bulgaria, and of their becoming full members of it, I do believe that this should happen in due course and according to the rules.
In its common position, the Council has made a number of amendments to Parliament’s position at first reading and as such there has been a clear departure from the Commission’s original position.
The Council found that there were serious practical problems standing in the way of across-the-board implementation – or at least the extent of implementation that the Commission would like to see – of roadside checking for compliance with the working time directive.
The purpose is therefore to strike a difficult balance between, on the one hand, complying with standards on working conditions and driving and rest times (in its biennial reports on the implementation of Regulation (EEC) 3820/85, the Commission has noted a steady rise in the number of infringements) and, on the other hand, the adoption of workable and realistic checking mechanisms.
The report contains important proposals to safeguard micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and the consumer.
This is an issue of major importance and Parliament accordingly tabled a range of important amendments at first reading, including amendments on conformity assessment of products, eco-design requirements that must be met, setting up a credible and effective market monitoring system, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and informing consumers.
In its common position, the Commission and the Council adopted some of the amendments put forward by Parliament, thus leaving behind significant concerns in this area.
I support the rapporteur’s proposal, which is in my view realistic and stands a reasonable chance of being implemented.
Among the proposals tabled, I should like to highlight the rapporteur’s point that progress must be made in the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and the role that the EU could play in making that happen.
The United States, Canada and Mexico have all sought to tighten up IMO agreements and the EU, especially given the recent accidents that it has had, can and must take action in this area.
Given the evident benefits of adopting the proposal in terms of protecting European citizens’ health, I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; .
With a sum of less than EUR 120 billion, it remains 20 times smaller than the US budget, for a Europe that is seeking an American-style constitution, without having the means, nor even the desire, for 450 million men and women to change their lives.
Within this budget can be found a litany of limited budgetary themes: leftovers to recover, minimal loans for the Balkans, mosquito nets required for children struck by malaria, the financial application of the CAP reform, chatter on the development of the countryside without country people, the paltry funds allocated to fishing, and so on.
It is a budgetary strategy lacking in originality, because it serves an absence of ideas.
Quite apart from the need to meet the financial needs of a Union of 25, the EU must ensure that the institutional and political adjustments arising from the new Constitutional Treaty proceed as efficiently as possible.
These challenges must therefore be underpinned by coherent, well coordinated and adequately financed actions, and the 2006 budget must play a central role in meeting them.
The EU must also take decisions on various ongoing accession processes, reinforce its role on the international stage and launch new measures to reinvigorate the Lisbon Strategy.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has voted against the proposals on social legislation relating to road transport and on minimum conditions for the implementation of this legislation.
It does, however, offer the possibility of better regulations in certain Member States.
In reality, however, this system causes social dumping, as the free competition of services leads to carriers from countries where there is a better social framework being penalised.
As a result, the pursuit of competitiveness exerts pressure, in terms of the deterioration of working conditions and pay in these countries, and this is not acceptable.
The European Union ought to have instituted a different process, of upward harmonisation, by a system of progressive social convergence.
In addition, the obligations of employees and employers have been laid down more clearly, with the primary aim of ensuring that they are able to be enforced more effectively.
Additionally, a legal framework under which Member States may impose penalties on Member States found guilty of serious breaches.
While recognising that there may be a problem in some countries we feel that the solution being proposed is unworkable and so could bring the directive into dispute.
In spite of the soothing discussions, the Bolkestein directive was neither thoroughly reviewed nor withdrawn.
These manoeuvres are absurd.
The changes put forward to the Stability and Growth Pact demonstrates that political factors are outweighing economic considerations, making the Pact increasingly less credible.
This directive is, however, only an outline of what awaits us if the European Constitution is adopted.
Articles 144, 145 and 148 of the text are clear.
I had emphasised the fact that this attitude has had devastating psychological effects.
Not only has the principle of equal treatment between Member States suffered as a result, but also the foundations of a Community governed by the rule of law appear to have been shaken.
The reassertion of the intangible character of the common rules decided would have been more useful than the triumphant, tiresome declarations of various Heads of State at the end of the European Council.
The European Youth Pact, with its objectives of long-term integration into the labour market, improved general and vocational education and increased mobility for young people, is particularly important in this respect.
The Active Ageing campaign is of key significance for older people, as the experience, skills and productivity these workers have gained deserve greater recognition.
I am counting on specific solutions being proposed that provide responses to the Commission’s Green Paper on the demographic situation in the EU. &#160;&#160; . – The reform of the Stability Pact and the midterm review of the Lisbon Strategy are the two whips which will be used more intensively against the peoples, especially young people.
The reformed Stability Pact does not revise the objectives of the anti-grass roots policy against the workers.
On the contrary, arm-in-arm with the Lisbon Strategy, greater impetus is being given to big business and the demands of the Franco-German axis are being satisfied.
The decisions on poorer pension systems, the abolition of collective agreements, the generalisation of part-time and temporary work, the liberalisation of working times, the reduction in state aid, the reduction in subsidies, full liberalisation of the market with more privatisation, drastic cuts in employers' social security contributions and the generalisation of private insurance are a fact, the direct repercussions of which are wage and pension cuts and more poverty and unemployment.
Although these amendments are far-removed from the excessive rigidity that characterised the previous version, it is also essential that they avoid any vagueness, because otherwise they might have a negative impact on the euro’s credibility internationally and on the stability of Member States’ public finances.
A further relevant aspect that the Council focused on was the relaunch of the Lisbon Strategy, in light of the lack of success at this mid-term stage.
I feel that the Strategy has been a victim of its own ambition and of the vague, almost bombastic nature of some of the targets that were set, without their being pegged to a properly laid out and workable timetable.
In spite of some reservations with regard to parts of the Services Directive, particularly the announcement and the exaggerated defence of the so-called country of origin principle, I believe that it contains some highly positive aspects that we should adopt and put into practice at European level.
Under the European Security Strategy, this region is a high priority for the European Union, as is evidenced by, among other things, in addition to civilian aspects, the EU’s police and military presence in the Western Balkans.
The future of this region lies in the European Union.
The Thessaloniki Summit of 21&#160;June 2003 clearly emphasised the European vocation of the Western Balkans.
Though the Union’s commitment to the Western Balkans is not open to doubt, it is up to the countries in that region to make good use of it.
The countries in question must demonstrate, by specific policies and actions, their willingness and their capacity to become candidates, when the time is right, for accession to the European Union, with a view to joining it as members one day.
The Union will continue to give them active support in their efforts to bring about political and institutional reform.
Nonetheless, they can be met and mastered, because it is in the interests of the peoples of the Western Balkans, who have certainly lived through unhappy times, to face up to those challenges.
It is also in the interests of the European Union to smooth their path towards Europe, because our primordial objective must be peace and stability in the continent of Europe.
The stabilisation and association process is still the general framework for the Western Balkan countries’ European route towards future accession.
This process seeks to help the countries of that region to establish sustainable peace, democracy, stability, prosperity and respect for minority rights.
These objectives are the same as those of the European Project which, after the most terrible of wars, succeeded in reconciling enemy nations and enabling them to build a common future.
It is important to note that this same ideal, this same vision, has also enriched the experience of the latest enlargement.
This morning we have just taken a very important decision, that is, Parliament has just taken a very important decision on this subject, in this case in relation to Bulgaria and Romania.
As had been agreed at the Thessaloniki Summit, in 2004 the Union concluded European partnerships with the countries of this region for the first time.
They were submitted by the Commission at the same time as the reports on the partnerships and on the stabilisation and association process.
The Union’s approach towards the Balkans is thus already highly individualised and based on the principle of each country’s own merits.
At the present time only two countries have concluded a stabilisation and association agreement with the European Union, namely Croatia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
At this stage Croatia is the first country in the region to have become a candidate country.
The process is thus a general one, but it follows the ‘each country on its merits’ approach.
At the time of the last Council review of the stabilisation and association process, in May 2004, the Council welcomed the progress achieved in the region.
For this region, 2005 will be the year in which major opportunities will arise.
Thus the Council will be closely monitoring the continued implementation of the Ohrid Framework Agreement in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, a country which has applied to the European Union to become a candidate country.
The political developments in Albania, particularly in the light of the forthcoming parliamentary elections which are due to take place this summer, deserve our full attention.
As for Serbia and Montenegro, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council is due to give its opinion during the first half of this year, among other things on the advisability of negotiating a stabilisation and association agreement.
Progress towards a process aimed at settling the future status of Kosovo by means of dialogue and cooperation between all the parties concerned will be conditional upon a positive outcome of that review.
Finally, with regard to Croatia, the intergovernmental conference on the accession negotiations will be convened by a joint agreement as soon as the Council has confirmed – and I hope it will do so soon – that Croatia is cooperating fully with the Hague Tribunal.
This unreserved cooperation with the Tribunal is an inescapable requirement for all the countries of the Western Balkans.
We can say that real progress has been made in recent months, but more progress is needed.
The European Union’s initiatives in promoting the regional integration of the Western Balkans, particularly as regards infrastructure, education, the return of refugees, the fight against organised crime, and cultural exchanges, really are essential here.
Regional cooperation encouraging the economic integration of the region is an important tool in promoting reconciliation, encouraging reform and, above all, improving the economic and social situation in this region.
Consequently the Council attaches special importance to the promotion of regional cooperation, which is a key element in the stabilisation and association partnership.
In its review of this process in May 2004, the Council welcomed the substantial improvements it found regarding regional cooperation, particularly in the areas of infrastructure, trade and energy.
Assistance projects in the areas mentioned in the question are being implemented by the Commission under the CARDS programme and, particularly in Croatia, via the pre-accession instruments, which are particularly important from this point of view.
Thus the objective of the CARDS Regulation is, among other things, to implement reconstruction projects, to provide aid for the return of refugees and the stabilisation of the region, and also to encourage regional cooperation.
Currently, most of the countries in the Western Balkans are making tangible progress in their relations with the EU.
Yet, many issues still need to be addressed and progress consolidated and reinforced.
The years 2005 and 2006 will be crucial for the Western Balkans in relation to the European Union.
We have to overcome certain short-term issues to be able to focus on long-term economic and social development.
The most critical immediate issues concern the conclusion of the work of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia – ICTY – and the settlement of the future status of Kosovo.
As a former Member of the European Parliament, I have always been proud of the strong record of this House in advocating respect for human rights and related international obligations, as well as in supporting the multilateral system based on the United Nations.
This is why I particularly welcome Parliament’s views in paragraphs 37 and 46, where full cooperation with ICTY, the Hague Tribunal, is underlined.
This support for human rights, the rule of law and UN-based multilateralism is the reason why the European Union has made cooperation with ICTY a condition in its relations with the countries in the region.
This autumn, probably in November, the Commission will present the enlargement package and report in more detail on the progress made by the countries in the region.
I have recently written to Prime Minister Nano to underline that the Commission will only be able to propose the conclusion of negotiations on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement if the parliamentary elections this summer are conducted in accordance with international standards.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is actively tackling the priorities we identified in the feasibility report in late 2003.
Once the country achieves significant progress in all priority areas, we can recommend opening negotiations on the Stabilisation and Accession Agreement.
For the opening of SAA negotiations, the police reform is a particularly important condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
I believe, however, that the country is ready to assume more responsibility for its own future.
With responsible and democratically accountable authorities in place in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I foresee a smooth and gradual phasing-out of the Office of the High Representative.
As you know, in December the European Council decided that accession negotiations could only be opened on 17 March, if there was full cooperation with the Hague Tribunal.
The authorities must now react decisively and ensure that future elections can take place in full compliance with international standards.
Depending on the political development, on the progress in legal, political and economic reforms and on the technical quality of the replies, we aim to adopt the opinion by the end of this year.
To reach this stage Serbia and Montenegro had to make special efforts.
So far this year, a dozen persons indicted for war crimes have boarded the plane to The Hague.
Accession negotiations proper cannot even be considered until the country has achieved full cooperation with ICTY.
With the tenth anniversary of Srebrenica approaching in July, Radovan Karadzić and Ratko Mladić must be brought to justice.
Kosovo will be high on the agenda in the months to come, with the standards review coming up in mid-2005, likely to be followed by discussions on Kosovo’s future status.
Belgrade also needs to work constructively to settle the issue.
To sum up, although there are difficulties and pitfalls on the Western Balkans’ road to Europe, most countries are currently making steady progress.
In this context I would like to highlight the importance of regional cooperation.
Good neighbourly relations and regional economic cooperation are the very essence of the European Union.
This is a major challenge to the countries of the region and to the European Union.
The aim behind this report was to allow us to exert a certain amount of pressure on the Council and the Commission, and today we have learnt that this course of action has proved successful, at least at this stage of the game.
I was glad to hear the Commissioner say a few moments ago that the Commission now, at long last, plans to present a communication on Kosovo, and Mr&#160;Schmit also said that the Council would try to ensure that the increased interest in this region would be backed up by action.
The two previous speakers have already referred to the need for Albania to ensure at long last that the forthcoming elections are conducted properly and that the results are not manipulated in any way.
Until this happens, it will be impossible for Macedonia to act as a stabilising force in the region.
The country will never be able to join the European Union in its current state.
Belgrade and Pristina must work together under the auspices of the UN and the EU to find a solution to the Kosovo issue as quickly as possible, and there is no reason why such a solution should not be found, given that all the countries concerned wish to join the European Union.
All the above-mentioned countries are facing enormous problems with regard to their judicial systems and the fight against corruption, and they also lack administrative capacity.
We must take steps to help them in this respect, and indeed we should help all these countries in a more committed and coherent fashion.
I am extremely grateful to the Presidency and the Commission for having emphasised this point today.
Our attention must now be focused firmly on this region, particularly in view of the decisions we have taken today, and I am grateful to the Council for having found a solution aimed at helping Croatia.
This solution involves close monitoring of the steps taken by the country with a view to handing Gotovina over to the Hague Tribunal, and I hope that both parties will set about adopting it without delay, as this would enable us to open negotiations with Croatia in the near future.
Regardless of whether the Community of Independent States is taken as a model or whether another form of cooperation is established, I would ask the Council and the Commission to be as imaginative as possible when working on this task, as it is essential that we come up with a serious solution to the problem of Serbia and Montenegro, as well as to that of Kosovo, before the end of 2006.
It will no doubt also be the year in which we can come closer to solving the problem surrounding FYROM’s or Macedonia’s name, and it will also hopefully be a year in which we come closer to settling the matter of Kosovo’s future status.
It has become a useful tool that will help maintain not only the pressure and momentum that are now hopefully part of developments, but also the commitment that the EU must demonstrate if a solution is to be found to the region’s problems.
We heard it in the debate this morning about Romania and Mr Swoboda has referred to it: there is a certain enlargement fatigue.
In this new strategy, in this strategy for the Balkans aimed at membership, two factors are important.
The alternative to this stagnation is that we seek a peaceful, democratic way from the bottom up by taking seriously how the people in Kosovo, Montenegro, the separate entities in Bosnia or the two large language areas in Macedonia itself for example see their future and what they want to call themselves.
An early start to the negotiations on accession to the European Union, starting with Croatia and Macedonia, can contribute to this.
Europe must now without prejudice seek the real solutions together with all concerned. &#160;&#160; .
By no means did the ad hoc delegation of this Parliament gain a comforting picture of the present situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina in Sarajevo and Mostar last week, but it was certainly a realistic one.
This underlines once more the usefulness of the EUFOR mission locally.
So please invest extra in the future of Bosnia-Herzegovina in this way! &#160;&#160; Mr President, we all know only too well that recent years have brought great sadness to the Balkans region and to the many people who lost family and loved ones as a result of the wars there.
The final phase of this war resulted in the NATO attack on Kosovo and the collapse of the regime.
I very much support the policies of the European Union, which have been put in place to help to rebuild the economies of the Western Balkans region.
The European Union is right in the most part to treat the Balkans area as a single region.
Politically, this is a very sensitive issue in terms of the future relationship between the European Union and the Western Balkans.
The European Union is, of course, the single largest contributor of economic aid to the Balkans region at this time.
That does not mean, however, that the European Union is not critical of political developments in the Balkans region.
However, there have been many very positive developments in the Balkan region in recent times.
I welcome the American Government’s decision to withdraw its troops from Bosnia and hand over peacekeeping control to European Union forces.
I am in favour of these countries becoming members of the European Union if they comply with the Copenhagen criteria in terms of respecting the rule of law and promoting human rights.
As I see it, the challenges for shaping a more productive European policy in relation to the Western Balkans are: First, to build measures to further trust, social cohesion and security.
Thirdly, to prepare an advanced and cohesive strategic plan for the development of the Balkans, with the intermediate objective of integrated and sustainable growth and the final objective of convergence with the European Union.
The plan will articulate the priorities of each country, seek out areas of cooperation and mutual benefit, lay down priorities and lines of action, set out and quantify requirements in basic sectors and make provision for resources to implement it.
Fifthly, to invigorate regional cooperation policy by establishing a structured political dialogue, in accordance with the precedent of the European Conference on Central and Eastern European Counties prior to their accession.
Finally, Mr Samuelsen's amendment and other similar amendments concerning the name of the FYROM are, to my mind, unacceptable for the reasons set out in the joint declaration by the New Democracy parliamentary group, a copy of which has been sent to all the members of the European Parliament.
As a minimum sign of institutional and political responsibility, I consider that all the members of the European Parliament and of the other institutions of the European Union should use the official names, the United Nations names, as Commissioner Rehn in fact did. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the initiative by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposing amendments on the question of the name of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and calling for the country to be recognised by the European Union with its constitutional name force me to take a stand from the outset on this issue alone.
I wish to state in the most categorical terms that this initiative directly conflicts with the resolutions passed by the UN and the decisions taken by the European Union and its institutions, including the European Parliament.
This is an initiative which flies in the face of every notion of solidarity with a Member State of the European Union, with Greece, which is one of the parties participating in the negotiating process under way within the framework of the UN to find a mutually acceptable and dignified solution, an honourable and logical compromise.
When all of us, including them, have denounced the unilateral action of the United States in connection with the recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, they come along today to confirm and accept the unilateral action by the United States of America, recognising the FYROM with its constitutional name.
This would indeed be an important contribution to the defence of European interests and to the strengthening of the European prospects of the countries in the area.
Greece has succeeded in assimilating the lessons of the recent history of conflict in the Balkans and has proven, with peace and cooperation initiatives, to be a stabilising factor.
It is the first European country when it comes to investments in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, investments which have created more than 20&#160;000 jobs.
I wish to speak about the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia from the geo-strategic aspect of the process of the enlargement of the European Union towards the southeast.
Its geographical position in the unstable Balkan region is extremely important for the European Union, especially in a situation where the constitutional status of neighbouring Kosovo has not been finalised and is witness to sensitive constitutional reform being carried out on the basis of the Ohrid framework agreement.
The framework agreement is a constitutional documentation of the principle of cultural diversity.
In it the majority national group of Slavonic Macedonians express how they will at all levels, from national to local, subscribe to sharing power with the minority national group of Albanian Macedonians.
In order for it to continue, the country needs a clear prospect of establishing closer relations with the European Union, and our help in consolidating its new identity.
The illiteracy rate is rising in some areas, and the situation of minorities, in particular the Roma, leaves much to be desired.
I believe that we should take our time and examine the situation in more depth before we agree to countries joining the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, contrary to what these documents claim, Croatia does not belong to the Western Balkans.
Before the end of the year, Kosovo must be presented with a clear roadmap to independence, albeit with conditions attached.
We must focus our energies on stabilising South East Europe and Croatia, which is a Central European country that has as little reason to be called part of the Balkans as does the beautiful Bohemian town of Kaden an der Eger, or as do Munich or Altenkirchen in Siegerland.
I think these are fundamental issues that deserve a more fundamental response than we are able to give at this moment. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, when speaking of the Balkans, we cannot think of a stable arrangement except within the European Union.
This is a necessary step in building a democracy, because it implies mutual respect and trust.
The Union is in need of great determination directed towards the future and must not remain imprisoned by the past. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there is not a lot that can be said in two minutes, especially if the subject is as big a one as that of the Western Balkans.
I therefore intend to mention a few things that are common to all the countries in the region and to our attitude towards them.
The Western Balkans is an area affected not only by war and destruction but also by 50 years of Communism.
In all of these countries that we are talking about today, there is some sort of division: in Croatia, between the democratic and non-democratic forces, in Bosnia between the federation and the Republika Srpska, and in Serbia and Montenegro between Serbs and Kosovar Albanians.
When we engage in discussions with these countries and impose various requirements, we must keep this in mind and try to help the democratic forces that exist in the Western Balkans but that are not always as strong or even as authentic as we believe.
When we talk, for example, about those accused of war crimes in Republika Srpska or Serbia queuing to come to The Hague, there are not many in this Parliament who know that those people and their families are given a lot of money from the authorities for doing so.
I also wish to emphasise that all the decisions of this Parliament are interpreted and analysed carefully by both the negative and positive forces in the region.
We therefore need to be extremely careful about the signals we send out to the people of these countries, irrespective of whether we are talking about the demands for the return of refugees to Kosovo, Macedonia’s change of name or Croatia’s future membership of the EU.
Whatever we do, we must support those fighting for peaceful and democratic development and impose sanctions upon those obstructing such development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was in Bosnia-Herzegovina recently and saw the successful start of EUFOR, the EU peacekeeping mission.
In spite of the fact that up to 10&#160;000 people are implicated in war crimes, only 34&#160;public indictments have been made.
That is why the European Parliament is right today to insist on full cooperation with the ICTY by Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia.
Today Europe invests 25 times more money and 50 times more troops per capita in Kosovo than in Afghanistan.
The prospect of EU enlargement helped the countries of Eastern Europe to transform.
In actual fact, as the Commissioner and I have both emphasised, the situation in the Western Balkans is of vital interest to the European Union.
The European perspective is the only tool that we have in order to convince these countries to change, to undertake reforms, to find the way to Europe – which means, first of all, the way to European values – and to find the way to reconciliation.
However, we must explain to them that it is in the interests of every one of us to achieve peace, stability and economic development in this region.
Someone referred to the record rates of endemic unemployment in Kosovo and Bosnia.
We therefore have a fundamental mission: to consolidate security, to provide security and to convince the people that their future lies in security, in reconciliation, and in respect for minority rights.
This is an important mission for the European Union.
Once again I should like to thank Parliament for having realised and pointed out the fact that there is a need for urgent action in this region, by means of all the avenues which have been mentioned and described.
It is extremely important that you hold this debate at this critical moment to help keep the Western Balkans on the agenda of the European Union and of the international community, both of which have quite a number of other issues to tackle.
It is important, therefore, that we discuss the Western Balkans and try to improve our policies in that region.
It is also important to underline that enlargement is in itself a security policy.
We need to have a dialogue and explain this point to our citizens to ensure that the future of the Western Balkans is not held hostage by unwarranted fears.
I shall try to provide answers to two questions specifically raised here, the first concerning the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the second a question regarding the constitutional complexity of Serbia and Montenegro.
As regards the name issue, the Commission supports the efforts of the United Nations for a mutually agreeable solution to the name issue between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
A solution to this bilateral issue would clearly contribute to regional stability in the Western Balkans at a delicate moment.
Concerning Serbia and Montenegro, the Commission has deliberately developed a twin-track approach in response to the complex structure of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro.
The State Union is mainly responsible for foreign policy and security issues, while the republics are responsible for most aspects of economic policy and trade relations.
Thanks to this twin-track approach we have recently been able to sign the bilateral trade agreement in textiles with Serbia, which is important for investment and employment in that republic.
We will report on the progress of Serbia and Montenegro through this approach in the Commission’s annual report on the stabilisation and association process this autumn.
Finally, one of the biggest challenges we face in refining our policies on the Western Balkans and bringing the countries closer to the European Union is the weakness of the states in this region.
We must, therefore, find better ways of building institutions in the region, such as the approach to building Member States rightly advocated by the report of the International Commission on the Balkans, which was published yesterday.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Samuelsen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Parliament, and I very much look forward to working with you for stability, progress and prosperity in the Western Balkans. &#160;&#160; I have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate, tabled pursuant to Rule&#160;103 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Parliament’s role in this respect is largely confined to the exercising of control, although its budgetary powers allow it to exert a certain amount of influence.
This would then make matters simpler for all parties concerned, as we would already have identified an approach that would allow us to make good progress.
There is an old saying that war is the failure of politics, and it is true that war should always be a last resort.
The aim of this cooperation is not only to provide support to the Palestinians and Israelis and to bring about peace, but also to gain better control over cover-up activities for terrorism in the broadest sense, which is in fact our second main priority.
We hope that the Council and the Commission will be more imaginative in this respect, and not rely on tried and tested political methods, as they frequently have in the past.
We must reach an agreement on this issue before transatlantic relations are put at risk.
Multilateral approaches, as adopted in our relations with the United States, should be complemented by a partnership that follows clearly defined objectives and is aimed at setting up a transatlantic marketplace by 2015.
This is the first time that the European Union has had an opportunity to prove that it is capable of conducting security policy in this area, and to gain practical experience in such matters.
It is for this reason that the vast majority of committee members welcomed the document which was drafted by Javier&#160;Solana during his term in office, and which the committee has continued to work on.
We also welcomed the support shown by the governments of the Member States for the document.
The first of these is the need to understand security problems and their many and diverse possible causes, which include human rights violations, poverty and disease, in a broad context, and not to reduce the Strategy to its military aspects.
The Security Strategy is primarily a political concept, and as such transcends military considerations.
The second issue is the need for a commitment to international law and the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
The third issue relates to the need to strengthen international order by means of effective multilateral structures and to safeguard citizens’ fundamental rights within the EU, whilst taking all measures necessary to combat terrorist threats.
In view of these factors, we should not be ashamed to say that the European Union does indeed wish to acquire military decision-making structures and capabilities.
The greatest benefit of the Security Strategy is that it enables us to tailor the combination of civilian and military crisis management capabilities to each individual situation.
You are the representatives of the European citizens, and that means that this policy can only be developed together with the citizens, which also means together with your support, in the dialogue, as the rapporteur Mr Kuhne has just said.
The European Council adopted the European Security Strategy on 11 December 2003.
The fifteen months which have passed since then obviously do not allow us to draw up a complete and exhaustive report on its implementation, but they do at least enable us to evaluate the impact which the strategy has already had, and to discuss the path we need to follow in its future application.
The year 2004 was a crucial year for the political development of the Union, whose ambitions and responsibilities in the world have been increasing.
The citizens of the Union, like their international partners, have also been demanding a stronger presence for Europe on the international scene.
The Union has responded to this appeal by trying to pursue a more active, more consistent and more effective foreign policy based, in particular, on the principles of the United Nations Charter.
The fact that the ‘European model’ that we talk about so much in the context of the European Constitution is highly thought of throughout the world is something that gives us cause for satisfaction, but it should also be, for us Europeans, a strong motive force encouraging us to do more.
We have put in place a certain number of mechanisms, and more intensive cooperation between Europol and Eurojust.
There is also a development dimension, and a dimension of defending and promoting human rights.
There is also, of course, a dimension which is concerned with solving major conflicts, in particular the conflict in the Middle East, not forgetting a presence in the regions which we spoke about earlier, in particular Bosnia and Herzegovina and other parts of the Western Balkans.
This is also an area in which Europe has shown that it knows how to act, particularly in relation to Iran.
I believe that in doing this we have achieved an important milestone in the quest to find political solutions to questions which are extremely sensitive and at the same time extremely dangerous to international peace.
The European Security Strategy is based on the idea that most problems can only be solved in a multilateral context.
On this point too we agree with the two rapporteurs.
The European Union clearly needs to pursue its objectives in this multilateral context, in partnership with all those involved, in particular with the United Nations.
The reform of the United Nations is actually a very important aspect of the European Union’s security policy and a very important aspect of its foreign policy.
I congratulate Mr Brok on what he has said on this subject, especially in connection with one particular point.
We have an enormous number of opportunities for greater cooperation, but on an equal footing.
We, together with the Americans, can find solutions to major problems, in particular, as has already been mentioned, to one priority problem, namely the conflict in the Middle East.
The European Union is also busy developing its economic, political and cultural cooperation with its traditional principal partners such as the United States and Canada, but also with partners such as Russia and Japan.
I believe that cooperation with Russia, despite the problems, is important to the European Union and to stability and peace in our continent.
There are also regional bodies, such as the African Union, with which we held talks a few days ago with a view, as the Commission has said, to strengthening our policy towards Africa, the objective being to promote peace and development – two things which are closely connected – on that continent, which is particularly close to the European Union The strategy also serves to further our relationship with other neighbours to the East and South.
The Euro-Mediterranean partnership and European policy on neighbouring regions are of fundamental importance in promoting stability in the countries concerned, but they are also in our own interests, both economic and political.
The problems of these countries very quickly become our problems, either through uncontrolled, illegal immigration or through terrorism or the threat of terrorism.
The importance of human rights from the security point of view also lies at the heart of solving the conflicts, and this aspect has been particularly emphasised by the latest report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
It was in this spirit that the High Representative recently appointed a personal representative for human rights, with the aim of improving the consistency and effectiveness of our policy in this area within the CFSP.
As far as the more military aspect is concerned, the strategy suggests that the European Union needs to be more operational in the various areas where it has to play a role.
We must act, and we must play a more active role in maintaining and restoring peace.
We must ensure better consistency between the civil and the military aspects.
The European Union has also set up the European Defence Agency in order to rationalise the costs linked to defence purchases and in order to increase the quality and the quantity of the military capacities at the disposal of European States.
I think that, in this respect too, the role of the European Union is very important.
Thus the European foreign and security policy has strengthened its consistency and its operational capacities, but we cannot afford to relax our efforts.
The creation of an EU Minister for Foreign Affairs is a major innovation which will allow greater coherence in the Union’s external relations.
The fact that the Minister in question will chair the External Relations Council will provide the coherence which we are all so anxious to ensure, and it will also give us greater visibility and at the same time better continuity.
Another important aspect which I should just like to mention – and I know it is something close to the heart of Mr Brok among others – is the creation of the European External Action Service, the practical details of which are still under discussion.
The Luxembourg Presidency is paying close attention to the progress achieved in setting up this European External Action Service, and to the views of the European Parliament on this subject.
This service was designed to signal major progress in the conduct and implementation of the Union’s foreign policy, in particular in the form of greater effectiveness, greater coherence, an increased presence of the European Union, and the better use of all the resources available.
We must make them, as it were, more European, but without producing a sort of renationalisation or intergovernmentalisation of what currently operates in accordance with Community rules.
This year, 2005, will be decisive in terms of reform and the reinforcement of multilateralism, of international law, and, in particular, of the United Nations.
The UN Summit in September will take the latest report by its Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, as a basis for essential decision-making in this area.
As Mr Schmit has just said, multilateralism can be effective only if it is founded upon a strong transatlantic partnership.
Effective solutions to the world’s problems can be found only if the United States of America and Europe are really singing from the same hymn sheet.
President Bush’s visit to Brussels clearly showed that the United States of America is very much aware of the ever-expanding and ever more important role of the EU.
What emerges from our deliberations will then form a contribution to the EU-US Summit in June.
The European Security Strategy already takes account of these complex potential threats.
To sum up, the actions referred to in the Security Strategy in respect of such things as the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or defences against terrorism, the ways in which we deal with failed states and regional conflicts can be successful only if they form part of a wider policy of conflict prevention and conflict resolution.
We have to make long-term plans for crisis regions, targeting and deploying as an integral whole our Community instruments – not only overseas aid, but also the prospect of closer relations with the EU.
I will also take this opportunity to thank Parliament for its support for the European Security Research Programme, on which the Commission is working very closely with the European Defence Agency.
The European Union can, however, be strong on the international stage only if its actions really are coherent, and so, if it is to face up to the new challenges, it needs more than just the common foreign and security policy in the strict sense of the term.
The success of this broad-based approach is, I believe, demonstrated by the concept of the European Neighbourhood Policy, which illustrates one of my own particular priorities; the export of security, stability and prosperity to our neighbours and facilitation of structural reforms, all of which clearly has a security policy dimension to it.
It is being used to gradually deepen our relationships with our partner states, above all through the detailed joint action plans, which give them clear prospects for drawing closer to Europe.
One can – and I will – describe the European Neighbourhood Policy as our security policy on a regional scale.
We have already concluded detailed and ambitious plans of action with seven partner countries, of which Ukraine is one, and five more are in the pipeline.
These reforms really are important.
Even more effective collaboration between the EU institutions is indispensable.
It follows that Europe needs even more to think of itself as a global player.
Within this framework, it is very important, when we act abroad, that we act with respect for human rights.
Parliament has instituted proceedings against the Commission on this and will, I hope, win its case.
My committee does not know exactly how it acts, what the boundaries on its action are or how it collects information, but information and the collection of information and personal data are equally sensitive as far as this Parliament is concerned, irrespective of whether they are collected by SITCEN or by anyone else.
The question of the principle of availability of information and its exchange are being discussed in my committee at this very moment.
I believe it to be of the utmost importance that Parliament’s line on this Security Strategy is supported by four major political families in this House – the Greens, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the group to which I belong, thereby putting us on a footing unheard of 10 years ago.
The report discusses the Security Strategy devised by Javier Solana, and this House shares his view of the threats.
The three major ones are, without a doubt, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction, and conflicts among our neighbours with direct effects on the European Union as a result of floods of refugees having a direct impact on the public in it.
It is important that the crisis intervention force, which was very much virtual in nature when it was decided on in 1999, has today become active in reality: in Macedonia, in the Congo and now in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
These are two of the tasks that our troops have to cope with there, and they are equally important and difficult.
The development of the European security strategy, which is also up for discussion here, will have an important part to play in this.
In the first major European military mission, the Althea mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina, an abundance of experience is currently being acquired with such a combination of civil and military capacity.
Apart from a material side, the development of the European defence arm also and in particular has a political side.
The European Union must develop a political framework that allows us to use military means where this is considered necessary.
My second point is about the interfaces between internal and external security, which come very much to the fore in the struggle against terrorism in particular.
The European Union has played an important part in the revolution in Ukraine.
The prompt reaction of the Presidency and the good coordination between Parliament and Council, and the action of the High Representative and the Heads of State of Poland and Lithuania made a significant contribution to the positive outcome of that political crisis.
The efforts of France, Germany and the United Kingdom within the EU in the conflict involving the Iranian nuclear programme has in my view so far been a good example of how things can be tackled in a European way.
The basic principles of European common foreign and security policy, multilateralism, preventive involvement, a broad approach in which democracy and social and economic development take centre stage, conflict resolution and a halt to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction have our full support in the rank and file.
What this report spells out is that Parliament supports the Council and the Commission in their efforts to overcome the self-seeking attitudes that the nation states still have in this area.
In deliberating all these questions, it is clear to us in the Liberal Group that the principles of the UN Charter remain the central benchmark.
If we are to defend our values, we must also treat them with respect.
Mr Brok’s report is most emphatic in demanding active cooperation with Parliament.
I say that in advance of the debate on the Constitution.
The European Security Strategy is not a matter of statistics.
I can tell you that there are substantial indications that we are on the right road, such as the attempt by three European states to join with Iran in finding a peaceful solution to the proliferation issue, and the endeavour to reinforce the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, for it is on these things that our multilateral policy depends.
The second of these indications – and one to which reference has already been made – is that international law is being applied.
We Europeans are stepping out in new directions by taking on civil and military responsibilities.
It also claims that NATO and the European Union are complementary, ignoring the subordinate role of the European Union within NATO and the need to promote an independent and non-aggressive European foreign policy.
Lastly, it fails to say that the application of international law and UN resolutions and the end of military occupations are the only conditions for a fair and lasting peace in the Middle East.
It calls for the common foreign security and defence policies contained in the European Constitution to be initiated without waiting for the inconvenient and unpredictable matter of its ratification by the Member States.
The report contains the telling line that the fight against terrorism blurs the traditional distinction between foreign and domestic policy.
This is another example of how any argument will be used in order to promote European integration in any and all spheres of policy.
The threat from terrorism makes national borders and national interests all the more vital, not less so.
This report is another step in the process of the European Union attempting to further its foreign policy and military ambitions in order eventually to rival the United States of America on the world stage.
I think that in his report Mr Kuhne has demonstrated in a wholly justified fashion to the European Parliament the need to promote participation in implementing the European Security Strategy.
Fulfilling this objective is a comparatively complex task for European Members of Parliament, and, of course, also for the European institutions.
During the past months, during which I have been a European Member of Parliament for the first time, I have had the opportunity to gradually understand how security policy in Europe is formed, and who the most important players are.
Therefore it seems to me that I am fully justified in saying that the report is of a sufficiently high quality.
First and foremost I would like to point to a gap in the list of priorities and that is the support for Europeans or people of European origin in other parts of the world.
The report places the emphasis on compliance with the non-proliferation treaty, but overlooks the colossal security risk posed by poorly guarded or semi-abandoned nuclear facilities in former Soviet states and a number of other countries, and the misuse that can be made of them by terror organisations such as Al-Qaida.
We must as the European Union sit down urgently with the countries and international organisations concerned and ensure that the necessary resources are released to defuse this ticking time bomb. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this House feels very strongly that significant progress was made last year regarding the European Security and Defence Policy, and that it was therefore possible to break the impasse following the Iraq conflict.
Finally, probably the most important event of last year was taking the stabilisation mission in Bosnia over from NATO.
This is actually the European Union’s first major military operation.
In this context, we also feel very strongly that the four questions raised over six years ago, when the notion of a European Security and Defence Policy was first floated in Cologne, remain relevant.
Firstly, what action is required to ensure that our defence capabilities are in line with our aspirations and challenges, the challenges that have now been enshrined in the European Security Policy?
Secondly, how can the cohesion of the European Security and Defence Policy be assured?
Thirdly, how can the ESDP be developed without detriment to the defence commitments of the majority of Member States that are also members of NATO?
Fourthly, how can financial resources be managed wisely at both national and Community level?
If we fail to do so, the ESDP will be simply a paper policy, and we shall be powerless. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to join many of my fellow Members in thanking the rapporteurs for two important reports that present a thorough overview of Europe’s foreign, security and defence policy and the progress made, and propose highly convincing guidelines for Europe to have an effective presence as a global actor on the world stage.
Europe’s central objective is to promote effective multilateralism, which means ensuring security and also the expansion of democracy, human rights and opportunities for development and growth.
In order to have legitimacy, however, the authority of the United Nations system needs to be restored, as the Brok report quite rightly points out.
Europe has no choice but to condemn that theory and practice, and I believe the resumption of cooperation between Europe and the United States has to take this matter of principle into account.
I can remember quite vividly that 20 years ago the words security, foreign policy and least of all defence policy were not even allowed to appear in European texts or in programmes of European political parties.
This originality is above all that we want to take responsibility for both the civil and the diplomatic and military aspects of such a policy.
In this annual report there are calls to involve the European Parliament and the national parliaments more closely in the preparation and implementation of common foreign and security policy and not to limit this involvement to discussions.
The European Security Strategy states that ‘the first line of defence against new threats will often be abroad’.
The European Security Strategy is meant to be binding on all EU Member States.
The EU’s Constitutional Treaty, which I hope the French will scupper, its Security Strategy and the ‘European Defence Paper’ stand for a Europe characterised by rearmament and the prospect of future wars.
As you will see in France, they only trip you up. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one minute and thirty seconds is much more than I need, given that the vast subjects dealt with in this portmanteau report presuppose the existence of a Minister for Foreign Affairs, a diplomatic service and a common foreign policy.
Yet as far as the common foreign policy is concerned, we have only the vaguest of vague outlines, given that it was decreed in 1992 by Title Five of the Treaty of Maastricht.
Moreover, there is no common policy and there cannot be a common policy, for the very good reason that there is no agreement between the principles, the traditions, and interests and, therefore, the policies of our different nations, starting, moreover, with the vital issue of our relations with the United States of America.
When, at our meeting, we tell French people that in Washington there is a person who is known by the pompous title of Ambassador of the European Union to the United States, they are highly amused.
When we tell French people that the said Constitution will bring with it a so-called Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that the holder of that office will be, as if by chance, a former Secretary-General of NATO, then the French people are even more amused, or intrigued, or scandalised.
If the 60% of Union citizens that support the common foreign policy is in future reduced to 45%, and the 70% support for the common defence policy is reduced to say 47%, should we suddenly abandon this notion?
The second is that military action cannot be the first course of action when it comes to dealing with certain problems.
The third is that we must follow the joint EUFOR activities in Bosnia-Herzegovina carefully.
In spite of the differences that exist between us, the United States, of all the global players, is the closest to Europe, and it is not only common values that unite us.
The partnership is a natural result of our common interest in achieving stability throughout the world, in strengthening the rule of law and democracy and in ensuring that global markets operate properly and that raw material resources throughout the world remain available.
The partnership would tackle matters ranging from the functioning of financial services to the stabilising of international order, as well as global agriculture, the fight against Aids, water availability, global climate change and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
One of its aims should be the establishment of an EU-US free trade area, which could potentially act as a driving force for the global economy.
It is therefore my belief that the European Union should seize this opportunity to strengthen a partnership that could act as a key to world order and stability. &#160;&#160; – The European security strategy challenges us to consider the Union’s role in world governance, and the reports by Mr Kuhne and Mr Brok make excellent contributions towards addressing this challenge.
In other words, they must be rooted in the concept of human security, as emphasised in the Kuhne report, in line with the Barcelona report on the Human Security Doctrine.
The importance of this area is all the greater given that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism must continue to be at the forefront of Europe’s priorities in terms of security.
The Union must also ensure that its action plan to combat terrorism works closely in tandem with its foreign and security and defence policies, as part of the integrated global strategy for fighting terrorism recently announced by Kofi Annan.
The development commitments made by the European governments in the Millennium Declaration must also be honoured.
If we are to achieve a security and defence policy resulting in greater strategic independence for Europe, greater capacity and greater integration of defence resources, and a genuine internal market, the European Defence Agency must provide us, for our debates, with information on policies relating to the procurement, development and research of equipment.
The next financial perspectives must demonstrate that our governments are committed to the success of European security, which largely depends on the resources at its disposal in the Union.
The important work of the Althea mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina is proof that, with the appropriate resources, Europe can and must take on more responsibilities in European and worldwide security. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, both the reports being debated today clearly present the identity and the aggressive imperialist character of the European Union.
They set as an immediate priority better preparation of the European Union for new strategic interventions, jointly with ΝΑΤΟ and the United States of America or independently.
In the name of the security of the European Union, countries and areas for new interventions are being photographed, starting with the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Middle East and extending over almost the entire planet, on the pretext of strengthening the international order.
The philosophy behind the common foreign policy and defence policy and the European security strategy is the European version of the imperialist doctrine of the United States of America on protecting US interests, in the name of which hundreds of interventions have taken place and have spread death and destruction to all the corners of the planet.
It participates in an endless network of bases, has participated in three wars and, moreover ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, critical though I may be of individual aspects of Europe’s Constitutional Treaty, it does strike me as important that the common foreign and security policy be strengthened.
If Europe is to assert itself as a power for global peace, it will need to speak to the outside world with a single voice, as well as possessing the capacity to get its way in matters of military and security policy.
Smaller Member States, Austria among them, must be involved in the shaping of European foreign policy, just as the European Parliament must have equal rights with the Council in deciding what that policy should be.
It is my belief that the People’s Republic of China, by passing its Anti-Secession Law, has put the region in a much more precarious position.
This is in breach of international law, and completely unacceptable.
Taiwan’s 23 million citizens have the inalienable right to take their own democratic decisions on their future: on whether they want to be reunited with the mainland or to continue as an independent and sovereign state.
We should all be calling on the People’s Republic of China to stop making threatening gestures and instead begin direct dialogue with Taiwan on the basis of mutual recognition in order to bring about between the two countries and secure peace in the Far East.
The European Council was right to impose it in 1989, and we can see that the position as regards human rights and the rights of minorities has indeed improved, although these are as yet far from adequate.
This House has observed on many occasions that the situation in China as regards fundamental civil, cultural, religious and political rights does not even meet the international standards that China itself recognises.
This document will constitute a basis or a point of reference when it comes to establishing how best to consolidate the policies of Member States, and to ensure that foreign policy is more effective.
Allow me to mention another plain truism, and now I am addressing in particular those who have been pontificating on militarisation in the House for some time.
We would also do well to remember that the principles drafted concerning the safeguarding of our security in the broadest sense can constitute an excellent starting point for dialogue with our American partner, and a basis for the creation of a new kind of transatlantic relationship.
On the one side there would be the United States, uncertain as to the difference between leadership and hegemony, and on the other the European Union which is just starting to develop its role in this particular area.
In addition, it is significant that Mr&#160;Kuhne’s report is being debated at the same time as the annual report on the European Union’s foreign policy.
This represents good input and a fine contribution by Parliament, helping to ensure that we can at long last speak of a real European policy rather than a virtual one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, if you take the view that the European Union should evolve into some sort of integrated European State, then it is both logical and necessary that it should have its own currency, its own police and judicial system, its own diplomatic representation, its own army and defence budget and all the rest of the panoply of statehood brought together under the legal framework of a constitution.
In fact, we would seek to unwind and repatriate many of the excessive powers that Brussels has accrued.
Not surprisingly, therefore, we oppose the very idea of a European constitution as well as its detailed ingredients.
There may be times when Europeans should bear primary responsibility for provision of military forces in their own region.
Of the 7&#160;000 troops in NATO’s SFOR, over 6&#160;000 were European.
It is becoming apparent that no country, no matter how large, is in a position to deal with these security threats on its own, and it is for this reason that the EU’s common foreign, security and defence policy should be extended and strengthened.
The success and future development of the common foreign, security and defence policy depend on two conditions being met; the European Constitution must be ratified, and appropriate funding must be set aside.
We must avoid all attempts to water down the new service by placing it primarily in the Council.
Fighting poverty, defending democracy and advocating human rights are all issues in which we can, and must, cooperate based on common values.
Secondly, we need to take both an ambitious and realistic approach to European foreign policy under the new Constitution, if and when we get it.
The Constitution advances European foreign and security policy in many key respects and we must ensure that these commitments are upheld.
The success of European integration means that the European political system is becoming more attractive to the people of countries beyond the Union.
Terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, the collapse of nations and organised crime all call for a global dimension in the Union’s external actions.
The future European Foreign Service must play a crucial role in this area, assisting the European Union’s foreign ministers.
As soon as the Constitutional Treaty comes into force, it will be essential to make every effort to invest the solidarity clause with real meaning as regards the defence matters provided for in the Treaty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report by Mr Brok contains many fresh, visionary and encouraging ideas.
I want to add some remarks on the problems of the new, non-state terrorism.
They are now the only places where terrorist organisations appear to be on the defensive.
It has also demonstrated that this dialogue, which Parliament wanted so much, exists in a very practical form, and I understand why Parliament is seeking this contact, this dialogue with the Council and the Commission.
The debate has shown that this dialogue exists not only , so that we can talk about the past, but also in relation to present and future policies.
Since I have had the pleasure of representing the Presidency, I have never had the impression that the Council was pursuing a policy against the wishes of Parliament.
On the contrary, I have had the impression that the policy was pursued entirely together and, moreover, today’s debates and also those during previous sittings on the Middle East, Lebanon, and a few hours ago the Balkans, show that Parliament is involved not only in the analysis of our policy, but also in the conception and future directions of that policy.
I cannot help but notice that there is a broad consensus on the general lines of this policy, on all its facets, and on the idea that Europe must have security, on the fact that that security is not merely security in political and military terms but rather an overall security which includes aspects such as the environment or human rights.
I am also particularly sensitive to what has been said on the value of symbols and on what goes far beyond symbols, in other words the fact that an encounter with military personnel who wear the European stars on their epaulettes is something to send a shiver down your spine, and effectively demonstrates that Europe is on the move, that the unification of Europe is on the move, and that we have just completed a further stage, in particular by means of our security and defence policy.
At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Jarzembowski, I adopted a position, and I see that gradually the position I adopted is being confirmed.
I believe that we should face up to reality: we must develop a relationship with China, because it is a country which is increasing in importance.
It is very important that we become a global player with a European Charter of Human Rights and, hopefully very soon, a Constitution.
This is a key objective in our joint work action plan.
I also agree with Mr von Wogau and others who said that there is a very important link between internal and external security.
Finally, there was a very specific question on demining.
It is an issue throughout the world and we are therefore very happy that the Review Conference of the Ottawa Convention banning anti-personnel landmines was held in Kenya, where we saw that this issue that has been promoted by the European Union has come forward very strongly.
There are many more things to be done, but we have a good, comprehensive basis.
Let us work together on that basis. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The President of the Council intends to bring to a successful conclusion, if possible during the first six months, the negotiations regarding the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, including those concerning its entry into force.
Unfortunately, we have fallen at the final hurdle; it was a compromise that had been negotiated between the Council, and the Irish Presidency in particular, on the one hand, and Parliament, on the other.
I believe that a good many elements of this compromise remain of value and, therefore, I believe that it is a good starting point.
I can assure you that we are working, within the Council but also with Parliament, on acceptable solutions: acceptable, I hope, to all Member States if possible, or at least to a qualified majority among them. &#160;&#160; I wonder whether the President-in-Office of the Council has had a chance to study yesterday's vote in the European Parliament on the discharge.
I can assure you that the Presidency is determined to find a solution with Parliament and with the Council.
This is the commitment that we have made and I hope that we will succeed. &#160;&#160; I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he accepts that the Members' Statute and the package of allowances of this Parliament are being taken together, as was agreed in November or December twelve months ago, just before the Irish presidency.
Each question is followed by two supplementaries.
I would urge the Presidency to bring forward this Statute so that this matter is regularised once and for all in terms of both our remuneration and expenses for our work.
I believe that it must also be applied in this instance.
On 10 March 2005, in anticipation of the annual spring meeting of the European Council, the Council, within the context of the environment, adopted a contribution to the deliberations made regarding the mid-term review of the Lisbon Strategy.
Generally speaking, the Council is emphasising the need to take action from 2005, in particular to confront climate change and to promote eco-innovation, in addition to the efficient use of energy and resources.
It has, in particular, asked the Spring European Council to recommend sustainable consumption and production methods of which eco-efficient innovations are a contributory part, with a view to disassociating economic growth from the use of resources and degradation of the environment.
It has, moreover, invited calls for the Commission to draw up a European initiative in 2005 in favour of energy efficiency, in addition to a Green Paper comprising a list of significantmeasures.
In substance, the Council has first of all recommended the implementation, as a matter of urgency and in its entirety, of a course of action promoting eco-technologies – ETAP – to guarantee the prospect of a fair and competitive market for eco-innovations.
Secondly, it has advocated the vigorous promotion of eco-innovations and eco-technologies in all sectors of the economy, particularly in the energy and transport sectors.
May I draw your attention to the last point, where I refer to the power of the oil industry, which to my mind tends to ride roughshod over governments and strangle new initiatives in this field.
We know, in fact, that the price of oil is due to some economic developments in certain areas of the world and also to some trends in financial speculation.
The consequence of this will be to make renewable energy sources more appealing and, through these mechanisms, we will perhaps succeed in putting pressure on oil companies and in taking steps which favour the energy sources of the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too believe that the only way to deal with the greenhouse effect is to make use not only of renewable energies, but also of nuclear power and energy-saving measures, but, if the questioner is asking what should be done to promote the generation of electricity from wind, wave and tide power, and whether these new initiatives are being hindered by the oil lobby, I would ask you what initiatives are being set in motion in the nuclear energy sector, and whether these initiatives are being interfered with by the renewable energy lobby. &#160;&#160; .
Every country must choose the methods of energy production with which it has the greatest affinity.
The European Council of Stockholm has, moreover, set the ambitious objective of bringing the employment rate of people aged between 55 years and 64 years up to 50%, whilst the European Council of Barcelona has set an additional ambitious objective, namely the raising by five years, by 2010, of the average retirement age, which is currently 61 years according to Eurostat estimates.
The Council looks upon maintaining older workers in active employment as a major challenge, as is evident from the key messages it has recently adopted for the attention of the Spring European Council.
In these messages, it points out that it is appropriate to give priority to this issue in reforms seeking to ensure social adequacy and the viability of future pension plans, according to the circumstances of each individual country.
The European Council, in deciding upon the relaunch and revitalisation of the Lisbon Strategy, has taken an initiative with regard to young people, to offer them greater employment prospects.
I believe that the two can go hand in hand, provided that other means of managing employment are perhaps implemented.
You referred to the role of employers and the EU institutions are themselves employers.
I did ask Commissioner Kinnock this question, but I never managed to get a straight answer.
Today, you have, I believe, decided to give your assent to the accession of Romania.
At the same time, the European Council clearly pointed out that the Union would continue to carefully follow – and I believe this has been amply stated this morning – the preparations carried out by Romania, as well as the results obtained.
The Council thus assures the honourable Member that, as in the past, the subject of children will be followed very closely.
It is noted moreover that, in its 2004 report on the progress made by Romania on the path to accession, the Commission recorded steadyprogress in the reorganisation of child protection, in particular as a result of the closure of outdated large institutional facilities and the implementation of alternative procedures.
Under current domestic legislation, if they left the UK more than 15 years ago they no longer have the right to vote there, yet they are not automatically granted the right to vote in their new country of residence either.
Whilst considering it important that the right to vote may be exercised as fully as possible within the Union, it is not for the Council to express an opinion on the issues raised by the honourable Member. &#160;&#160; I would not only like to ask a supplementary question but would also like to re-ask the original question, because I notice that the Minister has now ducked the previous question as well as this one, which is not very appropriate.
I believe that Mr&#160;Bushill-Matthews is on to something here, but we are both Conservatives! &#160;&#160; .
The European Councils of 16 and 17 December 2004 decided that Turkey adequately fulfilled the Copenhagen political criteria in order for accession negotiations to be opened with the country.
At the same time, the European Council clearly indicated that the full and effective implementation of the political reform process must continue to be closely monitored by the Commission.
The Council can therefore assure the honourable Member that it will continue to closely monitor the progress made by Turkey on this issue, particularly on the basis of an Accession Partnership setting out the priorities of the reform process, of which a revised text proposal will be presented to the Council by the Commission in the Autumn.
The Council can further assure him that, as in the past, the Union will not fail to raise outstanding questions in the various forums of political dialogue and within the bodies instituted by the Association Agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as that will be one of this year’s most exciting and important issues, I would like to ask the Presidency of the Council whether it might not be reasonable for the Council to report to the public and to this House, at certain intervals, on how negotiations are actually progressing, for they are being conducted by the Member States rather than by the Commission.
Hizbollah is financed by Iran and its acts are sanctioned by Syria, which makes Hizbollah a threat not only to the peace process between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, which has now resumed, but also to the nascent aspirations to independence of the Lebanese.
The honourable Member will be aware that a decision in this regard must meet the conditions laid down in common position 931/2001 and that it requires unanimity.
The European Council endorsed this approach at its meeting in Brussels on 22 and 23&#160;March&#160;2005. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Presidency for its answer to my question.
We still need to find a better way to combat this scourge and, at the moment, I can only confirm what I have just said: that the approach taken at this stage is not, for now, to include the organisation to which you referred, that is to say Hizbollah, on the list.
That is not to say that we do not consider the activities of that group to be dangerous, but it is the approach we have chosen and it has also not been criticised by some of our most important partners. &#160;&#160; I wish to support the Council in the approach it takes to Hizbollah.
If you oppose terrorism – which we all do and we know Hizbollah has links to terrorism – then proscribe Hizbollah.
However, that would be a very short-term approach, because there will be no permanent settlement in the Middle East without the active participation of Hizbollah.
I believe Hizbollah to be one of the most pernicious and vicious terrorist organisations at work in our dangerous world today and it should be treated accordingly?
We do indeed also need to enter into dialogue with Iran regarding its attitude and its support for terrorist activities, and also regarding its attitude towards a peaceful resolution to the problem in the Middle East, and we are doing so.
We have done so and we are also in the process of doing so in this overall approach that we have adopted and that we are currently applying in that country, particularly in the context of non-proliferation.
On 16&#160;March&#160;2005, the Council reaffirmed the European Union’s commitment to the accession of Croatia and adopted the framework for negotiations with that country.
It also referred to the importance of full cooperation with the ICTY on the part of all the countries of the Western Balkans.
The bilateral intergovernmental conference will be convened by common agreement as soon as the Council has established that Croatia is cooperating fully with the ICTY, and you will be aware that, to enable the Council to take this decision with full knowledge of the facts, we have set up a group chaired by the Presidency, and involving the next two Presidencies as well as the Commission and the High Representative.
I therefore think that this condition must not be confused with the more general one of full cooperation with the tribunal, in other words the provision of all information leading to the arrest of General Gotovina.
Up to now, the US authorities have not launched any investigation or judicial proceedings.
On 8 April 2003, as a consequence of attacks by United States forces, José Couso, a Spanish and European citizen working as a cameraman for the Tele 5 station, Taras Protsyuk (Reuters news agency) and Tareq Ayoub (Al Jazeera) died while doing their job of reporting events.
The US authorities have not yet launched any investigation or judicial proceedings in this matter.
On 4 March 2005, the freeing of the Italian journalist Giuliana Sgrana led to the killing of the Italian citizen Nicola Calipar by the US army.
Under pressure from Italian public opinion, the Italian Government and the USA have decided to carry out a joint investigation to attempt to clarify this unhappy event.
Given that José Couso was a European citizen, what steps could be taken on the part of the European Union with a view to carrying out a joint investigation with the US authorities, so as to throw light on what happened and, where appropriate, determine who was responsible?
On the same day, 8 April 2003, Jordanian journalist Tarek Ayoub from the Al-Jazira channel was also killed during an American air raid.
According to Reporters Without Borders, the report provided by the American authorities on the circumstances surrounding these tragedies is inadequate.
The Council is aware of the fact that a number of incidents have still not been properly explained and have still not been investigated thoroughly.
With regard to the specific incident referred to in the questions, the investigation carried out by the United States’ authorities concluded that the American forces were not to blame.
Under those circumstances, the Council does not think it would be appropriate to comment on the matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Minister, your reply is very disappointing because we are trying, or we have tried, to sell all the European citizens the idea that, on the basis of the Treaty establishing a Constitution, everything relating to common security is going to require a single policy for all the Member States.
I therefore regret your reply and I hope that you will accept the view that we should continue to demand this investigation as firmly as possible. &#160;&#160; Mr Schmit, I am rather disappointed by your response.
It amounts to saying that, because the family has reacted and is taking legal action to defend the interests of a brother, a cousin, in other words a loved one, the Council has nothing to say.
You have two choices.
Either you have the courage, on behalf of the Council, to say that you are completely satisfied with the investigation carried out by the American authorities – you have the right to do so, but, in that case, have the courage to say that the American authorities’ investigation, which concluded that nothing had happened, satisfies the Council completely.
This is an occasion for me to remind you that, in Iraq, a number of journalists and other press employees have been victims of kidnappings, which is rare during a war, and there have been several dozen kidnappings.
I think that I can, on behalf of the Council, and certainly on behalf of the Presidency, express our full solidarity with Mrs&#160;Aubenas, and with all the hostages in Iraq, because there are others.
This is the time to express our full solidarity with them and also our desire to do everything we can to secure their release as soon as possible.
This prospect should give new impetus to strengthening the regional integration process.
In the meantime, the prior joint assessment phase has been launched&#160;–&#160;this will involve technical assessments&#160;–&#160;and the joint ministerial meeting planned for the end of May in Luxembourg will be a new opportunity to go into a subject so essential to our future relations in more detail.
The European Union welcomes the desire reiterated by the Andean political representatives to continue along this path, as it does the increasing closeness of relations between Mercosur and the Andean Community.
With respect to the fight against drugs, the European Union welcomes the high-level meetings with specialists in the Andean countries regarding drugs and their precursors&#160;–&#160;the next of these meetings will take place during the first half of this year in Lima.
The two parties will keep up their efforts to combat this scourge with an approach based on cooperation and co-responsibility.
In terms of commercial policy, the European Union is giving the Andean countries a prime position in the proposed GSP+.
In the aim of basing sustainable political relationships on the interests and participation of the population, the Council would finally like to emphasise the important contribution resulting from the meeting with representatives of civil society from the Andean countries which took place on 3&#160;March in Brussels. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am grateful for the explanations the President-in-Office of the Council has given me and I simply wished to ask a brief supplementary question.
As the Council told the honourable Member during Question Time in March, that does not mean that there is no contact between the national secret services of the Member States in this particular field. &#160;&#160; Like all of us here in this Chamber – or all those who should theoretically be in this Chamber at this moment – you represent the public.
A subsidiary of the Alstom group, whose creative, research and production resources are established in Europe&#160;–&#160;250 employees in France, in Vélizy, 300 in Germany, in Stuttgart, and a number of plants in the Czech Republic, Portugal and Poland&#160;–&#160;but whose headquarters are in the United States, in Connecticut.
It is the world leader in the production of clean coal and is developing new technologies for CO2 capture.
However, for reasons that are unclear, the management of Alstom has decided to transfer the European expertise to the United States, to reduce the workforce in Vélizy by four fifths and to halve that in Stuttgart, probably with the aim of eventually closing the main European sites.
A lack of a real long-term industrial strategy, a frantic scramble for immediate profits, those have been the main characteristics of the Alstom Group since it was privatised.
The employees in Vélizy, in particular, have come up with a counterplan based around withdrawing the company from the Alstom group for a sales price in the region of one symbolic euro, creating a European public limited-liability company grouping together the Vélizy and Stuttgart sites and retaining the plants in the Czech Republic, Poland and Portugal.
It is true that the directive on European public limited-liability companies and the regulation on the involvement of employees in corporate governance have not yet been transposed into French law, but it is always possible to look ahead.
A few weeks ago, we received here a delegation of employees of the Alstom group made up of representatives of both French and German trade unions from the two sites of this subsidiary that specialises in boilers.
These workers are now affected by the announcement made by their management on 16&#160;February&#160;2005, of the closure of the company or, at any rate, of major cuts in jobs and activities, both in Stuttgart and in Vélizy: 150 jobs out of 350 will be lost in Stuttgart, and 150 out of 200 in Vélizy.
This means that, in the end, these two sites will probably be doomed.
A few months ago, on 7&#160;July&#160;2004, the European Commission approved aid granted by France to Alstom subject to strict disvestment conditions but with the aim, not only of re-establishing sound competition conditions, but also of safeguarding the long-term future of the Alstom industry and of its various subsidiaries.
The subsidiary Alstom Power Boiler, as has already been mentioned, is a company that specialises in the construction of power station boilers.
It is a technological leader in Europe, and in the world, in a number of fields, particularly in difficult and clean combustion and CO2 capture.
From the point of view of the European Union’s priorities in terms of the Lisbon strategy, which we have debated recently and which will serve to ensure that Europe develops its competences and its technology and becomes the most competitive economy in the world, and also from the point of view of our objectives with regard to sustainable development and clean energy, this company is a strategic tool, and the fact is that, obviously, many jobs depend on it.
That is what justified the agreement given by the Commission in July 2004 to a considerable quantity of aid: EUR 3&#160;billion granted by France to the Alstom group to help with its restructuring.
In its final decision, the Commission stated that, with regard to the Power Generation and Transport sectors, the restructuring plan was adequate to ensure industrial recovery.
Indeed, as the Commission is always very scrupulous with regard to compliance with the competition rules after aid has been granted, it must be equally scrupulous with regard to the consequences for employment.
After all, unless I have misunderstood, Commissioner, it seems to me that the ultimate justification for granting aid for the restructuring of a business is to keep this activity going, particularly and ultimately because it makes it possible to save jobs, because it generates a multitude of benefits, tax revenue, etc., but above all because it makes it possible to save jobs.
The Commission cannot be hemiplegic&#160;–&#160;it cannot, having granted aid, only look at the effects on competition and respect for competition.
In their great wisdom, the Competition DG and the Commission granted this aid to Alstom a year ago.
Well, if this assessment was right a year ago, it is right today.
I therefore believe that we have here a key example on which the Commission should base its policy.
It is with this in mind that I tell you, in my capacity as the Commissioner with responsibility for industry in Europe, that I am very much concerned that Alstom should successfully complete the restructuring it has started and continue to exist as a healthy, successful and profitable business.
The Commission did so and imposed conditions on both the plan and the aid.
The question to be answered this evening is whether or not the present supplementary restructuring plan runs counter to the Commission’s decision.
If this restructuring plan is not in breach of the conditions, then it is the company’s management, rather than the Commission, that is responsible for implementing it; Alstom is not run by the Commission, but by its own management.
As a matter of principle, the Commission is committed to seeking, in partnership, solutions that take account of all economic, social and environmental considerations.
In its latest communication, ‘Restructuring and Employment’, it explicitly envisaged the mobilisation of all social forces to better accompany restructuring, with the aim of bringing about sustainable development of competition and employment.
In particular, the Commission proposes the organisation of reinforced sectoral and regional follow-up, with special funds being made available to support the implementation of this strategy.
I am well aware that our options are very limited indeed where job losses are concerned, and I share your sentiments in this regard, but the Commission must adhere strictly to the law as it stands.
I have given you an undertaking that we will examine this case with great care and will take action if it should emerge that the conditions attached to this aid have not been met. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the Alstom group has been causing grave disquiet for many months.
It was of course a question of safeguarding the future of the employees, but also of saving a jewel in the European energy and transport industry.
This evening, we are talking about Vélizy and Stuttgart, but also about Brno in the Czech Republic and Setúbal in Portugal, and large numbers of subcontractors throughout Europe.
Today, the announcement that 350 jobs will be lost, including 200 in Vélizy at Alstom Power Boiler, increases the worry for the employees still further.
It is worth pointing out that Alstom Power Boiler is a leader in the field of the production of clean coal and is developing technologies for the capture of carbon dioxide.
They have, with the help of experts, developed a plan for the future covering all aspects: the legal structure of the new company, technological aspects, commercial aspects, social aspects.
Commissioner, today you must look ahead to the cultural and social revolution set in motion by the draft constitutional treaty.
In future, social rights, with the constitutional treaty, will prevail over the perfection of the internal market which had the upper hand in previous treaties.
Social dialogue will be institutionalised, but above all we must formulate an industrial policy that favours skills centres and will safeguard the social market economy proposed to us as a social model in Article&#160;3 of the constitutional treaty.
The question being put to you today, Commissioner, is this: how do you see the future philosophy of the constitutional treaty?
Do not be the clerk of the old Europe, but instead put in place the new Europe, the one intended by the constitutional treaty.
You have a good opportunity to do so, by safeguarding the future of Alstom Power Boiler. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
This plant has been taken over by a company called Innovia, which currently has plants in Kansas, Carlisle and Bridgwater.
The first is a bribe of USD&#160;2&#160;million to shift jobs from the European Union to the United States.
It is also very important in terms of the precedent it sets for the future, because if the United States, its companies and its State governments can get away with this on one occasion, there is absolutely no reason why they will not do it again and again.
The question raised by Mr&#160;Ford relates in particular to compatibility with WTO rules.
For my part, I would like to come back to a question that concerns the European Union and the situation within the EU’s borders.
The provisions of what is known as the Primarolo Code of Conduct&#160;–&#160;from the name of the official who chaired this working group&#160;–&#160;related both to standstill clauses and to rollback clauses, in other words to the gradual dismantling of the national provisions thus identified by common agreement within the Ecofin Council.
I have noticed that we no longer talk very much, neither within Parliament nor in the media, about the situation with regard to that dismantling process and I would like to know what the Commission’s opinion is on that process.
I am well aware that the issue essentially falls within the competence of the Member States and that there is agreement between the Member States within the Ecofin Council.
That said, competition policy is an exclusive competence of the EU and the Commission has a very important mission in that regard.
From this point of view, therefore, I believe that the Commission should have a role of monitoring and providing incentives, or at least of warning and providing information, regarding verification of the commitments made within the Ecofin Council.
I will supplement this question by saying&#160;–&#160;and you know this as well as I do&#160;–&#160;that we are still a very long way from harmonisation of corporation tax and of the tax base within the EU, which were debated by the Prodi Commission on the basis of its work with regard to a common minimum level for company taxation within the EU.
We therefore see the decisions taken within the Ecofin Council as a and I really hope that the Commission will be able to comment on this process this evening and in the coming months.
This is because I think that the problems we are encountering in some countries with regard to the draft European Constitution are not helping us, unfortunately, and that there is a legitimate concern that harmful competition will continue and get worse within the European Union.
Innovia Films is a profitable company, which has developed a process discovered in the United Kingdom in 1898.
However, I welcome the cross-party support that is being shown for the campaign to recognise the problems being caused by the policy of the Americans and to deal with this issue.
When I wrote to Commissioner Piebalgs on behalf of the company some while ago, in order to see whether any kind of support was available for that company, he replied that there are programmes that support new and innovative systems, but this case would not be eligible for such support.
I wonder if we should not be looking again at our industrial policy.
The letter from Commissioner Mandelson to Mel Dando, one of the trade union officers involved, looks at the problems that we have encountered with the policy at the plant in Kansas, as regards declaring a tax holiday and suspending environmental regulations.
Mr Mandelson points out that the measures, in the form of tax exemptions, appear to be subsidies but do not fall into the prohibited category.
He then goes on to point out that there are no provisions in the WTO agreements that cover environmental dumping and says that, therefore, these measures appear not to be in breach of current WTO rules.
This incident, affecting, as Mr Ford said, perhaps not a huge number of jobs when viewed on a European scale, but a very large number of jobs when viewed on the scale of a small industrial town like Bridgwater, is one that could be replicated right across the European Union if we found that the policy of different States in the United States of America in this area was about to rob us of jobs in this way.
We have here a buy-out of a company by a consortium dedicated to asset-stripping and to returning as much money as possible to the investors without looking at the general health of our society and our industries.
It is the kind of case on which the Commission should take action.
British Cellophane has had a long and honourable history spanning more than 50 years.
Over the long term, the workforce at British Cellophane has been reduced but it has always had an outstanding productivity level, an outstanding relationship with its employees and has given outstanding help to the town at all levels.
In the past few years the company has changed dramatically: it was bought by Candell Investments and I should like to talk about three of its five plants.
The two in Britain are productive, motivated plants, one in the north and one in Bridgwater.
They voted publicly to give public money to the plant and they have also been given a five-year environmental holiday to further undermine British Cellophane’s prospects.
Three hundred UK jobs in a profitable, highly productive plant are being put under threat by a plant that does not meet the WTO rules.
Every year British Cellophane puts approximately GBP 20 million into the economy from wages, direct and indirect goods.
We are talking about a profitable and highly productive plant.
The plant has done everything to stay profitable.
We should not allow it to be sacrificed simply because an American plant can get away with something that we cannot.
If this is a world of free trade, the World Trade Organization should be asked to consider this matter.
The Commission is aware of the plans for the closure and possible relocation of the Innovia Films plant in Bridgwater and we have asked the services to examine whether the measures taken by the State of Kansas constitute a breach of WTO rules.
We will also explore, in cooperation with the Member States concerned, whether any other remedy is available under international law in this situation.
If US State aid rules apply in Kansas, that is certainly a practice that is not allowed here.
However, fortunately or unfortunately, the State of Kansas is not part of the European Union.
These rules, while in principle allowing WTO members to decide on their own fiscal regime, prohibit tax exemptions when they directly promote exports.
I wish to add a few general remarks on the role of the WTO in the area of environmental policy.
The European Union plays a particularly active role in this respect, but the work is not complete.
WTO members are free to choose their own environmental policy at national, regional and, in the case of multilateral environmental agreements, global level.
The appropriate answer to ‘environmental dumping’ at global level is, therefore, to enhance environmental governance by means of legally binding instruments such as multilateral environmental agreements, and the Commission is active in that field.
As regards the other question raised, about harmful tax competition in the European Union, all EU Member States are committed to the code of conduct on business taxation.
Furthermore, the Commission supports the OECD efforts to remove harmful tax practices. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow the four Members who have already spoken by addressing to you another question on the problem under discussion.
It was in 1992 that we joined with the United States in adopting the New Transatlantic Agenda, which provides for various dialogues, some of which work well, and others less so.
The next summit is scheduled to be held in the summer, and, as a matter of urgency, I would ask you, when preparing it, to get together again with the Council and, as a Commission, to consider what you can do to support this dialogue.
I would have thought this example would be a good one for you to refer to in an attempt to revive this dialogue.
That strikes me as enormously important, for, in a global context and with competition at international level certainly not becoming simpler, but rather more difficult, it is only right that the states operating within the OECD framework should actually play the game by the rules.
Mr President, I would like to discuss this question by the Greens and, potentially punishable offences against the WTO apart, to address a couple of questions to its author.
This case, in common with the Alstom case that was discussed earlier, clearly illustrates a well-known problem, namely that of relocations for reasons of anti-social or anti-environmental competition.
This Japanese multinational has employed 7&#160;500 people in Portugal, yet today it employs half that number.
Just yesterday the board issued the threat that without further government support 500 more workers would be laid off in August.
The breaking of protectionism must be accompanied by higher levels of social rights and tighter environmental controls.
In this case, the matter is clear, however.
Parliament therefore has strong reasons for monitoring compliance with the rules governing global free trade.
Such a system is the most important way of increasing prosperity in both poor and rich countries, but the system presupposes that individual countries and trading blocks will not engage in protectionism, which often takes the form of customs duties and other trade barriers.
It is, however, important to be aware of the fundamental difference between permitted and prohibited instruments, or between production-friendly policy and dumping.
It is also permitted for a country to have relatively low ambitions in terms of environmental policy during a phase when the country is poor and has to give priority to growth.
What is prohibited is to allow special dispensations from current environmental requirements with a view to favouring individual companies or industries.
I will ensure that the issue is discussed at European-American business round tables and in other fora. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question to the Commission on discrimination against workers and companies from the new Member States in the EU internal market by Mr Protasiewicz and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (B6-0173/2005). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, in less than three weeks’ time it will be a year since the enlargement of the European Union.
For millions of citizens of Central Europe, enlargement meant the fulfilment of dreams about a common Europe governed by fair principles and with equal opportunities for all.
Nonetheless, we felt that above all membership of the European Union meant being part of the common market in which freedom to undertake economic activity anywhere on the territory of the Union is guaranteed.
At the same time, we were convinced that the European treaties laid down fair rules for all actors, regardless of their country of origin.
The most blatant cases of discrimination are taking place in the Netherlands, Austria and Italy.
The legal systems of those countries allow companies and workers to be treated differently depending on whether they come from the so-called old Fifteen or the new Ten.
This is a clear example of discrimination sanctioned by national law, resulting in violation of the conditions for fair competition in the common Union market.
I am sorry to have to say that Germany and France are countries where this kind of treatment is imposed all too often.
I should also like to draw attention to a view shared by a large number of my fellow Members.
Turning to the case to which you have referred, the Commission has received complaints in respect of one particular Member State, which is accused of breaching Community law by requiring work permits for workers from the new Member States sent or to be sent to this Member State to perform services.
The Commission has therefore taken the necessary action against this Member State, has sought to bring infringement proceedings against it, and will ensure that the situation is corrected.
There have not, in particular, been any complaints relating to freedom of establishment, to which you have referred, and which was not implemented as recently as 1&#160;May 2004, but rather as long ago as the mid-1990s.
I should like to query if it is appropriate for the French administration to ask Polish entrepreneurs wishing to provide services in France in what way they think they are better and can therefore justify being allowed to operate in France.
I have undertaken a good deal of research, and have found that in most cases entrepreneurs from SMEs in the new Member States rarely complain to the relevant authorities about the discrimination they have experienced.
They are simply afraid of further persecution by the host countries, given that the average entrepreneur is in a very weak position when pitted against the whole apparatus of the state.
There are many good employers in Ireland who treat their workers well.
The specific case I want to raise tonight relates to an actual case not in a Member State but in a candidate country: a Turkish company employing Turkish workers in Ireland that is engaged in the systematic defrauding of its employees.
Part of this policy involved facilitating access to the Union market, which led to an increase in the balance of trade of the countries in question.
Easier access to the Community’s markets allowed the backward countries to significantly reduce the gap between themselves and the more developed countries.
The clearest example of the above policy was the negative balance of trade between Poland and the European Union that was in excess of EUR&#160;10&#160;billion per annum.
Secondly, it meant Polish businesses, banks and financial institutions being bought out for a pittance by Union concerns.
Thirdly, it meant Poles had to make great sacrifices to modernise their companies and bear the considerable costs involved in order to comply with the Union’s requirements, standards and regulations.
The reaction of governments and local administrations of Member States has been to resort to other measures in order to restrict access to Union markets by Polish businesses.
Examples of such measures are the rules concerning the provision of services, which is the sector of the market responsible for 70% of gross GNP whilst creating virtually 100% of new jobs.
The restrictions imposed on Polish companies and on the workers employed by them in the building industry are another example.
It comes as no surprise to learn that those same over zealous officials never take an interest in cases where Polish workers are underpaid or employed illegally, or when they fill unattractive jobs.
Poland and the other former Communist states cannot give in any more to the European Union.
That is why Polish entrepreneurs are going to stand up for their country and we, the Polish Members of this House, will stand shoulder to shoulder with them.
This is the reason why we are alarmed at the situation whereby Polish, Czech, and Hungarian entrepreneurs are coming up against obstacles deliberately placed in their way by administrations, hindering their economic activity on the territory of the old Union.
Mr Verheugen, along with many parliament members, was compassionately discussing here the problems caused by lay-offs in Alstom, mentioning the destiny of 250 employees.
I firmly believe that the old fifteen members, and not us, were far from being prepared for enlargement.
We know perfectly well that, being in the West, our people – highly skilled members of the younger generation, educated and multilingual – are earning higher salaries, but under what social, and humanly unworthy, conditions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a well-known fact that both workers and businesses from the new Member States are discriminated against.
This discrimination starts with the way that businesses from the old Member States and other developed countries act as though they had never heard of labour legislation while operating in Central European countries.
These practices are commonplace in Central and Eastern European countries, and it is also normal for little space to be allocated to goods from local suppliers, for suppliers to be required to provide monetary deposits before starting to supply goods, and for them to have to supply goods at any time of the day, seven days a week.
There are therefore a great many issues that remain to be resolved with regard to working conditions in the new Member States.
At the same time, however, workers from the new Member States find it extremely difficult to gain recognition for their qualifications when they arrive in the old Member States, despite the fact that international agreements have been concluded on this matter.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Thank you.
In this Chamber President Barroso has stressed the importance of the Lisbon Strategy and the urgent need to establish the free flow of services, just the latest of the key features of the European Union’s internal market.
On the one hand therefore, there is a clear desire to remove barriers so as to achieve the best possible functioning of the internal market, while on the other hand we new Member States have observed that our companies are frequently in an unequal position.
Yet today we are not talking about these difficulties, but rather about difficulties in the old Member States.
I have the feeling, Commissioner, that the new Member States of the European Union were much better prepared for membership of the EU and for its enlargement than the European institutions.
I would be glad to hear your opinion on this. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to start by warmly congratulating you on your election and on your first appearance as Vice-President.
Commissioner, the outcome of today’s debate could not come at a better time for the many business people and citizens who believe that everyone has equal rights in the enlarged EU, and who want to sell their most valuable asset, namely their own labour, in the old Member States.
Yet there are many people who no longer wish to work in the European Union.
As representatives of our constituents, we are duty bound to defend their rights in the EU.
I have not heard of a single instance of people being treated in this way in Poland, even though many thousands of foreign firms operate in the country, and a large part of industry and the majority of banks are controlled by foreign capital.
Polish organisations, business people, ministries and embassies are regularly informed of cases in which Polish firms and Polish citizens who provide services as subcontractors to European businesses have been discriminated against.
The case of the Apola company, which is based in Poznan, is a prime example of such discrimination, and one of the many that have come to my attention.
The company’s employees and representatives were intimidated, arrested and persecuted by the French police and authorities in the Gard region.
In many cases, such behaviour stems from the fact that the officials are human, or rather inhuman, and insufficiently acquainted with the rules.
We bear no general grudge against nations or governments in this respect, but the issue should be discussed in this House, and it is for this reason that today’s debate should be followed up by a resolution in which such violations of the law are condemned.
I have been waiting for an answer from the Commission on this matter for several weeks, and several hundred thousand nurses and midwives are waiting for a response to the petition they submitted to the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU economy is in poor shape, with the French and German economies having been hit hardest, and it would appear that more or less everyone is to blame for this state of affairs.
Even though the draft Bolkestein directive had many merits, all the advocates of what is known as a ‘social economy’ took umbrage at it when it was tabled.
Now we are hearing enigmatic statements to the effect that&#160;the aim is merely to turn the EU economy into one of the world’s leading economies, even though there is a fundamental difference between these two goals.
This House has heard numerous complaints about the closure of the Bridgwater Cellophane Plant in the UK, with production being moved to&#160;Kansas.
This is the choice you have, ladies and gentlemen: either you allow companies to move production to Poland, the Czech Republic or Slovakia, or they will move it to Kansas or the Far East.
I would urge you to stop riding an ageing mare in the shape of an inefficient European Union social economy, with France and Germany leading the way in inefficiency. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two Europes in existence today, an old, high-class EU and a new, low-class EU.
I am curious to see what the outcome of the constitutional referendums in the Czech Republic and Poland will be.
We cannot even comfort ourselves with the thought that this is merely individual nations or industries being selfish, as it is in fact the same old stupidity we are used to, with all the disastrous consequences it has in both political and economic terms.
Allow me to offer a very short but extremely frightening and, unfortunately, far from unique example of the way in which trade unions and authorities together deny the EU’s new Member States access to the internal market.
Our Minister for Employment – and recent head of the trade union movement - also adopted a position in favour of the trade union movement.
All so that the cartel in the Swedish labour market can continue to operate.
That is unacceptable, and I wonder what the Commission intends to do to put a stop to this racism and protectionism that are rife in Europe. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, reference has been made in this House on many previous occasions to problems relating to discrimination against workers and companies from the new Member States on the EU internal market.
In addition to the so-called transitional periods that were imposed upon the 10 new Member States, the old Member States are placing an increasing number of legal and administrative obstacles in our way.
Such practices encroach upon the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services, both of which apply to any entity that is legally registered in the European Union and both of which are enshrined in the Treaty.
The fervent opposition voiced by countries such as France, Belgium and Germany during debates on the liberalisation of services, as detailed in the Bolkestein directive, is further evidence of attempts to discriminate against companies from the new Member States.
I find it quite astonishing that countries that agreed to the enlargement of the European Union and to integration with Central and Eastern European countries, knowing that the aim of such integration was to create a single and powerful socio-economic unit, are now standing in the way of efforts to achieve this aim.
The Commission will follow up every single case, as it is obliged to do so.
I did not say that we would do something; we already have, and the upshot of that is that these problems are being resolved. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I would like to start by recalling how the draft directive is based on the provisions of the directive on end-of-life vehicles, which your House and the Council adopted in September 2000, and which contains very ambitious goals for the recycling and reuse industry to achieve by 2015.
Many of the proposed amendments are significant in policy terms.
The most important has to do with the ban on the use of heavy metals.
The report inserted a clause making it mandatory to ascertain that the manufacturer has used none of the heavy metals prohibited by the end-of-life vehicles directive.
This is an initiative that the Commission welcomes, in that it makes it possible to apply the provisions of the end-of-life vehicles directive systematically and uniformly, instead of leaving it to the Member States to enact national laws that might well differ one from another.
Some 15 million motor vehicles come off the production lines in the EU every year, and the motor industry is one of the most important business sectors in Europe, creating jobs, encouraging innovation and vital in terms of our competitiveness.
The objective of the motor vehicle type approval directive is to lay down provisions whereby motor cars and light commercial vehicles can be constructed in such a way that they meet the minimum quotas laid down in the end-of-life vehicles directive in respect of reusability, recyclability and recoverability.
The amendments also take into account important aspects of best practice in type-approval.
We have agreed in this House – and with the Council – on a period of 54 months, corresponding to the arithmetical mean between what the Commission originally proposed and the 72 months that I originally put forward, which itself corresponds to the life-cycle of an average automobile.
It is in any case my view that the Commission had good reasons for refraining from banning heavy metals in its original proposal, for heavy metals are already prohibited by many other items of legislation.
This is a step in the right direction, towards more democracy and transparency in the process whereby European laws are made.
Mr Krahmer has described his report with great clarity and very comprehensively, and I do not propose to go through it in detail again.
The need to take account of the end of the life cycle when designing new motor vehicles has its origins in the early 1990s, in the Netherlands amongst others, when bilateral agreements were concluded between manufacturers and the authorities.
The manufacturers estimate the costs of the recycling obligation at an average of EUR 30 per vehicle, but the industry will very quickly recoup these costs.
With this environmental innovation Europe is also gaining an edge on its competitors, because there are no recycling regulations in either Japan or the United States.
Our group can accept the amended proposal and in any event heartily thanks the rapporteur.
The Lisbon process must be put into practice within sectors.
With the CARS 21 initiative the European Commission is moving in the right direction, but I am afraid that the setting up of the High Level Group at the end of the journey will prove to be nothing more than a deregulation operation for the benefit of the motor industry, the scrapping of tiresome rules in the area of environment and social protection under the guise of improvements in competitiveness.
I would therefore urge that we look further ahead and to show more ambition because environment and competitiveness are not inconsistent with one another; on the contrary, they reinforce one another.
In the spirit of the Lisbon objective employment, competitiveness and a cleaner environment will take centre stage in the Low Level Group.
The motor sector has gradually made a lot of progress in the area of environment and safety, but is that the right way for the future?
The rising prices of raw materials are making recycling and reuse of materials profitable and the technological progress in this area can contribute greatly to a good competitive position for the European motor industry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for one moment, I thought you had forgotten me.
It follows that the materials used must be both recyclable and safe, which does of course also mean that there is a need for more intensive materials research in Europe if we are to retain our leading position on the world market.
Secondly, the procedures and rules must be straightforward, transparent and practicable.
What that means is that the authorities and car manufacturers must consult together in choosing one vehicle as being representative, in that it presents the greatest problems in terms of pollution.
Deadlines must be ambitious but also, of course, realistic, for it would make little sense to require too many alterations to existing models that are already reaching the end of their economic life cycle.
This sort of environmental protection makes sense and can benefit both the public and industry. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
