MEDIA Mundus: audiovisual cooperation programme with professionals from third countries (debate) The first item is the report by Mrs Hieronymi, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an audiovisual cooperation programme with professionals from third countries MEDIA Mundus - C6-0011/2009 -.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me particular pleasure that we have succeeded in drawing up and adopting a new support programme for European films for the culture and economy of the European Union and worldwide within a short space of time - just six months - and before the end of this legislative period.
The Commission's proposal on the establishment of the MEDIA Mundus programme was an excellent one.
It is a response to the opportunities offered to the European film industry by new markets outside Europe.
I feel very lucky to have been able to complete the programme with your support and should like to pass on my own message.
I should especially like to thank all my colleagues on the Committee on Culture and Education, in the secretariats, and you, Commissioner, and your Director General at the helm, Gregory Paulger, for ten years of excellent cooperation in the audiovisual field.
As you know, the preparatory action MEDIA International has been the basis in order to develop MEDIA Mundus and, in this context, I am also grateful to Parliament for giving me EUR 2 million in 2008 and EUR 5 million in 2009 to finance preparatory action.
MEDIA Mundus will start in 2011 and will follow on from MEDIA International.
It will bring cultural diversity to European markets by getting more quality films from smaller markets outside Europe into Europe, and it will give a chance to European films on the international market.
So it will create new business opportunities for professionals from Europe and around the globe.
It is a question of competitiveness, but it is most of all a question of cultural diversity - our cultural diversity - which is our most precious good, and the cultural diversity of those who live in other continents, which is their most special good.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Hieronymi, the MEDIA Mundus programme is a project based on an idea originating in our Committee, the Committee on Culture and Education.
MEDIA Mundus will also support and implement the UNESCO Convention promoting cultural diversity in Europe and across the globe, establishing dialogue and striking a balance between economic and economical interests.
If we eventually go so far as to bring the European dream to the world in cooperation with third countries, through images, we will have done much more to stabilise the European Union than we could have done in many other ways.
MEDIA Mundus is, in my view, the appropriate response to global technical and socio-economic challenges.
I should like to end by saying: 'What helps our diversity will strengthen our identity'.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Hieronymi, I should like to extend my sincere congratulations on this report.
We have speeded up our work and we will still be able to work after the policy has been adopted and the resolution has been passed.
For me, Slumdog Millionaire is an example of success.
This film, which went around the world, was supported by the MEDIA Mundus programme to the tune of EUR 830 000 and became a global success; it made us more aware of an emergency situation in a particular country.
I should especially like to thank Mrs Hieronymi and wish her all the best.
Mr President, the objective of the MEDIA 2007 programme was to preserve European identity, diversity and cultural heritage, to improve the circulation of European audiovisual works and to increase the competitiveness of the European audiovisual sector.
The MEDIA Mundus programme goes further and hopes that mutual benefits will come from the promotion and opening up of audiovisual markets in both the European Union and in third countries.
I am thinking about Europe's cultural influence in the world - that influence seems to be getting smaller, and this worries me greatly.
The last sitting, the last speech - I would like to express my sincere thanks to all my fellow Members for their cooperation, and in particular the members of the Committee on Culture and Education, with whom I worked on a daily basis.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, our culture and media policy is about giving Europe a soul.
I should like to say from the outset that, in the next parliamentary term, this programme must be extended, invigorated and injected with more finances, so that the MEDIA Mundus programme can really fulfil its role of making it clear, in international cooperation, what European values are and what European cultural diversity is.
Today, I should also like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Hieronymi for her very good cooperation and for succeeding in making it clear in this House that, while culture has an economic side, it is always more than just a commodity.
A further deepening of this cooperation, including the EUR 15 million budget for MEDIA 2011-2013, will broaden the choice for consumers and will bring more culturally diverse products into the European and international market.
We therefore need to support all projects which strengthen this alternative to the mainstream media world, and I am glad the Czech Presidency has contributed towards the successful accomplishment of the MEDIA Mundus project. (SL) With the MEDIA Mundus programme, we are on the right path to promoting European film and European knowledge more effectively.
We will be gaining a new, successful programme, but losing our rapporteur and an expert in this field.
I should like to pay my personal compliments to you, Mrs Hieronymi, for all the work you have done, for the breadth of your vision and for your cooperation.
Furthermore, despite the fact that I come from a small country, my ideas have been taken up by the Committee and were later also confirmed by Parliament.
It goes without saying that MEDIA Mundus will take advantage of the growing interest and opportunities created by worldwide cooperation in the audiovisual industry and will widen the range of possibilities for consumers, bringing products that are more culturally diverse to European and international markets and creating new commercial opportunities for audiovisual professionals in Europe and around the world.
It was created under the MEDIA International action which, since 2007, has focused on the development of the European Union's relations with the audiovisual markets of third countries.
The aim of this action was to meet the immediate needs of third countries and to improve the overall effectiveness of MEDIA 2007.
Audiovisual media are very popular among young people.
They make a huge contribution to the promotion of cultural dialogue, and the task, here too, is to establish new global balances in this sector between the United States and between other continents, which are major producers, and Europe, which has its rightful place.
I am full of hope for this text; I endorse it because it is in keeping with my firmly held beliefs about respect, about intercultural dialogue, and about providing support for creative work, for training and for the audiovisual industry, and I should like to offer my sincere thanks to Mrs Hieronymi.
I know that, in the next parliamentary term, we will owe it to her to continue to work along these lines. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal on the MEDIA Mundus programme is welcomed by everyone who wants to see the European audiovisual sector grow, become stronger and more competitive and export to the rest of the world.
I should also like to take this opportunity to thank Commissioner Reding and all the members of the Committee on Culture and Education for the excellent cooperation which we have enjoyed during this five-year term. (RO) The field of culture definitely contributes to achieving economic objectives, taking into account that there are roughly 5.8 million people employed in it.
I welcome a coherent programme for promoting European audiovisual works worldwide, given the fragmentation of the market at European level, compared to the audiovisual industry in the United States, for instance.
It is essential to promote European films in other countries.
I would like to say a huge thank-you to Mrs Hieronymi for her work on this programme and for the fact that she managed to finish before the end of this term of office.
I would like to thank very sincerely all the members of the Committee on Culture and Education with whom I worked during this term.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you to all those who have contributed to making our cultural diversity, not only in Europe, but also transcending borders.
And the promotion on the distribution has been done, for instance, by the European Producers Club, which organised co-producing workshops in China and in India.
Dolma organised a documentary month in Chile, the Paris Project made co-produced productions between Japan and South Korea and Europe, and EuropaCinema has included a network of 230 European cinemas and 148 cinemas in the rest of the world, in order to exchange films between them.
Anyone who deplores the lack of or insufficient European culture in the world, which they have every reason to do, can only welcome the MEDIA Mundus programme and vote in favour of it enthusiastically.
