It is true that the global, economic and financial crisis has hit hard even the most developed economies, but we must not forget that it has hit the poorest countries even more.
We need a radically new paradigm. (ET) Mr President, I voted in favour of this resolution.
The global financial and economic crisis has indeed affected all countries, but it has had a particularly devastating effect on the poorest.
I did not support the articles in this resolution concerning the Tobin tax. (ES) Madam President, I voted for the resolution and also for the amendments to bring in the Tobin tax.
And in case you thought I had forgotten, I have not gone soft and still think we need a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty: Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est. (NL) Madam President, the hypocrisy and inconsistency of this House continue to amaze me.
If Europe is to play a role in development cooperation at all, it should be as a coordinator among the Member States and not as a donor. (MT) Much of the work that this Parliament and other governments carry out in this field is in the form of 'fire fighting'.
The Dutch Party for Freedom (PVV) is in favour of emergency assistance, but it is for the individual Member States, not the European Union, to provide such assistance.
in writing. - In April 2009, an earthquake occurred in Italy that caused a great deal of damage.
I voted for the Böge report on the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund in favour of Italy because I believe that the European Union must respond, as quickly as possible, to the country's request for help, in order to mitigate the tragic consequences of the earthquake that struck the Italian region of Abruzzo in April 2009, claiming the lives of 300 people and causing extremely significant damage.
As I have had the opportunity to say before, I believe that solidarity between Member States and, in particular, European support for countries that have been the victims of disasters, constitute a clear sign that the European Union is no longer just a free trade area.
I must therefore welcome and express my support, once again, for the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund on this occasion to assist the victims of the earthquake which struck the Italian region of Abruzzo in April 2009.
The Commission is, therefore, proposing the mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the sum of EUR 493 771 159.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Amendment 7.
Improving judicial cooperation in criminal proceedings between authorities which have parallel competences is a particularly important measure.
The report which I voted for underpins the guarantee to respect this principle throughout the entire European judicial area, and not only as part of national proceedings.
We should be pleased that the ne bis in idem principle is ensured in the area of states' courts.
in writing. - In a further globalised world and a situation in which there exist 27 Member States in the EU, the possibility of there being some conflict in jurisdiction is great and could cause difficulty.
In fact, the existence of situations in which the same people may be subject to parallel criminal processes, relating to the same events and in different Member States, may lead to violations of the ne bis in idem principle, which must be effectively applied throughout the European judicial area.
We also believe that Eurojust's involvement should be complementary and secondary in relation to the Member States and that the agency's mandate should not in any way be extended by this decision.
Coordinated action by Member States on the prevention and resolution of conflicts in the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings is essential for more effective justice when conducting proceedings of this type.
The ne bis in idem principle - where the same person cannot be tried twice for the same crime - is a fundamental principle of law within a democracy.
However, Mrs Weber's report is not aimed at preventing these ne bis in idem cases.
No, the Weber report is basically aimed at giving Eurojust, which many would like to see turned into a European public prosecution service, powers to control and to decide on national jurisdictions.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Weber report on the prevention and settlement of conflicts of exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings.
Regard must always be had for fundamental rights and, in my opinion, the Weber report improves upon the proposed framework decision.
in writing. - I decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. - The Verts/ALE Group voted in favour of the resolution on the G20 for several reasons, among which: - by referring to the need to develop new indicators which go beyond GDP, the EP gives a clear signal that 'economic recovery' must not be based on a 'business as usual approach', which is in line with our request to develop a 'Green New Deal'; - the resolution insists on the need to tackle global imbalances, especially exchange rate imbalances and commodity price volatility within a multilateral framework; - the resolution sends a good signal towards the setting-up of a tax on financial transactions, which was never the case until now; - as regards the financial crisis, the EP makes a strong statement on international coordination that should aim to avoid regulatory arbitrage.
The G20 has committed itself to reaching an agreement at the Copenhagen Summit and it is essential that the EU continues to play a leading role in the negotiations in order to establish a far-reaching, equitable agreement.
The agreement in Copenhagen may drive economic growth, promoting clean technology, and ensuring that new jobs are created in industrialised and developing countries.
The existence of an agreement on financing and technical support for clean, renewal energy and energy efficiency in developing countries is essential in order to obtain a robust agreement in Copenhagen.
It is important to define a concrete model in order to maximise the chances of concluding an agreement in Copenhagen.
in writing. - The G20 Summit that was held in Pittsburgh on 24 and 25 September was successful in various areas such as discussing the need to address the root causes of the financial crises so as to ensure that such events do not recur in the future.
It is important for people affected by the crisis to be able to receive support and help, but this is best handled at national level, not by a bureaucratic international system.
Through this vote, the European Parliament is reaffirming that: the EU must provide itself with a financial supervision system and a single financial authority; we need to move in the direction of long-term fiscal stability so as not to harm future generations; the immediate priorities must be to create jobs and to protect the citizens against the impact of the crisis.
We have voted in favour of Amendments 5, 8, 11, 12 and 13, and regret that the European Parliament did not go further in relation to accounting transparency, the fight against tax havens and environmental commitments ('New Green Deal').
We would also reiterate our commitment to a tax on financial transactions based on the model of the Tobin tax.
While we agree with the main guidelines of the European Parliament resolution on the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh - and having endorsed it for that reason - the Luxembourg delegation of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) wishes to express some reservations about elements of this resolution that are unsatisfactory.
This is not the same as devising a tax on financial transactions, as the Parliament resolution is suggesting.
Jurisdictions that are by no means tax havens have been included arbitrarily in a 'grey' list, while real tax havens continue to escape all forms of pressure exerted by the G20 and the OECD.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution on the G20 Summit, held in Pittsburgh on 24 and 25 September, because I believe that the present economic difficulties must be used as an opportunity to promote the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and reiterate a commitment to fight unemployment and climate change, as well as to create a European strategy that results in economic recovery that is sustainable in the long term.
It is, however, regrettable that the proposal for a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions has not been adopted, as that would make it possible to limit excessive speculation, and promote financial stability and investment in the long term.
I voted against all of the amendments tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on the G20 resolution in order to protest against that group's tactic of always reopening debates with generally demagogic amendments.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution on the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh.
The current economic crisis is truly global in both its roots and its effects, and so coordinated international action is essential to finding solutions.
National governments all have a role to play in these solutions and joint action at EU level will ensure that Europe can be at the forefront of driving forward global recovery.
The Tobin tax is one model of a financial transaction tax which has been proposed.
We did not support Amendment 8 as we must consider all options rather than commit specifically to a 'Tobin-style' tax.
The financial services industry is a global industry and our efforts must remain on securing a transaction tax that is effective and workable on a global level.
in writing. - I abstained from the vote on Amendment 8 on a financial transaction tax.
I am in favour of such a tax, but I believe it needs to be at the global level, rather than European level, in order to be effective.
The joint motion for a resolution on the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh contains a great many positive elements.
It is therefore even more important to adopt appropriate rules for the markets quickly.
The financial crisis arose partly as a result of banks abusing their customers' trust and taking excessive risks with their customers' money.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent G20 Summit in Pittsburgh has confirmed a gradual stabilisation of the economic situation.
The principles proposed in Pittsburgh should be the foundation for common world economic development.
They are suffering seriously from the consequences of the financial crisis and the economic recession.
It is essential that the EU and the Member States take their responsibility as international actors, meeting their public development aid commitments, and that they continue to contribute to attaining the Millennium Development Goals.
The EU has frontloaded EUR 8.8 billion of development aid, budget support and agricultural financing for immediate action, and proposes contributing EUR 500 million to support social spending in developing countries through the FLEX mechanism for ACP countries.
It is also essential that the European Union and its Member States take on the responsibilities of frontline actors in development aid by meeting their international commitments to these countries, by an urgent increase in aid to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and by an increase in the volume of public development aid, which is insufficient to react to the collateral damage of this crisis in developing countries.
It is also pressing, especially in the lead up to the Copenhagen conference, that the EU and other international actors articulate their policies on international trade, climate change, humanitarian aid and development.
With this need to streamline the system in mind, I welcome the criticism in the resolution about the failure of the Pittsburgh Summit to tackle the subject of reforming the international financial institutions, given the Bretton Woods institutions' slow response to the crisis.
The EU and the Member States, as significant donors, must keep this fact in mind and consider increasing aid to these countries.
The civil societies and parliaments of these countries must be involved in this effort towards transparency, and the EU must foster national debates on where the received aid should go.
Developing countries have been hard hit by the current financial and economic crisis, which was caused by banks and other speculators in the United States.
The financial crisis arose partly as a result of banks abusing their customers' trust and taking excessive risks with their customers' money.
The financial crisis shows that international solutions are needed to tackle international problems.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Committee on Development's motion for a resolution mentions, all to its credit, the existing global financial and economic crisis has hit the poorest countries hardest.
Madam President, I voted for adoption of the resolution, because I think that it contains many very pertinent remarks on the causes and effects of the current difficult situation in developing countries.
The current economic and financial crisis has given a new dimension to globalisation.
The idea of a tax on financial transactions was beneficial: President Sarkozy has made it one of his priorities.
I regret that the amendment asking the Commission and the Member States to present proposals for innovative funding mechanisms, such as a tax on financial transactions to supplement Official Development Assistance, was not accepted.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution but I feel it is necessary to provide some clarifications.
The impact of the financial crisis on countries in the ACP region has been devastating, making the environmental challenges and the volatility of food prices even more complex.
