Firstly, Parliament must support its delegation in the Convention, which has achieved a good text, an intelligent text, although naturally it is not a perfect text, because no legal text is perfect.
We are not dealing with mere preparatory work, but with an expression of solutions supported by national parliaments and the European Parliament - which represents the citizens of Europe - and by representatives of the governments and the Member States.
I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen - and I am obviously speaking on a personal basis and not as rapporteur - that the system according to which only half of the Commissioners would vote would be a crass error.
That solution would weaken the Commission at a time when it most needs to be strengthened.
I would also say equally clearly that it will not be possible to alter the balance of power established in Nice, so that just one or two States pay the price for a new decision-making method.
Our report intends to stress that dealing with and resolving these specific issues will be legitimate provided that we thereby improve the democratic consensus achieved so far.
It was necessary to evaluate the ins and outs of the draft Constitution so that the citizens can express their opinion on it when the time comes and so that it may be clear that the European Parliament accepts and supports this draft as a compromise, a realistic negotiated position between the ideal solutions it has been advocating and the possibilities for putting them into practice at this time.
I would also like to thank all our fellow Members from the different groups for their extremely valuable contributions and their sense of responsibility.
There is no question that we have been able to work with such a high degree of consensus because Parliament's representation in the Convention - in agreement with the national parliaments - did such a significant job achieving the consensus on the basis of which we have been able to continue to build.
The preparation of the revision of the Treaties is the work of a political body for the first time in history of the European Union.
If, on the contrary, the Intergovernmental Conference distances itself politically from the draft, it will damage our institutional victory and the result of the revision will not, I fear, differ from the Nice fiasco.
Of course, there are also reasons relating to the content of the draft that impose respect for the compromise reached.
For example, fundamental rights, safeguarding the basic values of the European Union, the social state, culminating in the objective of full employment, the upgrading of the European Parliament, the constitutionalisation and simplification of the content of the Treaties, the increased safeguarding of transparency, making full use of the national parliaments, the extension of qualified majority voting and much more besides.
Third position: the Convention's draft constitution also has serious weaknesses, as my respected friend, Mr Gil-Robles, emphasised.
Secondly, the constitution of the Commission with 25 commissioners divided, to put it one way, into full and second-class commissioners, is - if you will pardon the expression - a monster in the making.
Two amendments have been proposed in a bid to expressly emphasise the Christian character of the historic roots of the European Union.
By its very nature, this is an historic, philosophic and moral issue with a metaphysical basis which therefore concerns each and every one of us.
I wish it luck in times of storm.
I believe that its first port of call should be to restore its political credibility, the political credibility of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to set before this House the guidelines that the Italian Presidency intends to follow in conducting the Intergovernmental Conference.
For the first time, the European Union's institutions, the governments of the Member States and of the accession countries, the national parliaments and civil society have all taken part in a structured, all-embracing, public and transparent debate on the future of Europe.
The Convention also demonstrated that it is possible to prepare and negotiate European treaties in an entirely new way.
That fact must not, however, make us forget that this is a single constituent process, the first stage of which has come to an end with the Convention; the process is now entering the stage of intergovernmental negotiation and will, we hope, end with the ratification of the future Constitutional Treaty.
This groundplan has dictated one of the Italian Presidency's main objectives: to conduct the Intergovernmental Conference at a high political level and to a tight schedule so as to reach a comprehensive overall agreement on the constitutional text by December.
It would thus be possible for the Constitutional Treaty - a Constitution for Europe, as President Giscard d'Estaing has described it - to be signed between 1 May 2004, the date set for the entry of the ten new Member States, and the European Parliament elections.
The Presidency therefore intends to safeguard the structure and balance of the draft produced by the Convention.
The Intergovernmental Conference must not, therefore, change the overall structure and balance of the draft Constitutional Treaty but will, instead, be called upon to improve and add to those parts of the text that need clarifying, completing or supplementing, all with the greatest transparency and openness.
In this context, the Presidency believes that greater involvement of the European Parliament in the Intergovernmental Conference's work is essential in order to safeguard the constitutional legacy of the Convention and to avoid falling back into the narrow, nationalistic ways of thinking that produced the obscure agreements at Nice.
At the last Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament took part in the group of personal representatives, where it made a constructive and much-appreciated contribution.
The Italian Presidency feels that, since preparatory technical working groups will not be formally set up this time, it makes sense for Parliament to be fully involved in the Intergovernmental Conference meetings at Foreign Minister level.
The recent Riva del Garda talks did not result in agreed guidelines on this matter.
The Italian Government is aware of the role that Parliament has played over the last two decades to achieve a more democratic, more cohesive and fairer Union.
It was the Spinelli draft Treaty that reinvigorated that process of European integration which - through the Single Act and the Treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice - has led to the completion of the single market, the adoption of the euro, and the ever greater sharing of sovereignty in the fields of foreign policy, justice and home affairs.
At the same time, your Parliament, speaking directly for the peoples of the Union, has taken on ever greater and more effective colegislative and monitoring powers.
Your support will therefore be crucial in the coming months, which will see the enlarged Europe enter its constitutional phase, the crowning point of the long process that was begun by the founding fathers with the Treaties of Paris and Rome and which should lead us to ever closer union between our states and our citizens.
Another point of consensus is the election of the President of the Commission by the European Parliament.
For instance, this draft Constitution does not really reduce the fields where the requirement for unanimity paralyses and will in future continue to paralyse common action.
It does not equip the European Union with the instruments and procedures it needs in the key field of economic governance, as is evident at present.
The Constitution does not provide for the less crucial of its provisions to be revised in a more flexible way.
Furthermore, as you are aware, the Commission has considered those provisions of the draft Constitution with implications for its own composition.
Nevertheless, it is important simply to note today that a new and different stage is about to begin, namely the Intergovernmental Conference.
If we so wish, we do have the opportunity to improve a limited number of the points of the draft Constitution without upsetting the overall balance.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is my sincere belief that, setting aside semantic differences, there is broad agreement between our two institutions on the substance of the matter.
I believe that this is an important message, identical to that expressed by the Italian Presidency of the Council, and that it is for this reason that Parliament and the Italian Presidency of the Council will be able to cooperate constructively at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Whereas Nice created only the formal conditions for enlargement, this constitution creates the conditions under which the enlarged community will be viable, with its viability made manifest by its greater capacity for action, improved decision-making mechanisms and the extension of the principle of majority decision-making.
I believe that the democratic principle has also been decisively strengthened.
The Treaty of Amsterdam represented a breakthrough for the right of codecision, which we are now on the way to completing in the course of making the European Parliament an institution with real capacity to act and real powers of codecision in almost all areas of Community law.
I see this as really substantial progress, as this gives the national parliaments the opportunity and hence the awareness of exerting influence when they believe that the subsidiarity principle has been violated.
I believe that it is also extraordinarily important in terms of the Community's internal health that the national parliaments have gained for themselves this role, without the levels being confused or decision-making processes made complicated.
The strength of the larger countries consists in their consideration for the smaller ones.
Let me make one final observation.
I would ask you to communicate this to the President of Parliament.
What I would like to point out at this stage is that, having heard the Commissioner and being aware of the Commission's document - which I believe fulfils its responsibility, as guardian of the Treaties, to make proposals, and which is important in terms of institutional balance - I believe there is great correlation between what is said in this report, as an assessment of the aspects which are not properly resolved, and what the Commission says.
I would like to make a more specific reference to the future reform of the Constitution.
Commissioner Barnier has insisted that, symbolically, we must all vote on the same day.
I hope that the Italian Presidency can do so.
What would not be acceptable, having had the Convention, would be to hear the words 'Time for bed, children, now we are going to discuss serious matters'.
Therefore, having also seen what was discussed in Riva del Garda - because the document we have seen does not correspond to what the Italian Presidency is saying here: that we are going to be observers on the same level as such respectable countries as Romania, Bulgaria or Turkey is not a way to give the European Parliament a very worthy position - I would propose that, in paragraph 37, the wording be changed and, rather than saying 'Strongly welcomes the Italian Presidency's assurance', it should say 'Expresses its concern and discontent with the lack of compliance by the Council with the assurances expressed by the Italian Presidency to Parliament'.
The Italian Presidency has good intentions, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions.
What we need to do is to ensure that our representation is worthy and corresponds to reality.
I will end, Mr President, by making a proposal to the Italian Presidency, so that it can communicate it to the Council.
Mr President, there have been several weeks for us to reflect carefully upon the draft Treaty establishing the Constitution.
At his Berlin Summit meeting at the weekend, Mr Blair seemed sensibly to accept the Convention's proposals for structured cooperation within and outside Nato, allowing a core group of capable Member States to forge forward to build a common European security and defence policy, not as a last resort but as a first call.
The Convention certainly examined all the options, refined all the arguments, and took a broad political approach with the common interest of Europe very much at the centre of our work.
It is for that reason that this resolution properly demands that the spirit of the Convention - transparent, pluralistic, political - should be brought forward to the IGC.
I very much support their proposals to have stronger representation of the European Parliament at the IGC.
Perhaps it will be possible before the summit on 4 October to reopen this issue at the General Affairs Council next week.
Mr President, in giving Europe the text of a Constitution, which will contribute effectively to constructing our future, the Convention has accomplished an important task.
Firstly, a full-time President of the Council who is in office for a long period of time, instead of a rotating presidency, would end up overlapping with the President of the Commission and their work would conflict, causing paralysis and crisis in the institutions.
Secondly, unanimity voting must be abolished in all areas because the right to veto can, at any time, block any innovative process.
Thirdly, there must be a single common foreign policy and it must be accompanied by a European military capacity superseding NATO which would give us not only an independent role but also a stabilising role in the face of the one-sided, imperialist power that is currently present in and threatening the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this House will today back the Convention's draft, and do so by a large majority.
It was largely parliamentary in character, it was held in public, it engaged in dialogue with the public and civil society, and it had many months in which to do its work.
It followed constitutional logic in producing a draft on the future of Europe.
Out of it emerged the draft of a European democracy, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, a republican legal order for Europe, capacity to act and the possibility of a new role in the world.
The question at issue was not what we could do for Europe, but what we could deny Europe.
Commissioner, your place is alongside the European Parliament as it fights for this compromise.
It should accept the Convention's draft, it should deal, in the spirit of the majority in the Convention, with those issues that the governments blocked, those on which there is no consensus, especially the revision clause.
It should, moreover, resolve the inconsistencies between parts 1 and 3, which are largely the result of governmental intervention.
If we promise the people the social market economy in part 1, but the free, untrammelled competitive society in part 3, then we are not being honest with the public.
If we promise full employment in part 1, but only a high level of employment in part 3, that amounts to a trick, and it will not build confidence in Europe.
Hard though this compromise may have been for all of us, we should defend the Convention on the future of Europe.
It would mean a blow against Robert Schuman.
Another blow against Schuman.
Let us remember, moreover, what happened some weeks ago at the IGC planning meeting in Riva del Garda.
Various Member States, various countries expressed major reservations about the Convention text.
The Union for Europe of the Nations Group has incorporated those reservations into the amendments it has tabled to this report, on the composition of the Commission, the Presidency, the role of Christianity, and so on.
Our responsibility is to prevent the haste and pressure of a few from destroying, against the grain of democracy, the magnificent edifice whose foundations were laid by the Treaty of Rome.
Mr President, I warned the Italian Presidency about its timetable for the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is to be adopted on 13 December and signed on 9 May, whereupon we can go to the polls and participate in referendums, but not change the Constitution.
In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we agreed, with 22 votes in favour and 3 against, to call upon all the countries, where possible, to hold referendums.
The Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities supports that decision wholeheartedly.
I hope and believe that the voters will reject the draft prepared under President Giscard d'Estaing's fairly authoritarian leadership, referred to as consensus.
I collected 200 signatures with a view to reversing the procedure so that it might begin with openness.
I collected 123 signatures with a view to ensuring that all the countries should continue to have Commissioners.
The main thrust of the draft Constitution is to transfer much more power from our parliamentary democracies to the Brussels of the officials and lobbyists.
Let us therefore call upon the Intergovernmental Conference to urge all the countries to hold referendums.
I think that this image is enough to avoid long debates and, above all, to say what this Constitution lacks.
This Constitution is, without a doubt, the result of laborious institutional bricolage, difficult to explain and even more difficult to understand and, as a result, little liked.
We are not even giving ourselves the instruments to respond to this need for Europe, this appeal to Europe, this demand for Europe - that is so strong in so many parts of the world, from the near east to the southern shores of the Mediterranean - to this need for European values, to be a partner in essentially fairer development which is based more on human, civil and political rights.
It is all too easy, but, above all, I think it goes against the spirit and goals of Europe and, in particular, our duties as Europeans towards peoples that, even although not European, are our neighbours.
Ladies and gentlemen, as a longstanding and ever more convinced federalist, for the sake of political realism, for love of the Europe that should be able to draw strength from its own successes to promote other successes, at least in neighbouring countries, I believe that this Constitution is a lost opportunity; an opportunity lost that others will suffer for.
It may be that we Europeans will improve our standard of living, but others will suffer for our small-minded actions, our great mediocrity, precisely because we have decided to remain merely a great economic power.
Our opinion sets out a few points from our area of activity on which we would like clarification.
The first is that, in line with its institutional status, the Court of Auditors should be included among the institutions listed in the draft constitution, and its functions should be set out more clearly later on in it.
Thirdly, as regards the establishment of a European public prosecutor, we recommend, on the basis of the original motion put to the Convention by Parliament's delegation, that the establishment of this public prosecutor's office be put in clear terms rather than being left as an optional provision, and that the present unanimity principle in the Council be replaced by the legislative procedure, in other words, by qualified majority voting.
The draft that we are examining today represents a great step forwards, in particular, in the field of constructing a single European area of freedom, security and justice.
It is a step forwards because the Community method is, for the most part, used in this area, a method which should be the only decision-making method in a federal Europe since it respects the values of democracy and the rule of law, both founded on the principle that laws must be approved by representatives of the people, and, consequently, that European laws must be approved by the European Parliament.
The privileges and immunities of Members of the European Parliament are still governed by a protocol dating back to 1965 and tailored to the Parliamentary Assembly as it existed at the time.
In a letter to the foreign ministers, the Italian Presidency has alluded to the possibility of the protocols being revised, which it sees as desirable.
However, there are certain lessons we can draw from our experience.
Therefore we need to build into the Constitution or Constitutional Treaty an absolute requirement for the three institutions - the European Commission, the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament - to provide cost-benefit impact assessments of the amendments which they propose for legislation.
Unless we do that, we shall continue to adopt legislation which all countries agree with, but which in some countries is ignored and which a lot of countries cannot afford.
This will become much more important with the enlargement of the European Union to include a lot of very poor countries.
We are struggling now to reform the CFP and to stop the final collapse of the industry in the North Sea and other key sectors.
The committee was alarmed that the Convention seemed to attach fisheries policy to agriculture as a mere appendage.
The reason for this request is the following: for a considerable number of regions in the European Union, the tourism industry forms an important, if not the most important, source of income, just as agriculture or industry do in other regions.
Many businesses in the tourism industry are small and medium-sized enterprises and would already benefit from regulations for this category.
Equality was made one of the fundamental values, and I should like to take the opportunity also to thank all those who have contributed to the Convention's success.
There is still a lot to be done, and I wish to emphasise that, if the constitutional Treaty is implemented, there are still areas of relevance in terms of equality where matters are not perfect.
That is something of which I should like to ask everyone - the Commission, the Council and the representatives of the European Parliament - to be aware.
Mr President, in ten days' time yet another Intergovernmental Conference will get under way.
Over the last 16 years we have had the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty and, more recently, the Nice Treaty.
In each case there has been an inevitable process of one-way integration, a sense that the European Union can only be successful if it acquires more and more power.
The draft constitutional Treaty increases the centralising and integrating agenda which has been the hallmark of European development in recent years.
It is all a far cry from what the Convention has proposed; and now we are being asked to ensure that the IGC does not undermine the Convention in any way.
It is back to that same old message: Europe must deepen its integration or risk going backwards.
For those like me and my party, who believe in membership of the European Union and in a Europe of nation states cooperating closely together, this rush to integration that is represented in the Convention paper risks a backlash from the electorate.
I fear that Europe could be facing a crisis of legitimacy.
Let them decide whether this further leap forward towards a federal Europe is in fact what they want.
The IGC will debate a fundamental shift in the power balance between nation states and the institutions of the European Union.
Finally, we in this Parliament have a duty to represent the interests of our electors.
By supporting the motion for a resolution in its unamended form we send a signal that the political élite knows what is best for our electors.
That is a dangerous message in election year.
Mr President, over and above the initial brief comments that were heard in this House on 3 September 2003, Parliament can now give a much fuller opinion on the draft Constitution adopted by the Convention.
I would like to add that we are particularly sensitive to the importance and the emotion of this historic process: the birth of a European Constitution, which was the dream of Altiero Spinelli.
The draft supported by him and adopted by this Parliament almost 20 years ago laid the foundations with vision.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the basic problem is not that Parliament is dissatisfied that certain positions and proposals have not been accepted, but the danger that the EU will not be capable of addressing the challenges awaiting it properly.
It is with this in mind that we urge the Intergovernmental Conference to reflect, to look at every possible way of increasing the coherence of the draft Constitution and to prevent any distortion of it, so as to avoid any steps backwards.
Parliament, through its Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will follow the Intergovernmental Conference with the utmost attention and vigilance.
The approach that we have chosen to adopt is highly constructive, not uncritical and very responsible, and I believe that there must be no contrast between our attitude and that taken by the Commission, although that is not to deny the distinction between the two institutions or their independence.
I hope that the Italian Presidency will show itself to be consistent and firm.
That is of course, in a way, what they have elected ourselves, as MEPs, to do.
Secondly, we have now brought about a situation which the basis of values on which we operate in Europe has been defined in detail.
The fact that we have arranged for the practical political objectives of our cooperation to be specified is also of great value to people.
We found no solution to the problem of our two homes.
Mr President, despite the highly polarised positions that were taken up, the Convention has produced a draft Constitution that possesses relative internal consistency.
What will come out of all this is, for the first time in the history of European integration, a European constitution establishing a framework within which many millions of people in over twenty-five states can live together; that is what is really significant.
I see it as a positive thing that the EU as a whole will become more democratic, that progress has been made in the separation of the powers, that Parliament will be given more rights and that referendums will be introduced.
What that means is that, if we are to have the social mission, as incorporated in the Convention's draft, the Intergovernmental Conference must resist the European Central Bank's insistence that this provision be revised.
This makes it important that Amendment No 3 be adopted today and that this House should give the Intergovernmental Conference a clear mandate to do away with the inconsistencies between Part III and Part I.
I would also like to say in unmistakeable terms that I reject all those provisions intended to develop the European Union as a military and interventionist power.
I believe that the Intergovernmental Conference should also be guided by the ideals and the spirit of the Convention.
It is because the public have a right to see how the second stage of the constitutional process proceeds that the governments should hold their sessions in public and in a transparent manner.
Sovereignty only rests with a few Member States that boast their own constitutional structure.
The diversity of languages and cultures is only recognised within the Member States that grant this recognition.
The regions that have constitutional authority are witnessing the accession to the EU of some ten new Member States, some of which are smaller than those of their own regions that possess constitutional powers, such as Flanders, Scotland, Catalonia, Wales, and so on.
However, the small states are also our allies.
I would like to urge them to help defend the result that has been achieved in this convention.
At least a certain balance has been achieved in these texts.
There is a certain unity in diversity, but we should, above all, continue to uphold these latter aspects together.
The draft Treaty presented to our EU leaders in Thessaloniki forms the basis for discussions on a final agreed text at European Union level.
The vast majority of people agree that the European Union must change the procedures it uses if it is to become a more effective political body in a Community of 25 Member States.
The discussions that will take place on 4 October will be the next phase of these important negotiations.
The model for decision-making within the Union dates back, in part, to when the European Economic Community was a six-Member organisation in the late 1950s.
This is an inadequate structure in a Community of over 25 Member States.
I believe in the principle of equality between small and large Member States.
I support the continuation of each Member State of the Union having the right to appoint a nominee as a full voting member of the European Commission.
It is important also that the precise role of the European Union President / President of the European Council is clearly specified in the new Treaty.
Equally I welcome the fact that the new Treaty will define the powers between the European Commission itself and the individual Member States of the Union.
I have some reservations in the context of the negotiations in the IGC.
The issue of taxation must remain the preserve and remit of the individual Member States' governments.
Ever since the European Convention was set up, however, extensive negotiations and discussions have taken place across all elements of European Union society.
Over the coming months we must approach these negotiations with firm determination so that an agreement can be secured on a text for the final Treaty, which hopefully would govern the operation of the Union for the next 50 years.
Mr President, the vote in Sweden is a clear illustration of the political and economic situation in which, with three wealthy countries like Great Britain, Sweden and Denmark outside the euro, we are preparing to launch the European Constitution.
A European Constitution, especially today with the serious challenge represented by China - which, in addition to its products, has succeeded in imitating even the logo of the European Union - should, instead, provide for the reintroduction of customs duties and limits to protect our production, in particular to protect the system of small and medium sized enterprises and our agrifood production.
It should, instead, lay claim to its own Christian roots with pride, in particular in the face of the grave danger of creeping Islamicisation.
Sixty years on from the Declaration of Chivasso, the historic document marking the birth of federalism drawn up 19 December 1943 - particularly difficult times for Europe and for our country - by representatives from the Valle d'Aosta, the Waldensians and the people of Provençe to protect the regional cultures against centralism from Rome, we cannot endorse a Constitution that ignores the rights of peoples and regions if we want to respect the ideals of these fathers.
Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference that will open in Rome on 4 October represents an extraordinary opportunity for the whole of the European Union, for almost 500 million citizens that are, at last, calling for institutions that are more in touch with the people than they have been to date.
I am an optimist and I am personally convinced that no one will want to be responsible for undoing the work of the Convention and for wiping out the hope of having a Europe that is politically strong and independent at last, a Europe that can play the part of the power required to balance an international situation dominated today by the United States, with the prospect of an increase in China's power in the future.
Let us be clear: we believe in a more influential Europe which is independent from the United States but, at the same time, a friend and ally of a country and a people that have also made a decisive contribution to ensuring freedom and democracy in our continent.
Some corrections will, of course, have to be made to the text adopted by the Convention, such as, for example, an increase in the number of areas where decisions can be made by qualified majority voting and the need to reach agreement on the number and role of Commissioners.
How can we fail to mention a great painter such as Marc Chagall, a European painter, Jewish, who also devoted himself to depicting the spirituality of Europeans, and who confirmed that painters have dipped their brushes into that colourful alphabet of hope that are the Sacred Scriptures.
Turning now to those who are forming ranks to oppose this choice, I would also like to recall the words of Chancellor Schroeder, who stated in the Bundestag that he was not against inserting the reference to Judaeo-Christian roots into the Constitutional Treaty.
A Europe that wants to explore new horizons, called upon to bring together new citizens of different religions, really cannot afford to erase its own roots.
That is why we welcome the fact that this motion for a resolution which we will adopt is not calling for significant changes to the draft Constitution.
The package that has been agreed in the Constitution is, nonetheless, one that takes the European Union forward in a number of ways as regards democracy, efficiency, transparency and understandability of the Union.
There are governments that want to reopen the question of the composition of the Commission.
If we move to one Commissioner per Member State and one vote per Commissioner, would we not be turning the Commission into a sort of Coreper, an intergovernmental body?
I also oppose those who wish to make a reference to religion in the Constitution.
We should not impose a particular view on religion in the Constitution.
It is not up to the European Union to tell its Member States what procedure they should use internally to ratify a treaty setting up a constitution.
That is a matter for each Member State in accordance with its Constitution and its traditions.
Mr President, in my opinion it is a positive sign that the Convention's proposals strengthen cooperation between the Council and governments in Union decision-making.
The weakest link in the proposed new Treaty is the proposals concerning the Council.
Although many objected beforehand to the establishment of new institutions, the Convention is actually proposing that two new institutions should be created.
Both proposals are the wrong ones.
The Council must be considered in the new Treaty as a single institution, and a prime minister or president who is in office must be elected as its long-term President.
Such a reform of the Council would correspond to the proposals that Secretary General of the European Council, Javier Solana, made over a year ago.
They must be given consideration in the Intergovernmental Conference, as the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party proposes in Amendment No 28.
Mr President, I endorse the readings and proposals of our two rapporteurs.
It is impossible for half the Treaty, 150 articles in part three, to have a non-revisable status, because that is where we shall end up with the provisions which we are planning; in other words, policies will be regime.
The same applies to the timidity on issues of security and defence.
Allow me to comment on one last issue, the reference to religions.
Or why we need to refer to what is indeed the important history of Christianity but not, for example, to the history of free thinking?
The question arises as to whether this Convention text is a treaty or a constitution.
It does nothing for jobs or economic growth and widens further still the democratic deficit.
If national governments attempt to pass this without consulting the people, it will be a constitutional abomination.
Worse still, it is a very dangerous thing to do because when people realise that voting in general elections can change nothing - because the power has been given away - what are they left with?
I am also indebted to the Italian Presidency for its constructive approach, and Commissioner Barnier, who, together with Commissioner Vitorino, played such a key role in the Convention.
We can, however, establish that the Convention has achieved more than the amendments to the Treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice together.
This is why the model of the Convention should be preserved also in future.
The Union's constitutional standards and values as a community of law have been laid down effectively.
In the relationship between the Council, Commission and Parliament, transparency and democratic procedures have now taken centre stage, and Parliament has been granted sound powers in terms of codecision legislation whereby decision-making by majority has become the rule.
The whole legislative system and process have become a lot simpler and more transparent, with more openness in the Council, as a result of which the Council has now, in my opinion, taken on the character of a Senate.
The concept of subsidiarity is expressed far more effectively through the national and also regional parliaments being given their own roles to play in the European decision-making processes, so that the Union's activities can be carried out a great deal closer to the European citizen.
As I have already said, the result is good, but it is not perfect.
The shortcomings I should like to mention are the lack of a qualified majority in the decision-making process on foreign policy, trade agreements and financial perspectives.
These shortcomings, however, are not so serious that we cannot be positive about the document.
I should like to thank you for your contribution to this House.
The Convention was a success.
In a transparent fashion, it enshrined a broad consensus in the draft Constitution, a solid balance which involves this Parliament, the Commission and the national parliaments and governments, which undoubtedly moves the European Union forward.
These include the Charter of Fundamental Rights of a binding nature, the legislative procedure as a general rule, the extension of the qualified majority, the creation of institutional figures - such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs - who are clearly useful, the progress on justice and home affairs and, of course, the Convention as an essential method for future constitutional reform.
In order for the IGC to be a success, furthermore, it must properly resolve the problems which are still on the table.
Governments, the Commission, the national parliaments and we, in the European Parliament, must send a positive message to the citizens so that they support this Constitution and, if possible, do so by means of a referendum.
Chile is, as you know, a country with which we have one of the most far-reaching association agreements for trade and we in the House should extend our normal welcome to Senator Zaldívar.
However, we Catalan Members from Convergencia i Unió will abstain.
The reason is that an aspect which is fundamental to us, and I believe also to many European citizens, has not been considered as fully as we had asked for.
The peoples of Europe who are identifiable as stateless nations, or in regions with a strong personality and sense of identity, have not been associated in the manner we called for.
However, for the reasons I have given, we shall reserve our definitive vote for the result of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, under the Constitution the present European Union will be abolished and in its place a new one will be established, which, according to the Constitution, reflects the will of the people and states.
We know how to discover the will of states.
It is represented by governments and national parliaments.
The fairest course of action would be to arrange one in each Member State separately but on the same day.
If the subject of a referendum were the Convention's draft Constitution without any amendments to it, I would vote against it and I would urge others to vote the same way.
The Convention brought about a redistribution of power that favoured the big countries and the Union was militarised.
The Member States lose their right to a permanent Commissioner with voting rights, and in future will not be able to choose their own Commissioner.
A commander in the Finnish army said that acceptance of this declaration would take Finland into NATO, and that is something our nation will not agree to.
These are the reasons for saying no to such a constitution.
Maintaining unanimity for decision-making on crucial issues and the procedure for the future revision of treaties are particularly problematic areas.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention has presented its responses to the questions posed at Laeken in the form of a draft Constitution.
The Intergovernmental Conference can and should make the text of the Constitution more coherent, and improve some of its proposals.
Commissioner Barnier spoke to us a moment ago of nostalgia, warning us that it is not a good guide in politics.
The Convention was not simply a preparatory phase, as its predecessors were.
The responsibility they bear is thus much greater.
Mr President, the Convention was an assembly of all parliaments, all governments, and the Commission.
The Intergovernmental Conference is only an assembly of all the governments.
It has to be made perfectly clear that any change in what the Convention produced would be a vote of no confidence in the parliaments, which made up a majority in the Convention.
Commissioner Barnier, you always took a very progressive line in the Convention.
Mr President, Mr Antonione, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my appreciation of and full support for the content of the report under discussion.
We would obviously have preferred the text proposed by the Convention to be more advanced in terms of the process of integration but we realise that the compromise reached is the only one possible, and it is this that we need to admit by agreeing with President Giscard d'Estaing's statement when, opening the work of the Convention, he said that our unity is the reason for our existence.
I believe that a text that has such broad backing cannot easily be modified by the Intergovernmental Conference, except in some minor aspects.
If every single amendment to the Constitution is to depend on the unanimity of the 25 or 27 - or, in future, even more - Member States, then the risk is that this great step in the history of Europe will ultimately serve to constrain on Europe's future and put an end to its hopes.
Mr President, as a Euro-enthusiast and a Catalan I should be very disappointed by this draft Constitution.
Despite the efforts of my fellow Member from Scotland, Mr Neil MacCormick, those of us Parliament terms regionalists did not succeed in having our demands accepted.
A Commission in which not all the Member States were always fully and equally represented would lose the political legitimacy that meant that all the previous Commissions were fully-fledged players in the European Union.
In the interests of all Europeans, we will need, in the future too, a representative and fully-fledged Commission with one Commissioner from each country, one that will carry political weight and really give every one of the EU's citizens the feeling of being equally represented in all the European institutions.
Mr President, 2004 will be the year of the European constitution.
The constitution will certainly contain things that we in this House would have preferred differently.
However, the result still deserves our support.
First of all, I should like to express my surprise at the fact that some, including the Dutch Government, argue in favour of including God - Christianity - in the European constitution.
Secondly, we indicated in the resolution that all Member States should hold referendums on the constitution, where possible, according to the constitution, on the day of the European elections.
These are precisely the areas that we intend to improve by means of this constitution, which allows the European Union to function more effectively and more democratically and which, moreover, gives the EU a social and political dimension, and this is why we ask for the support of our citizens in the referendum.
Basic values, social fundamental rights and more democracy must be defended and not weakened by alleged national interests, which would send us back to this cursed backroom in Nice, where the government produced something of little consequence.
Let us give Europe back to the citizens.
The first remark relates to the identity of Europe.
Nevertheless, what we are calling on to unite Europe must not divide it.
I am, in fact, convinced that the references to the human person and to peace, freedom and democracy, to human rights and to pluralism represent the synthesis in constitutional form of Christian and democratic values that inspired the actions of the founders of the European Community.
The second remark concerns future revision of a compromise that the Intergovernmental Conference may be able to improve on, without reopening the debate on the institutional balance proposed by the Convention.
The report condemns the fact that the unanimity of the States continues to apply to the Constitutions' revision procedure, and continues to do so even in the future.
Either nothing is changed or everything is.
I am aware that in this role-play, some people, including some Members of Parliament are ready to invoke God as a way of obtaining more concessions on other subjects.
I would also like to see real coordination of economic policies and majority decisions in the field of foreign affairs.
The third issue is that of God.
God has been left out of the scope of the Constitution.
In this regard, I believe the consensus that has almost been reached on Article 3 on the objectives of the European Union is a reasonable one.
Thank God we did not stand still as Europe developed politically in the second half of the previous century.
All our efforts were and still are rewarded by the reunification of Europe in peace and freedom.
It is on this basis that the Member States' governments can and must show, at the Intergovernmental Conference, whether they are working with the future in mind or are trapped in the behaviour patterns of the past in clinging to national egoisms and national patronage.
The present text of the Constitutional Treaty points the way to the future.
It is now for you, Europe's Heads of State or Government, to decide whether you want to take Europe forward or stand in its way for your own egoistic and nationalistic reasons.
Mr President, I would like to join with previous speakers in congratulating the two co-rapporteurs on their excellent summary.
The third obvious deficiency is the failure of the Convention on the reform of the CFSP.
It is to be hoped that the IGC will dare to correct this obvious flaw in the new constitutional edifice.
Mr President, an amendment which I with others tabled to this report called for confirmation of the dual nature of the Union in which nation states are the predominant component.
All too often European citizens do not feel that this is actually the case.
There are many ways in which this can be rectified and I personally feel the Convention could and should have gone further in this area.
As an MEP who has been an MP in the UK, I now realise how little my colleagues and I knew about the regulations coming from Europe.
The problems have deteriorated under the present British Government as it reduced the powers of our House of Commons.
The way forward is for joint committees of members of national parliaments and MEPs to oversee the transposition of legislation into national law in every Member State.
This would be a small but significant step in the right direction and, by increasing cooperation between national parliaments and the European Parliament, it would allow national MPs a real say in the workings of our Union.
A strong social market economy is the key to social peace in Europe - does the constitution contain any of the framework conditions on which that is dependent?
In any case, there can be no democracy without transparency, and, to this deception, we have to say, 'no, thank you'.
There was a lengthy debate on whether it was necessary, appropriate and right to introduce a reference to Christian values - or even to God - in the text in question and in the text that will be adopted.
I believe that the text shows considerable respect for Christian values: respect for human life and respect for the dignity of human life are, indeed, points of reference on which there has been much work in the Convention.
I feel it is important to emphasise that, over and above the actual words contained in the text, there is a reference to our history, to European life, that has, of course, been influenced by and associated with Christian values.
I must say, therefore, that what has been done - in terms of the direct legitimacy of the public, the quest for ways of achieving consensus and the management of the institutions and consensus - can be considered to be positive overall.
Numerous representatives of the 28 Member States spent 16 months considering all the options in their quest for a reasonable consensus.
I do not believe, Mr President, that European diplomats can do any better in little more than two months.
In any case, those diplomats were involved at every stage in finding solutions on behalf of their Member States, which makes them partly responsible for the results achieved in the Convention.
In the same way, I do not believe that any amount of political modesty can hide our pride in affirming clearly that, at the end of the European Convention, the highest honours went to the European Parliament.
Our unity has thus become an essential tool in the service of peace.
The way in which the national governments share responsibility for European decisions is being made more transparent, so it will be harder to make accusations, and the information given to the public will need to be more honest.
Two of the constitution's fundamental pillars of governance are the subsidiarity principle and the environmentally responsible market economy.
Aspects that have been criticised and cry out for amendment include the current proposal on the composition of the Commission, unanimous voting on taxes relevant to the internal market and on the Common Foreign Policy, as well as the absence of a common information campaign and of any requirement that the public be involved in the process of ratification.
It is because Europe needs European awareness, an awareness that only information can create, and because we need our citizens to be informed and involved, that I advocate - even though the legal basis for it is not yet in place - a Europe-wide referendum, to take place at the same time as the elections to the European Parliament.
I call on the members of the Intergovernmental Conference to hold a Europe-wide referendum to introduce the process of ratification, and I call upon my fellow Members of this House to endorse my statement to this effect.
Mr President, I would like to focus on three points: the question of unanimity, the reference to God and Christianity and traditionally resident minorities.
The third point concerns linguistic and cultural diversity and the rights of minorities, referred to in Amendment No 22, recital H.
I believe that the minorities that were referred to in the Copenhagen criteria should have a place in this report as well.
I urge the Italian Presidency to make every endeavour to this end, both before and during the IGC, and to ensure that these minorities are mentioned in the Constitution too.
As regards the fundamental issue, which concerns the European Parliament and on which there was also an oral amendment from the President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, namely the direct participation of Parliament in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference, I can only confirm what I said in the initial report, to the effect that the Presidency is in favour of making this possible.
This does not, of course, depend on our own will; we could propose it again and try to support it with conviction because we are certain that the European Parliament can make a decisive contribution to achieving a positive result when the new European Constitution is drawn up.
Since we, ourselves, are not, however, able to impose it, we can only take the message on board, make it our own and genuinely try to achieve a good result, in the hope that we will all be able to be present and to contribute to the achievement of this major, important objective that is the European Constitution.
They are about finding a solution to the problem of how we help the people of Iraq in the aftermath of war, and that of the competences of the United Nations, which must progressively take over the leadership in this area in order to be able to permanently stabilise the region.
What he said confirms precisely our position: that an attempt is being made to legalise the intervention in Iraq and the occupation and we are radically against any such development ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr Korakas, I do not intend to reopen a debate.
The debate on her report closed yesterday evening.
I believe that we cannot strongly welcome something we have not been offered, and therefore my proposal is that the following should be included: 'Expresses its concern and discontent with the lack of compliance by the Council with the assurances expressed by the Italian Presidency to Parliament'.
Nevertheless, vital as the role of the United Nations is and must remain, it is impossible at this stage to lay out a precise timetable for a transfer of sovereignty, or indeed to identify the precise nature of a Trust Fund in advance of the forthcoming donors' conference.
In terms of the resolution's reference to an ad hoc international tribunal, we should also recognise the need for Iraq to develop its own reformed judicial system within which perpetrators of crimes could be tried, and which could itself refer cases to the International Criminal Court. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) We members of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the recommendation to the Council on Iraq because, while it does not say a word about the invasion and occupation, it welcomes the efforts by the Bush administration to get out of the impasse and condemns the resistance of the Iraqi people, which it qualifies as terrorism.
It proposes making the Iraqi people a ward of the international community until it is old enough for democracy.
The fact that only the members of the European United Left (45) voted in favour of these amendments, while 420 voted against and 68 abstained, demonstrates just how hypocritical they all are; while they are making a great show of fighting for the rights of the Iraqi people, they bless its occupation, oppression and plundering in practice.
We leave them to the judgment of our peoples.
Mr President, the European Parliament today has voted on legislation that will slow down the rate of technological advance, narrow consumer choice, increase the price of software and destroy the free and open-source software industry in Europe.
We do not want to see a situation where a limitless patent system can be abused by large operatives to stifle technical competition or, even worse, prevent the publication of information.
US experience tells us that software patents do not encourage innovation and R&amp;D but, in fact, weaken the market and suffocate small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as those starting out in the market.
However, in the end I voted against the report.
My main reason for doing so was because of the legal uncertainty which is created by the imposition of a patent on software development, particularly when we can see the rapid advance of technology and the new small and medium sized enterprises that are starting up to create software packages specific to certain sectors of industry or business, or merely to create a new game for them to play themselves.
Mr President, I, too, voted against this draft directive, which I find bitterly disappointing.
It is lamentable that Parliament has bowed to pressure from the USA and, above all, pressure exerted by the major software companies.
Not only does this go counter to the interests of consumers, but it also hampers innovation, instead of encouraging competition and diversity in the software market.
That will become apparent in the future, and this decision does the utmost damage to the prospect of an open, free and sustainable knowledge-based society.
What the Commission is proposing, however, encourages the domination of the software market by monopolies, as small software companies cannot afford disputes about patent rights.
The report and the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions creates an asphyxiating environment for the creative skills of scientists and small software firms and will ultimately only work in favour of the giant enterprises which have thousands of patents and huge legal departments to throttle small companies and, more importantly, the free innovative environment.
The directive we are examining today allows every type of software to be patented.
The result is easy to foresee: small and medium-sized enterprises and independent programmers will be throttled.
This directive prepares the ground for the patentability of human knowledge, which we oppose.
I voted against the directive.
This is because this plan, even if amended significantly by Parliament, is still dangerous.
If such legislation had existed at the time of Mozart or Beethoven, authorising the patenting of musical works, then the whole of our world heritage would have been undermined at its very roots.
The system of copyright currently covering software should continue to be enforced because this alone guarantees that authors remain justly and permanently rewarded.
Indeed, by accepting the principle of patents in this field, when computer-implemented inventions are already protected by copyright, multinationals are in effect given the power to seal off this sector.
After much consideration and reflection on the arguments put forward by the various businesses, software producers etc., on the issue of this directive, the aim of which is to allow computer-implemented inventions to be patented, I have come to the conclusion that, if clear definitions and precise explanations were introduced into the directive with regard to some questionable and ambiguous terms to avoid erroneous interpretations, then I could subscribe to it.
The patentability of software is absurd in so far as it would lead to the formation of a monopoly of large software companies detrimental to small and medium-sized enterprises specialised in this field, which, more often that not, play a key role in developing new technologies.
Furthermore, we believe that the legislative proposal benefits the large multinational corporations (in particular the United States ones, which have continued to apply pressure in order to introduce their abusive system of patents into Europe) and represents a retrograde step for independent workers and small companies, as well as an obstacle for free software.
Once again, the will of more than 200 000 people (including the majority of experts in the field and consumers) is being ignored, and we can see that economic interest is taking precedence over support for the free use of knowledge and information.
We await a common position from Council and Commission.
I continue to express my concerns that this EU directive should not undermine the competitiveness and innovation of our brightest and best companies in Europe, in particular by putting EU business and industry at a disadvantage in the global marketplace.
It would be contrary to our economic interests if we allowed the US and Japan to dominate markets as a result of their patent protection, while Europe's companies are squeezed out. . (NL) In America, large computer companies have been trying for years to protect their software inventions against free use by individual users and small companies.
In departing from Article 52 of the European Patent Convention, according to which software is subject to copyright rather than to patenting, the European Patent Bureau in Munich is trying to extend its remit along the lines of the American system.
The European Commission and part of this Parliament want to justify this extended remit with the argument that nothing actually changes in comparison to the present situation.
I am disappointed that the amendment to reject the directive tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance was not adopted: when a directive is badly drafted, I think that the Commission has a duty to redraft it.
Nevertheless, I am delighted that there was excellent cooperation with other political groups, allowing us to improve the text, in particular in Article 2.
Furthermore, software patents endanger free software, which is used in a number of scientific and industrial applications such as the European satellites in the Galileo system.
I entirely agree with this principle, since we cannot ignore the fact that any piece of software is the product of a mental process enabling a human being to command an unintelligent machine to perform a series of instructions.
In other words, patents should not be used to do exactly the opposite.
In contravention of the provisions of the European Patent Convention, this proposal for a directive allows for the patentability of ideas implemented by software programs to be authorised.
The approval in plenary of a few amendments, some of which were proposed by me, enhanced the text a little, but not enough to gain my support.
As a Liberal, I cannot accept this commercial approach based on monopolies, which aims in time, to kill off the creative spirit of young computer scientists and the innovation brought to the sector by producers and users of free software.
Finally, I am glad that a clear signal has been given to the European Patent Office in Munich.
The European Parliament calls on this body to act transparently and responsibly and sending this signal is the least we can do for this organisation which, in violating the European Patents Convention of 1973, authorised more than 30 000 patents to be granted for computer programs. - (SV) The currently applicable European Patent Convention is interpreted differently from one Member State to another.
The proposal for a new directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions has given rise to a lot of debate.
As regards the cofinancing of projects, I am in favour of keeping a maximum ceiling of 70% and I am against 75%.
As regards financial support for European consumer organisations, a 50% threshold is much too high.
It is pleasing to note that the total budget proposed for this period has risen to EUR 72 million in operational credits, or EUR 18 million per year, while the total for human resources and other administrative costs has risen to EUR 32 million, or EUR 8 million per year. . (PT) I voted in favour of this report, because the aim of the financial framework on the table (for 2002-2007) is to pursue a consumer protection policy, particularly by financing consumer information projects.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the Jonckheer report, as we now need to make it possible to at last give favourable tax treatment to non-food crops.
We should welcome the European Union's declaration that the increased use of renewable sources of energy is one of its objectives and the Commission's definition of binding objectives and timetables in its 'Renewable Energies' White Paper.
The right conditions and instruments are needed, though, if these objectives are to be achieved.
If the European Union wants to discharge its obligations under international law to reduce greenhouse gases in line with the Kyoto commitments, this directive on the taxation of energy can be only one of many steps that will end up taking us in the right direction.
This Council compromise, therefore, constitutes a significant step in that direction, since it has brought agreement on a comprehensive energy tax directive, encompassing all forms of energy.
The solution involves finding a new balance of taxation between workers and capital.
Decisions as important as that are taken while revising the Treaties or the Constitutional Treaty and not when consulting Parliament on a draft directive.
Turning to the taxation of fuel, harmonised minimum rates for Luxembourg (and other Member States) always go hand in hand with an increase in tax, and thus, in fact, with an increase in prices.
Although Luxembourg's specific situation meant that it was allowed a temporary derogation, this is no reason to bring forward from 2010 to 2008 the second phase for the application of the minimum rates.
I am sure that the thinking behind the rapporteur's amendment was that it would benefit the environment if higher fuel prices were to deter consumers from using their own cars. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure.) . (PT) The European Parliament took an important step towards greening European Union energy taxation today, by giving the green light to the directive restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity.
In other words, the price of goods must reflect their real environmental cost.
The message sent by the price is essential in order to induce both producers and consumers to realign their choices towards sustainability.
Despite the rapporteur's reservations about the Council's draft, which, in his view, fell short of expectations, I believe that this draft represents the broadest possible consensus within the Council, bearing in mind that caution and the ability to compromise are advisable when approaching this issue.
The parties, therefore, proposed that the current protocol be extended for one year, retaining the fishing opportunities and distribution between the Member States.
My vote in favour does not, however, mean that I agree with all the rapporteur's views.
Mr President, the European Parliament has just adopted the Andersson report on adequate and sustainable pensions.
Studies carried out on developments in pension schemes show that the balance between economic and social concerns is the key to success, since macroeconomic, social and employment policies are connected.
The report contains a number of apt remarks, in particular, on the situation of women.
The text sees the reforms under way in many Member States as positive without mentioning that they have inspired massive public opposition amongst the communities affected.
This is why we voted against this report. . (DE) I am especially glad that this report, which, for the first time, subjects the EU Member States' commitment to the adoption of a common approach to the future of pensions policy to detailed and systematic scrutiny, addresses the problems of women in the way that I successfully insisted on in the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
They ought to have done so ever since the directives in the 1970s on equal treatment for women and men in social security matters.
This, I am happy to say, is the case in Portugal.
Moreover, because I agree with most of his conclusions relating to three fundamental objectives - adequacy, financial sustainability and the modernisation of pension systems - I voted in favour of the report.
Mr President, the way the voting went this morning reinforced our bitter feeling that the draft European Constitution flouts fundamental social desires and mounts a serious challenge to the European social model.
In particular, the precise, profound and dangerous threat hanging over public services was, I am sorry to say, confirmed by this House.
It was from then on impossible - not to mention other reasons such as the stubborn refusal to consider constitutional or legislative regions - to want, as the majority do, the Intergovernmental Conference not to modify the grave imbalance created in this way between the powerful and the weak.
It is to be hoped that they will include in the preamble reference to our Judaeo-Christian roots and also make a number of improvements in the institutional sphere, such as having one Commissioner per Member State, which I too regard as essential.
Mr President, I did not vote for this report, despite being in favour of the text adopted by the Convention - which I took part in as an alternate - because the report has left out the reference to Europe's Christian roots.
Mr President, the draft Constitution for Europe reminds me of a cappuccino: lots of good coffee, a political froth which is a little too thin and very bitter institutional chocolate.
The permanent president of the European Council will certainly be competing with and clash with the President of the Commission.
In any case, my vote on Amendment No 21 to item 21a in the Gil-Robles report has not been recorded; I wanted to vote against it.
Unfortunately, the European Parliament is thus behind even the European Commission on top institutional issues, such as, for example, the number or the role of the commissioners or the presidency of the Council.
Thus, despite the useful ideas in the motion on issues such as the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments, the development of social policy or referenda, I abstained from the final vote.
The European Parliament motion on the introduction of a 'Constitution for Europe' aims to give parliamentary cover to a large-scale operation to deceive the peoples.
Nor can we fail to note that the anti-democratic procedure followed when drafting the text is being promoted as a standard of democracy and transparency.
We are especially satisfied with the fact that full employment, transparency, equality and sustainable development are now included as essential parts of the Convention's draft Constitution, something that is also welcomed in Parliament's opinion.
The European Parliament cannot be the only parliamentary body for the common foreign and security policy.
We support the solidarity clause in the draft Constitution and are, in general, well disposed towards the draft Constitution's wordings on the foreign, security and defence policy.
The draft Constitution's arrangements for the Commission are unsound.
The IGC must be able to take the time required, irrespective of the Presidency. - (SV) We have chosen to abstain from voting in the final vote on the aforementioned report.
Our position relates to the report and not to the outcome of the Convention in its entirety.
Certain parts of the report depart from the outcome of the Convention.
The EU must be limited and effective.
A Constitution should clearly mark the boundary between the public and the private, as well as the EU's decision-making competence in relation to the Member States.
It is therefore obvious that Treaty changes must be approved unanimously and ratified by national parliaments.
That also means that we are doubtful about Article I-24.4 of the draft Constitution.
The Commission is not following the same strategy and is clearly trying to benefit from the IGC in order to make greater progress in terms of supranationality, for example, almost completely abolishing unanimity voting, methods of revision that make it possible to get around the opposition of some nations or stronger economic governance.
It is obvious that a document drawn up in violation of democratic principles can benefit neither the citizens, the nations, nor Europe itself.
The draft Constitution changes the fundamental principles through which the EU functions (right of veto, states' voting rights, equal representation in the European Commission etc.).
These principles played a significant role in the accession of new states to the Union.
The draft Constitution aims at establishing a single European state, in which decisions would be taken over the heads of citizens and governments without reference to the referendum as a necessary method of expressing the will of citizens on such a fundamental issue.
We abstained on the majority of the amendments because even the best intentioned ones still propose improving a Constitution that we reject.
In principle, I am in favour of a Constitution but I cannot, at this stage, join with those who state that the Intergovernmental Conference must not significantly change the draft prepared by the Convention.
Moreover, a Constitution should not set the economic and political structure of the EU in stone and thus deny the public any real opportunity to change society using its democratic vote.
I welcome the concern to bring the Union closer to the citizens, enhance its democratic character and improve its decision-making capacity, in the context of enlargement.
I welcome the (admittedly rather unambitious) enhancement of the Union's role and its capacity for action on the world stage, bearing in mind the challenges of globalisation and growing interdependence.
I welcome the fact that, for the first time in the history of European integration, national parliaments will have an active role in drawing up European legislation.
The fact is that this draft contributes little that is new to the economic governance of Europe.
As we have complained in the past, the undemocratic methods and processes by which the Convention was constituted helped produce a text to which we are flatly opposed, since we disagree with the social project it advocates.
The social aspects which the text promised to defend will become secondary, and we will slide further down the road mapped out in the Treaties of Maastricht and Nice.
It is a threat to sovereignty, not only in legal and institutional terms, but also in concrete areas of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms.
Instead of selecting as absolute priorities the quest for peace, development, and economic and social cohesion, based on high levels of social welfare for all, this text defines peace as a mere possibility and not as a fundamental objective.
The Member States should not put all the work on the table again at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Whilst I accept the doubts and recommendations of our rapporteurs regarding the presidency of the European Council, I still have concerns about the solution proposed regarding the Commission and above all on distributing the seats in the European Parliament, for which neither the resolution nor the draft Constitution offer a satisfactory response.
Parliament's demands had to be made a central issue, for the only way of overcoming the unsatisfactory elements in the Convention's text is precisely to ensure that there is a democratic method of ratification which will allow us to move forward.
The desire to see the content of this article feature in the future Constitution, is indeed legitimate but there was no guarantee that it would happen.
We must recall that this report was adopted in the Committee by 18th votes to 6, with 4 abstentions, which clearly indicates that the draft constitution lacks of credibility, being this report its formal evaluation by this Parliament.
The draft Constitution indeed does not incorporate into the Union the basic criteria that could build a desirable home for everybody.
As the report confirms, the unique nature of the Union is drawn from its member states and citizens.
The views of 'civil society' were certainly given a hearing but there was never any question of involving the citizens in the drafting process.
The most important aspect, however, is that this Treaty represents the constitutionalisation of a liberal, pro-Nato, militarist and antisocial Europe, which is opposed to secularism, social rights, public services and the interests of the workers.
We now refuse to give an Intergovernmental Conference the right to decide for us all.
This European constitution for 450 million citizens will take precedence over national constitutions.
The container and the contents concern us all.
What is really needed is a different type of process, in other words, holding binding referendums on the same day throughout the Union in order to ensure that Europe has a different, more progressive draft Constitution.
The best way of opposing this free-market Europe is by mobilising the citizens, and this will happen in particular at the European Social Forum, which will take place at Saint-Denis in November of this year. . (DE) I voted for the report on the Constitutional Treaty despite a number of gripes about it, and so I am keen to clarify a number of points.
I am glad that this passage, which was present in the first draft, has now disappeared.
I voted against paragraph 22 of the resolution, as I regard the allocation of Members in the European Parliament, as laid down in the protocol on enlargement appended to the Treaty of Nice, as balanced.
It is not only about defending each other's territory against outside attackers together, but also about being able to intervene in defence of our own interests outside of NATO's and the EU's territories.
The constitution also protects freedom of enterprise and 'free and pure competition'.
If Europe is to have a constitution, then this is the wrong text.
We are satisfied that the Convention established that Europe should be a union of nation states, respectful of the languages, cultures and traditions of every one of its components, and that this union, strengthened by a Constitutional Treaty, should produce a political, economic and social project capable of protecting our children, but also the rights of others' children: a Europe that, in safeguarding democracy, freedom and peace for its own peoples, is also able to promote freedom, peace and justice in other parts of the world too.
Precisely in order to ensure that democracy is respected, we urge the Intergovernmental Conference to accept the proposal for a Commissioner and the right to vote for every Member State, remembering that the concept of equal dignity of States, irrespective of the number of inhabitants, took shape as early as the peace of Westphalia. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Article 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (FR) We thought that with the draft European Constitution we had seen everything, but obviously we did not count on this new report, which is supposed to express Parliament's position on the forthcoming IGC.
Although some people might not like it, the election by direct universal suffrage of a constituent assembly is, in any democracy worthy of the name, a sacred rule.
In the present case, however, this principle has been breached, pure and simple.
As regards the content, I cannot accept this course of action by the European Parliament which, having made a catalogue of claims, each one more extravagant than the last (Parliament's electing the President of the Commission, extending codecision, greater involvement of Parliament in revising the Treaties, etc.) exerts enormous pressure on the representatives of the Member States who will take part in the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) which 'is' and 'must' be the sole body competent to open the process of revising the Treaties.
The will of the citizens will only be effective once the Constitution has been ratified by a referendum of the people at European level.
Furthermore, I supported Amendment No 78, which expresses unhappiness at the draft Constitution's inclusion in part III, unamended, of all the articles of the Maastricht Treaty dealing with the Union's economic and monetary policy, which are founded on the principle of 'an open market economy with free competition' (Article III-70 of the draft Constitution).
I believe that this amendment is crucial to fully guarantee the content of Article 3 of the draft Constitution, which suggests that the Union is founded on a 'social market economy, highly competitive and aiming at full employment and social progress'.
On the issue of public services I supported Amendment No 82, which calls for public services to be exempted from the rules of Community competition law. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (DE) I find it regrettable that the majority in the European Parliament has not supported the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats aimed at incorporating especial reference to our Judaeo-Christian roots in the draft Constitution.
Article 51 of the draft Treaty, moreover, gives explicit recognition to the status of the churches and non-confessional organisations.
By means of its amendment, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats sought to add another important dimension to these elements.
We also regret Parliament's support for the creation of an EU President, which would mean abolishing the rotating Presidency of the Council and, thus, small countries' right to lead the EU.
Overall, the majority does appear to be highly satisfied with the results achieved by the Convention, but cannot deny that the major and recurring problems, such as a lack of democracy, transparency and effectiveness have still not been resolved.
The Chasse Pêche Nature Traditions (CPNT) Members of the European Parliament's Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities (EDD) feel that the Convention's method makes the same mistake that besets all diplomatic negotiations.
The decision was taken within a circle consisting of a chosen few, which seeks to impose its point of view, as has been the case since the beginnings of Community integration.
It is to this test of truth that the proposals on the future of Europe must really be subject, by allowing a genuinely open debate on which everyone can take a stance. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) - (SV) I cannot support the European draft Constitution for several reasons.
I object to the trend towards a European state and recommend continued intergovernmental cooperation.
A new state requires a constitution, a common currency, a common court of justice and a common defence.
To recommend, in addition, a common President, foreign minister and finance minister and remove the right of veto on important issues is to move further down the road towards creating a state.
In fact, it obliges the EU to maintain regular dialogue with churches, thus violating the principle of secularism, the principle of separation between public institutions and religious organisations.
Furthermore, the EU is prevented from examining or reconsidering the situation of churches in the Member States, and so the preservation of privileges that are enjoyed by churches thanks to the agreements signed with Franco in Spain, Mussolini in Italy, Salazar in Portugal and Hitler in Germany is guaranteed. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Article 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) - (ES) I take a positive view of the text of the report, in that it responds to many of the expectations of the political groups in this Parliament in relation to the future European Constitution.
Nevertheless, as a Member from Catalonia, a stateless nation which currently has a limited Statute of Autonomy within the framework of the Spanish state, I cannot accept the deficiencies in the future Constitutional text, particularly in relation to two specific aspects.
Furthermore, neither does the future European Constitution provide for the incorporation into the Union's linguistic system of those languages which have official status in part of the territory of a Member State, as in the case of Catalan.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the Middle East.
The campaign of targeted killings which Israel has decided upon to eliminate the leaders of Hamas, the repeated appalling and bloody terrorist attacks in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, the resignation of the Palestinian Prime Minister, Abu Mazen, and the obstacles put in the way of his government by the President of the Palestinian National Authority, the decision in principle taken by Israel's Security Cabinet - the 'kitchen cabinet' - to expel President Arafat from the Palestinian Territories, and even the idea mooted that he should be killed, are all elements in a circle of violence which is in danger of spiralling completely out of control, putting an end to any hope of restoring peace to the Holy Land.
Indeed, we remain convinced that the only means of achieving a fair and lasting peace based on the United Nations' resolutions and principles is a process based on negotiation and on implementing the process laid out in the road map in good faith.
Only in this way will it be possible to realise the vision shared by the international community of two states peacefully coexisting and respecting both the Palestinians' right to self-determination and the Israelis' right to live in peace and security.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is of the utmost importance that the European Union should maintain a coherent approach on this issue, an approach fully supported by the Member States, the product of ongoing, thorough dialogue between the different viewpoints and perspectives.
In the first place, as I have already said, we believe that the only way to achieve a peaceful solution of the conflict is for the Israelis and the Palestinians to implement the road map promptly in good faith.
Secondly, we believe that only broad-based international action can create the conditions necessary for the road map to succeed.
This is why we have been consistently committed, from the very beginning of our Presidency, to making the role played by the Quartet (including its role on the ground) more effective as the driving force behind negotiations between the two parties and, at the same time, to reinforcing the credibility and authority of the European Union's action within the Quartet.
Not only is this crisis taking place at the Union's southern borders and destabilising the whole of the Middle East and the Mediterranean region, but it also has wider adverse repercussions affecting the dialogue between civilisations and religions and the fight against international terrorism.
Abu Ala should also, as soon as possible and without further ado, deliver clear, tangible results on the security front by taking resolute action against terrorist violence.
I wish here to reiterate our conviction that there can and must be no tolerance for terrorism.
We also consider that the reforms being introduced by the Palestinian National Authority, to make it more democratic, transparent and efficient, are another necessary condition for a peaceful, stable and democratic Palestinian state.
We cannot deny the essentially negative role that he has played in recent months, contributing to the splits in the PNA's leadership, undermining the efforts of Prime Minister Abu Mazen and causing his resignation.
Lastly, we reminded Israel - whose need for security we do not underestimate - that the European Union expects it to proceed with other specific steps identified by the road map without delay, in particular to suspend all settlement activity in the Palestinian territories, to dismantle the settlements built since March 2001 and to stop erecting the 'security wall' along its current route, which is sited beyond the 'green line' and therefore jeopardises any prospect of a negotiated solution to the conflict.
Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has an important part to play in the Quartet to reinvigorate the negotiating process in the direction I have described.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that, yet again, we have reached a critical point in the Middle East crisis; it is all the more painful because hopes were objectively raised by what seemed to be shared determination to forge ahead regardless of difficulties, with no effort spared.
At precisely these times, however, the onus is on the international community to press the parties involved to opt clearly for the negotiating table and to reject the use of violence.
Mr President, the Commission shares the assessment made by the Council Presidency, which can be summarised in a few words: the Middle East peace process has gone off the rails.
What is lacking is the political will, which is a crucial factor for peace and completely non-existent today.
We believe that the international community must exert its influence in order to resolve the security problem and offer rapid and effective support as sponsors.
We must go further.
Radical forces exert their influence through the social and educational services and we must not content ourselves with helping to cut off their sources of funding.
The United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNWRA) can also provide support in this area.
The Commission has announced a programme of support for the reforms to be undertaken by the Palestinian Authority and also various measures aimed at alleviating the economic and humanitarian problems.
We feel encouraged in this course of action by the aid recently donated to the Palestinian Authority by the United States and by the restoration of Israeli tax receipts to the Palestinian Authority.
I want you all to know that we are making progress on this matter with Syria, the last country with which negotiations have not been concluded.
This hope proved to be false, and it appears as if all efforts for peace, and the roadmap, have come to nothing.
Personalities are of course important, and we also know that the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, and the Palestinian President Yasser Arafat are the decision-makers, but, in essence, this is about the people of these countries.
Prime Minister Sharon is democratically elected; so is President Arafat.
I do not know whether his election meets all the democratic criteria, but he is elected.
We are all familiar with the enormous problems that we face.
Let me quote this from the 8 September issue of the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung: 'The symbolic removal of a few containers in illegal settlements west of the Jordan was too little for it to have been capable of becoming an encouraging experience of success for the Palestinians.' The building of a wall rams home the deep sense of constant humiliation felt in Palestine.
I would like to highlight here and now the political realism of President Chirac, who said in New York, and I quote verbatim, Mr President: 'you may think what you like about Arafat, but the truth is that he is the authority, the elected and legitimate representative of the Palestinian people.
Incidentally, however, if you wish to listen to an Israeli voice on the subject of Yasser Arafat, then please listen to Simon Peres, who - on reaching 80 years old - has said: firstly, that Arafat has accepted the theory of two states, abandoning that of the destruction of the state of Israel; secondly, that he has accepted the 1967 borders, abandoning those of 1948, and, thirdly, that he has agreed to negotiate.
Mr President, two weeks ago a London newspaper convened a meeting between senior journalists from Israel and Palestine, the first of its kind since before the current intifada.
The European Union must continue to play a crucial role in the search for peace in the Middle East.
Making peace also requires a strong, functioning and accountable Palestinian Authority.
That is why the Union has spent more than EUR 300 million since 2000 to keep the Palestinian Authority in business.
The Palestinians also need a strong voice to negotiate with Israel.
The European Union must step up its support for financial reform of the Authority to help it distance itself from terrorism.
We have also provided more than EUR 30 million for the vital work of Palestinian municipalities in providing basic public services, because that is how you fight despair - with clean water and classrooms; with the promise of normality and peace.
That is why my Group welcomes the inclusion of Hamas in the European list of terrorist organisations.
Both sides have to realise that there can be no military solution to this conflict.
Israel must withdraw its forces from the Occupied Territories, and the settlement building must stop.
Israel's existence as a Jewish state and as a democracy demands a Palestinian state.
The alternatives are Palestinian apartheid or the inexorable demographic eclipse of Israel's character as a Jewish homeland.
The roadmap, of which the European Union was the chief cartographer, recognises this, and my Group remains firmly committed to its implementation.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, thank you, Europe, for the unanimous stance it adopted at the UN General Assembly.
Europe's assistance will be more important than ever in salvaging the situation.
This decision is completely unacceptable and I think that it must give food for thought to anyone who thinks that accommodating Ariel Sharon will encourage him to relax his approach.
The main lesson that we can learn from our meetings in Ramallah, and also in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, is that there has never been a greater need for external political intervention in order to create a momentum for negotiations that offers a population on its knees some hope of a worthy and equitable peace.
I still remember the ominous words of Commissioner Patten on the eve of the war with Iraq: he basically said, to a barrage of applause from our House, that the one thing he was sure about, was that if this war takes place without a political solution being found for the conflict in the Middle East, we will see an upsurge in terrorism.
Furthermore, the route map has four official godparents, not just one, whose credibility as peacemaker is at its lowest ebb.
My own conviction is that, of the priorities for launching such an initiative, three warrant particular attention.
It is one thing to support the idea that reforms are needed in the Palestinian Authority.
The wall cuts through the University of Aboudis, near Jerusalem.
If the White House itself is threatening to remove US credit guarantees for Israel if Israel continues to forge ahead in this opportunistic way, the European Union must finally be bold enough to state clearly that the association agreements with Israel will only remain in place if there is a change of direction in Ariel Sharon's policy.
Lastly, we must attach priority to all Israeli and Palestinian initiatives to halt the violence and to reopen political dialogue.
These two remarkable personalities have furthermore just accepted the invitation I sent them, on behalf of my group, jointly to visit the European Parliament in mid-November and speak to us.
I am also thinking of one of the most symbolic of all Palestinian prisoners, Marwan Barghouti, a member of parliament and also someone who is highly committed to the Oslo negotiations and whose prestige, particularly amongst Palestinian youths, could help to persuade the most recent recruits to engage in dialogue rather than in violence.
The President of the State of Israel, unlike Ariel Sharon, has called for this prospect to be taken extremely seriously.
I believe that high-profile initiatives by the European Union in this direction are highly pertinent.
This is the express request of my group, but this is above all the dearest wish of supporters of peace on the ground who would like to be able to say as soon as possible, full of hope 'Europe is back'.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 'there is something rotten in the state of Israel', and, as my friend Abraham Burg, former President of the Knesset, recently wrote in The International Herald Tribune, 'a state lacking justice cannot survive'.
The European Union can protest as much as it wants against Sharon's adopted policy; the real change has to happen in Israel itself, where gradually, people are realising that they are heading the wrong way.
The separation wall will not solve the problem.
The United States can, because it can turn off the money tap.
International law should not lose out in the fight against terrorism.
Only by means of a global solution can peace and stability be established.
Mr President, there is great concern, and justifiably so, surrounding the extremely grave situation in the Middle East.
Prospects for progress are bleaker now than at any time this year.
There has been almost a complete breakdown in the implementation of the roadmap for peace in the region.
The cease-fire announced by Islamic Jihad and Hamas has been called off and their leaderships have called for attacks on Israel.
The Israeli security cabinet has also decided, in principle, to remove President Arafat from the Occupied Territories.
Neither side has met its commitment under the roadmap for peace.
We cannot disguise the fact that the decision of the Israel security cabinet to remove President Arafat from the Occupied Territories has led to a deteriorating situation in the Middle East.
The Palestinian leadership has been presented with a list of security messages by the United States Government that will have to be implemented.
I would also urge the government of the United States to remain fully engaged in the peace process and to press Israel on its commitment to the roadmap.
Not only is the political situation becoming more unstable now in Iraq, but if we are not all collectively careful, the situation between Israel and Palestine could also deteriorate further.
Mr President, on Saturday 6 September, Mahmud Abbas, having resigned as Palestinian Prime Minister, appeared before the Palestinian parliament to render an account of his brief term of office.
Officially, the President of the Palestinian Authority is very much the relevant political interlocutor for the European institutions.
After all, ignoring this courageous, honest Palestinian self-criticism renders the roadmap to peace in the Middle East politically implausible - certainly when a new Palestinian Prime Minister has to operate from the same position of relative weakness as Mahmud Abbas.
I wish, however, to set an example and offer our assurance that we are willing to help them.
Mr President, a few days ago, the UN General Assembly, with negative votes by the Marshall Islands, Micronesia, Israel and the USA alone, adopted the well-publicised resolution on Arafat.
This resolution, interpreted politically, does not only have the narrow sense of what Arafat means and what the problem means today; it also expresses the demand of the international community for a solution at long last to this impasse of a crisis which has lasted 40, 50, 60 years, with thousands dead and thousands murdered.
What we are or are not debating today is immaterial in relation to what must be done there.
In this sense, we must only speak about what needs to be done politically.
Over recent days, there has been a new representative of the European Union in the region, Mr Otte.
Otherwise, every time we come here, we shall list our complaints, some of us from a position of security, others in line with their sympathies, but without any final result.
I agree with all the proposals which do not have us as neutral observers, which do not lead us into inaction.
I agree with all the proposals which, at long last, call for us to take action on our own responsibility and not for us to simply wait and follow others' instructions.
The road map is a plan in three phases.
Yasser Arafat is responsible for the failure of the Camp David agreement and for Abu Mazen's failure.
When we are confronted with endless violence that always generates more violence, then we are facing a situation that condemns Europeans, Americans and Russians to powerlessness, insofar as their opinions are expressed in a joint phased plan to peace.
Every nation is entitled to its own home.
I believe that until the West makes it fully clear that we condemn the liquidations perpetrated by Israel just as strongly as we condemn suicide bombers; until we make it abundantly clear to Israel that it must call a halt to the settlements; and until we make it crystal clear that, as long as it holds Palestine in an iron grip of oppression and violence, there can be no peace, we make it completely impossible for any Palestinian Prime Minister to put a stop to the violence.
Mr President, there is no doubt that we are facing a catastrophic situation in the Middle East, and one of course wonders who is to be blamed for it.
At present, that is not yet accepted, but I hope that the situation does not have to deteriorate still further and become even more extreme before we can accept the involvement of the United Nations and of peacekeeping troops.
I share the view expressed by the Presidency, that neither Sharon nor Arafat are angels of peace, and that what is needed instead is other people who are capable of making peace.
It is not only Israel's retaliation attacks that I have in mind; I also believe that a society built upon terrorism possesses an inherent capacity for self-destruction.
Perhaps we ought to maintain a list of actions that are detrimental to peace but do not constitute terrorism.
I hope that his successor will have more resources in order to take action there.
I believe that the war in Iraq has contributed to worsening the situation in Palestine.
A decision such as the war in Iraq, a unilateral one, has led to a worsening of the situation and an increase in acts of terror.
I believe, therefore, that the European Union must strengthen acts of multilateralism such as the Quartet and the establishment of the road map.
We must demand from the leaders, both Israeli and Palestinian, the political commitment to seek peace.
This force must command the confidence of the two sides.
Simultaneously, the peace process can be reactivated on the basis of the so-called roadmap, which has been accepted by the two sides.
The prize is much more than peace in the Middle East: it is world peace, because continued violence in the Middle East is a poisonous backcloth to a lot of the terrorism which continues to happen in all parts of the world.
Mr President, October 2000 to October 2003 represents 1 000 days of violence, 1 000 days of the innocent dying, 1 000 days of suffering by both communities, 1 000 days of the Intifada and 1 000 days of Europe's powerlessness.
One day the history of this missed opportunity, this wasted time will be written about, and those who thought that violence was a justifiable political weapon will be judged very harshly.
This is the message that we must send to the region.
There are people in both communities who think in terms of dialogue, reconciliation, the future and development.
Those who truly deserve to win the Nobel prize are the Palestinian intellectuals who take the risk, as Camus once did, of condemning terrorism as an absolute evil and a crime against humanity.
We must play the role of a realistic and courageous guide.
Perhaps Palestine could re-examine the status of her intifada.
The answer to that is 'no'.
Most intifadas are popular and peaceful intifadas.
Israel could think hard and re-examine her approach towards helping Palestine to trade freely, without adding on costs and without using the wall to further depress agricultural or factory production.
There is much to be done if both sides can get together.
Mr President, as we listen to and take part in this debate, we seem to feel, after 50 years and seven wars in the Middle East, that we are taking a risk, that is to say that each of us seems to have turned into a minor master of democracy and budgeting capable of applying yardsticks and prejudices that are ours and ours alone.
We may not always have appreciated the role played by Yasser Arafat, just as we have hardly ever appreciated the role played by Sharon, but we should not forget that President Arafat was democratically elected as president of a people deprived of a homeland, of its own territory and a peaceful existence.
The only alternative to peace is peace, but to make this possible Europe must take practical action.
It was too much for Arafat, who precipitated the crisis in his security services and who forced Abu Mazen to resign.
Today, it is Arafat who is responsible for the Palestinian suffering, having sabotaged several attempts to secure peace.
In this context, I welcome the EU's belated banning of the political wing of Hamas from fund-raising in its territory.
I also believe that the undermining by Chairman Arafat of Prime Minister Abu Mazen has further muddied the waters, and lends credibility to those who argue that Arafat has no interest in going the last mile for peace and security if he is not at centre stage.
I met a Professor Nusseibeh two weeks ago in Brussels and he is clearly an example of the type of Palestinian who is acting in good faith and is prepared to make compromises, including over the vexed issue of the right of return and the final status of Jerusalem.
Otherwise, Islamic fundamentalists throughout the world will use this conflict to galvanise the Islamic world against the West, using it as a pretext to justify worldwide terrorist attacks.
Mr President, violence in this conflict cannot offer a solution.
I would therefore argue in favour of working for peace from this House, this Parliament, even though it appears that Parliament is becoming increasingly divided into two camps.
On the contrary, we must use our joint goodwill and energy much more to help establish reconciliation and lasting peace.
Mr President, I believe there have been many statements here condemning the recent comments of the Israeli Government and recent events.
It is very easy to say to other people, to the Israelis and the Palestinians, what they must do, but perhaps we should consider what Europe is doing, what we are doing, because we can do something about that, because it is in our hands.
In this regard, European policy has been rather ambiguous in recent months, because, if Europe played an important role in creating the figure of Abu Mazen, what has it done to support him?
The question we should be asking is: what has Europe done to strengthen the system of security and justice?
Europe must open a line of support for these victims.
The debate is closed.
The United Nations General Assembly has criticised the Israeli Government in this connection.
The EU cannot simply, in the words of the statement by the Presidency of the European Union, express 'its deep preoccupation', ask 'the Israeli Government to refrain from any use of force and, in particular, from the expulsion of President Arafat', or consider the Israeli Government and the Palestinian people as equals.
It is essential to put significant pressure on the Israeli authorities with a view to ending the military occupation, the killings, the annexing of Palestinian territory, the building of the wall to control the movements of Palestinians, and, in general, the campaign of pure state terrorism being conducted against the Palestinian people.
Peace will come only when the Palestinian people's inalienable and widely-acknowledged right to their own independent, sovereign state becomes reality.
The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the outcome of the World Trade Organisation Ministerial Conference in Cancún from 10 to 14 September 2003.
Before I raise some questions, I feel it is only right and proper to confirm before the European Union body which is fully representative of the citizens that Commissioner Lamy and Commissioner Fischler - who are to speak after me - have always fully adhered with wisdom and flexibility to the mandate given to them by the European Council, which is, moreover, mirrored to a large extent in the demands contained in your resolution.
First of all, we have to realise that the ambiguities in the agenda for the negotiations and the issues which had not been resolved at Doha served to tighten the noose at Cancún, particularly where the two main subjects - agriculture and the Singapore issues - were concerned.
As regards the agriculture text, ambiguity was introduced in too many places during the fourth Ministerial Conference, during the very last minutes, the very last exchanges.
Moreover, a similar thing happened with the postponement of the decisions on the Singapore issues, which were the subject of a heated debate at Doha and were in danger of bringing the talks to a standstill then.
At the fourth world Conference, these ambiguities were resolved thanks to the decision of the Qatar presidency to extend the negotiations for a further 36 hours in order to discuss precisely these matters.
As you know, the solution adopted then allowed the matter to be inserted more or less effectively in the single undertaking but without any specific negotiating commitment.
It was the exceptional nature of Doha, the fact that it took place so soon after the tragic events of 11 September, which caused the Fourth Ministerial Conference to be a success.
It may be, however, that, in actual fact, the WTO crisis which started in Seattle was only temporarily alleviated in Doha and that it re-emerged in Cancún, not by chance in relation to those same Doha issues.
These are two questions which are relatively similar.
After the August agreement between the European Union and the United States on the agricultural dossier and NAMA, there was a strong reaction from about 20 countries, led by India, Brazil, China and South Africa and including developing countries from the Cairns Group, which continued consistently throughout the Summit.
For the same motives, some African countries sought - they may have had no other choice - to take up a new, offensive position, promoting initiatives on themes such as cotton, for example, and further widening the gap between the positions on the traditional chapters.
European history teaches us that, in order to reach the Rinascimento, the era of the flowering of civilisation, a common effort of creativity and political vision is needed.
Therefore, we must ask ourselves now, in this House, whether Europe did everything possible.
For our part, I would say that we Europeans were well-prepared - or, at least, we thought we were - in particular with the reform of the common agricultural policy, while the United States was moving in the opposite direction with its Farm Bill, but it may be that we did not succeed in getting the message across properly.
On 15 December in Geneva, there is a kind of mid-term review, probably at senior-official level, which will tell us more.
There will be other negotiators, other issues, other timeframes.
Until then, we will need to hold a dialogue, aware of its value, with the new leaders which emerged at Cancún; to recognise these leaders in order to succeed in forging a close, effective negotiating relationship; to pursue the reform of the common agricultural policy and communicate it better; to persuade other industrialised countries to undertake initiatives along the lines of Everything but Arms; to verify that the agreement on lifesaving medicines is being properly enforced, that the agreement is having the desired effect, that it is meeting the needs of the weakest of the weak; to extend technical assistance and capacity building to prevent third negotiating parties starting to lose faith in the transparency and objectives of the European Union because of the inconsistent and fragmented nature of the message, maybe.
I wonder, and I put it to you, whether it might not be appropriate to resume the initiative pursued by the Commission in 2001, creating a special group to work on the reform and transparency of the World Trade Organisation, to explore the possible institutional solutions for the organisation in depth.
Lastly, the third debate is whether we need to adjust our trade policy in any way.
It is no coincidence that President Bush's personal representative, Robert Zoellick, announced within minutes of the failure of Cancún that the United States was going to forge ahead with the creation of the FTAA - the Free Trade Area of the Americas - and, in any case, with bilateral agreements.
Without undermining the principle of multilateralism, Europe must take the initiative and step up its action, starting precisely with the implementation of the EU-Mercosur agreement, on which a great deal of negotiation work has been done, for which I pay tribute to the Commissioners, and which now needs to be brought to a swift, successful conclusion.
These are bilateral agreements which do not undermine multilateral agreements, which must remain our main priority, but strengthen and pave the way for them.
It is an authoritative, democratic leadership, European in nature.
We must place our trust in it and strengthen the historic, economic and commercial ties with Latin America as a whole; let us endeavour to include this objective in next year's agenda too.
Our aim, as I told you before we set out, was to achieve half of the negotiating programme adopted at Doha in November 2001.
We failed quite simply because the gap between the parties' negotiating positions remained too wide to be bridged.
Not because of poor preparation, which is what happened in Seattle, but because the negotiations never really gained momentum either in the run-up to Cancún or at the Conference itself.
With the assent of the Council, of Member States and your delegates on the spot, we went to the limit and beyond on two issues in Cancún; investment and competition.
The Group of 21, including Brazil, India, China, South Africa, Mexico and twelve Latin American countries, was born of two parents, a political father and an agricultural mother.
Before I come to the conclusions we are drawing at this stage from this common defeat, I should like to stress once again that the EU negotiated in good faith in Cancún and added fresh concessions to those already on the table.
The first question is: are we still looking to strike a dynamic balance between market opening and rule-making, rules without which market opening is neither effective nor in line with our values?
The European Commission is counting on you and on the Council of Ministers to help find the right answers to these questions.
The negotiating parties did not even get round to addressing that topic in a concluding round of negotiations.
At first we were told that we had to reform our common agricultural policy if the negotiations were to stand a chance of success.
That is what we did, and the world even applauded us for doing so.
In August, therefore, we drew up, with the USA, a compromise document giving the negotiations a solid structure that promised them success.
The bottom line is that the failure of the discussions makes losers of us all, and, in the final analysis, it is probably the developing countries that are the overall losers in the agricultural negotiations.
Quite apart from its proposals on market access, which were in the interests of all concerned, the European Union, with the development aspects of the Doha agenda in mind, had made a number of far-reaching and specific proposals relating to these states.
When the EU delegation arrived in Cancún, it demonstrated its support for the developing countries and its endorsement of the development agenda.
I would sum this up by saying that our concessions to the developing countries played a part in making the European Union, today, far and away the most important importer of agricultural produce from developing countries.
Last year, we imported from developing countries agricultural produce to the value of EUR 35 billion, which amounts to more than the imports of the most important industrialised states taken together.
We had adopted the 'Everything but Arms' agreement, which unilaterally opens the EU market to the forty-nine poorest countries in the world, without demanding political or economic concessions in return.
We proposed that this concession should be extended to our partners among the industrialised countries and the more advanced countries in the developing world.
We proposed that the industrialised countries should guarantee that at least 50% of the total agricultural imports from the developing countries should not be subject to import duties.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is most disappointed with the outcome of Cancún.
We were sat there and followed the negotiations between a number of protagonists, including the United States, the European Union, the G-21 and the ACP countries.
The failure was certainly not their fault, and my group therefore emphatically refuses to vote against, even in this House, as if the European Union and especially our Commissioners were responsible for the stalemate.
We therefore wonder whether the ambassadors of the EU countries and our own ambassadors could not have made more of an effort in the run up to the conference, and even if the Council and the Ministers present had pulled out all the stops in this respect.
However, the interests of the least developed countries have badly suffered as a result of this.
We will need to prepare the ministerial conference that is to take place early next year more effectively.
We will need to proceed more quickly with the GATS, but we will also be able to do more as a Parliament, and the resolution is, in that sense, also an invitation.
What I would like to say to the Commissioners is this: we will persist with a multilateral approach, for we have no choice.
Furthermore, I think we must think very carefully about whether, and when, we will be making concessions again, for if we receive nothing in return, then I think we are negotiating on a virtual plane, which does not benefit the interests of the European Union.
The law of the jungle leaves no room for social and environmentally-friendly agriculture.
It does not provide any protection against unfair competition via state aid in South Korea or against products made involving slavery or child labour which enter Europe via China, for example.
A great deal can be achieved through other multilateral organisations, such as the UNDP and the ILO, but also through human rights protection and the right of organisation for independent trade unions.
Politically, we witnessed in Cancún the birth of a new world order in response to Iraq and George Bush's unilateral power politics.
Political debate and cooperation with the G-21 and the new Alliance is of major geopolitical importance to Europe.
This requires new initiatives from the Commission and the Council.
Europe must seek alliances with the developing countries based on its social values.
In short, I am arguing in favour of consciously investing, politically speaking, in short-term alliances with developing countries in the short term and avoiding situations where the US and Europe get caught up in the same trouser leg, for then we will stumble, as we did in Cancún.
Export subsidies in Europe for products that seriously affect the developing countries must be abolished.
This does not only apply to cotton and sugar, but also to cereal and meat.
Furthermore, reinforced financial support for the transfer of knowledge and the development of production capacity in the developing countries is needed, as well as priorities in political contacts and the debate with the new alliance.
As for the Singapore issues, Mr President I should like to ask you to find out whether, in addition to the intense technical preparation for Cancún, which was perfect, a new initiative should not be taken to take the pressure of the negotiations away from the topics, and thus to create a freer forum for a political debate with the developing countries about pros and cons.
After all, they also know that transparency and rules for them are necessary, because they will otherwise be faced with the arm-twisting of the large trading blocs, such as the US and China.
Despite all the disappointment surrounding the failure of Cancún and the appeal I am making here to invest politically in this new global coalition of fair traders, we should also emphatically mention, as a significant result of the Doha round, the agreement on cheap medicine for Aids, tuberculosis and malaria patients in Africa, Asia and Latin America, as well as Europe's commitment to it.
Thank you, Commissioner Lamy, for your open and direct cooperation with us.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the general disappointment at the failure of the WTO negotiations in Cancún is evident, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party too is of the opinion that this negative outcome is a missed opportunity.
Clearly, the secretariat's organisation, structure and mandate in Geneva are not equipped for preparing and running negotiations effectively.
Apparently, the EU was even inflexible in the negotiations and this is why everything went wrong.
As a member of the delegation, I took umbrage at the fact that the entire week was dominated by agriculture and that knowledge about our agricultural policy is very minimal in various countries outside of Europe.
Only at the eleventh hour did the negotiations about the Singapore issues and trade in services open, and the conference collapsed no less than half a day later.
Indeed, 80% of all import levies are paid by the developing countries combined.
I would ask Commissioners Lamy and Fischler what their first step will be to breathe new life into the multilateral negotiations.
Mr President, Commissioners, our first task is to make a correct diagnosis of events.
India and many other countries showed no interest in the Doha Agenda and although Brazil was interested, in particular with regard to agriculture, it attached greater importance to its own political development.
A wrong diagnosis can be extremely dangerous for the future when major issues are at stake.
A good reform requires moving towards eliminating export subsidies, and certainly not long-term support.
We must be vigilant in ensuring that industrial problems are not ignored, because it is the international division of labour that is at stake in the WTO, involving an enormous number of jobs.
We in the North do so by talking about patents, public health, the environment and the social clause and in the South they raise the issue by talking about access to non-reciprocal markets.
This is why, in my opinion, our 'liberalisation plus rules' line will never fully convince the European public, because it knows that these are rules favouring free trade.
We therefore want to see a world fair trade organisation, with rules for a fruitful mutual opening up of markets that will also entail achieving a balance between liberalisation and genuine protection.
Commissioner Lamy, in our meeting this morning, I asked you what the status of your Seattle mandate was.
I would like to make the case as strongly as possible that the mandate given to you in 1999, even before the Seattle Ministerial - let alone the Doha and Cancún Ministerials - must now be null and void.
We cannot pretend, now that two out of three ministerials have collapsed, that we are dealing with business as usual.
In particular it seems that the EU must now accept the verdict of developing countries that they do not want negotiations on the Singapore issues.
At the same time we need to go further in eliminating export subsidies and much further in responding to ACP and LDC concerns in particular.
The statement by Botswana on behalf of those groups said very clearly that the revised texts fell far short of their expectations.
I suspect my own analysis will be rather different from many we have heard so far this afternoon, but what is clear is that collapse offers us an opportunity to start a root-and-branch transformation of the WTO.
The rules are too often institutionalising the current system of global inequality.
Take the overriding principle, for example, of national treatment that effectively denies poorer countries the right to promote their own national industries and economies, a right that was indispensable to most richer countries and which they used with impunity in their own development processes.
I urge the Commission to put in place immediately a cross-services task force so as to come up with concrete proposals for reforming the WTO.
I know that colleagues in Parliament are more than willing to contribute to such an exercise.
Each of the European institutions must take on its responsibility to get the message across to our WTO partners regarding the EU offer which remains on the table.
We in the EU put a lot on the table in the interests of developing countries in the area of agriculture, market access and so on.
It is particularly important to carry out this diplomatic and information activity with the so-called Group of 90, comprising the ACP, the African Union and LDCs.
In conclusion, it is imperative that the Doha development round gets back on track if there is to be any hope of lifting millions in the developing world out of poverty.
This can only happen if we seriously adjust the structures and procedures of the WTO.
How, indeed, can we imagine that, in the period running up to the elections, President Bush would sacrifice his farmers and his agri-food industry?
There was therefore no rapprochement possible between North and South as was bitterly observed on the issue of cotton, a highly symbolic dossier.
The fact that the World Bank is telling African countries to produce on a massive scale and also to change crops is truly unacceptable.
The European Union, which did not hesitate to sacrifice its electors by forcing through the CAP reform in order, supposedly, to reach a position of strength at the negotiating table, is in a delicate position.
If the WTO survives, this must remain the main focus of negotiations.
Cancún was the scene of a propaganda game, and there is certainly no need to explain to the heirs of the Princes Metternich and Talleyrand the significance of propaganda in international politics.
We Europeans have given our 'opponents', if ever they have deserved that name, a wonderful opportunity for dispute and propaganda on a silver plate, where international public opinion is concerned.
The fact that an industrial power like the European Union is imposing these limits, these 'red lines', is one of the reasons why we are now lamenting a failure which affects the European Union much more than it affects the United States, for instance.
What is more, causing loss of interests ? (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, the failure of the mid-term review of the Doha round at Cancún was a defeat with regard to accelerating world economic growth.
New as far as the Doha meeting was concerned was the appearance of the Group of 21 nations.
Whilst these countries talked as if they were representing all underdeveloped countries, they themselves were not prepared to abandon the high trade barriers they had in respect of poorer countries.
Other developed countries should also follow the EU's example and conclude 'Everything But Arms' agreements, as we have done with 49 of the poorest countries.
The EU and the Commissioners negotiating on its behalf have nothing to hide or be ashamed of.
The Commission did a good deal beforehand to ensure the success of the meeting, and furthermore used the room for negotiation it had during the meeting.
We must be careful when we say that we must reform the World Trade Organisation.
We must say how we want to reform it, because we must not think of reforming the World Trade Organisation in such a way that it begins to function like its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which, at the end of the day, made decisions in accordance with the wishes of certain commercial giants, without taking account of the importance of other countries.
The World Trade Organisation therefore functions with all the problems we know about, but, at the end of the day, it is the best instrument we have for international trade.
Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of the birth of the Group of 21, which we wrongly believed was going to be dissolved like a sugar lump in water.
I do not believe that we should attack that Group of 21, but rather sit down with them, accepting what they are, a giant like us, which represents more than half the world's population and their specific weight must clearly not be underestimated.
Finally, we must act in a balanced and coherent fashion.
Commissioner Lamy is right when he tells us that it is one thing to make declarations and quite another to take decisions which affect thousands of millions of citizens.
It is true that we must reconcile solidarity with some of our least-favoured sectors, such as the rural population or certain types of production, with solidarity with the least favoured countries.
Madam President, Commissioner, I shall not criticise either the Commission or the European Parliament.
When we prepare ourselves - and we prepare ourselves quite well - we naturally do so because we want to give a good account of ourselves, but we have not given enough thought to what is best for the world.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Cancún showed, firstly, that it is quite simply unrealistic to demand that markets be opened up without taking into account the existence of serious social differences.
Secondly, there are of course especially great differences between the industrialised and developing countries, but these blocs are far from homogeneous, any more than the European Union is a homogeneous edifice.
Knowing as we do how difficult it is to get results out of the European Union, we ought to sympathise with the incomparably greater difficulties faced by a community of 148 states.
Fourthly, we have to grasp the fact that the EU is only one of many regions in the world, and, in future, our decisions must take into account, to a much more marked degree, the effects they will have globally.
I too was in Cancún, and I think it quite utterly unacceptable that the representatives of governments, instead of seeking dialogue with the demonstrators, barred them from the venue where the negotiations were being held.
My sixth point is that the WTO needs a different organisational and decision-making structure, and should be restructured in such a way that multilateral agreements can be hammered out in a fairer and more transparent manner.
I believe that, despite the differences of opinion that exist in this House on who was responsible, and I must confess that I do not agree with those who blame the NGOs or the southern countries, we must clearly state that the structure is no longer the same as it was at Marrakech.
We now have several players and Commissioner Lamy is right to say that there is no longer a North and a South.
On the one side there was the group of the 21 and the group of the ACP and least developed countries and on the other, the United States and Europe: that already makes four major players and perhaps next time there will be even more.
The second observation I wish to make is that, as several speakers have already said, the WTO is an institution that does not live up to our expectations of a multilateral trade body.
We need a new framework and I believe that a UN-style framework would be more appropriate.
Genuinely equitable trade rules must be implemented, in which trade is put at the service of human rights, social rights and environmental protection and not the other way around.
You have admitted your defeat and you have even acknowledged, through the voice of Commissioner Fischler, that you were wrong to pay in advance by sacrificing the common agricultural policy while the United States, with which you have forged an alliance which is, as it happens, somewhat unnatural, have not made any such sacrifice.
During your speech, you raised the right questions, with the exception of one: the relevance of granting an exclusive negotiating mandate to the Commission on behalf of the 25 countries.
The Group of 21 has 21 negotiators.
The Cairns Group, which used to have 17 countries, had 17 negotiators.
Madam President, Commissioner, Minister, obviously one might well regret an error of analysis in the power relationships at Cancún.
More to the point, a mistake was made on 13 August 2003, with the EU-US agreement, which blurred the pro-development image which you wanted to create, especially with the 'Everything but arms' programme, and you gave the impression, to use your words, of a 'duopoly'.
It is certain that this preliminary agreement with the United States, which came in the wake of the 1992 Blair House agreement, put you and us in the same boat as the Texas cotton planters and their USD 3.5 billion subsidies, which are creating financial hardship for the 10 million small African planters.
Madam President, Commissioners, honourable Members, I had prepared a speech, but everything has been said.
I shall start, Commissioners, Mr Lamy, by saying that, when there is a failure, someone is to blame.
Secondly, having been present in Seattle and Doha, I shall say that it is true that negotiations can no longer continue to take place under such conditions.
Mr Lamy, you are right to say and, if it is true that you should leave as certain people have said, it is now time to say how negotiations should be conducted.
It is also true that we cannot, on the one hand, have demonstrations and, on the other hand, have people who want to negotiate and try to find solutions, especially for the poorest countries, within the framework of multilateral negotiations.
This multilateralism is important, but it is absolutely necessary to introduce more democracy into the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
All those participating in the negotiations must be transparent about why they are there and whom they are representing.
The 25 Member States of the Community were represented by two people.
The Group of 21 was defended by certain NGOs which we had met in our offices in Brussels, and which had used a very different language then from the language they used in Cancún.
That process has continued, and it has led to a general feeling of insecurity, insecurity not just limited to civil society but that has also reached far into the political institutions and also into many societies and states.
We felt the same thing once again in Cancún in relation to the African states involved, and that feeling has even to some extent reached the G21 countries, who of course also attempted to mount a kind of revolt and to break this monopoly of power between Europe and the United States and perhaps also other nations.
In view of that it may perhaps make very good sense for us to analyse further what actually happened and whether we are creating a reasonable basis for our new strategy.
The suicide of the leader of the Korean peasants symbolises in a tragic manner the despair of millions of men and women dishonoured by this fool's bargain.
This failure on the part of the WTO will not suffice to change the systems in order, at long last, to satisfy fundamental needs.
Specifically, today, Mr Lamy, it is necessary to stop demanding, in our name moreover, the liberalisation of 102 of their services.
Madam President, Commissioners, Mr President, honourable Members, Cancún was a failure just like Seattle.
Without doubt, we have to admit that the fall is harder for us, the European Union, since you, Commissioners, and you, our leaders, were convinced that we had planned everything for this round to succeed.
The CAP has been broadly revised, perhaps a little too much, in order to make it more 'sexy' in the eyes of the WTO.
Until we find a way of making the countries of the South understand what the second pillar of agriculture and the social, environmental and food security rules represent, until we allow them to adopt the same rules to protect their rural populations, we shall not rediscover a situation which allows them to understand us.
It is by redefining the WTO in rules of this type that we are engaging not only in fair trade but also in democracy.
Madam President, the failure of the ministerial conference in Cancún on 14 September has made many people fear that the first victim will be the multilateral approach to international trade negotiations.
That is the whole problem, because since 1995 and the Marrakech agreements, the WTO has been living by a major underlying principle: the systematic opening of the markets and the doctrine of global free trade which are supposed to give everyone, in all circumstances, maximum profit.
In order to reconstruct, we would need to keep the rule of free trade, of course, but complement it with another rule: that of the sovereignty of each national democracy or each preferential trade zone, which must be free to modulate trade to its needs, especially when it comes to agriculture.
Now we need to learn the lessons from the failure of Cancún and admit the specificity of these questions, which should doubtless even be taken away from the WTO and dealt with by a specific international organisation.
At all events, the fundamental rules should be the right of each country or each region to maintain its agricultural model, its food independence and the health of its population.
These two simultaneous frank acceptances are necessary if we want to start again now on the right foot, but they also imply the need for an in-depth review of the internal reform of European agricultural policy, which was prepared too quickly in the run up to Cancún.
This reform should now be the subject of new reflection and should be reoriented in line with the lessons we have learned from this failure.
To expect to sit down with 148 countries and reach any conclusion is beyond any possibility, but I believe that Cancún was a watershed.
Economic partnership agreements and regional economic partnership agreements are the eventual aim of those negotiations.
Most of those countries are not ready for reciprocal trade agreements or rules on competition; but regional integration would give them strength in a global world and increase south/south trade.
Madam President, I should like to say at the outset that I agree with those who have said that we have to look to the future.
The whole process of those few days was virtually wasted until Saturday when the revised text appeared, to the consternation of developing countries.
We have to acknowledge very clearly what the perception of developing countries is.
It is not good enough to come here and say that the developing countries were asking for too much.
The solution does not lie in reforms in one direction or another, it needs to get to the very foundations of the WTO.
The European Union went to Cancún having sacrificed the interests of small and medium-sized farmers.
With cotton, for example, where the European Union imports 70% of its requirements, will we reach the point at which we import 100% and wipe out the cotton industry in Greece, Spain and Portugal?
The European Union took a very reasonable stance in these negotiations and behaved generously towards less-developed countries.
I therefore want to ask Mr Imbeni and the speakers following him on the list of speakers to excuse me, because I must now give the floor to Commissioner Lamy.
At the end of the debate, Commissioner Fischler will also be given the floor.
I have two general comments to make, before moving on to a number of more specific points in response to your observations.
My first general comment is this: I would wish, insofar as it is possible, that we could remove a misunderstanding that I sense between us here and there when we talk of the World Trade Organisation.
Having said which, we must not forget this realism if the discussion is to progress between us.
If it is true for the others, it is therefore true for us.
My second general comment is as follows: many of you insisted on the geopolitical dimension which came to take precedence, in Cancún, over the strictly commercial dimension of the negotiations.
Any suggestions in this connection on your part will be welcome next time.
My third and final general comment: there is, in these commercial affairs, a South-South dimension which is essential and which we should not forget, even if, on this subject too, given our well-known tropisms, what interests us most is the North-South dimension.
I wish that this reality were highlighted from time to time by those of you who, rightly, have a particular interest in the position of developing countries.
In addition, we need to realise that, on this road, which is without doubt the one that we Europeans intuitively wish to take, we risk finding ourselves very much alone at times, because I cannot see many developing countries taking the same route.
As for the United States' interest in better coherence in terms of what we refer to between ourselves as international governance, we know that that is not necessarily their natural inclination.
I think that the debate today will have contributed to this and I thank you for that on behalf of the Commission.
Then, because we also need to take time for contacts between one side and another, contacts which cannot always be forged publicly in this type of negotiation, especially with our friends from the developing countries.
We are therefore going to do all this without haste.
We in the Commission shall do so as a College, and we shall then see whether or not the Commission suggests a change to its mandate, should these negotiations be relaunched.
As for the Singapore issues, you maintained that investment and competition were overloading the boat and this is also your opinion on the issues linked to the transparency of commercial transactions, which comes as a surprise to me, because I thought that transparency was one of the principles to which your group was very attached.
Concerning, therefore, your argument which consists of saying that we have to get rid of these two issues linked to transparency because the developing countries want nothing of it, I should like you to tell me if that also applies to the environment and to the social clauses which are issues of which the developing countries also want to hear nothing.
Mrs Auroi, I cannot let you say, without reacting, that the European Union supported the American position on cotton.
I said at a public session, in plenary, at Cancún, what we think of this famous paragraph 27 and I would be obliged if you would please correct your information.
As for the sentiment expressed by several of you to the effect that the Union's positions are not sufficiently known in certain parts of our great planet, I have taken careful note of this observation.
Please just be aware that our resources for improving this situation are not unlimited and that we will doubtless be able to talk about this again when the annual budgetary debate takes shape.
It is true that we are carrying out our reforms of the common agricultural policy for our own reasons and that, for the same price, in return for good negotiations at the World Trade Organisation, we can obtain commitments from the Americans in sectors equivalent to ours.
The wood is the same as that which caused Seattle to break down almost four years ago, and it has a name and a surname: it is called a huge inequality between rich and poor countries, and the absence of an agreed strategy to reduce that inequality, a strategy made up of timeframes, policies, programmes, figures and amounts.
Clearly, this strategy forms part of neither Bush's unilateralism - it is true that there is a close link between Iraq and Cancún - nor any of the bilateral agreements.
While President Bush was on the phone to President Lula and the Indian Prime Minister, what were we doing?
Madam President, I would have preferred to wait a little before voting on the documents in this Chamber.
Madam President, I would like to remind you of three main lessons we should learn from events in Cancún.
Firstly, the positions of the European Union and the United States contributed to this conference's failure to find solutions which might have given developing countries a fair deal.
Madam President, the negotiations in Cancún should have been an opportunity to take a first step towards fairer trade.
The developing countries reversed the traditional power relations within the WTO.
I note, for my part, that the developing countries have not gained anything specific in the application of the demands which they put on the Doha agenda.
I imagine, like many here, that the United States is going to try and reinforce bilateralism for its own good, and I wonder how we Europeans are going to face the intensification of the trade war which threatens to ensue.
On balance, this failure appears harmful, at least in the short term.
This question is truly important because, for example, the interests of all the developing countries are not identical and their options with respect to the WTO do not yet appear to be very homogenous.
In this context, which partner, which group can we count on in order to elaborate and engage in a strategy to relaunch the negotiations and reform the WTO?
Perhaps in future we ought to bring in a rule that says anyone who walks out of the negotiations has given their approval.
In other words, the poor will remain poor and the rich will remain rich.
That is why I believe that the Parliamentary Conference is so important, and we as Europeans should be in the vanguard here, to ensure that there is an objective and transparent debate not only here in Europe, but also and above all in the world's poorest countries.
Madam President, Commissioner, I think that the Union should learn the lessons of this failure in Cancún, in order to avoid making the same mistakes in the future, and should rethink its strategy in order to prepare the indispensable initiatives for relaunching multilateralism.
First, with regard to the emergence of these new groups of developing countries, I think that President Prodi was right, in Bologna last week, to stress that the nature of G21 and the will to make a political affirmation which it expressed were underestimated and misunderstood.
I think that to seek to divide it or to set other developing countries against this group was wrong.
It was useless and it diverted us from the indispensable political dialogue and trust which we needed to try and re-forge with it.
Of course, the emergence of these groups, such as the subsequent G90, will make discussions and negotiations more difficult for us within the WTO.
This is a challenge for the European Union, but it is also the pledge of a fairer trade system which responds better to the concerns of all the continents, especially of those who have not so far been the winners from the establishment of the WTO.
This was too classic a bargaining approach between defensive and offensive issues which did not match the situation and demonstrated, here too, a poor understanding of the deep-seated refusal to deal with these Singapore issues.
Without doubt we need to replace the WTO in the system of the United Nations, because what Commissioner Prodi said earlier about relations with the other agencies comes down to that, perhaps under the control of an 'economic and social security council', as proposed by the former president of the Commission, Jacques Delors.
I too regard the EU proposal on agriculture as totally acceptable, even if many developing countries were looking for something more.
It suited President Bush very well that there were no negotiations at all on agriculture, because reality would then have dawned on many countries.
Thirty-one speeches underline the importance this institution - the greatest representative institution of the European Union - attaches to the principle of multilateralism which must govern our work.
You have stated, reiterated and stressed the need to save and reinvigorate multilateralism, and, at the same time, many of you have stressed how important it is to launch a WTO reform process, in which the need for recognition of the new players must on no account be disregarded, to this end.
Thus, this threefold need to save multilateralism, reform the WTO and recognise new players should presumably prompt us to call for a process to be launched which can then lead to the creation of some intermediary bodies in between the Secretariat and the Assembly, in which this new representation can, at last, establish common ground between players who represent geographical, political, cultural, social and economic areas which are similar but different, so that they can create a high-level forum where issues can be resolved before they reach that assembly which really did seem in Cancún to be a veritable cacophony of languages and positions.
Another important aspect which has been stressed concerns the issue of communication - a wholly European problem.
I believe it is our duty to take your comments to the European Council, particularly in preparation for and in the wake of our appointment on 15 December, in which we may succeed in gaining a better insight into the impact of this failure on the other players too, including those who, perhaps unwittingly, have rejoiced rather too soon at this failure.
I believe that we should discuss this in the coming months in order to discover whether more flexibility is needed on the Singapore issues - as requested by some - more flexibility on social and environmental issues and more flexibility on agricultural policy too.
Firstly, one of the issues being debated was whether a multilateral approach or bilateral agreements should have priority.
Furthermore, no one should deceive themselves into thinking that only multilateral negotiations are difficult.
What we cannot tolerate, however, is an attempt to simply 'write off' the contribution we are making by virtue of our own reforms, so that for example commitments to make reductions are not based on the amount we agreed last time, during the Uruguay Round, which was taken as the starting point at that time, but that instead any competition-distorting support measures we are currently implementing are treated as the baseline.
My third point is that the NGOs have played a major part in this debate.
This is pretty important, when I think, for example, how much the position of the same NGO may vary depending on whether you are talking to the department responsible for development policy or the department for environmental policy.
This would also enable us to reduce mistrust towards the developing countries, which sometimes get the feeling that the complexity of the negotiations and the difficulties involved have been designed to make access more difficult for those who have not already been taking part in these negotiations for years.
If you do not take that principle into account properly when preparing for negotiations, the risk of failure in the future will remain fairly high.
The poor countries have had enough of putting up with the arrogance of the world trade giants, the United States and the European Union.
The Union and the Member States should construct new relations with the South, not despoil it.
Today, isolated, discredited in its will to invest sincerely in a real cooperation and development policy, the Union needs to pull itself together.
The so-called 'poor' countries are not poor in terms of demands and proposals.
It is by considering them as real counterparts that Europe will win a place in the world, in order to help make it more humane.
The next item is a statement by the Council on the review of the trans-European networks and sustainable development.
In addition, an environmental assessment has to be carried out on the plans and programmes drawn up in preparation for these projects, particularly those funded by the Community, under Directive 2001/42/EC of 27 June 2001 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment.
By ensuring a more effective use of transport, a modern, interconnected and interoperable network brings an increase in trade and in the competitiveness of the European economy as a whole.
Until the necessary infrastructure has been built and until there is a proper legislative framework for the effective management of the network, the concepts of internal market and territorial cohesion of the Union will be incomplete.
The inclusion of a section dedicated to the trans-European networks policy in the Maastricht Treaty gave the European Community the powers and instruments it needed to develop them.
Under Article 154 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Community is to contribute to the creation and development of trans-European networks in the field of transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure.
Over the past decade, we have witnessed not only a disturbing increase in traffic congestion in urban areas but also a new phenomenon of congestion on the major arteries of the trans-European network.
If we do not adopt measures between now and 2010 to rationalise the use and maximise the benefits of each means of transport, the volume of heavy road traffic alone in the 15-Member State Union could increase by 50% on the 1998 level.
In the new context of sustainable development, the June 2001 Gothenburg Council called for emphasis, in future, on the development of rail, sea and river transport.
In the light of this, there is a need for new infrastructure in the corridors serving other countries to link them effectively to the trans-European network of the present 15 Member States.
It should also be remembered that the Council conclusions on the second review of the Council strategy on the integration of environmental requirements and sustainable development into transport policy, adopted by the Ministers for Transport in December 2002, stressed the importance of analysing new political proposals from the point of view of their environmental impact and of the Community's ability to reduce harm to the environment caused by the transport sector.
To back this up, I would point out that, during the same meeting of December last year, the Council approved the Marco Polo programme, which is intended to fund improvements to the environmental aspects of the goods transport system.
From this point of view, the situation of certain countries which continue to be affected by the problem of passes and whose production systems continue to suffer considerable economic harm as a result, is typical.
That is why we must continue to urge the Commission to resolve these issues.
The Council therefore calls upon the Commission to present its proposal for revising the TENs without delay, so that a broad political debate can be held and a common position adopted.
The problem is when we start to address specific issues.
For example, Minister, we have been talking about railways for a great many years, but the Council is not distinguished, at least not as a whole I think, by its intention to liberalise rail transport.
Because, without liberalisation and without interoperability in the network, it is obvious that the railways, which are the most environmentally-friendly, will never be able to acquire the required momentum.
Consequently, on numerous occasions you see that we make plans on paper.
Consequently, what is urgently needed is for proclamations and all these plans on paper to find some response in reality.
But if we do not fund these works efficiently, it is certain that, as the volume of transport increases, in a short time things will be much worse and the entire European network will be even more overloaded.
Consequently, we need to see how the Member States can assume their responsibilities and how the Union budget will fund the European networks more substantially and what role the European Investment Bank can play in this direction.
I hope the Italian Presidency, which appears to be particularly sensitive to this specific issue, will manage to take efficient steps in this direction because, believe me Minister, debates such as this have been held on other occasions in this Parliament, but the results were not particularly impressive.
No, I think that the TENs are a very important tool for the European Union, economic cohesion, the internal market and a modern transport policy.
We should now have been a small step further down the road if the Council had also accepted the Commission's proposals, as Parliament has done.
In 2002, Parliament attempted a small revision of the trans-European networks, to which the Council has not so far provided us with a response; instead, the Van Miert Group has gone on to do its work.
The Van Miert Group has done its work, involving high-ranking representatives from every single Member State, and its reports affirm that the Member States agree with what it has, as it were, thought out and presented.
It is now, therefore, really up to the Commission to incorporate what the Van Miert Group suggested into a proposal.
This would then go before Parliament and the Council and, given good will on the part of the Council, we should then have implemented relatively quickly what the Van Miert Group has thought out in terms of projects and, also, financing instruments.
So then, we have a proposal from the Commission, Parliament is doing its work, and then let the Council - instead of dragging its heels, if it please - very rapidly implements the proposal so that the revision of the TENs can be got rapidly under way.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the trans-European network guidelines, which dated back to 1996, was, without a doubt, necessary, both in order to resolve the increasingly complex infrastructure problems and to prepare for enlargement.
The work of the Van Miert Group is certainly thorough, but I do not fully endorse its strategic approach, which is biased towards northern Europe to the detriment of the south and the Mediterranean, an area which represents a major opportunity - and also a major European challenge - in terms of the economic, cultural and social cohesion of peoples and countries with which we are called to enter into a new, major dialogue.
We therefore call upon the Commission to ensure that they are reinstated once again among the priority projects for 2020, and for endeavours to improve relations between the public and private sectors and to implement controls.
The Presidency's speech focused more on the functioning of the internal market than on the achievement of sustainability goals, and the same applies to the Members' speeches: they all talked about transport; no one mentioned sustainability.
On the other hand, what we are attempting to do - and I would express my appreciation to the Commission here for its endeavours - is, thanks to the work of the Van Miert High Level Group, review the TEN objectives and, in particular, the resources.
I believe that all the individual States would like this project to be important in terms of the expansion of their economies, of job creation, of attempting to create a genuine network across the 15 nations, soon to be 25.
It is therefore important to appropriate more funds.
We all hope that this will be possible and I believe that, with the help of the Italian Presidency in these six months, we will be able to succeed.
I have to say that this debate is not adding anything new to what we already know because, although it is true that there is a general problem where sustainable development is concerned, the fact is that, in this period, we are on the eve of enlargement - partial but major enlargement.
There will be 25 countries in the European Union and we must equip ourselves so that we can achieve closer relations between the Member States.
That said, I have to note that this evening's debate is based principally on the work of the Van Miert Group and, in particular, on the priorities which have been set according to criteria which, in my opinion, need to be analysed in depth.
Madam President, Trans-European Networks (TENs) are a bit like the Loch Ness monster of the European Union.
The fact is that every economy lives by its infrastructures.
Sustainable development, however, cannot be achieved without economic and social development, full stop.
Madam President, Europe needs to give itself the resources to match its ambitions.
Borrowing to invest, to create the conditions of future sustainable growth, should be an objective common to all true Europeans.
We manifest a will to become the most competitive economy in the world, but real policy gets lost in parochial considerations.
We need stability, but without growth there will be neither stability nor full employment.
The US federal deficit for the current year alone is equal to more than five European Union annual budgets.
The requirements for projects under way or planned are EUR 400 billion.
The requirements identified by the Van Miert Group have been estimated at EUR 600 billion.
Up to now, Community funding has been in the order of EUR 15 billion.
I also regret the absence of Commission representation, because we would welcome a prompt response from the Commission concerning the Commissioner's proposal for the new trans-European networks.
If, moreover, we were to achieve - as is probable - an improvement of between 25% and 50% in our air quality - at least in quite a few areas - we should be setting our sights more firmly upon combined transport, that is to say on a combination of rail, road and water.
When the European Union has set itself two important objectives - the first in Lisbon, concerning the competitiveness of our continent, and the second, which has since been insufficiently implemented, in Gothenburg, concerning the sustainability of economic development on our continent - it is rather strange that there are already many contradictions in transport policy, in terms of many very different investments and trends, and of the fact that - although we hope this will soon happen - roads are, to some extent, still not paying their way in the light, for example, of the Road Costs Directive.
What is first of all necessary is a list of priorities and, secondly of course, the funding.
The Commission was therefore not expected to be present.
There is not much point in holding the debate if the Commission and the Council are not here, but let us, at least, use it to discuss the matter amongst ourselves; in any case, there are very few of us left in the Chamber.
That said, however, I, too, believe that, at this juncture, we, too, as Parliament, should launch an 'Operation truth' if we do not want the Van Miert report to be just another pipe dream or set of low priorities, for when we start to call priorities 10, 20 or 25 projects involving, as we all know, such huge costs, the likelihood is that none of the projects on our list are actually going to be treated as a priority.
I am sure Parliament is capable of carrying out this 'Operation truth', starting by making people shoulder their responsibilities and by asking ourselves, if we want a European transport policy and if we want a large-scale infrastructure policy, what price we are prepared to pay for this policy and, in particular, which choices we are prepared to make.
Otherwise, we will continue to hold virtually useless debates like this and, above all, we will continue to raise the expectations of our citizens and of some of our political leaders too, and it would and will be more damaging to fail to meet those expectations than to fail to implement a project.
I therefore feel that, while we are waiting for the Commission and, above all, the Council, to explain to us what the actual possibilities are behind the intentions expressed so clearly by the Italian Presidency at the start of its mandate, we can start to lay down this challenge.
I would like the Commission to know that, when Parliament is asked to give its opinion, it will refuse just to give its seal of approval or ratify them, not least because some of the proposals and demands of the Member States are nothing more than whims.
We have had to sideline another project - a genuinely key project - corridor 8, which would have made it possible to link southern Europe to the Balkan countries and would, moreover, have helped to confirm our particular consideration for the economic future of the Balkans, in line with the intentions of the Italian Presidency.
With regard to all these considerations, I hope that Parliament will have the opportunity to return to the subject and to discuss it with representatives of the Commission and the Council here in flesh and blood.
The first reading was at 23.33 on Tuesday evening, and it is now 21.02 on Wednesday evening, so I must say that we have made tremendous progress.
At the second reading, we had to deal with a Council common position containing a large number of comments which, it has to be said, did not have a great deal to do with the ambitious objectives agreed in Lisbon.
Public sector bodies simply want more money for the use of public sector information.
My colleagues and I have had to fight extremely hard with the Council in order to take a step forwards on that point.
Nevertheless, we have to accept the fact that reality is far more difficult than we should like.
We have also managed to tighten up the cost principles raised by the Council considerably and to make it clear that it is by no means always necessary to demand reimbursement of costs from citizens or enterprises that want to use public sector information.
We discussed it at great length, but, in my opinion, obtained a good result.
The Council did not want to use the word 'information' - it only wanted to speak of 'document'.
We then spent approximately one hour squabbling with the Council as to whether that deadline should be three weeks or 20 working days.
Some Member States have a lot more days' holiday than others.
Finally, I should like to thank my colleagues, in particular, for the confidence they have shown in me.
Thanks to them, and to the excellent cooperation with the European Commission, we have come through, and we can in any case present a result that I believe satisfies our minimum expectations.
It is the 'water' flowing in the pipes of the Internet.
One good example of these services is the re-use of digital maps for mobile applications.
There are some examples already on the market, but this directive will make them much more frequent.
The directive will create legal certainty for companies that want to make Europe-wide information products on the basis of public sector information.
It will stimulate the creation of new information services based on, or incorporating, public sector information.
The key elements for achieving this are transparency, non-discrimination and fair competition.
I am glad about the progress achieved since the Commission made its proposal for a directive in June 2002, and count on a rapid adoption and transposition of the directive.
The amendments tabled for the vote in plenary are the result of negotiations between Parliament and the Council.
If all the amendments are adopted as they stand, this will make it possible to finalise the directive at second reading.
The Commission can accept all the amendments.
These amendments constitute a considerable improvement on the text of the common position.
Furthermore, at the very start I also want to thank the Commission and Commissioner Liikanen for his expertise and contribution, which made it possible to bring this Directive into existence.
I support the compromise proposals reached by the rapporteur in conjunction with the Council, because that way we would be spared the laborious and always risky Conciliation Committee debate.
The European Parliament wants the Member States to implement this directive swiftly, as, when they do, its benefits for the public and business will be indisputable.
It is very important that the public sector sets a good example as we journey towards the information society.
Another controversial issue has been how much public agencies can charge for their services, or whether they can demand money at all.
In many Member States many kinds of specialist know-how are in the hands of public institutions, for historical or cultural reasons, for example.
I particularly want to draw attention to some things that are in the compromise and some things that, quite properly, are no longer there.
When I took over as shadow rapporteur on this report, I did it with little knowledge of how interesting it would be and how, very soon, it would become apparent that the re-use of public sector documents would prove to be such an important economic motor.
I want to draw attention to just one other thing, namely the review of this directive, in which I hope this Parliament will be involved in future.
If we discover in our review period, when the Commission does this, that cross-border re-use has either not happened or been very limited, then we might well have to revisit some of the elements in this particular proposal.
We look forward in the future to seeing how the fruits of this work are going to bring immediate benefits - long-term benefits, employment benefits and business benefits - to the citizens of the European Union.
Every citizen in Europe has the right of access to information collected and stored by the public sector.
In addition, public sector information has significant economic potential.
The Directive should lead to the emergence of an active trade in public sector information in the European Union, as in the United States.
The Commission presented an ambitious proposal; but a number of Member States evidently have little interest in it.
They have toned it down so much that we are left with the question whether the single market in public sector information will function in the longer term, let alone the short term.
The proposal again talks about public sector documents instead of public sector information.
Straightforward access to public sector information, preferably via the Internet, reduces the distance between the European authorities and the citizen.
In common, I am sure, with the majority of this House and of my political group, I share the view that public information should be made generally accessible in the interests of everyone involved.
With the approval of the present directive, we are taking a sound and sensible step in this direction.
With the help of public sector documents, new services and benefits may be generated in the IT sphere.
The authorities therefore also have the time required to adjust to the new conditions.
In those cases in which the Member States allow the publication of public sector documents, the directive now provides uniform ground rules on a Europe-wide basis.
The costs must not, of course, give rise to any excessive barriers to the re-use of documents, and I think that the directive now also makes this clear.
It would, in my view, be completely counter-productive to impose translation obligations upon the Member States in the long term.
Finally, I have to state that this directive constitutes an appropriate and well-balanced approach that takes account of people's and companies' interests, without however ignoring the national traditions of administration.
Let us therefore vote tomorrow in favour of accepting the directive.
It is estimated that public sector information is worth in the region of EUR 70 billion a year and the content industry employs about four million people in the European Union.
This market is worth more than EUR 400 billion.
Even the value of the mobile communications industry is set to rise in the near future to around EUR 20 million in terms of its content, and that is content on a relatively tiny scale.
Knowledge and information are the most important factors in a democracy and an economy.
The fact that we are saturated with information separates us from the less well-off.
The debate is closed.
The MODINIS programme aims to create a legal base for the continuation of activities for monitoring the eEurope plan from 2003 to 2005 and for the dissemination of best practices.
The work is to cover the years 2003 to 2005, and we are already well into 2003.
The original European Parliament proposal for the budget was EUR 25 million and the dilemma I faced was how to reach some sort of compromise that was not delayed so long that it would prevent the money reaching its necessary targets.
After some discussion with both the Commission and the Council, I have proposed a compromise of EUR 21 million, remembering that this figure will be adjusted in the event of enlargement.
This is a good basis for a compromise and I think that colleagues from all sides of the House will support this compromise budget provision.
When we do that, it will enable the MODINIS programme, which is very carefully and tightly focused on achievable objectives, to help us reach the Lisbon goals.
The information society policies in the EU have three pillars.
The objective of this framework is to create a pro-competitive marketplace so that different technological platforms will compete with and complement each other in Europe, offering high-quality services at an affordable price to everybody.
The second pillar is then the IST programme - the Information Society Technology programme, whose task is to guarantee that we will have state-of-the-art technologies and applications available in Europe.
The third pillar is the one which binds these two together.
This year we have had very successful efforts, especially in the field of e-government and e-health, with two ministerial conferences, in which Members of the European Parliament participated.
Our Member States and regions are moving from a pure technology focus to solutions, looking at how technology can facilitate higher-quality public services, higher productivity and better tailor-made services.
It will be important to assess whether national or European initiatives, taking place in the framework of the eEurope Action Plan, are producing the expected results.
The role of MODINIS will also be to finance preparatory actions in the area of network security, such as awareness-raising actions of Members States and analysis of security risks.
Consequently, the whole legislative process could be speeded up by facilitating a second reading agreement.
Modern society is completely dependent upon our having efficient procedures, well-educated populations, proper security and people who are able to understand how to use the services on offer.
There are no doubt public sector services within, for example, the spheres of tax and of company registration where it is not perhaps sensible to demand payment, in so far as people themselves answer the questions by using the Internet and keying in their own data.
In Denmark, we have benefited a lot precisely out of getting people to, for example, key in their own tax data using the Internet or push-button telephones.
In particular, what price are we to pay?
In Japan, it is eight megabits and, insofar as I have understood correctly, at a very much lower price than we pay.
It is therefore worthwhile tracing the development whereby, for example, elderly people can very easily make use of these opportunities.
The debate is closed.
It has become somewhat fashionable to attack the European Union project and its institutions.
However, I want to pay a sincere tribute to those who work in the institutions and have made the registers and access to documents a reality.
I have worked very closely with her on this report from its very beginning when we were working on Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, and without her contribution we would not have this outstanding regulation.
Let me begin with some items in my report.
We need to have greater and more succinct information on how our citizens can access this right to the information contained within the documents.
We need a common methodology to be applied by each of the institutions and the agencies - we must not forget that the agencies and organisations set up by the institutions must apply the regulation.
They should use a common approach in assessing their annual reports, and then comparison will become fruitful and productive.
Of course there is, because we aspire within the European Union to perhaps defy our critics, to prove them wrong, to connect with our citizens and to prove that the European Union project is one that we should be proud of and should celebrate.
In any case, further consideration must be given to the technical solutions that will enable us to move towards better integration of these instruments in the future.
That cooperation has always been very positive, very constructive and productive, and that way you start to become good friends too.
The Committee on Constitutional Affairs made a number of comments on the first assessment by the Council, the Commission and Parliament regarding the implementation of the Regulation in its first year.
We observed that the number of requests for access to documents that were refused by the Council and the Commission is still too large to be readily acceptable.
In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the most appropriate solution is to ask the Member States to adopt open government, too; the Commission would have to submit a directive on this.
That would be a good thing for the citizens of those Member States, and also for the citizens who call on EU documents, because it would mean that they had equal access whether they requested them from Sweden, Greece or Portugal.
I believe a suitable policy on public access to documents will prove a vital tool in bringing the institutions closer to all the citizens.
Nonetheless, it is important to strike a balance between efficiency in transparency and access to that information on the one hand, and the potential cost of such measures on the other.
I refer to the amendment deleting a few words from section 16 of the report, in the interests of clarity.
This is all thanks to Mrs Maij-Weggen's proposal in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
The question is, however, whether citizens can find them.
Nor does the lack of clarity over which Member State does what square with openness, or with the new Constitution, which extends obligations to all the institutions and agencies.
The result of the review carried out in 2001 is encouraging.
The Council seems, however, consistently to interpret Article 4 of the Regulation too restrictively, that is to say where general security is concerned.
I propose, instead, that you vote in favour of Amendment No 3 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
In my view, over and above the democratic deficit which we all condemn, this debate reveals the existence of a discrepancy between what it is possible to achieve and what is necessary.
Transparency and access to documents are not just a slogan - they mean, first and foremost, democratic control on the part of the citizens.
The national parliaments are informed, the Court of Justice has limited powers and, lastly, of course, the citizens benefit from direct access to documents.
For example - as has been pointed out - there is no justification for banning the disclosure of which Member State has tabled a particular proposal in the Council or of how it voted.
I fail to understand why this step towards greater transparency is so feared by the institutions' legal services and is, likewise, concealed by politicians.
Our fear is that, in this way, the Commission is covering up the misdeeds of the Member States and, in so doing, acting unlawfully itself.
I feel that we need to look at practical cases in order to see what is necessary, not just what is possible, in this attempt to reconcile genuine needs and make good the democratic deficit.
The fact is, however, that it can now be observed that the three institutions have undergone a minor revolution when it comes to openness and public access to documents.
If we take 2001 as our starting point, when we began with quite a closed culture, we can now observe how Parliament hands out 90% of all documents requested and how the Commission and the Council hand out 60% to 70% of them.
There is, however, still something to reflect upon in this context, namely the basic principle that it is openness that is the rule and secrecy that is the exception.
I do not believe that anyone in this House really wants to contribute to there being less public scrutiny.
We are beginning to see a growing debate, but the institutions appear still not to have succeeded in fully turning this increased interest to good effect.
At the last meeting of the interinstitutional committee, we discussed possibly producing material showing the successful work that has been done and the opportunities available to the public.
The EU and its institutions are sometimes very distant from the people.
An exhortation to the Commission: do not let the Eurostat scandal sully the good work you have done during the historic years when Europe was being reunited.
The rules on transparency should apply to all the institutions, including, for example, the ECB and Eurostat.
All three institutions must adopt a common approach when responding to requests for information and invoking exceptions.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the report (A5-0292/2003) by Mr Lisi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products and amending Directive 1999/13/EC [COM(2002) 750 - C5-0632/2002 - 2002/0301(COD)].
Mr President, this summer we had record temperatures all over Europe.
Ground-level ozone, or photochemical smog as it is also called, is the result of three components: VOCs - volatile organic compounds - NOx - nitrogen oxide - and sunshine.
Member States have committed themselves to achieving significant reductions in VOC emissions in 2010 in order to meet the so-called national emissions ceiling.
As requested by Member States, this proposal for a directive targets a group of products which contributes significantly to total VOC emissions in Europe, namely paints and varnishes for buildings and products for vehicle refinishing.
Limiting the solvent content in these products is considered to be the only practicable way to help reduce VOC emissions and, consequently, air pollution from this major source.
For the sake of clarity, I also want to emphasise what this proposal does not aim to do.
The purpose is not to establish or harmonise measures for the protection of the health of workers or human health in general.
Although national or Community measures for these purposes obviously have to respect the general requirements under the Treaty, they clearly fall outside the scope of this proposal and are therefore not restricted or modified by this proposal.
The proposal can therefore be considered to be one of the measures necessary for the global improvement of the quality of the air which we, ourselves, breathe, and we cannot fail to give this measure our full support.
Precisely because we believe firmly in this goal which - as the Commissioner pointed out - has been brought so tragically to our attention this summer, we know that it is in our interest and in the interest of future generations to ensure effective environmental protection.
For these reasons, I have taken a very simple line on this report right from the beginning of the legislative process: the achievement of the goal of this directive is closely linked to guaranteeing the quality of the products covered by the directive, in other words paints.
Just this evening, the Commission explained that the goal of the directive is to protect the environment, and to do so without prejudicing or affecting existing measures taken at Community or national level to protect the health of workers, as, moreover, is stated in recital 14.
Some of the Members have retabled amendments to this effect in plenary but, after the Commission's comments, I reiterate that we must reject this proposal for expansion and vote against the amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 2, 10, 16, 49, 54, 80 and 82.
However, I support Amendment No 84, which helps us to define and specify the purpose of the directive more clearly.
With regard to what is known as the substitution approach, set out in Amendment No 23, I do not believe it is applicable in this context, for the companies and the industrial system we are addressing need facts and certainties - which we are providing in this directive - precisely in order to be able to invest in research and develop the formulas necessary to achieve the objectives.
Then there are many amendments relating to the thresholds, in other words the percentages proposed by the Commission and changed by Parliament in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Lastly, I would like to mention other points relating to minor derogations for vehicles and historic buildings, monuments and such like, which the Commission has accepted and which I call upon the House to adopt, and a few amendments relating to the definition of solvents and their boiling points, which I believe are going to be covered in this evening's debate too.
In many Member States, health problems in connection with ground-level ozone and smog have increased considerably in recent years.
What, then, we are talking about is optimum environmental and consumer protection without, in the process, endangering the competitiveness of our European paint industry, as well as the painting trade that is closely bound up with it.
That being said, jobs would also be endangered by the attempt, which goes far beyond the Commission's proposal, to replace dangerous substances, either fully or to a greater extent, by the year 2010 Europe-wide.
That is a threat to the entire paint industry, and first and foremost to small- and medium-sized enterprises, as well as a severe setback for our European economic area.
The quality and usability of products ought not, however, to suffer in the process.
If the principle of rapid and complete replacement were really to be put into practice, we should have to accept some crucial losses of quality, especially in the cases of paints and varnishes.
It is technically impossible to reduce the proportion of volatile organic solvents to below 300 grams per litre by 2007 and still further by 2010, but it is technically possible and sensible to reduce the proportion of these substances to 400 grams per litre by 2007 and to a permissible maximum value of 300 grams per litre by 2010.
The purpose of the directive must be to employ practicable measures in order, in the medium term, to reduce the proportion of paint and varnish solvents in emissions Europe-wide.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to say a word of thanks to the rapporteur for his work on the Directive on paint.
We are right to now impose limits on solvents, and, as far as my group is concerned, those limits could be tightened up further.
The study carried out by the Commission reveals that the environmental gain could be increased further by imposing rather more ambitious limit values.
Experience in a number of countries has shown that Europe can still have beautiful, good-quality colours even with fewer solvents.
Some countries have taken measures to protect painters against this disease by permitting solvents and promoting sensible use of paint.
Not one single Member State should be deprived of this possibility, either now or in the future.
The Directive on paint is a harmonisation directive and will without a doubt be a good thing for the industry, which would like to see clear, unambiguous rules in the internal market.
Let me put it very clearly: if the internal market means that the trade unions are deprived of the right and the opportunity to champion better working conditions, then my group will say 'no'.
For years now, the European Union has been advocating sustainable development.
The point of departure for sustainable development is reconciling economic, environmental and social aspects with each other.
Sadly, on this, the first - the best - opportunity of bringing together economics, social objectives and environment, social objectives are not being given their due.
The former, in particular, set ambitious and legally binding targets for reductions in pollution and improvements in air quality.
Before us now is a measure requiring the paint industry to make changes in its production methods which will help ensure that these targets are met, at least with regard to the reduction in volatile organic compounds - one of the precursors of ozone pollution.
I am pleased that in committee we had 110 votes and the Liberal Democrats were on the winning side in 103 of these, striking the balance between the two alternative views.
The European Commission is right to propose a revision of the existing Directive, which aims to restrict this air pollution.
For example, in the Netherlands - a small country - where the use of volatile organic compounds has been severely restricted by law since 1 January 2000, a few thousand workers are still suffering from this serious disease contracted in the past.
If no new victims emerge there now, it will be thanks to the low limit values that set the standard at a maximum of 100 grams of solvent per litre of paint for a large number of products, and to the compulsory replacement with alternative products.
In addition, we should not wait until 2010 to lower limit values, but do it as soon as possible.
It is an extremely sound proposal which will entail a considerable improvement where such emissions are concerned.
The health aspect automatically has a role to play in this connection, then.
We had an extremely good vote in the committee, which improved the proposal for a directive.
As it is, as many as 84 amendments have been tabled in the Chamber, and I myself take responsibility for a number of them.
I wonder why the Commission chose to settle for limit values higher than those in both these alternatives.
My Amendments Nos 79 and 81 are based upon the assumption that we shall see a continued trend towards paints with ever lower contents of volatile organic compounds.
This directive should also, therefore, be reviewed in 2008 in order for it to be possible to reduce the limit values further.
I also wish to mention the issue of the boiling point.
Mr President, the proposal by the European Commission is based on the scientific Decopaint report, which was commissioned by the European Commission and drawn up following long, thorough research.
I and my colleagues were therefore staggered that the Commission largely disregards the conclusions of that report.
I have therefore submitted amendments to rectify this, and shall also be supporting other amendments that have the same objective.
After all, we are talking here about substances that pose a risk not only to the environment, but also to public health.
Exposure to these substances can result in damage to brain functioning and ultimately to disablement.
The current Commission proposal does not provide for that possibility, and should therefore be amended on that point.
It is extremely important that these measures remain permissible now and in the future.
I also support the amendments with this purpose, therefore.
Finally, I should like to add that this dossier is further proof that the environment and public health are closely related to each other, and that it is therefore sensible for these subjects to be dealt with by the same committee in the coming term, too.
I am quite sure we can carry on with this work and make sure that we have a good result in the end.
I wish to thank and congratulate the Commission.
The Commission has also recognised that this proposal to reduce VOC emissions is going to have an important effect on the environment.
We cannot ignore, for example, some of these issues which are still left on the table.
We should also mention the importance of maintaining a degree of choice and competition in the marketplace for consumers.
We should therefore continue to uphold the equal technical criteria for all paints and not give an unfair advantage to water-based paints.
Finally, we have to recognise the real difficulties of applying these new proposals in every circumstance and on every application that we find in the vast array of options inside the European Union.
The Commission agrees with the principle underlying these amendments.
The Commission also agrees that it may be useful to clarify and emphasise this point directly in one of the paragraphs of the proposal.
However, and for exactly the same reason, the Commission cannot agree to include a number of amendments which directly or indirectly aim to enhance the protection of workers' and consumers' health from exposure to solvents in the paints and other products covered by the proposals - Amendments Nos 17, 20 and 23.
A number of the amendments voted by the committee - Amendments Nos 11, 13, 14, 32, 33 and 34 - contain useful technical clarifications with which the Commission can agree to a greater or lesser degree.
The Commission also finds it reasonable to accept that Member States, under strict conditions and in limited quantities, may grant derogations for special paints, as you mentioned, for the restoration and maintenance of vintage cars and historic buildings.
That concerns Amendments Nos 6, 19 and 22.
In total, the Commission can, to a greater or lesser degree, accept 20 of the 83 amendments tabled for the vote in plenary tomorrow.
Of the remaining 63 amendments, which the Commission cannot accept for different reasons, most are of a fairly technical nature.
Allow me to make only a few comments on these amendments and our reasons for rejecting them.
Four amendments - 5, 27, 81 and 83 - aim to oblige the Commission to present tighter limit values and/or enlarge the scope of the present values at some later date.
Quite apart from the question of principle concerning the Commission's right of initiative, we firmly believe that it would be unwise to guess at what we should do in four or five years in order to improve air quality.
Amendment No 12 proposes enlarging the scope of the directive by including VOCs with a boiling point - as several Members have mentioned - up to 280°C rather than the 250°C proposed by the Commission.
Firstly, because organic compounds with a boiling point above 250°C have a very low volatility: it takes several days for them to dry out and they have a very limited ozone formation potential.
Secondly, because 250°C is the boiling point chosen to define VOCs in the EU eco-labelling scheme.
No less than 36 amendments - 36 to 53, 55 to 57, 59 to 63, 65, and 67 to 77 - aim to change the limit values proposed by the Commission.
The Commission is aware that intense lobbying activities have been going on, both from industry and from environmental organisations, with a view to either softening or tightening the limit values proposed by the Commission.
You spoke about Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 13, both of which you consider acceptable.
If I have understood correctly, Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 13 exactly contradict each other.
This is exactly the sense of the proposal contained in the voting list proposed by the rapporteur: Amendment No 11 and Amendment No 13 are contradictory.
I therefore call upon the House to support and adopt Amendment No 11 but to vote against Amendment No 13, precisely in order to establish a definition of 'thinners' which is consistent with the rest of the legislation.
Mr President, we are just trying to see whether we have made any mistakes in interpreting the content of these two amendments.
The debate is closed.
First, by adding an external dimension to the Göteborg strategy, the European Council conclusions mean that the European Union's sustainable development strategy is the main vehicle for the implementation of the Johannesburg commitments.
Consistent with this approach, the Commission intends to continue addressing the follow-up of the World Summit in its annual synthesis reports in preparation for the Spring European Council meetings.
Second, the Commission is also undertaking an overall review of the sustainable development strategy to be ready by the time the new Commission takes up office.
The review, covering the period up until 2009, will further integrate the World Summit implementation into the revised strategy.
Third, the Commission services are now preparing a stocktaking document on the Summit follow-up that will be submitted by the end of 2003 and that may also include proposals for further action.
Let me now turn to the first part of the oral question, reporting specifically on the water and energy initiatives.
The EU initiative is focused on Africa, but will also cover other regions.
A ministerial conference in Addis Ababa in December 2003 should help to develop ownership among all African stakeholders.
The Commission has tabled an ambitious proposal to allocate EUR 1 billion from the European Development Fund to set up an EU water fund.
This money is already reserved in the budget, but the Council has so far been reluctant to free up the resources.
Nearly 30 developing countries from three continents have joined the initiative.
To take it forward in Africa the Commission will sponsor a high-level energy event to be held in Nairobi on 20 and 21 November 2003.
As in the case of water, ownership and awareness in recipient countries are essential to make progress.
The Commission has agreed to host the Coalition secretariat.
We intend to work intensively in the coming months to ensure the Coalition is fully consolidated in time for the 2004 World Renewable Energy Conference in Germany.
The results of the Global Ministerial Environment Forum in February 2003 should help to achieve this objective.
The results were very positive on chemicals, with a decision on the strategic approach to international chemicals management, setting up a process that should culminate in an Intergovernmental Conference in 2006.
UNEP was also asked to take an active role in the pursuit of the ten-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, agreed in Johannesburg.
In March 2003 the European Council identified a set of priorities for implementing the sustainable development strategy and the Johannesburg outcomes.
Foremost amongst those priorities is policy coherence between external commitments and internal policies.
The reform of the common agricultural policy and the fisheries policy is a step in the right direction.
Our credibility will suffer if unsustainable trends persist or if our policies have detrimental impacts outside the EU, in particular on the development opportunities of the poorest countries.
On sustainable consumption and production, the EU has been playing a leading role by promoting a broad mix of policies and tools, such as integrated pollution prevention and control, the eco-management and audit scheme and eco-labelling, as well as sectoral instruments in key areas such as energy or agriculture.
We are also working with Member States to provide an overall assessment by the end of 2003.
On the issue of financing for development, the Commission has been asked by Member States to closely monitor the commitments made before the Monterrey Conference.
In concluding, let me welcome Parliament's support in pushing for the EU to be in the forefront when it comes to delivery.
Two weeks ago the European Commission adopted a communication on our cooperation with the United Nations.
In this context, we are required to work horizontally, that is to say to integrate the objective of economic growth with those of social development and of the effective protection and responsible management of the physical environment.
In the same way, the research world is partitioned.
We still measure everything in terms of gross national product, that is to say the total production of goods and services.
Our responsibility in this area has implications both for our internal policy and for our cooperation with the poor countries.
Where our relations with the poor countries are concerned, Commissioner Wallström has already pointed to the water and energy initiatives.
What is really required - and what is not at all happening - is for priority to be given to the supply of energy and to sensible efforts in this area, not only on the part of the Commission but also on that of the recipient countries.
The discussion we conduct on the aid we provide and on how effective our efforts are in this area is therefore couched in very general terms.
I believe the Commission as a whole needs to commit itself to developing both quantitative objectives and indicators whereby we obtain reporting worthy of the name.
For this, reforms to the trade system are needed, as I say.
In our decision, supported unreservedly by my political group, we emphasise that measures to implement the Johannesburg programme are necessary.
There is, however, a chance, at least in the future, to make up some ground in this area if we can achieve many of the objectives we set ourselves in Johannesburg and if we can really achieve significant progress in a number of areas.
I am just thinking of the long discussions on chemicals policy and also in other important areas.
I also know that, in this area, it is not so much the Commission that is putting the brakes on but, without a doubt, the Member States too.
I was disturbed to learn that the Presidency has apparently either not understood, or not wanted to understand, either the principle of shared responsibility on the part of the developed and developing countries or the principle of different degrees of responsibility according to which, if we cause pollution, we must assume greater responsibility.
She has informed us about the water and energy initiatives.
I am already delighted about the comprehensive reports on these subjects, because the very participants in this House's parliamentary delegation were very anxious that the projects concerned were too large or that, for example, renewable energy would be under-represented in the energy initiative and that traditional forms of energy would be accorded undue support.
At a meeting in Parliament earlier today, the Commissioner reminded Members that EUR 1 billion had been set aside to start projects and she informed us that the Council had blocked the spending of this money.
Finally Commissioner, if this is the case, how do you feel personally about the way in which the Council appears to be backsliding on the commitments made by the European Union at a summit where - and we take great pride in this fact - we played a leadership role?
New environmental agreements are also needed, particularly for sustainable forest management.
In addition, we must strive to achieve this balance not only for the developed, but also for the developing, countries.
It would be good if the European Union were to take more initiatives in this regard.
We must be careful that we do not ask for too much at the same time, or do things that are only indirectly connected to sustainable development.
The promotion of equality between men and women could serve as an example of this.
Furthermore, I am concerned about the European Union's approach to combating AIDS.
Whereas Rio was still an environmental conference, Johannesburg was concerned with everything: water, AIDS, schooling, energy, poverty, malaria and environment.
In order to make sustainable development a little more specific, I have two suggestions to make.
We are chiefly preoccupied with our industry, the competitive position of European businesses, and our own public health, and we are not looking at the rest of the world.
A Johannesburg check would bring this to light immediately, and also open our eyes to the environmental aspects of medicines.
In food legislation, there are environmental aspects and social aspects in abundance.
The current food legislation would not, at any event, pass the Johannesburg check.
Our common foreign policy is having difficulty getting off the ground.
Anyone who reflects on Europe's role in the world quickly comes to the conclusion that we are too divided to find a military role of any consequence for ourselves.
There are sufficient commissioners in the coming term of office who would be capable of fulfilling this role.
Perhaps you, Commissioner, could advance the idea of a Johannesburg Commissioner and a Johannesburg check a little within the Commission.
We are, as you know, preparing a report for the end of the year which will explain exactly what this 'Water for Life' initiative means and what it contains.
The discussion so far in the Council has presented difficulties for some Member States.
Perhaps the Council wants greater flexibility in the use of this EDF money, at least, that is how I understand the direction the discussion is taking in the Council.
However, when we discuss the 'Water for Life' initiative, it covers both water and sanitation.
In our report, which you will receive before the end of 2003, we will show exactly what has been achieved so far and how we can establish ownership in poor countries, for example in Africa.
Our other problem is that we know each other, perhaps, too well in our discussions on sustainable development.
This is exactly what you have been saying in all contexts, from trade to agriculture, energy or transport.
The next opportunity for us is to return to it when we provide the report and keep it constantly on our common agenda.
However, I am not clear whether the Commission has actually put to the Council specific proposals for the expenditure of some of this EUR 1 billion or whether such expenditure has in fact been blocked.
We have presented the idea that the water fund should be used for this purpose, and that EDF money should be earmarked for that water fund.
That has been a problem within the Council.
Adopting this text will not remove the ambiguity; the text will instead become a source of further uncertainties and abuses that will benefit the most powerful players in a market that is as unique as it is important both in economic terms and in terms of disseminating knowledge.
Commissioner Bolkestein's words let slip the mask when he explained that the European Parliament can, through the Community procedure for drafting a directive, participate in the decision-making process, unlike an intergovernmental procedure for revising the European Patent Convention.
This argument seems to have been crucial in persuading the majority of this House to adopt a directive that it actually considers to be unsatisfactory.
They cannot accept this procedural sweetener, which could ultimately lead to the adoption of a bad text that is excessively open to risky interpretations. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) I support the draft European Constitution because, for all its faults, it is a useful instrument for enhancing effectiveness and democracy in the EU.
Absent from the text, however, are certain measures which are fundamental to unifying the peoples of Europe.
Amongst other things, this text does not recognise the specific needs of regions with legislative competence, or the right of those regions to participate in the decision-making process on issues which concern them.
In doing so, it not only fails to send a message to the Intergovernmental Conference, but also demonstrates a complete lack of awareness of the aspirations of peoples such as the Catalans, who feel like part of Europe, who are Europe, and who demand the right to participate legitimately and democratically in the process of European integration.
