The factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists (debate) The next item is the report by Gérard Deprez, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on the factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, the report that I have the honour of presenting to you today on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has its beginnings in a proposal that was tabled at the end of 2005 by our colleague Mr Duquesne, to whom I now pay tribute.
I also wish to point out that the bulk of the work relating to this report was carried out by our colleague Mr Mayor Oreja, who for reasons that I cannot comment on here decided to withdraw his name following the vote that was held in committee.
From this it follows - and the report is fairly emphatic on this point - that the fight against terrorism must remain one of the priorities of the European Union and its Member States.
The fight against terrorism has to be carried out on the basis of scrupulous respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially freedom of religion and the right to a fair trial.
It is presented in paragraph 10 of the report and proposes extending the scope of the definition for acts of terrorism to the justification of terrorism.
We have devoted time and resources in the last three years to better understanding this phenomenon, its trends, its manifestations and its dynamics.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is sad that we have to hold yet another debate about terrorism.
In Europe we need better networking of services to ensure that we can combat radicalisation and terrorism.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank my colleagues and say immediately that we were, quite frankly, obliged to work on a report that got off to a bad start, sent out mixed messages and contained shaky proposals.
However, this is a new challenge which calls for well-balanced efforts without giving way to the natural human temptation - inevitable, given the attacks we have suffered in the years since 11 September - to generalise or to build a Fortress Europe, or to sideline a priority that is central to the process of EU integration, namely the safeguarding of fundamental rights.
Unless these rights are guaranteed, the very idea of Europe will be a failure, as will an integration process predicated above all else on the fundamental rights of European citizens.
It expresses a major responsibility and a strong commitment for this House and our communities.
I wish to testify before this House, as one might testify in court, that it is not true that Jaime Mayor Oreja's outstretched hand was rejected.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, paraphrasing Ernest Hemingway I would say: 'Do not ask for whom the terrorist bell tolls, it tolls for thee'.
It is very important for us to focus on terrorist propaganda conducted over the Internet.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (EL) Mr President, time is of the essence.
The battle against terrorism is a battle of good against evil, and, if needs be, the right of the terrorist is secondary to that of society. (PT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by reiterating that the unrelenting fight against terrorism must be pursued within the law, with respect for the rule of law and without infringing fundamental rights.
I believe that underestimating this threat will prevent us from fighting it effectively and increasing the security of our citizens.
We need a global strategy that can dismantle the terrorist networks.
I agree that, within the law and with respect for the freedom of expression, the terrorist propaganda aimed at encouraging terrorist acts must be prevented.
If we look around us, we cannot ignore the poverty that is there and injustices that are manifest.
Other speakers have welcomed the fact that we are talking about this issue, and they are right to do so.
The European Parliament and the Union as a whole have talked about the preachers of hate and have taken preventive measures to cut off the flow of funds to terrorist organisations.
I think it would be slightly overstating the case to view the Internet as the root of all evil or as a safe haven.
It would be desirable to extend harmonisation of this crime to the 27 Member States, although always, I repeat, always, with the most scrupulous respect for freedom of expression.
If we wish to prevent radicalisation, we must provide education and integration for the 13 million Muslims living in the EU, and refrain from stigmatising this 3.5% of the population.
Mr Weber, I must say that Mr Mayor Oreja showed a lack of parliamentary courtesy by not explaining to the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs why he voted against and subsequently rejected the report.
But the ANC committed terrorist acts in fighting the utterly repressive apartheid state.
There are people, now statesmen, who have been honoured guests in this Chamber, who have a past as freedom fighters.
No, because the law has to be effective.
Let us not stray into glorification and apologia. - (NL) Mr President, I would also like to express my appreciation of the report now before us and also of the Commissioner's words and of what he wants to do.
In my country too, the Netherlands, a lot of attention is being given to radicalisation and its tragic consequences.
It is very important that we work together and that every effort is made to track down and isolate groups and individual young people who may turn to terrorist attacks.
However, as others here have said already, the prevention of radicalisation is also vitally important.
Of course it is important to look at what you can do in the prisons and, more generally, in the area of education to look at what you can do to prevent misuse of the Internet.
It is also important to engage in a broader dialogue with the Muslim communities in our countries.
It is important, therefore, to enter into the dialogue with the assumption that the vast majority of the Muslim communities who live in our society want nothing to do with what is a perverse interpretation of their faith, and that we invest a great deal in that broad dialogue of my group, this year too, the year of cultural dialogue. (SV) Thank you Mr President, Commissioner.
The EU needs to show clearly that the fight against terrorism is, both symbolically and practically, a demonstration of solidarity.
The fact that the perpetrators of the terrible outrages we have witnessed in recent years were born or grew up in Europe is a shrill wake-up call urging us also to look at our own societies with more critical eyes.
It is our thinking on what should be the basis of our common legislation.
We must also ensure that Community legislation does not jeopardise or set aside important constitutional principles, such as those governing freedom of expression.
Dialogue, as the key to tolerance, must be at the forefront of our attention.
I think it is most regrettable that on an issue which has always been a very serious topic of discussion in this House, the national polemic has once again loomed so large in relation to this report. (DE) Mr President, I have been asked by fellow Members from the ALDE group how the PPE-DE intends to vote.
Anyone who wants to grasp the outstretched hand of the PPE-DE Group can do so tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, I am delighted that you have given us leave to speak again, as that has been handled differently in another debate.
I am also getting rather tired of the fact that - not for the first time - we are being used as a ping pong ball between the PPE-DE and the PSE on these matters.
However, that is precisely what distinguishes us from terrorists: the fact that we regard human rights as universal.
We should never give the impression that this House could ever take a different view.
Mr President, owing to the importance of this debate, I have a question for the PPE-DE Group.
The issue was raised that if the PPE-DE Group was to support the report, it would withdraw, and ask the other groups to withdraw, any element relating to internal Spanish politics.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too believe that this evening's debate has been of considerable political significance.
Someone said that we need to understand the causes of terrorism.
I believe that if Europe really is united in this area, it could do something akin to what we did concerning the moratorium on the death penalty: make the United Nations take a stance on an important, consolidated European position, thereby giving global legitimacy to the response to terrorism.
If terrorism is global, our response must be absolutely firm but likewise global.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to make three comments at the conclusion of this debate.
The first is that if we listen to the Commissioner and then listen to most of the contributors the first thing that really strikes us is that - as regards the analysis of the phenomenon, the seriousness of the threat and the balance that has to be drawn between measures aimed at prevention and those aimed at suppression - there is a great deal of common ground between us all once we start to discuss the operational side of things: what we need to analyse, what we need to prevent and what we need to suppress.
Thirdly, there are several comments that I would like to direct at some of those present in this House, especially - and Mr Alvaro feels the same way - with regard to my fellow Member from Ireland, who considers that respect for human rights is not needed in the fight against terrorism.
Well that particular regime is now one that poisons its opponents, allows its journalists to be murdered and holds elections that may be free but may also be fraudulent.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 19 February 2008.
Written Statements (Article 142) in writing. - (SV) The fight against terrorism must only be fought in a way which is appropriate to an open, democratic and just society.
If we remember the events of 11 September 2001 or those in Madrid a few years ago, we have the perfect configuration of a picture expressing horror, fear and suffering.
