Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 85/611/EEC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities (UCITS) with a view to regulating management companies and simplified prospectuses (COM(1998) 451 - C4-0465/1998 - 1998/0242(COD)); II.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 85/611/EEC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities (UCITS) (COM(1998) 449 - C4-0464/1998 - 1998/0243(COD)). . (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is my hope that Parliament is prepared now to make a decision to extend and strengthen the financial market in Europe.
The main purpose of the first proposal is to extend the investment opportunities of collective investment undertakings by allowing them to invest in units in other collective investment undertakings, for example units in funds, standardised options and futures contracts and deposits in credit institutions and in certain types of money market instruments.
The current situation is not good.
As the draftsperson for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I also wish to place on record my thanks to the secretariat of both the Legal Affairs Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee for their cooperation on this matter.
I am speaking today wearing a number of hats: firstly, as the surrogate father of this report; secondly, as the draftsperson of the opinion; and most importantly, as one who sees the tremendous advantages which can be gained for the European Union from a harmonised system of UCITS investment to ensure that monies presently being earned in Europe but invested outside the European Union and not put to the benefit of the Union economy can be retained within the economy for the creation of entrepreneurship, employment and also for guaranteeing future pension rights.
Many Members have been working on the basis of trying to protect their own countries' national interests rather than improving the overall system for Europe.
As indicated by the rapporteur, we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this Parliament.
Everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products.
As this issue will be returning to this House at some stage, I must highlight the working method used between the Commission and this Parliament.
Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the Commission' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services.
But the world of international finance is a dangerous one.
The capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses.
In 1999, the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over-stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions, pushing up the prices of long-term financial and real assets.
You do not need a Nobel prize in economics to realise that the current working hypothesis of the financial markets, which anticipate annual growth in profits of the order of 15 to 25% is quite simply unrealistic in the medium term.
By adopting these amendments, Parliament will allow recourse to OTC derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors.
Mr President, there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance.
This principle should not only guide the public sector, it should also guide the private sector, especially financial undertakings.
But even with a tailor-made derivative or OTC derivative which would be cheaper, perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index, you would still have the portfolio and the shares, but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse.
Pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest, as required by of our government bonds, made returns of 5.2% a year, barely half the 9.5% annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996.
Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off.
Mr President, the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in Europe, including the most sophisticated forms of investment.
We shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group.
This attitude is turning Europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income, with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies.
Mr President, the 1985 directive introduced a sort of European visa for certain types of UCITS which could be marketed throughout the Union.
This brings us to the two proposals for directives.
It is a step in the right direction, even if one wonders why in heaven, with what right and with what respect for our citizens, we are further bolstering the monopoly of the English language in all documents distributed throughout Europe.
The same cannot be said of the first proposal.
We shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the Member States to increase to 35% ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, this is a vital issue for Europe.
UCITS are a success story within the European Union.
The radical step taken by this report is to allow UCITS to use over-the-counter derivatives.
Mr Schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of Parliament for over-the-counter derivatives.
The report gives very adequate protection for consumers.
But a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives.
Under the terms of the European passport for UCITS, this means that national supervisory authorities have to apply uniform standards in monitoring products and management companies.
Discretionary powers for national supervisory authorities must be restricted if we are to create transparency and people are to have faith in the products and management companies in the internal market.
It is therefore an important achievement of the UCITS production line to have picked out as a central theme the association between derivatives and OTC papers in the interests of efficient portfolio management, for one of the old directive' s major disadvantages was that each regulatory body understood efficient portfolio management to mean something different.
The European Parliament would be well advised to strengthen consumer protection in Europe.
Thank you very much Mr Kuckelkorn.
Mr President, the UCITS directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 October 1989, mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors.
The directive and the reputation which UCITS enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the European Union fivefold.
There has been a strong increase in cross-border marketing of investments within the European Union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world.
I share some of the concerns expressed here, especially by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, but this face-lift would be even more successful if the funds which simply reproduce a stock exchange index, and which are therefore managed either passively or not at all, and the funds which use an index as a benchmark for an actively-managed fund were treated in the same way, if only to allow medium-sized undertakings listed on the stock exchange but not included in the stock exchange index better access to the capital market.
In addition, investors often have better protection with an actively-managed fund.
My Amendment No 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs.
At the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as UCITS with a total value of in excess of EUR 2 billion, thereby accounting for roughly 75% of all funds assets.
Hence the Commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives, and I must say that I actually have every confidence in the Commission' s proposal.
Why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive, Article 11 for example, which relates to good practice?
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions.
Firstly, I am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments.
Now I have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the Luxembourg Members are in the Chamber at one time - and they are.
Secondly, we consider proposal No 2 to be very confused.
In this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity.
Inappropriate restrictions on such relationships should be avoided at all costs, for they fail to take account of the European-style universal banking culture. . (NL) Mr President, could I first of all express my heartfelt thanks to rapporteur, Mr Olle Schmidt, and the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has principal authority, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Brian Crowley and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, whom I would like to thank for their thorough and important work on the refinement and extension of the proposals.
The two proposals form a coherent whole.
The first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an 'undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities' (UCITS) can invest.
As already remarked in this session, UCITS are key players within the modern capital markets.
Since diverse types of investment are permitted, private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques.
The second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the EU capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector.
The Commission will adopt Amendments Nos - and I am now referring to the most recent numbering - 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 13, 19 and 21 for the first proposal, and 23, 28 and 32 for the second proposal, since these are really very useful clarifications and improvements.
I also value the ideas put forward in Amendments Nos 1, 10, 11, 14, 18 and 20, although the wording needs to be adapted.
I can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of Amendment No 47.
This Amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the Member States, which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive.
Amendment No 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms.
Amendment No 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive.
I therefore cannot see any reason why Article 22, paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason.
Amendment No 44 cannot be accepted because, if it is prescribed that non-harmonised funds are subject to rules which have been 'imposed by the directive' concerning lending, borrowing, selling from an uncovered position and the third party custodian, this will indeed lead to a situation where very few funds, for example Swiss funds, would be eligible for investment.
Amendment No 47 is unacceptable as far as the proposed changes to the first paragraph of Article 22a are concerned, because this proposal completely clashes with the spreading rules of Article 22, especially when the UCITS are obliged to indicate a point of reference in their prospectuses, as discussed in the Council.
It seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non-harmonised funds or deposits and, at the same time, freely to allow investments in clearly more risky OTC instruments.
By rejecting the rapporteur' s Amendment No 39, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has aligned itself with the Council.
The upshot of this amendment by Parliament would be that funds are allowed, in theory, to invest in OTC instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market.
Given this possibly negative effect on the internal market and the risks inherent in OTC instruments, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 12, 15, 37, 38, 39, 43, 46 and 48 and parts of Amendments Nos 17, 36 and 45 which pertain to OTC instruments.
The application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities, better known as ISD, is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion.
Amendment No 33 is ambiguous regarding 'the language' of the guest member state, especially when there are various official languages, and it is questionable what will be gained from translations in two other languages.
Amendment No 35 cannot be accepted because legally, it cannot command any authority.
Management companies which are denied access to a Member State would need to re-incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another Member State.
Amendments Nos 49, 50 and 51, which share the same basis, are not acceptable because they make substantial changes to the consistent approach of the Commission regarding the regulations of third party delegation, and do not offer sufficient security to the competent authorities and investors.
But hedging operations are already allowed in the existing Article 21(1) of Directive 611/85 on UCITS.
The separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the Council.
These are the reasons why the Commission believes, because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field, that these various limits are necessary.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Some of these differences have already been ironed out, but others persist.
It will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular.
Mr President, it is our opinion that one facet of the construction of Europe hinges on the construction of a common judicial system, for the Europe that we want to build, which comprises administrative law, civil law, both substantive and procedural, and criminal law, both substantive and procedural.
The Convention on Mutual Assistance and Criminal Matters, which we are examining today, is but a stitch in the great fabric of the corpus iuris of Europe, which has its natural foundation in fundamental human rights and freedoms.
It is a curious thing when Italy' s criminal prosecution authorities, which are affected by what goes on in this Parliament, see amendments tabled by people who are being prosecuted in Italy itself - rightly, as I see it.
The goal is, after all, to provide the judicial bodies - magistrates, in the first place, but also the citizens involved - with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights.
This condition of accrual is essential since, in my opinion, the principle of nulla poena sine lege, legality in criminal law, must be observed.
As such, any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned Member State contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned Member State.
Thanks to the agreement, it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests, whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different Member States.
Mr President, the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned.
The fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this Parliament.
It is clear that the justice sector, more than any other, cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner.
We will, in conclusion, vote against this report, while stressing that the Europe to which we aspire is a Europe of rights and guarantees: rights and guarantees that call for gradual and responsible discussion, as well as very serious examination.
There are two reasons why we are saying no.
Mr President, alarmed as I am at the prejudgement issued by 14 Member States, I maintain that the planned agreement can only signify a first step in the right direction.
However, I believe that it could be substantially improved with the aid of amendments and I feel that in this case a little is more than nothing at all.
On the other hand, our police forces and criminal prosecution authorities are organised at national level.
That is a whole host of measures that will help us to proceed efficiently and on a joint basis in matters of criminal law.
The overall result is remarkable and I hope that the Council will fully take it into account.
There is, as has already been said, one point still to resolved, which is also the most delicate one: it concerns article 18 of the convention, which relates to the interception of communications originating in one Member State, but which are directly performed by another Member State, without the assistance being requested of the State in which the interception is being carried out, something which is now possible thanks to the latest technology.
The most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States, but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward, as it is a step in the right direction.
Article 18 allows interception in another Member State without its involvement.
An initiative of the FBI drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation.
The Council proposal containing those requirements, ENFOPOL 98 was approved by this Parliament last May in the Schmid report.
We are very concerned about the direction we are taking here without proper public debate within the national parliaments or elsewhere and without the involvement of civil liberties organisations throughout Europe which are extremely concerned about these developments.
Mr President, I am neither a member of the Legal Affairs Committee nor a lawyer, but like almost all of us, I understand the need for this Single Economic Area of Europe to have its parallel in a single area of freedom, security and justice.
The presumed killer, Sid Ahmed Rezala, is also strongly suspected of having murdered the British student Isabel Peake, who was raped and thrown out of the train taking her to see her parents, and another young woman, Émilie Bazin, who was found dead in Amiens under a pile of coal in the building where he lived.
He should never have stayed in France, having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences, which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country.
He should never have been free because 14 charges of theft, violence and rape had been brought against him, one of which was for the rape of a minor.
Mr President, this agreement deals with a sensitive issue: cooperation in the field of criminal law.
The Council' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national Member States in the field of criminal law.
Mr Di Pietro' s proposal to omit the current Article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications, amongst other things, is understandable, although very strict.
The text of Article 18 is ambiguous: he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a Member State in another Member State without the latter' s prior authorisation.
Pursuant to Article 29 of the EU Treaty, the Union' s objective is 'to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by developing common action among the Member States in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia' .
I should like to stress this point because it is paramount.
Mr President, as you know, all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago, but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons, they have not really abolished it?
Mr President, co-operation in the field of law is without doubt essential in free market Europe, but it must hinge on the strictest respect for those principles which lie at the very heart of our civilisation: the fundamental human rights and freedoms, laid down in the European Convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I turn to Mr Schulz in confirming that we always submit amendments not on a personal basis or for personal motives, but in connection with general political concerns.
According to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the Council in April 1997, the work on the draft MLA Convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997.
Even with the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, foreseeing its entry into force once at least half of the Member States have adopted the Convention, I would like to urge the Member States to do everything in their power to speedily ratify this Convention.
Instead it aims at building on tried and tested mechanisms that have been in place for a very long time, such as the ones foreseen by the Council of Europe Convention on mutual assistance of 1959 and the Benelux Treaty.
The draft that the Council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several Members of Parliament.
We must recognise that Article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision.
The Commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal.
The text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set-ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties respectively.
The words 'issued by' also need to be added after the words 'transferable securities' .
The amended text will then read, and again I must read it in English, which is the lingua franca of our Parliament: 'transferable securities issued by over the counter derivatives dealt with' , etc.
Madam President, my apologies, I was looking at Amendment No 36, which logically precedes Amendment No 37.
The text therefore reads: 'instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation' .
Amendment No 83 in Italian, which is the original version, states that 'il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno' .
I should like you, Madam President, to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future.
We want to bring this across in Parliament.
However, I do not consider it would be appropriate to do this before all Member States have approved Commissioner Monti' s proposal for minimum taxes on capital.
Brok report (A5-0029/2000) Madam President, there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the European Union.
We have before us Malta and Cyprus, which are two States keen to become members.
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for Cyprus and Malta, starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years (2000-2004).
The proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire.
On a more general note, it is true that the socio-economic situation in these two countries is far better than in other candidate countries.
However, they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the European Union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire.
Until 1999, this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols (B7-4011).
Both countries also qualify for financial aid under the MEDA programme (B7-4012).
During the first and second readings of the 2000 budget, the European Parliament stressed that the new 'pre-accession' heading (B7-0), proposed by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget, should not be limited to the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe and should also be extended to Malta and Cyprus.
However, because of the Council' s refusal to negotiate a review of the ceiling set for heading 7 (pre-accession) in the Financial Perspectives, the European Parliament agreed, by way of exception, and I stress that it was by way of exception, that this expenditure should be financed under heading 4 (external action) of the Financial Perspectives for the year 2000.
The package will grant around Euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year.
The Union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting.
The purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency of 20 April 1929 and to facilitate its application by the Member States.
These offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 January 2002.
It would also appear to be in the Union' s interest for all Member States to help protect the euro, especially Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Greece, which will not be introducing the euro on 1 January 2002.
Nor, in the light of the international convention of 20 April 1929, can there be any confusion as to which country should deal with any criminal cases.
When the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 January 2002, everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the Euro.
Di Pietro report (A5-0019/2000) Madam President, as the representative of the Pensioners' Party, there have been many occasions on which I have stated, at the committee stage, that the European Union must intervene in regulating the lives of the elderly, and in the measures and rules on pensions, as is already the case, in coordination.
I worked in Africa 30 years ago, and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic.
Two million people died of AIDS in Africa last year, approximately 200 000 died in wars.
There is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines.
I think there are three reasons for this: 1) in their endeavour to transcend the nation states, the European institutions have lost touch with the people and, in losing touch with the people, they have become putty in the hands of foreign interests; 2) having lost touch with the people, the men and women working in these institutions have started to become used to reasoning not as the sole champions of the people, but as international officials in charge of regulating a global system; 3) integration may afford economies of scale and productivity gains; but it also causes far more to be lost because, when it breaks nations, it breaks subtle expressions of solidarity and, with them, the willingness to present a united front. . (FR) I share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate.
As for the future, given that the Commission has shown itself incapable of taking action against fascism in Austria, I am convinced that blocking measures to liberalise the single market is the only way of administering a salutary electric shock treatment to the heart of all the countries in the Union. - (IT) On behalf of the Italian Communists, I would like to express great dissatisfaction at the contents of the document, which was expected to define the strategic guidelines for Europe up until the year 2005.
Employment: for many years now, the connection between economic growth and an increase in employment has not been borne out by reality, and yet, despite the fact that it has been proved to be useless, the same recipe is being put forward again as a solution to the acute problem of unemployment.
Europe' s role: we first need to emphasise that Europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict: only then can we talk of the 'military' role of the Union.
We are also in the President' s debt for adopting an appropriate stance in relation to what is going on the home political front in Austria.
The President has recently set out his position vis-à-vis Austria in connection with the safeguarding of EU fundamental values.
Enlargement appears to be an end in itself, but unless decisions are made on a social policy, a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the Union, the Europe bequeathed to us at the end of Mr Prodi' s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation, rather than the community of destiny which we hope for.
The nature of the EU has not changed.
Since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups.
But the Prodi Commission now wants to transform the EU so that it can apply for joint global governance with the United States, which it also sees as its future competitor and rival.
We shall vote against these objectives, because we are fighting against this policy both in Parliament and on the streets.
Secondly, in terms of the definition of priorities for the next five years, we consider that the main question to be considered by the Commission is its role in interinstitutional relations within the EU which neither the programme nor the motion mention.
The mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the Member States must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent, more transparent and more democratic.
Corrie report (A5-0032/2000) Madam President, the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the Lomé Conventions.
As Paul-Marie Coûteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments, one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents.
It is most worrying, especially as a similar agreement with Mexico appears to be taking shape.
The report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing Lomé Convention, which expires at the end of this month.
The new agreement provides for a development budget of EUR 13.5 billion over the next seven years.
Civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects.
The decision to include a clause obliging ACP countries to take back illegal immigrants entering Europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity.
Over 95% of all HIV infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub-Saharan Africa is the worst affected region in the world.
The AIDS problem in Africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one.
The effects of the AIDS pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub-Saharan region is being neutralised or reversed.
It is incumbent on the European Union and the United Nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner.
On a separate matter altogether, I would like to support Cuba' s membership as an ACP country within the framework of the new Lomé Convention which will shortly be agreed between the European Union and African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
However, on this occasion, the European Union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the Lomé Convention Accord.
Now, more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south, the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges.
Which is why the new 20-year agreement due to be signed in Fiji on 31 May represents more than the simple renewal of the Conventions regulating relations between Europe and the ACP.
The Joint Assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of Europe and the developing countries defend their common interests.
After the debacle in Seattle, our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty.
Apart from reducing the volume of exports from these countries to the Community market, what we term 'development aid' to the ACP has fallen constantly, from 70% of total European Union aid in 1986 to 30% in 1998.
The European Union prefers to send its funds to Eastern Europe, the former USSR and Asia, where there is greater opportunity for profit.
Whether through the minimum wage in Manchester or debt relief in Durban, Labour' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same.
For the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves.
And the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products.
Thus, whether through the New Deal in Newcastle or fair trade in Freetown, Labour' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same.
Swoboda report (A5-0031/2000) . (EL) The EU' s Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in the form of a joint agreement as established by Article 310 of the EU Treaty, can contribute to the stabilisation and development of that Balkan republic.
There are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on Yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach.
Symbolic because it reflects well on the Fifteen' s project to see the birth of a policy which is common to the five countries in the region (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, FYROM and Albania) and which would make economic and political stability a pressing and urgent requirement.
The Community construction only makes sense if it creates positive discriminations alone, and the UEN Group hopes that this signal to FYROM and specific action in its wake will help us make a sustainable contribution to the development and peaceful coexistence of the nation states in this fully-paid up part of Europe.
Through the agreement, the European Parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under Article 251 of the Treaty.
It has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion, but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated, prepared for and managed.
The acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures.
The Commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change.
We have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the European Union.
We have set minimum requirements at European level, which all Member States and all companies must observe when contemplating job losses, especially when they are massive, or preparing other decisions likely to affect workers.
I wish to recall that it is, in principle, up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules, if and when they are brought before them by national representatives.
However, even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management' s attitude is socially irreprehensible.
In a world characterised by permanent change and in the context of high levels of unemployment, the rules in force seem to us to be outdated as they do not allow or promote the key ideas behind our employment strategy and our approach to change, anticipation, risk prevention and employability.
I hope that this debate contributes to reminding Member States of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative.
The forthcoming French Presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves.
The Commission sincerely hopes that Parliament and the Council quickly finalise this important dossier which constitutes, in our view, the most effective answer to the concerns raised by cases such as the ones which brought us here today.
As for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their European workforce.
The Commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this.
Nevertheless, as my colleague, Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions, when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately, different considerations must be taken into account.
Secondly, an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like European company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal.
The successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the EWC Directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above.
That is why we tend to consider that it might be more appropriate in this context to proceed with the revision of the European Works Council Directive only after the conclusion of those two dossiers and following a more complete evaluation of the application of the directive.
As for the enforcement of the links between competition policy and social policy, let me remind you that there is a provision in the merger regulation which enables workers' representatives to be heard by the Commission in the framework of the relevant procedure.
I know we will be coming back to these issues again in the future to see how we can best make sure our policies are adapted and reformed to underpin economic and social progress in Europe.
Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, I understand you have a point of order.
Mr President, the problem is one of public honour in this Parliament, it is not a personal statement.
The subject in question is of great political and social importance.
Free enterprise, free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the European Union.
Company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments, and must therefore be defended.
In Italy, Commissioner Liikanen, Goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14% of the market and which Goodyear itself defined as, 'having the most highly-skilled workforce of all its plants' , a plant which was opened with a total of EUR 85 million of European capital.
Commissioner Liikanen, we expect an authoritative intervention.
The Goodyear case is not localised and limited to the industry in question: it concerns a thousand families who have lost their jobs overnight, and are left without income or prospects for the future.
An example is the directive on the information and consultation of workers which you mentioned, that has been awaiting a solution for years and upon which the European Parliament gave its opinion very clearly in April last year.
I believe that the European Union and the Commission must ask the Council and the Member States to consider the procedures for implementing these directives in the different States as well.
This makes it possible for companies to relocate, even within the European Union, from one country to another where directives are less strictly applied, companies have greater benefits and workers are less well protected.
All this confirms our conviction that something like sanctions, which we reiterated were very important when we gave our opinion on the information and consultation directive last year, can on no account be abandoned.
It appears that Goodyear in Italy received Italian and European subsidies to the tune of approximately EUR 40 million.
This is why the Liberal Group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9.
We are all aware of the fact that restructuring, as we know it today, contradicts the stated objectives of the European Union on employment and social and territorial cohesion on all counts.
First, draft a very accurate report on the implementation of the collective redundancies and European works council directives and use all the pressure, warnings and sanctions needed in order to ensure that they are applied to the letter.
We must strengthen our legislation in order to close these loopholes; we must reform it and guarantee workers new rights, especially the right to contest the economic justification for redundancies.
Yet the current situation in Europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed, particularly, and most seriously, by companies which are making huge profits.
Yet again, workers are likely to lose their jobs.
This time, I am referring to the workers of the company Goodyear in Cisterna di Latina.
As has already been pointed out, in one month' s time, 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income.
The European Commission and the Council must, at last, assume all the necessary responsibilities, both with regard to the adoption of a common position on the information and consultation of workers and with regard to Community and national aid, which must only be granted to companies who undertake to establish long-term agreements to protect jobs.
Today, we ask the Commission to start by protecting the workers at Goodyear in Cisterna, and therefore to put as much pressure as possible on the company for it to come to an agreement as soon as possible, thereby ensuring the continued existence and operation of the Cisterna plant.
The various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers, be they by Michelin or Goodyear, are symptomatic in this respect.
Mr President, last month in the UK, in a region that neighbours mine, the Michelin Group announced significant redundancies at its Stoke-on-Trent plant due to company restructuring and increasing global competitiveness in the world market for tyres.
We need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent.
We MEPs speak often about SMEs and have now come up with a unique way of creating them.
But maybe next time, we ought to discuss CORUS, the merger which has now taken place between our Nederlandse Hoogovens and British Steel.
The government is talking to trade union and Goodyear delegates in Italy as well, in an endeavour to find a solution to the closure policy unilaterally adopted by the North American multinational in Cisterna di Latina, an area of Central Italy which has already been affected by other restructuring operations.
The Goodyear workers are putting up a magnificent fight, in the knowledge that they are defending not only their own interests but the interests of the Goodyear workers in the different European countries as well, and there are many of them: France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Poland, Luxembourg and Slovenia.
The European Union, in all of its aspects, must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes.
He acknowledged that 15 million Europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion.
The new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings.
In my region of the UK in particular the employment consequences of this merger have been severe as a result of ABB-Alsthom having announced that it was cutting 270 jobs in Britain with 95 jobs being lost in Stafford and 112 in Rugby.
It is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee.
Point 17 of the Community Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers stresses the need for consultation, adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more Member States.
EU legislation on this issue could not be clearer.
The Commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences.
What we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation.
This is the only way of respecting Article 127 of the Treaty.
I welcome the statement made by Commissioner Liikanen, but I also look for the support of this Parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course.
These events, which are unfortunately overshadowing the political decisions in this area, confirm without doubt that the development of the Tampere Agreements and Title IV of the EC Treaty must be an urgent priority.
Today' s problems cannot be solved in five years.
The legislation of the Member States must be brought into line with the agreements of the governments in Tampere, as paragraph 7 of the motion states.
This is a very important social debate in the creation of a European area in which the right to freedom, security and justice will be recognised in the future Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this House have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions.
We do not want Africa to become our cross, in fact quite the contrary.
Secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration.
Mr President, last week, in the Andalusian town of El Ejido, we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the European Union in the year 2000.
This was acknowledged by the Commission President, Romano Prodi, on 9 February when he confirmed that what had occurred in El Ejido went against the very principles of the European Union.
However, instead of producing these events which we are condemning, migration must generate social, cultural and economic enrichment.
In particular, local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia, especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property.
These authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these, as has happened with the mayor in question.
Finally, as our Nobel Prize Winner, José Saramago, has said, we are all in each other and as Jesus Christ said, although Saramago disagreed with this, we should not just love one another, more importantly, we should respect one another.
All these factors have unfortunately been accumulating over time and are now allowing those who are cruel, intolerant, racist and destructive, of which all our countries have some examples, but thankfully a minority, to light the fuse of xenophobia.
Mr President, this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in Spain fighting for human rights.
What happened at El Ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in Europe today.
What happened in Spain could happen in any country in the Union if we are not careful.
I support this proposal for a resolution, especially the points which refer to the application of Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the Structural Funds allocated and the fight against exclusion.
It would be to our credit were the European Parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in Spain and throughout the Union are respected.
Finally, and I think this is important: why not have the honesty today to relay what was disclosed in a recent UN study explaining that, if Spain wishes to preserve its work, retirement and pension potential, it is no good just giving 30 000 immigrants a year legal status; it needs to be prepared to accept 12 million immigrants between now and the year 2050?
We must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember, to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror.
Mr President, since the signature of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia.
Outside the Community arena, some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies.
This is occurring in my country, despite the government, the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens.
The objective of combating racism and xenophobia, explained in the Treaties, should be the objective of all European institutions and politicians.
President Prodi and Commissioner Diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements.
Of course progress has been made in recent years but we still have to work together towards a climate of tolerance in which racism and xenophobia are regarded as completely beyond the pale, completely unacceptable, while at the same time we deal very robustly with incidents such as the ones we are discussing this afternoon.
The European Union has already laid the basis for Community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race.
The insertion of Article 13, which was referred to during the debate, dealing with non-discrimination in the Treaty establishing the European Community, is one of the most significant changes of the last revision of the Treaties.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force the Commission has presented a package of proposals for the implementation of Article 13 including, in particular, a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin.
The European Council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration.
Those rights are, by definition, universal.
The El Ejido incidents were shocking, as several Members have said in their speeches.
But trying to take something positive from them, I hope they will spur us on to translate our aspirations about tolerance, fairness and freedom into real and effective policies that will help to transform the lives of all those families and individuals in the European Union who cry out for our understanding and our help and who deserve it, not at some indefinite moment in the future, but here today.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6 p.m.
The other reason is that this text does not, unfortunately, go very far.
I also doubt that any of you can believe that Milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of Kosovo.
Finally, I do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to Kosovo.
They declared that this war was needed to uphold human rights.
But the violations of human rights go further, and supporters of the Milosevic regime were not the only ones to trample human rights underfoot; sadly, those whom NATO set out to defend are guilty of the same.
The KPC, the Kosovo Protection Corps, must be investigated following suspicions that some members are involved in criminal activity, and appropriate steps must be taken.
If the representatives of the Council had sons, brothers or fathers in the prisons in Serbia then I feel there would be a more rapid response.
The Albanian doctor, Flora Brovina, who was sentenced in Nis on 13 January, is now in a prison hospital and is extremely ill.
In the joint resolution, we ask the Council and the Member States to double their efforts to ensure respect for minority groups and to work towards the creation of democratic structures, giving a voice to all those forces which still believe in peaceful coexistence.
What she has said here is completely justified.
Needless to say, the situation in Mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why.
The people are holding demonstrations, they are sending us e-mails.
The case of Flora Brovina is just one of many.
The fact that they are locked up in Serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in Kosovo.
As for Serbia and the thousands of abducted Albanians who continue to languish in prisons in Yugoslavia, I would like to make the following point quite plain: it is absolutely scandalous that the Council is beginning to lift sanctions against rump Yugoslavia, that those on the left of this House are demanding that more sanctions be lifted, yet not one of these motions states that this is inextricably linked by way of a condition with the release of political prisoners in Serbia, including Kosovan Albanians.
Mr President, in the present joint draft resolution, paragraph 10 urges the Council and Member States - rightly so - to double their efforts so as to make the necessary manpower and resources available for the UN police units.
This request is fully in line with the vision held by the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo, Mr Bernard Kouchner.
Moreover, half of this group is from the United States and Germany.
Paris is leaving its fellow-countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen, not more than 37, in the crisis region.
For this hardly honourable position, Mr Kouchner blames none other than the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Chevènement.
So I think that we urgently need to get to the point where we can pass a general political resolution in which we can get to the heart of the matter, especially the worrying things which we are discussing, particularly logistics support for the information services by the United States and Great Britain, generalised corruption in the regime linked to multinational oil companies and numerous other extremely 'spicy' matters which we need to go into.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the European Union.
Clearly, governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial, geostrategic or economic interests.
Yet the latter cannot exist without free and unrestricted social communication which itself cannot exist when journalists are persecuted, detained, threatened or put under pressure.
Human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time, not only by UNITA, but also by the government itself.
For example, I have today received information directly from Rafael Marques, whose situation we are discussing, according to which two correspondents from Portuguese television have been imprisoned in Angola.
The problem considered by the motion is a major one but, as has already been touched upon, could be regarded as minor in light of the even greater problem of the general situation in Angola which is experiencing a terrible humanitarian disaster.
The international community and the European Union must spell this out very clearly.
These journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime, for which they are being persecuted.
The cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace, although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible.
The people of Angola deserve better.
We would, at the same time, like to insist on other things.
The so-called civilised world should hang its head in shame.
Mr President, the facts are well-known.
On 24 December, the Angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the Portuguese paper, Expresso, to a year' s imprisonment and a fine of USD 20 000.
Another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the MPLA government party.
These are only two examples of a trend in Angola to silence any government critics.
There is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding Angola.
On the basis of a report, the human rights organisation Global Witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of Dos Santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts.
Native Americans in the US - Dineh Mr President, the American leaders do not seem to have learnt a great deal from the criticism of how they treated the Indians and other indigenous peoples.
Once again, the individuality, dignity and health of a people are being sacrificed to the higher economic interest.
Once again, we are losing a piece of our planet' s cultural and ecological heritage, despite the many treaties and resolutions on human rights, on the protection of minorities, rights of indigenous peoples, etc., which have already been ratified.
It is of key importance that the American authorities provide greater clarity regarding the way in which they are trying to offer these families a dignified alternative in keeping with a traditional way of life.
It is also important that a debate is held where the long-term effects of mining in this region are discussed and weighed up in economic, ecological and social terms.
Mr President, as Mr Van Hecke rightly pointed out, this is about human rights and about the rights of indigenous peoples, and Parliament must speak up, especially vis-à-vis good friends, and the United States is a good friend.
It is important to point this out.
The area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable.
We need to continue to stand up for these rights, especially in our own Member States and societies, but also elsewhere.
The area in Arizona which is to be the New Land for the Dineh Indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in US history.
The fight of these Indians is being backed by more than 250 NGOs and, thanks to the efforts of the Belgian 'Mother Earth' organisation, we are being kept informed of this situation.
Today, the Dineh Indians are facing their final fight for their right to land, for their right to dignity and, above all, for their right to their way of life.
The Dineh people belong to the North-American Navajo Indians.
This relocation is, of course, unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic, social and cultural terms.
The Relocation Act was pushed through in Congress by a group representing the coal mining industry.
The United States administration, the coal industry and all of us need to acquit ourselves of our responsibility and provide a sound alternative: either the soil is cleaned or the Dineh Indians are allocated a proper place where provision is made for all kinds of support, be it in the psychological, social, cultural or budgetary field.
We would ask the Council and the Commission for clear and prompt action and a political initiative which does not overlook the issue of human rights.
We insist that these violations of human rights are investigated.
The fate of Andrey Babitsky, the correspondent in Grozny of Radio Liberty, who was arrested by Russian troops, is a dramatic example of Russian policy.
It contravenes Article 3 of the Geneva Convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic case of the courageous Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which Russia has sunk.
Without any hesitation, the Russian Minister for Internal Affairs, Vladimir Rushailo, earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question.
The victim of this exchange is said to be the 35-year-old war correspondent of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Andrey Babitsky.
Cambodia Mr President, Commissioner, it is because of my experience in the Balkans, when I was there on duty, that I call on you today to support the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to bring those responsible for the genocide in Cambodia to trial before an independent court under the aegis of the United Nations.
If we want to help the Cambodians with the task of reconciliation on which they have embarked, we need to try and sentence those responsible at the highest level and thus exonerate the simple underlings and all those who were willingly or forcibly dragged along behind them.
In March of last year, a member of Sam Rengie' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of Kandal.
Mr President, there is a new doctrine taking shape in international law, according to which no country can treat its citizens or the people living within its territory in any way it likes, and the sovereignty of the state can no longer prevent outside intervention when there are gross violations of human rights, not even when the government is legally or even democratically elected.
At the same time, the struggle against impunity is under threat.
First of all, on Kosovo, the Commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards Kosovo, as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in Serb jails.
Our efforts in Kosovo, as elsewhere in the wider region, are directed at short and medium-term recovery and long-term stabilisation.
Our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and, in particular, to try to build confidence between the various communities.
The plight of Kosovar Albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing.
We call on everyone, within and outside Kosovo, to support these common aims, to support UNMIK and KFOR in their efforts to achieve them.
We fully support the work of the UN through UNUA, given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in Angola.
An essential element will be support for democracy and human rights, including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society.
The European Union has condemned the use of anti-personnel landmines and we are supporting de-mining operations through an international NGO.
On the question of the indigenous peoples in the US, I am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the US authorities will have been noted by them.
The Commission delegation in Moscow participated in a European Union Troika démarche on the eleventh of this month.
In the meantime, the conclusions of the General Affairs Council earlier this week have confirmed the message which I have given today.
The European Union underlined its full support for the efforts of the United Nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former Khmer Rouge leaders.
The Commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law, democratic principles and human rights with Cambodian authorities through the EC-Cambodia Cooperation Agreement which entered into force on 1 November last year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Tisza and Danube Rivers are currently experiencing an environmental disaster on a huge scale.
This disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a European Union.
After all, this is a candidate country we are talking about, and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the EU environmental rules in time.
The delta of the Danube is in danger.
As in Spain in April 1998, as in Brittany and the Vendée since last December, once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat.
The European Parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger, which threatens our environment, upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations.
This new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries.
The authorities in these counties, which are still very frail from an environmental point of view, need to overcome numerous obstacles.
The efforts already being made need to be stepped up.
Mr President, when the Doñana disaster occurred, the non-governmental organisation, the World Wide Fund for Nature, gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in Europe.
Mr President, the Commission' s White Paper on environmental liability, which was put forward several days ago - on 9 February to be precise - cites the tanker accident that contaminated and poisoned the French coast as the most recent incident in the series of environmental disasters caused by human beings.
In addition, I believe it is imperative that we draft and implement a directive on comprehensive environmental liability within the European Union with all speed.
But early reports suggest that the poisoning of the Lepos, Tisza, Somes and Danube Rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy.
As with all such disasters it is the long-term consequences that are the most pernicious.
That is certainly the view of my colleague, Commissioner Wallström, who I know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today.
The reason she cannot do so is because, as some honourable Members have pointed out, she is in Hungary and Romania to see for herself the extent of the damage and how best we can help the Hungarian and Romanian authorities to tackle the crisis.
The polluter-pays principle is a cornerstone of European Union environmental policy.
It is mirrored in the International Convention for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River and it should be applied in this case.
The Union has mobilised some EUR 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the Danube River basin.
The incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of European civil protection, along the lines suggested by President Prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two Members today.
The debate is closed.
However, the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment.
Moreover, it is all just words, because the Socialist governments, which are now in a majority in Europe, are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right-wing governments.
The real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures, but banning them.
The Swedish Christian Democrats would emphasise the value of the European Union' s and the European Parliament' s concentrating on their basic tasks and not undermining the value of their actions in these areas by also acting in areas outside their jurisdiction.
It would be appropriate, therefore, to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of Union citizens and the desirability, in both economic and social terms, of promoting the European tourist industry.
It is an obvious truth, and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators, that thanks to tourism, many Mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants, and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating.
This reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries' petroleum industry, because it requires huge investment in structures, infrastructures, entrepreneurship, professional expertise, social services and training; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities: agriculture, small firms in the industrial and craft sector, transport, services, retail sector, training, etc; that the development of the Community' s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the Community objectives; that the varied geography and historical, cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited.
Those figures are incomparably higher for some countries.
You see, the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport, its reduced cost, and competition from new centres of tourism outside Europe.
Furthermore, 90% of businesses active in tourism are small or medium-sized, the very enterprises which form the living cells of our social and economic tissue, which are called upon to tackle the new obstacles and respond positively to the challenges of this global development.
The introduction of these new technologies is not a threat, but a new opportunity for our tourism because it offers the potential to provide new and innovative tourism products and services, which our tourism needs for an ever-lengthening tourism season, so that it can attract new customers and offer new and alternative forms of tourism.
The Committee on Women' s Rights paid particular attention to the issue of education, because according to official figures women account for 53% of those engaged in tourism services, and in parallel, they form a majority among the working people most easily affected by social and economic change.
We must not forget that people working in tourism, especially women, encounter particular problems such as seasonal work, the need to renew contracts from one year to the next, social protection, lack of interest in continuing education, and reduced possibilities for development.
This does not follow automatically: often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry, without this being matched by an increase in employment.
We fully endorse the Community measures which were recommended in the Commission communication: advantageous taxation, that is, fiscal measures that offer conditions that are truly competitive in this market to the production sector - 95% of which, I would point out, is made up of small and medium-sized businesses, which is equivalent to 2 million small and medium-sized businesses in the European tourism sector; it awards special attention to vocational qualifications in the European Union, and therefore to investing in training; finally, it undertakes to make the job market transparent.
Finally, we consider that tourism can, in addition to being a growth factor, be a factor for democracy, and in this regard we are asking the Commission for a clear, conscious commitment.
The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty.
This is something I favour, but currently as part of a minority in my own Group.
The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism.
At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks.
Mr President, I too believe that tourism has a very important role to play, not just in our European regions, but throughout the world, because it is a great asset when it comes to economic and social development.
But it is also a very vulnerable sector, as we recently saw with the oil slick.
But these regions need to take real account of positive and negative experiences in other tourist sectors.
I know that action is being taken against this so-called tourism elsewhere, but we must remember the European Union' s responsibility at this level.
Finally, I should like to refer to the tourism which gives citizens contact with the outside world and democracy.
And EU funds have also made a considerable contribution to this in the past.
Within these regions, a huge range of problems have their part to play.
As has already been said in this debate, three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for.
Europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position.
The importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one.
Tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing a very important sector that directly involves over 10 million jobs in the European Union and helps the more or less disadvantaged, island and remote areas to stand on their own feet.
And of course, tourism creates more jobs and contributes to the stimulation of employment, especially among society' s more sensitive sections: women and young people.
In our view, the axes which could create a basis for its support are: the addition of material capital for tourism in the new review which will also constitute a legal base for the sector, the framing of a Community tourism policy to support the sector without disturbing the operation of the tourism market, coordination of the tourism policy with other, parallel Community policies which affect it directly or indirectly, a study of the sector, and the adoption of medium and long-term measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourism as a product.
Mr President, Commissioner, the new attitude adopted recently by the Commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who, in recent years, have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the Community framework.
Tourism is a social, economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most European citizens, either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services.
Moreover, Europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries, even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products.
Since the Treaties contain no specific legal basis for a real Community tourism policy, the European Union must help to improve and encourage cooperation in this sector, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in order to take practical advantage of the potential which tourism offers in terms of employment.
Vocational training and a mobile workforce are important tools in the strategy to fight unemployment in Europe especially, as far as tourist service providers are concerned, in meeting multicultural demands and ensuring that services are tailored to customers.
It is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible.
As the report notes, the adoption by the Member States of tax incentives for SMEs in order to reduce labour costs would be an excellent way of promoting growth in employment in labour-intensive sectors and, consequently, in the tourism sector.
The income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the Community.
In addition, tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement, insofar as it makes us more aware of other European cultures and thus helps respect for European ways of life to develop.
Bearing in mind the failed efforts of the last decade, as highlighted by Mr Koch, does Commissioner Liikanen believe that he can do something during his term of office to ensure that the Community dimension of tourism becomes a proper policy, given the importance that all the previous speakers have given to tourism in terms of employment?
Senior citizens are always on holiday, all year round, from 1 January through to 31 December because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year.
On the other hand, we are aware that in practically all developed countries there is a lack of manpower in the tourism sector, which cannot be completely overcome, even in times of high unemployment.
In 1998 alone, total income from tourism and leisure activities was 450 billion Schilling.
The dialogue with the two sides of industry, as well as with local authorities, must be stepped up.
I am glad to see that the Commission and Parliament are converging towards the same goal in this area.
An essential condition in order to make good progress in the work in this respect is that the cooperation with Member States and the industry and with other partners be as fruitful as possible.
Coordination of Community tourism activities with other important issues such as regional policies, transport, employment, environment, culture and competition must strongly involve Member States and the tourism industry itself.
Quality products in order to improve competitiveness, sustainability in order to protect resources and innovation in particular through the use of information technologies.
Direct business to consumer contact will supplement, and sometimes also reduce, the currently, nearly exclusive business to business relationship.
The implementation of the directive on statistics aims at improving the knowledge of market structures and trends in European tourism and its industry.
A report on the work to be undertaken, together with the Member States and the tourism industry should be available in about two years from now.
Mr Medina Ortega asked me some very concrete questions.
As regards the role of tourism policy in the communities concerned, we must understand that many policy sectors have a huge impact on the framework on tourism.
I have been working now in all industrial and service sectors, but when you look at the organisational structure in tourism it is almost impossible.
It is very difficult for a Commissioner to try to work in an area where there are dozens of different organisations whose representativeness needs to be ascertained every time.
To strengthen the role of tourism in Europe, the organisations should do what has happened in most economic sectors: seek better focus, better coordination and concentrated activities.
Then we could have a solid dialogue in our everyday work.
Tourism is also in the list of subjects which do not figure as new areas of competence for the EU.
The general agreement between both institutions in this field must not keep the Commission from following the most pragmatic approach in achieving our common objectives.
The debate is closed.
