Legal protection of designs (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/71/EC on the legal protection of designs - C6-0119/2004 -.
This situation is entirely unsatisfactory for the internal market.
What is being proposed here and what is on the table is essentially what the Commission has put forward, namely liberalisation of the market in spare parts, albeit with a five-year transitional period for Member States in which spare parts are covered by design protection.
We have a single European market and - as Commissioner McCreevy quite rightly observed - a situation in which two-thirds of the Member States have liberalised their aftermarkets and therefore do not protect the design of spare parts, while the other third do.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (DE) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after lengthy debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs came out in favour of complete liberalisation of the secondary market in visible spare parts.
We have just heard from Mr Lehne that this issue has been under discussion for 17 years.
I naturally support the right to intellectual property and its protection - no doubt about that - but that right is no barrier to market liberalisation.
There has, after all, been only one case in which a vehicle manufacturer has brought an action against another manufacturer for design-right infringement in the primary market, despite the fact that there have actually been some very striking similarities between models produced by different manufacturers.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (ES) Madam President, as the rapporteur Mr Lehne mentioned, this issue has concerned the House for 17 years.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I would like to start, like many other colleagues today, by stressing the importance of intellectual property rights and the protection of design in general.
As many have stressed, we have already waited for 17 years, and we have to wait five more.
This is a good balance between intellectual property rights and the rights of consumers.
We have 260 million vehicle owners in Europe, who are waiting to get a 'spare parts and repair' clause which is well functioning.
The scaremongering by the automotive industry that this would result in the loss of 50 000 employees from the automotive sector or EUR 2 billion losses to vehicle manufacturers is absolute nonsense.
The repair clause is beneficial to consumers.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of the market in visible vehicle spare parts is to be welcomed for three reasons.
I can only echo the words spoken by Mr Lehne, who I wish to thank at this point for all his work: we should bring this matter to a conclusion now and avoid any further delay at second reading.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the subject of today's debate is liberalisation of the market in spare parts.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I am not an old hand who has been dealing with this matter for 17 years, but I am none the less delighted that this compromise worked out by the Committee on Legal Affairs - and our thanks are due to the rapporteur for that - will finally enable us to move into a new phase.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my fundamental disagreement with the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 98/71/EC on the legal protection of designs.
The transitional period of five years proposed by the PPE-DE Group for the entry into force of the directive is adequate and, in my opinion, more than generous.
The introduction of the repair clause achieves a fair balance between legal protection of intellectual property and the need for freedom of competition.
It also protects 260 million European drivers against a monopoly in the purchase of must-match spare parts for the repair of motor vehicles.
Intellectual property is, after all, a right granted to producers, but it is a right that they must not abuse in an anti-competitive way.
Let us put this issue to rest and let us go on and tackle the real issue, which is how we have a thriving car industry in the future. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a number of amendments, Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs adopted the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of designs or models.
The EU regularly issues reminders as to the decisive role of the protection of intellectual property in business competitiveness.
We have been discussing this for 17 years, but up to now we have not managed to reach a final agreement on this important economic law or to harmonise the laws of the Member States to a sufficient degree.
Let us make a choice for the consumer. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal intends to allow companies other than manufacturers to produce spare parts, on the basis that this will reduce the price of parts and insurance.
That is why, at the very least, we lend our support to the rapporteur's compromise and call on the House to vote for the amendment as signed by 53 Members for a transitional period of eight years. (DA) Madam President, we have witnessed how the liberalisation of old monopolies in Europe has created stimulating competition within trade and industry as regards better products and lower prices for consumers.
Secondly, consumers will experience falling prices for spare car parts because there will be more competition between manufacturers.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all MEPs who have contributed to this debate.
The full liberalisation of the spare parts aftermarket promises net benefits in many respects.
Lastly, the proposed repair clause is derived from and is in full accord with the principles of intellectual property protection.
The vote will take place on Wednesday 12 December 2007.
