rapporteur. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to say a brief word about the value of vocational education.
It is important that vocational education is developed in every Member State of the EU.
We know that vocational education is organised in very different ways in different Member States.
This proposal for a reference framework is not a threat to how Member States organise vocational education around Europe, but we can build on the tradition we have, irrespective of whether it is organised at local, regional or national level.
Of course, there has been a common framework for quality assurance and vocational education before, but the Member States now wish to develop this framework, in particular, from the perspective of increased globalisation and the need for better quality education.
We need to share experience.
Together with the Member States, we have also been careful to say that the indicators included here should not be seen as an instrument of control, but as a resource for the Member States.
It should be possible to use them when they develop their systems and when they carry out quality assurance on them.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Figel', ladies and gentlemen, when the topic turns to education in Europe, everybody talks about Bologna - and rightly so.
Since, in 1999, the EU Member States decided to create a common European higher education area by 2010, many barriers to mobility have been removed.
The idea is for vocational education and training (VET) to proceed according to the very same principle.
Firstly, I would like to show my appreciation of the work of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
People and Member States have spoken a great deal about the Bologna Process but now more and more is being said about the importance of skills, vocational education and training and the Copenhagen Process.
It includes ways in which the performance of VET can be monitored and it measures the improvement of VET at both system and provider levels.
The approach to quality assurance is reflected in the general principles contained in the Annex to the 2007 recommendation on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework, so it is already part of the established EQARF.
I think the compromises achieved in the process are very important.
This is to be opened much more now by ECVET, the European credit transfer system for VET.
In my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the PSE Group for this report and a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to express how pleased I am that the implementation of the European Credit System for Vocational Education and Training has been approved.
If we want a functioning internal market, that means that we also need a viable, well trained workforce, thus ensuring that, as we build Europe, not just the economic aspects but also those to do with work and skills are addressed.
This report concerns not just education and training but also culture and employment, and we also decided on the issue of professional skills as part of the Bologna and Copenhagen processes, which are also worth taking into account in this connection.
Although I know that education and training fall very largely within the competence of the Member States, we can nevertheless encourage them at European level to work towards a real assurance of the quality of vocational education and training, the standard of education and learning outcomes.
This is very important for mobility.
We need to remember, with the threat of an economic downturn, that investment in training and education results in a reliable, good quality and skilled workforce.
It is crucial if we want to achieve innovations and have new skills and competences, and if we want to strengthen our economic base, hence increasing GNP.
This is the message that we should give the Member States and their decision makers, and we, representing the European Union, should encourage them in this.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these two recommendations of the European Parliament and of the Council should be a powerful impetus for continuous improvement of vocational education and training (VET) throughout Europe, through concerted planning, energetic implementation, assessment and review.
The status VET enjoys varies greatly among the 27 Member States.
Yet we would do well to exert pressure, at least gentle pressure, to ensure that the best models and standards gradually win through in all EU Member States; starting now, I would say, rather than in the distant future.
At all events, VET should enjoy the same status as general education throughout Europe.
I consider it important to support Point No. 1 in the draft report of Mr Mann, which emphasises the fundamental importance of personal and professional development of individuals.
In conclusion, I would like to stress that the proposed compromises use the term 'lifelong learning' and thus quite rightly widen the circle of citizens participating in the education process and therefore I support it. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, quality assurance for vocational education and training is essential, not only for certifying the lifelong learning process of each European worker, but also for facilitating mobility throughout the Union.
An important element in this process is the assessment of vocational education and training itself.
It is also important to facilitate, and not just facilitate but also encourage, the participation of local and regional authorities in linking the regional and national qualification frameworks with the European credit system for vocational education and training.
Mr President, only in this way can we increase the mobility and transfer of qualifications between different sectors of the economy and between different labour markets, thereby making a decisive contribution to social cohesion and to greater equality of opportunities throughout the European Union.
Mr President, first of all I want to congratulate Mr Andersson and Mr Mann for their excellent work and, indeed, good outcomes.
Most of us here this evening will agree that the European Quality Assurance Reference Framework for vocational education and training will prove to be a very useful instrument for helping Member States to promote and monitor continuous improvement in their vocational education and training systems.
The operation of this framework is voluntary, and I hope Commissioner Figeľ is right when he says that it reflects not only our diversity but also our maturity.
Based on the new approach of the reference framework, Member States can be given assistance in achieving general criteria, comparability and compatibility in terms of their education offering.
This should be achievable without infringing on the autonomy that Member States have in running their own vocational education and training systems.
Transparency, cooperation and high standards in organising the processes to enhance the quality of vocational education and training through participation in the European Quality Network must be fundamental national guidelines in this process. - (CS) I would like to mention briefly that vocational education and training in the European Union operates on a national and regional level autonomously, in accordance with diverse standards and thus creates a broad spectrum of different fields of knowledge and different qualifications.
Europe therefore needs common criteria for ensuring transparency and transferability between the many educational currents in Europe.
I personally see the European reference framework as a tool for encouraging quality improvements in vocational education and training systems in the various Member States. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal concerns professional training at various levels, depending on intelligence, motivation, interests and market needs.
The strategies for lifelong learning and mobility are vital to increasing the chances of finding employment on the labour market.
Mr President, I am here to support my neighbour, Thomas Mann, and I want to congratulate both him and the other rapporteur for their work.
I worry that education is now a business without that element of quality control and the idea of cross-border movement of workers requires us to have an EU-wide, coordinated approach to vocational education and training. (PL) Mr President, the proposed system for the transfer and accumulation of credits in the field of education and vocational training should contribute to the mobility of workers within the borders of the European Union.
I believe that we must now set new standards in order to demonstrate to the population that lifelong learning plays an absolutely crucial role, in particular, for small- and medium-sized businesses, that we want to keep those employed there in their jobs and that we want to train them better in order to create future opportunities for them in the marketplace.
The European Union plays a very central and essential role in this area, and I would be very pleased if we were to adopt the Small Business Act tomorrow.
Through such instruments we can deliver better conditions for motivation, mobilisation for innovation and all these important objectives.
I think that this reference framework builds on goals at EU level while, at the same time, we have confidence in the Member States.
We will incorporate the evaluation of levels 1 to 8 of the EQR and my excellent neighbour is, of course, absolutely right that this has to happen.
Young people are entitled to see that they are made use of, that they are needed and that they can further their personal development, at all times in accordance with national legal provisions.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 18 December 2008.
The need to implement ECVET is based on the desire to reduce the variations in learning outcomes, due to the fact that there are different vocational training systems.
The implementation of ECVET needs to be based on a common commitment to observing the principles for guaranteeing good quality vocational education and training.
