It is for that reason that I have voted in favour of the Daul report's adoption.
in writing. - (EL) The Commission proposal on the development of energy crops and biomass production crops endeavours to mitigate the impasses created by the new CAP in the rural economy, for workers in agricultural product processing industries and for small and medium-sized holdings, from its first year in application and which will intensify on its completion.
The texts therefore renew, for an eight year period - from 2006 to 2013 - the cooperation programmes previously concluded with the European Union, in 1995 and in 2000.
in writing. (SV) It is unacceptable for the EU now to attempt to bind all its Member States to a third party in an international treaty.
The rapporteur, Mr Catania, has chosen to cite 26 assorted articles in his report as support for the proposal.
This report is one that, naturally, I voted in favour of.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission's proposal, on which this report is based, is aimed at bringing Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 into line with the European Council Agreement of 15/16 December 2005 on the financial perspective 2007-2013, as regards the capping of allocations from the Cohesion Fund, and as regards the exemption of Portugal from the application of the cofinancing requirement for the amount of EUR 320 million.
This week (the week commencing 23 October 2006), the EU's Court of Auditors observed for the thirteenth time in a row that it could not guarantee that more than a small part of the EUR 105 billion from EU budget had been used correctly or for the purposes intended.
Conservative MEPs condemned the December 2005 agreement and therefore cannot support proposals originating from it.
Approving the change to the deadline for achieving the objectives set out - from 2021 to 2017 - as proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is indicative of Parliament's ambitious attitude to this issue and the extent of its commitment to seeking 'good environmental status' for the marine environment.
The key issue is respect for the Member States' sovereignty, in particular over their exclusive economic zones and their ability to implement independent measures to defend their fisheries resources.
The marine environment requires protection and conservation.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal follows on from the 'Community Strategy concerning mercury' adopted in January 2005 and is aimed at reducing the use of products containing mercury by banning the marketing of devices containing mercury.
Their exclusion and that of measuring instruments over 50 years old from this proposal is an important measure, because it protects existing small manufacturers, and because the mercury is usually recycled and reused.
in writing. - (FR) In January 2005, the European Parliament approved my report on the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 by a very large majority.
That is why I regret that - notwithstanding the opinion of our rapporteur, Mrs Sornosa - 327 of my fellow Members have seen fit to limit the bans whereby items such as thermometers and barometers that contain mercury and are intended for the general public could no longer be placed on the market.
They will be achieved, despite the resistance displayed by the votes today. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the MEPs from the Czech Civil Democratic Party today refused to support the Goepel report on the proposal for a Council regulation laying down rules for voluntary modulation of direct payments.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against the rapporteur's position and therefore in favour of the Commission's legislative proposal because 'modulation' - that is to say, the possibility of transferring up to 20% of appropriations granted to farmers receiving more than EUR 5 000 per year from the first to the second pillar of the CAP - is an essential instrument for introducing a measure of justice into the distribution of agricultural aid.
In Portugal's case, the proposed mode of application would make it possible to increase rural development aid by some EUR 50 million per year, which would benefit many farmers who are currently excluded from any support.
We feel that the Commission should table a fresh proposal in order to create genuine modulation, which would guarantee greater fairness and release financial resources by introducing a maximum limit to aid per holding (capping) and a percentage increase in aid for farmers who receive the least from the CAP (modulation), for example, by proposing a 15% to 20% increase for farmers who receive less than EUR 5 000 in aid and, in addition to this figure, taking various circumstances into account.
in writing. - (FR) At a time when the EU is facing an upsurge in nationalist sentiment, the Commission's proposal to introduce a voluntary modulation of direct payments within the framework of the common agricultural policy signals a new stage in the disintegration of Community solidarity.
With this in mind, I voted in favour of the Goepel report, which was presented today in plenary, and, in particular, in favour of the explicit request outrightly to reject the European Commission's proposal.
in writing. (SV) We are voting against this report, but we are abstaining from voting on the Commission's proposal in this area.
The Council, Parliament and the Commission had, in the Financial Perspective, agreed to review the EU's expenditure on - among other things - the common agricultural policy, but not before 2013.
The Commission is preparing a new attack on small and medium-sized farm holdings in its proposal to reduce direct payments by 20%.
in writing. (SV) In this commentary on the strategy on the marine environment, the rapporteur brings up many interesting and important issues.
in writing. (PT) This own-initiative report is aimed at creating a single European market for mortgage credit and the promotion thereof at cross-border level.
We therefore voted against the report.
That is why the Dutch People's Party for Freedom and Democracy delegation in the European Parliament deemed it necessary to vote against paragraph 45 of the Purvis report and, indeed, against the report as a whole.
I find it regrettable that, since none of the big groups dared apply for a roll-call vote on this matter, the European citizen can only guess how individual MEPs have voted.
Expansion of this market across borders may develop naturally through subsidiaries or branches abroad on a more widespread basis, if the market is encouraged in other areas.
