Mr President, firstly I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Chmielewski, and to both the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for the report.
The current situation not only harms the cod stocks in the Baltic but is also threatening the fishing sector reliant on this resource.
I can therefore only accept Amendments 1 and 5, which correspond to the provisions of the plan, such as the request to specify the status of the eastern cod stock in the first recital.
Amendment 4 is acceptable in principle.
The margin of tolerance has been raised to 10%, except for cod, and the rules on discharging have been deleted, which should correspond to the provisions of Amendments 14 and 16 of the report.
The report proposes to reduce the valuation period from three to two years and to introduce a provision on the monitoring of the socio-economic impact of the plan in Amendments 17 to 19.
The Committee on Fisheries also adopted the suggestion made by the Council of Ministers regarding adjustment of the margin of error in fishing log book entries from 8% to 10%.
The proposal on increasing the minimum size of cod caught in the Baltic to 40 cm was endorsed too.
I refer to Article No 4 of the plan.
We have a shared responsibility for ensuring that it is possible to fish for cod in the Baltic Sea in the future too.
The situation for cod in the Baltic Sea is a very serious one.
There is obviously no majority in favour of this in the House at present, but I nonetheless hope that a majority is able to support Amendments 20 to 22, one of the provisions of which is that the largest permitted catch shall be based on advice from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea.
I regret that the Committee on Fisheries has not taken that one key position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety into consideration in connection with managing the cod stocks of the Baltic Sea.
In this regard, an annual reduction of 10% has been identified as the minimum in order to be able to detect changes in the development of the stock status or the sector deriving from the plan.
