Decision-making in the common European asylum system (debate) The next item is the report by Hubert Pirker, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on asylum: practical cooperation: quality of decision-making in the common European asylum system.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the proposals we have drawn up in this report take us one step closer to a common European asylum system.
The third is the drawing-up of a joint database on the situation in countries of origin, so that all the competent civil servants in the various Member States have the same information at their disposal regarding this situation and thus are all in a position to take sure decisions on the basis of the same information source.
Many of the concerns expressed by the European Parliament in this report are addressed in our Green Paper on the future of asylum policy, which I proposed on 6 June and which the Commission has adopted, and on which I intend to launch a broad European debate.
Based on the results of this wide debate and after a public hearing to be held on 18 October with the full involvement of Parliament, I will issue a policy plan at the beginning of 2008.
rapporteur on behalf of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has always been committed to setting up a common asylum system by 2010.
Nonetheless, the need to improve cooperation in relation to information on countries of origin should not be limited to keeping a generalised list of third countries, as the reliability of such a list would be uncertain.
The point is that we are working towards 2010 and, if all goes according to plan, we should have a common asylum system up and running by then.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I would like to welcome this report because over recent months we have clearly seen a fall in the overall number of asylum-seekers coming to the European Union from the key asylum-producing countries.
But that number is of course now increasing, partly as a result of Iraq, and the number of people coming to the European Union because of extreme poverty - the people that we see coming to Malta, Lampedusa and so on - is a huge issue for this House and for the European Union.
We also believe that the quality of asylum decision-making is extremely poor across the European Union.
If this report can move us towards a better common asylum system, then it is worthy of support in this House, and we in the Socialist Group will be supporting this report fully.
I would also like to point out the need to create reception areas for asylum seekers in safe third countries outside of the European Union, since Dum Bruxelles o Strasburgo consulitur, Saguntum expugnatur [while Brussels or Strasbourg talk, Saguntum falls], in the sense that the landings continue, the assault by criminal organisations continues and, above all, this tragedy of trafficking in human flesh continues, the consequences of which we are all aware of.
We are also looking forward to the debate on Dublin II, although our group will support Amendment 17 on that.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, 20 June, is World Refugee Day, which makes this debate particularly fitting.
I call on the Council and Commission to display this will in a bid to prevent new victims. (SK) First of all, I too would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for drafting the report on this serious topic.
I welcome the strengthening of practical cooperation between Member States in view of the need for solidarity in dealing with problems which Member States without internal borders cannot address effectively.
I concur with his view that decisions on granting refugee status should be taken more quickly, more fairly, and more predictably, which in itself is the ultimate objective of introducing a common European asylum system.
These are difficult issues, but we have an obligation to solve the problems if we are serious about introducing a common asylum procedure in 2010.
I hope that this report means that we are now taking the next step and that all the EU countries and we MEPs will together assume responsibility not only for solving these urgent problems but also for finding long-term solutions. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the right to asylum is universal, and that is why we need a European response - which, to some degree, we have already given.
Therefore, I should like to express my sincere thanks, and refrain from using up my full speaking time so that we can go home earlier. (PL) Mr President, it is very important, in terms of cooperation and improving the quality of decision-making process within the framework of the common asylum system, to create greater flexibility in the use of the European Refugee Fund.
The rapporteur, whom I would like to thank for his excellent report, refers to this problem in a number of the points he raises.
