We want chemicals to be handled with care, but the same care should apply where the safety of the people here is concerned. &#160;&#160; We have noted your request. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should just like to call the Bureau’s attention to one matter.
I hope that nothing similar will happen again because it caused a host of problems when I needed to explain that I did not support these amendments at all. &#160;&#160; Mr Andersson, your comment shall now appear in the Minutes and in the voting list, and you may therefore rest assured that the matter is clear. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would just ask that, following the vote on all the amendments, we have a five-minute break in which to find out what has been adopted and to decide whether to vote in favour of the proposal or against it, or else abstain from voting in the end. &#160;&#160; Granted, Mr Bonde. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the proposal is that the following be added at the end of Amendment 356: ‘highly-diffused inorganic substances or substances on which there is sufficient risk information, such as sodium chloride, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, calcium oxide, gold, silver, aluminium, magnesium, silicates, glasses and ceramic frits’.
Instead, it seems to me that the vote has been very positive and has made the regulation more balanced.
We shall therefore be voting in favour of the proposal.
We have, however, obtained a good decision with regard to the granting of authorisations.
We shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal, but do so without enthusiasm. &#160;&#160; Since all the other groups are stating their views, we understand that this has been a complicated vote.
Nevertheless, we are generally in agreement regarding this project, and I should to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Sacconi, for his commitment and for the work he has done. &#160;&#160; Mr Clark has the floor for a point of order. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order, in view of the controversy on the massive number of amendments, I quote Rule 53(1), which reads: ‘Where the Commission proposal as a whole is approved, but on the basis of amendments which have also been adopted, the vote on the draft legislative resolution shall be postponed until the Commission has stated its position on each of Parliament’s amendments. ‘If the Commission is not in a position to make such a statement at the end of Parliament’s vote on its proposal, it shall inform the President or the committee responsible as to when it will be in a position to do so; the proposal shall then be placed on the draft agenda of the first part-session thereafter.’ Commissioner, we in this House are as respectful of the Rules of Procedure as the Commission, at least, and you have therefore been invited to set out your position on each of the amendments.
The Commission will have to reflect on the best way to move forward in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to request a fresh vote, since most of those voting clearly supported the proposal.
I hereby request an individual vote. &#160;&#160; No, Mr Baco, there has been a very clear majority of votes against.
I believe that this is something that should be provided for in the future, in order to ensure that the Council is here to listen to Parliament’s views in relation to this kind of report. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, late yesterday evening there were also wide-ranging debates on the issues of weapons and the arms problem and, in view of the fact that it was necessary to dispel a few concerns in connection with my report, I have carried on working at this time, with the result that two oral amendments are necessary.
So, after paragraph 33 there is a new section and, in order to dispel concerns and to ensure the full support of the socialists, I fully confirm that the title of the section has been changed, and is [in English] ‘Strengthening effective multilateralism’.
Thank you for your attention; I ask you to support it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to ask before the final vote whether we adopted this oral amendment by the rapporteur, otherwise we have to abstain.
I do not think we voted on the oral amendment. &#160;&#160; I understand that we have already approved it, Mr Wiersma. &#160;&#160; That concludes Question Time.
We voted in favour today, even though this legislation it is not as strong as we would have wished, because we need legislation that will protect lives and workers’ health, as well as the environment.
We are very disappointed with the Nassauer-Sacconi compromise on registration.
REACH should be a matter of common sense.
Companies should know what they are doing and should be held accountable for their products. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that the REACH compromise is a text that will serve as a good basis for negotiations with the Council.
My group and I have voted in favour of the part on authorisation being adopted, and we did so, even though we are opposed to temporary authorisation for substances being restricted to five years.
We wish to state in this regard that we are, in principle, in favour of this block, but would have welcomed it if these five years had been deleted, since decision-making on a case-by-case basis is vastly preferable and would be much easier for the industry to manage.
Thus, the balance shifted in favour of restrictions which are so burdensome that they have the potential to drive parts of our chemical industry out of the EU. &#160;&#160; Despite some excessive provisions, particularly with regard to administrative authorisations, I voted for the amended draft regulation on the control of chemicals (REACH).
Recent medical evidence shows that each one of us has 300 more chemicals in our bodily tissues and blood than our grandparents did.
But anyone who recalls the asbestos tragedy will know that money invested in the testing now can save thousands of lives and millions of pounds downstream.
Indeed the level of divergence on this issue is reflected by the many amendments which have been put forward and which led to such a long and arduous voting session.
Today I cast my vote against the report of Mr Sacconi because I believe that the amendments by Parliament have produced a proposal which would be too weak to protect our health and safety.
This is one of the most important pieces of legislation that the Parliament has dealt with since I was elected in 1999.
Its purpose is to protect human health but the substantial influence of the chemical industry has resulted in a proposal full of loopholes.
It has been approved almost unanimously by the Socialists, the Greens, the members of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group and a large number of the liberals on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and, in my opinion, this compromise of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is the position to support.
I voted against the compromise proposed by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe on the registration procedure, because it reduces considerably the number of substances to which REACH applies.
Other important points have been adopted and I voted in favour of Mr Sacconi’s report. &#160;&#160; .
Indeed, the UK Presidency accepted Germany’s request to postpone the decision on REACH, scheduled for the next Council of Ministers, on the pretext of the country’s new government being delayed in taking up its duties.
In any event, this is the first reading of a text that is very much a backward step, although there were some positive aspects on which progress was made and which must now be promoted until negotiations with the Council have been concluded.
Chemicals are present everywhere, and the recent increase in certain types of cancer or leukaemia has to make us question the use of certain chemicals.
I wanted to approach this text from the angle of public health and environmental protection.
A powerful REACH system is at least some guarantee for all our people.
In the same way, it is important to exclude all natural substances from this system.
On the other hand, I was in favour of the amendment calling for the chemicals involved in the making of cigarettes to be subject to the rules of the system put in place.
The desired balance, apart from all emotional considerations, accompanied by the creation of a strong and independent European agency, should make it possible for us to achieve these important objectives for our health, our environment, and also for our industry.
This new legislation will require manufacturers to prove chemicals are safe before they are used, ensure that the most dangerous chemicals are replaced with safer alternatives, and introduce a right to know about the health rules of chemicals in products we use.
Only 143 chemicals have been subject to official controls in the last thirteen years, yet this new EU law at a stroke introduces a comprehensive system of regulation for all 30,000 chemicals on the European Market.
I have therefore supported the line taken by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
the compromise reached by Mr Sacconi and Mr Nassauer on the subject of registration, which markedly reduces bureaucratic demands; 2.
For months, a number of chemical companies have tried to torpedo a measure that has been necessary for the environment and public health for a long time.
This has resulted in a weakened REACH, in which registration has been eroded and a positive result was secured only with regard to licences.
If the directive becomes a reality in that form, it will constitute, at a global level, the best guarantee for protecting health from dangerous chemical substances, without jeopardising thousands of jobs, or putting small and medium-sized enterprises into an impossible situation, nor giving away any manufacturing secrets.
No longer can we tolerate our people being used as guinea pigs for chemicals to be found in such everyday products as computers or toys, which are absorbed through the skin or the airways, and the risks inherent in which have never yet been put to the test.
I would like to see a rapid, efficient system for collecting the necessary information on chemicals and for tackling those of most concern, whilst minimising animal testing and maintaining the competitiveness of the chemical industry.
I believe that vertebrate animal testing should be kept to the absolute minimum necessary to ensure that sufficient information is available for decision-making on health and environmental protection.
I personally voted on the basis of criteria that I consider crucial when there is conflict – at least apparent conflict – between the interests of industry and the interests of protecting the environment and public health.
First and foremost, I feel that protecting public health and the environment should be a priority, but I do not believe in fundamentalist solutions that take a broad brush to everything, overlooking the economic impact of measures and, more importantly, failing to take account of the global dimension of these issues when it comes to economies that have no compunction about environmental dumping.
For me, this is by no means a way of avoiding the issue, but rather the only means of expressing my opinion on the contradictory signal that our Parliament is giving out today.
I feel satisfaction on the one hand, concerning the principle of substitution for problematic substances: obligatory substitution (Amendment 232) and research for safer alternatives (Amendment 214).
It is the first time that the European Parliament has declared itself in this way in a text of this importance.
This House has shown the world that whoever shouts the loudest eventually wins the argument.
The White Paper that preceded REACH gave the chemical industry full responsibility.
The REACH vote is one of the most important before this House.
Nitrate fertilisers have brought about the agricultural miracle that is in part responsible for a 20-year increase in life expectancy nowadays.
Hence my vote in favour. &#160;&#160; The June List’s efforts are directed towards ensuring that cooperation within the EU is restricted to genuinely cross-border issues, which include both the internal market and many environmental issues.
We are, however, voting in favour of the overall proposal for a directive because the Commission may otherwise withdraw it.
We are, of course, in favour of excluding natural substances encountered in forestry and mining from REACH.
Furthermore, we are critical of the amendments recommending that a huge Chemicals Agency be established within the EU.
Furthermore, I am, of course, in favour of excluding natural substances encountered in forestry and mining from REACH.
I am critical of the amendments recommending that a huge Chemicals Agency be established within the EU.
The Commission’s proposal is a follow-up to the International Agreement on Humane Trapping concluded between the EU, the USA, Canada and Russia.
In any event, it is appalling that the Commission accepted the International Agreement without prior consultation with Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – In our country, the Netherlands, we have for many years been engaged in battle against the muskrat, an American import that has undermined our dikes and as a result, threatens to make the lowlands uninhabitable for man.
The proposal did not do enough to protect the welfare of animals and because of the way it was drafted was difficult to amend.
I hope and trust the Commission will now come forward with a proposal that places profit below concern for animal welfare. &#160;&#160; . – We could not but be in agreement with an EU text that proposes the establishment of standards for the humane trapping of animals in order to promote animal welfare and the protection of certain animal species.
Let us remember that 15% of animals killed for their fur have been trapped and that this figure relates only to commercial furs… &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is extremely important and useful mainly because it aims at making the code of conduct obligatory and calls for it to be legally recognised by all countries.
Finally, I believe that the decision to reaffirm the embargo on arms sales to China once more is equally important. &#160;&#160; This report is about drawing up a binding code of conduct on arms exports within the framework of the European Union.
I support its call not to lift the arms embargo on China until there has been a clear and sustained improvement in the human rights situation in that country.
My opinion has been and continues to be that the EU must persevere with its embargo because it is, more than anything, a stand taken by the 25 Member States in defence of human rights, the international order and peace.
We are also going to vote against the report in the final vote.
Napalm bombs were used for the first time in Grammo against the Greek Democratic Army and in Vietnam by the USA.
Chemical and biological weapons were sold to Saddam by European companies and were used recently by the USA in Faluja.
The widespread perception that the EU does not follow its words through weakens our diplomatic position.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, in the hope that its adoption will lead to the Union redoubling its efforts in this area, not in terms of going down the road of military solutions – and certainly not in terms of encouraging such solutions – but rather in terms of being resolute and decisive. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats have voted in favour of the report because we think it important to have clear and unambiguous rules for defence procurement.
However, we wish to make efforts to enhance the EU’s capacity for managing crises and detecting and preventing conflicts at an early stage, in the first place using political, diplomatic and economic means. &#160;&#160; Article 296 of the EC Treaty stipulates that the production of, and trade in, munitions may be exempted from the rules governing the free movement of goods.
A portion of the report before us refers to clarifying and defining more precisely the types of material and services to which Article 296 really should not apply.
However, it is apparent from the report that the proposed amendments to the EU’s regulations are largely aimed at deepening military cooperation in the Union by taking a further step towards a common foreign and security policy.
The report addresses one of its fundamental pillars, namely the development of the military industry in the various Member States.
Hence our vote against. &#160;&#160; – One sector alone still escapes the ultraliberal logic of Brussels: defence.
For this purpose, the Commission has decided to attack the main legal obstacle by giving a new interpretation to Article 296 of the Treaty, which stipulates that Member States are allowed to derogate from Community rules on competition for reasons of national security.
It is not by opening up our defence procurement a bit more that we shall make it more competitive, quite the contrary, we shall make it all the more open to US imports.
The defence market is one in which investment in research and development is of key importance.
However, this report is driven by the idea of extending EU competence and elevating the European Commission to a controlling position in the European armaments industry.
Recitals F and G mistakenly blame market fragmentation for Europe's military weakness and lack of interoperability.
The proposal in paragraphs 10 and 15 for a directive to supplant Article 296 would have serious national security implications.
With its biased view of the Middle East situation, the resolution makes proposals that would only serve to intensify the conflict.
It makes the accusation that Iran supports terror, and yet sweeps under the carpet the major responsibility that the USA, Israel and our very own EU must bear for the worsening situation in the region.
The motion for a resolution fails to condemn the consequences of the attack on Iraq and the subsequent occupation by the USA and its allies.
It refers to the Palestine situation as a conflict, thereby glossing over Israel’s occupation of Palestine and its utterly brutal violation of the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people.
The motion for a resolution calls on Iran to honour its international obligations as regards the development of its nuclear programme, without questioning the demands made on other countries in the region that have developed nuclear programmes and possess nuclear weapons.
However, the EU must resist the temptation to join with the USA in demonising Iran.
I strongly believe with patience and diplomacy Iran could in the medium term become a reliable and constructive partner for the EU in the Middle East.
I cannot accept either the indifference of some people, or the half-heartedness of this text.
President Ahmadinejad's comments about Israel – made three weeks ago – have already been condemned stridently and unreservedly by all major political leaders in Europe and beyond.
I am speaking here about the report on humane trapping standards. &#160;&#160; The competent committee has recommended that this proposal be rejected and those who voted against it – as I have explained clearly – have rejected it.
It is not possible that we are all wrong and that you are the only person who has got it right, Mr Baco.
On the other hand, there is nothing in our rules that allows us to postpone the debate, unless there is unanimity, but if anyone wishes the debate to take place, according to the rules, it must take place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, perhaps we had naively believed that the REACH vote was going to end at 11.30 or 12.00 and that this morning we would be able to hold a debate and a vote on two such important issues as European development policy and the European Union’s development strategy for Africa.
But if it is not possible to change the date of the debates, let us hold it now, in a clandestine manner – that will be the responsibility of those who do not want to seek an agreement in this regard.
In any event, I would ask that we vote on delaying the vote until a later sitting. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I have to say, speaking as rapporteur, that I am not in favour of the delay.
All of us in this House have, for whatever reason, agreed on a timetable, and one of the stumbling blocks was that the Council will be discussing this topic next week and that we would like to make our contribution in good time, rather than when everything has been done and dusted.
If, then, we postpone the debate and the vote, we are not taking our work as a Parliament seriously.
Consequently, we shall proceed with this debate and hand over straight away to Mrs Martens, our rapporteur. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission proposes a long-term strategy for achieving the Millennium Development Goals in Africa by 2015.
We need a very ambitious plan to achieve the Millennium Development Goals and, above all, to get sub-Saharan Africa on track.
The strategy clearly outlines the problems, and I share its cautious optimism as regards the development of the African Union and NEPAD.
A new strategy is therefore needed.
In our view, a clear distinction should be drawn between aid to stable countries and aid to countries that are unstable socially and economically due to bad governance, corruption and mismanagement.
Finally, I should like to thank everyone who has contributed to this report, whether inside or outside this House, for their contributions to the thought process.
New glimmers of hope for peace are being seen in the Democratic Republic of Congo, in Somalia, Burundi and Liberia.
That is why the Commission has proposed a new Strategy for Africa, which was adopted on 12&#160;October and presented in this House the very same day, a strategy intended to provide the European Union with a single, comprehensive and long-term framework for its relations with Africa.
Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Martens, ladies and gentlemen, the Strategy for Africa is based on three main themes: one Africa, one Europe and one objective.
One Europe: Europe has also changed.
The enlargement of the European Union to include ten new members has taken the number of potential individual partners to 26: the 25 Member States plus the European Community.
This development has increased the European Union’s potential political and economic impact, but the enlarged membership also poses new challenges in terms of aid coordination and complementarity.
The European Union Strategy for Africa will therefore make aid effectiveness and donor coordination central priorities in the years ahead.
In the European Union Strategy for Africa, the common objective is, therefore, to promote the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in Africa.
Our overall strategy comprises a series of specific proposals, as you know, and I am glad to see that we largely agree on these points, some of which appear in Mrs&#160;Martens’s report, such as strengthening the Peace Facility for Africa, and strengthening the role of national parliaments and civil society organisations in planning, prioritising and – let us not forget – scrutinising development cooperation policy.
Let us not forget either the launch of a new European Union Programme for Action to confront HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; the emphasis placed on higher education alongside the efforts being made in basic education, and the increase in budget support.
I am delighted to see that Parliament finds its concerns reflected in our three basic concepts and in the specific proposals.
Some of the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on its opinion on this report was very lively, but it did eventually adopt it unanimously.
Our opinion also addresses the need for the proposed cuts in measures to combat HIV/Aids, malaria and tuberculosis to be reversed, and stresses the importance of promoting peace and conflict resolution in Africa, with consequent specific reference to the control of weapons exports, which we debated yesterday.
The situation in Africa, where most of the less developed countries are found, is due both to endogenous and to extraneous factors.
This need is indicated, among other things, by the report, which I endorse.
The Commissioner condensed the challenge of Africa in his phrase: 'One Africa, one Europe, one objective'. 'One Africa' is the responsibility of Africa itself, 'one Europe' is the responsibility of Europe and 'one objective' is our common objective.
For a long time we have been arguing that Europe has an ethical and political responsibility to make a decisive contribution to development in Africa, but in recent times it should be clear to everybody that that development has also become absolutely essential in order to maintain both stability on the international scene and stability and prosperity in Europe.
I must, however, use the short period I have in which to speak in order to highlight an alarming aspect of the proposal, namely the unduly centralised way in which EU aid to Africa is planned, using for example a Donor Atlas, as if we in Europe could sit and plan how aid is to be coordinated in the individual African countries.
It is the African countries that should have the crucial role in coordinating aid, proceeding on the basis of their own strategies for combating poverty.
Quite a few of the amendments in the Martens report take account of these centralist measures on the part of the Commission, and I hope that Parliament will ensure that the recipient countries, and not the Commission, continue to play a pivotal role where aid is concerned. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s initiative promoting a development strategy for Africa, in the interests of greater coherence for European development cooperation, is, in principle, something to be welcomed.
Up to now, every government has, in its dealings with Africa, pursued its own interests, formulated its own strategies for development cooperation and created its own structures to implement them.
Clear distinctions need to be drawn between the African states in terms of their social, cultural, economic, political and environmental development, and any European development strategy needs to take account not only of this but also of African people’s prospects and of the conditions and processes in their own countries.
Only in that way can this strategy make a real contribution. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Martens has put a great deal of effort into drafting this report, and there can be no question that it is very useful in many respects.
I cannot help but point out, however, that it makes no direct reference to certain issues that are of absolutely key importance, both for Africa and for other very poor countries.
Once again, ideological references to reproductive health and reproductive rights have been included, even though they are completely out of place.
Amendments 2 and 4 seek to delete the reference to reproductive rights, and to replace it with a reference to basic health care.
As things stand at present, the prospects are very poor and I find myself wondering what we can offer if this round proves a failure.
I will be voting in favour of this text, provided that no amendments alter it significantly. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to make two points, and they both concern money.
This is our support for democratic elections in Africa.
The total bill was EUR&#160;242&#160;million, with 80% of that provided by the European Union.
Nobody can pretend that democracy is the answer to everything, but without fair and free democratic elections many other things are simply impossible.
The EU’s fundamental desire to provide aid of this nature was enshrined as long ago as 1950 in one of the opening paragraphs of the Schuman declaration.
In addition to such measures, the resolution before us builds on experience gained in other less-developed parts of the world by promoting the development of micro-loans based on the empowerment of women, the further development of education and health in conjunction with the UN and, as soon as possible, the achievement of the target of 0.7% of GNI earmarked by all developed countries for development aid to the world’s poorest countries; and this is something that we believe to be appropriate.
This reservation notwithstanding, I support the resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission for the strategy for Africa that they presented on 12 October.
This is what I think makes it really necessary that the Commission should, by its approach, more firmly constrain the Member States to pursue a coherent policy towards Africa, which will enable us to abandon these contradictions and secure that continent a better future than it would have otherwise. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Africa is a never ending source of remorse for part of Europe, and indeed Mr&#160;Gahler said as much a few moments ago.
But I think that it is difficult to isolate this third pillar from the first two, because we cannot achieve the Millennium Development Goals without peace and security and Africa itself shows that we cannot achieve them if we disregard growth and interconnectivity.
As far as business is concerned, as I have said, I am working on this at the moment – I announced as much and I will shortly be presenting the communication in question – and I have put forward the idea of having an ethical and social label for companies working in developing countries.
I therefore did not propose reducing our contribution to the fund; I simply placed in it the money that I had for this financial year, for 2006, all of the money that I had left for 2006.
Mrs&#160;Auken, I am in favour of also encouraging coordination between the African countries.
Coordination is required at every level: at national level, because it is our aid and because it has to fit in with the government’s poverty reduction strategy; at regional level and at international level, with the other donors.
I therefore share this point of view.
Let me simply tell you that my entire strategy seeks to move us away from these habits or reflexes, whether conscious or not, of paternalism and neo-colonialism.
Ownership is therefore at the very heart of this new relationship that we want to establish with our African friends.
In any case, I should like to thank all of those Members who have supported us so actively.
I hope that all of this will help us in Monday’s Council meeting to make progress on our common cause, which is our concern for Africa and the need to open up to this continent. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for the clarity and robustness of your remarks.
The debate is closed.
Unless Parliament asks for the vote to be postponed, it will take place following this afternoon’s debates. &#160;&#160; On behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party, I thank Mrs&#160;Martens for her work and the UK Presidency for its willingness to increase the EU’s commitment towards Africa.
The British Presidency and the Commission have stated that development issues in Africa are a policy area to be given priority.
If that is not done, the developing countries will never be given a fair opportunity to achieve increased prosperity and development. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0319/2005) by Mr&#160;Wijkman, on behalf of the Committee on Development, on the proposal for a Joint Declaration by the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission on the European Union Development Policy ‘the European Consensus’ (2004/2261(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, before we start the debate I should like to ask you, on behalf of my group and in agreement with the other groups, to hold the debate but to postpone the vote.
We agreed, for a number of reasons, to do that and I would ask you to give us that opportunity before I start my speech. &#160;&#160; Mr Wijkman, your request, on behalf of your group, for the vote to be postponed is noted.
The postponement will be agreed or refused at the time and you will be able to argue for it then, but your request is noted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are now going to debate what, for Parliament, is a unique report.
The European Parliament has, for the first time, been invited to participate actively in devising the EU’s development policy.
Since the original development policy was adopted in 2000, our world has undergone a number of changes.
There are therefore powerful reasons to amend our policy and to design a new one.
The new development policy we are now debating establishes favourable preconditions for progress in this field.
In addition to donor coordination and coherence, our report highlights a number of substantial issues to which we want to give added weight.
These include democracy and human rights, measures to combat corruption, the important roles to be played by civil society and also by the national parliaments, the importance of strengthening the role of women in development work and the importance of paying more attention to the significance of natural resources, that is to say of forests, farmland and water and marine resources, especially in relation to the world’s very poorest countries.
Finally, we refer, in particular, to the considerable problems encountered by many countries in tropical areas due to the more unstable climate.
I should like to thank my colleagues for their very constructive cooperation.
There is one aspect with which we are especially pleased, namely the fact that, together with the Commission and the Council, we have, in this process, succeeded in conducting a constructive debate in which we have tried, as far as possible, to define the specific role of the Commission in the context of development.
The Commission must not act as a 26th Member State in terms of aid donations, but must, naturally, make use of its special authority, its special capacity, its neutrality and its multilateral character in order to give some impetus to these issues and make certain things better than other institutions are able to.
Finally, I want to thank you for your constructive cooperation.
As you know, in May the European Union gave some strong commitments to make its aid more effective and its development policies more coherent.
In June, the European Union decided to double development aid between 2004 and 2010 so as to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income by 2015.
In September, the European Union’s intensive preparatory work made the UN World Summit a milestone, a key point in the quest for a more balanced multilateralism and a more just world order.
The interinstitutional debate that followed this document’s adoption by the Commission shows the diversity and wealth of opinion on the European Union’s role in the world.
It is also an enlightening debate and one about which I feel strongly.
Europe’s influence and effectiveness must be on a par with its resources, and that is precisely why I have suggested to the Member States and the European Parliament a common platform for the European Union as a whole, a platform that will bring together its values, its aims, its principles and its field of action and will apply to the European Union as a whole.
This platform, the European consensus, would be an essential step towards more coordinated, more complementary and more resolute action by the European Union.
Firstly, a clear reference to the statement on development policy in the regulation that will govern the financial instrument for development cooperation.
I believe the Commission’s proposal of including human rights and governance as complementary objectives to poverty reduction meets Parliament’s request perfectly.
At the same time, I am convinced that this is a powerful way of initiating and fostering political dialogue with our partners.
I therefore thank Parliament, which with this resolution is making a significant contribution to more effective action for development and laying the foundations for close collaboration between us in the future. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I believe that ‘The European Consensus on Development’, the joint statement by the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the European Union’s development policy, is a key document, above all because of the goals it is intended to further.
Our resolution covers many key issues, and I should merely like to draw the House’s attention to a few of them.
This applies not only to aid recipient countries, but also to certain EU Member States.
On a related note, the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly will adopt its report on the role of parliaments in implementing the Cotonou Agreement next week.
The report also deserves our praise because it stresses the need to improve the quality and the level of coordination between the Commission and the Member States.
Something quite different, however, is the document resulting from the negotiation between the Council and the Commission, quite rightly with the participation of Mr Wijkman, on behalf of Parliament’s Committee on Development, a participation which has certainly contributed, as Commissioner Michel has acknowledged, to the incorporation of many of our principal concerns and demands in this field into the ‘European development consensus’ statement.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must congratulate and thank Mr Michel, the Commissioner, for his initiative in seeking to define, in a tripartite statement of the Council, the Commission and Parliament, the common principles to which the EU and the 25 Member States will refer in implementing their development and cooperation policies.
It will give the European Union a document setting out the European consensus on this question.
First of all, it is the first time that Parliament has been involved to this extent in the process of mapping out this policy.
If we want this Commission initiative to be fully effective and the joint statement really to reflect the European consensus, it is and will be essential that the European Parliament gives its verdict on the final text in plenary. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we very much welcome the push for a joint statement by the Council, the Commission and Parliament expressing a consensus on European development policy.
We would like to see more coordination on the part of the Commission and the Council and more co-decision for Parliament. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not doubt that we are all agreed that the EU’s development policy needs to be of higher quality and more effective and that it should, primarily, be guided by the need to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
The EU’s efforts at development cooperation must have the overall objective of reducing poverty, and eventually abolishing it, through sustainable development.
Mr Wijkman, who is representing the Committee on Development in the negotiations, has our full support. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, during our debates on aid for backward countries and underdeveloped countries we must make a very clear distinction between Asian countries and the countries of sub-Saharan Africa.
You have clearly played a vital part in the work that can be presented today.
I hope that Parliament’s contributions will enable the final document to meet with everyone’s satisfaction, an outcome that would constitute an extremely important step forward.
I believe, in fact, that in a number of countries it is helpful for the national parliaments to be mobilised, informed and motivated with regard to the issue of development.
I am therefore fully prepared to dedicate myself to this task.
On the other hand – but this would undoubtedly be another debate – I am not wildly in favour of simply cancelling the debt without any conditions and in all circumstances.
I therefore cannot accept this criticism.
This joint effort is testament to the importance we all attach to development and shows that the institutions are working together to make our action more effective.
I have said many times over that development policy has the potential to be an important tool in making Europe a presence and a positive force in the world.
This is a role based on a long-term view rather than on short-term interests.
The discussions with the Council are still taking place.
The new development policy statement has not yet been finalised.
It simply remains for me to call on you to make one final effort together to follow up our joint work, in the spirit of the partnership that has united us over recent months with the aim of achieving our common objective.
As Commissioner, I should, at any rate, like firstly to thank you for your active contribution to the debates concerning my remit and my department, both for your pertinent questions and also, Mr&#160;Martinez, for your impertinent questions.
All the Members, all the humanists in this Chamber, whether they are Catholic, Protestant, Muslim or non-believers, are well aware of what we are discussing.
I will not fall into that trap. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am happy to give you the floor for a point of order, but clarify for me first the article to which you refer. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should just like to ask Mr&#160;Michel whether he can confirm that this matter excludes abortion? &#160;&#160; The debate is closed, we will not re-open it and, moreover, Mr&#160;Michel has already replied to this question in his speech and in his reply to Mr Posselt.
The EU has already contributed substantially, but we must do more, much more, and so should the rest of the international community.
Access over the line of control between India-administered Kashmir and Pakistan-administered Kashmir is also of vital importance.
This human tragedy demands a compassionate response.
I hope that, at last, a just solution to this 58-year dispute over Kashmir can be found, involving both Pakistan and India but, above all, the Kashmiri people who have suffered enough already. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that, due to the previous debates over-running, my colleague Mrs Gill, who is chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with the countries of South Asia and the SAARC and author of this resolution, and my other colleague, Mr Moraes, have had to leave and they send their apologies.
It is estimated that 80&#160;000 people are dead, hundreds of thousands of people are injured and 3&#160;million people are homeless.
People in the most remote areas appear to be the hardest hit, with very many not having received aid at all.
The fact that most of the earthquake victims have been evacuated should be welcomed.
Kofi Annan has warned us that a second massive wave of death will hit hard as disease begins to spread amongst the survivors.
I thought I had better remind you of the Rules of Procedure because I believe I sensed a slight hesitation. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, thank you for that very clear explanation.
This earthquake has killed and seriously injured more than 200&#160;000 people.
In this troubled part of the world, we must also welcome in particular the significant efforts by the Pakistani and Indian Governments to make sure that people can make contact across a line of control that has been impassable for more than 50 years.
But maybe we can make additional efforts in the conciliation of the 2006 budget next week so we can make sure that those who are homeless today will at least have some elementary cover as the winter approaches.
It is also the scene of one of the longest-running conflicts in South Asia.
Armed conflict still smoulders under the surface.
In the Pakistan-controlled area, which is virtually inaccessible, several million people have lost their homes and in some cases there is a complete lack not only of food and medicine, but also of any kind of contact with the outside world.
The urgent call for local organisations to distribute assistance fairly is entirely justified.
We must tackle the more structural aspects and, in this regard as well, the European Union must commit itself to supporting the reform and resolving the structural problems that require a response, not just in terms of infrastructure, but also from a socio-economic point of view, so that, when similar events occur, the consequences are not as serious as those we are seeing at the moment.
We must therefore insist to the governments of the countries affected that this would be a good opportunity to prioritise social and internal needs, to stop spending so much on military aspects and dedicate — and this is where we must support them — all their efforts towards ensuring that the best possible structures are in place and reducing the effects of earthquakes of this kind as far as possible. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, even though this debate centres on a matter of great sadness, namely the tragedy that has hit hundreds of thousands of people in the Kashmir region, I believe that we have every reason to be glad that it is taking place.
The fact that this debate is taking place a matter of weeks after the tragedy is also to be welcomed.
There can be no question that they are much more deserving than those regions and countries that recently suffered riots, and I refer to one country in particular.
Kashmir is a victim of India’s refusal, at the time of its own foundation, to accept the country’s right of self-determination.
The conclusion we should draw from this is that Kashmir is not merely a bilateral problem involving these two states, but also, and primarily, a problem for the Kashmiri people, and hence also for us.
Not only should we carry on dialogue with both the powers there – important though they are as nuclear powers and major states – but we should also step up direct contact with the Kashmiri people and their representatives, particularly those on the local level, which is what this humanitarian catastrophe offers us an opportunity to do.
The European Parliament has a moral obligation to urge Pakistan and India to agree to allow citizens of both countries, and not only humanitarian aid resources, to pass through the crossing points.
The immediate problems of the region are desperate, but as this resolution indicates, we stand ready as we must to help participate in a very long-term rebuilding. &#160;&#160; &#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the region of Kashmir is divided between three countries, India, Pakistan and China, even though this is an oft-forgotten fact.
The scale of the tragedy can be gauged from the fact that it claimed the lives of an entire generation.
The majority of its victims were children and young people, and virtually no schools have remained standing.
Our debate on this issue should act as a reference point for the Commission and the Council.
I have to say that I find this truly absurd. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am pleased to have an opportunity to speak briefly on what has been an appalling tragedy in north-western Pakistan, Afghanistan, India and predominantly the Kashmir region.
The reality is that natural disasters in many cases are predictable.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner is today leaving for Pakistan where over the next two days she will take part in the Reconstruction Conference, along with United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and other major international donors.
In addition, ECHO is also allocating funds to the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs for their coordination role, including civil and military coordination of the use of military logistic support.
We in the Commission are very concerned at the prospect of a secondary humanitarian disaster as winter approaches.
I want to thank you for your support in these joint efforts to help those who are in need. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The resolution defends the right to life and the fundamental rights of Paco Larrañaga.
He has been in that prison for eight years, since he was 19, and he has been on death row for two years.
I would therefore ask you to support this resolution, in order to make the pardon a reality and so that Larrañaga does not have to spend another second in Philippine prisons. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Philippine moratorium on the death penalty of March 2000 has for the past three years has gone completely the other way.
The current government aims to carry out more and more death sentences, even on minors who, by law, cannot be sentenced to death or executed.
Among the many people of Philippine nationality who have fallen victim to them, there is Francisco Larrañaga, who also has Spanish nationality.
In the specific case of the Philippines, I would like to call upon President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo to at least restore the moratorium on the death penalty and, secondly, as some of my fellow Members have also said, I would stress the need for the law reintroducing the death penalty to be repealed.
As I see it, our priority should be to demand a fair trial.
After all, if the trial in question was unfair, then this would constitute a crime.
The Member States, together with the Commission, have strengthened their international activities in opposition to the death penalty as an integral part of EU human rights policy.
We are particularly concerned about the Supreme Court’s sentence of 3&#160;February 2004 condemning the Spanish-Filipino citizen Francisco Larrañaga to death and the refusal to reconsider the case in July 2004, thus ending all judicial channels for appeal.
The UK Embassy, in cooperation with the UK organisation Reprieve, has sent a lawyer to the Philippines for three months, starting in October 2005, to investigate the case.
So, even if Parliament ruled in favour of the abolition of the death penalty in exchange for life sentences, the Larrañaga case would remain flawed.
The EU should continue to insist on the right to a fair trial for Mr Larrañaga. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Burma/Myanmar(1). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, this is not the first time that a resolution on Burma has been put before this Parliament.
Only a few months ago, a joint resolution condemning the gross violation of human rights in that country was passed unanimously.
Furthermore, an estimated 1&#160;000 political prisoners are still being held illegally and, on 2&#160;November, 10&#160;prominent human rights democracy and peace activists were given a total of 756&#160;years in sentences.
I was able to observe on the ground the efforts made by Laos and by other countries in the region to improve their mode of governance.
The European Union supports, moreover, the efforts made by these countries, and work must continue along these lines.
This repressive situation is one glaring example proving the lack of democracy in Burma.
Allow me to act as spokesman in this Chamber for Reporters without Borders and bring up the case of Win Tin, a 75-year-old journalist, who is in a critical state of health and who is still in prison when he ought to have been released for good behaviour.
The list of oppressed people is obviously a very long one and, despite the 250 releases granted a few months ago – a move that should be welcomed – there remain around 1000 political prisoners.
The situation is all the more serious because this country, which has a large number of ethnic groups, does not respect cultural diversity at all.
Despite these unmistakeable horrors, certain countries continue to trade with Burma.
As a Member of the European Parliament, I call for a firmer stance to be adopted in the face of this unacceptable situation, as the sanctions that have been taken are too weak.
In order to bring about some change in the current situation, I believe that it is vital to prevent trade in strategic sectors currently in the hands of the generals.
That is why I, of course, unreservedly support the resolution tabled by the six political groups. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, what continues in Burma is appalling.
I have no confidence that, without sustained international pressure at the highest possible level, Burma will make the positive transition to democracy.
I encourage the EU Member States on the UN Security Council to take a more proactive role in getting Burma on to the Security Council agenda, in particular Britain.
If the political will exists, a ninth can be found and persuaded. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, shortly after the Second World War, Burma made a reasonable start as an independent state.
Only in that way can we help put a stop to the rape and pillaging by government troops, forced labour, forced house moves, the taking of political prisoners and the exclusion of citizens from the government in office. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as Mr Coveney so eloquently described, the situation in Burma is not getting better.
Our application of economic pressure must be stepped up and we must work with the United Nations to bring this disgraceful situation to an end. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the blatant violation of human rights in Myanmar has often been the subject of resolutions by the European Parliament.
In addition to all this, Myanmar has a prime position in the production and trafficking of drugs, while HIV is forging ahead and Myanmar has a terrible record in this sector.
We believe that Aung San Suu Kyi, who has an international reputation and has been honoured with international distinctions, can unite the political parties and all the opposing political groups and guarantee the independence of ethnic minorities, so that at some point democratic, judicial and political change will come to Myanmar.
The report drafted recently at the initiative of President Vaclav Havel and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, which confirms with precise data the drastic situation in the country, posits this need for broader dialogue.
Several years ago, this was more or less the reaction of one of my colleagues to the press report on the news of new natural gas deposits in the continental shelf of that South Asian country.
Myanmar is currently subject to EU and UN sanctions.
Please do not take it amiss, but I shall not be voting for a resolution of this nature. &#160;&#160; .&#160;–&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, today’s debate on human rights violations centres on one of Asia’s leading regimes.
Children as young as 11 are forced to do military service, and the majority of citizens live on less than USD&#160;1 per day.
They also lack access to health care, which exacerbates the problems faced by the many people infected with HIV.
Burma has been rated 190th out of 191 countries with regard to the quality of access to health care in the country.
All the state structures were dissolved after the in 1962 and 1988, and power was seized by the State Law and Order Restoration Council.
Ironically, the latter has been responsible for instituting one of the bloodiest regimes in the world.
The generals’ junta ignores the interventions of international organisations, whether they are undertaken by the UN or by human rights and labour organisations.
The problems relate not only to the way in which power is exercised by psychopaths who exploit those weaker than themselves, but also to the difficulties involved in providing any kind of aid.
The latter is an issue because the population of the country, which in any case suffers persecution and extreme poverty, is hit hardest by any embargo.
The military junta in Burma/Myanmar uses 40% of its revenue to support or even expand its army, which is already sizeable even though the country is not at war with anyone.
There is no doubt that several issues are of serious concern, in particular the proceedings of the so-called national roadmap, the human rights and forced labour situation and many more issues that have been mentioned today.
In this context, let me emphasise that the Commission continues to call for the unconditional release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other political leaders who remain in detention.
The Commission continues to urge the regime to engage in a real dialogue with all political actors, including the National League for Democracy and ethnic groups.
We are convinced that only a transparent and constructive dialogue between legitimate stakeholders can lead to national reconciliation and a return to democracy.
The result will certainly fall short of our expectations in terms of real democracy.
There is a degree of intra-ASEAN solidarity, despite the position of individual political leaders in ASEAN.
The Commission therefore strongly supports a significant increase in humanitarian aid and assistance.
Any further change in the common position – apart from the fact that we would need all the partners to agree – would need to ensure the legality of such a measure under international law and ensure that the people of Burma/Myanmar did not become the victims.
Most of us have seen the recent report, endorsed by Vaclav Havel and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.
The report concludes that the UN Security Council should deliberate on the Burma/Myanmar issue.
Without a doubt, the overarching goal of our dealings with Burma is the transition towards democracy. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Paragraph 11 should read 'five' crossing points instead of 'four', because that would bring us up to date with the facts as they are today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we are voting on a particularly sensitive matter.
That is the text we would suggest and it is actually very similar to the PSE Group text which comes next. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mrs Gill said before she left that the PSE Group would back Mr Elles’ oral amendment because it was so similar to her own. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we were all trying to address the same issue concerning the mention of Kashmir.
But I am quite happy to accept the PPE-DE Group’s oral amendment. &#160;&#160; That is perfect, you are making the Presidency’s job easier by sparing it political arbitration. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, forgive my saying so, but the territory of Afghanistan has never been an integral part of Kashmir.
Therefore, that is a piece of nonsense. &#160;&#160; In fact, I believe that the wording jointly proposed by Mr&#160;Elles, Mrs&#160;Stihler and Mrs&#160;Lynne is quite clear: we are talking about the North-West Frontier province of Pakistan, Afghanistan, India and, in particular, the region of Kashmir.
I would like to be clear that we were voting on the PPE-DE amendment, then we will be happy on our side of the House and I think on the other side as well. &#160;&#160; I read out your amendment in French.
If I were rapporteur, I would not think that at all.
I would also like to make it clear that Mr Wijkman was not speaking on behalf of this group, and have now done so.
It is those who are present who will vote, and that is in order. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I am in favour of getting the voting process underway, since we knew we would be under pressure of time.
All groups in the Committee on Development have expressly requested that the voting be concluded, so that the Council can take our position to next week’s meeting.
If we do not vote now, then everything will be over for Africa.
It is not ideal, of course, that we are voting now rather than this afternoon, for example, because a different time schedule applies this afternoon, but now that things are the way they are, I am in favour of the voting going ahead, so that we can take ourselves as Parliament seriously. &#160;&#160; Very well, I believe that the Assembly has been put in the picture; the arguments have been put forward.
Mr&#160;Posselt, you are against postponing the vote, I believe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I just want to say that I have been here the whole afternoon without interruption.
I have already heard that and have clarified it. &#160;&#160; For the time being, I have a request for postponement from only one group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wants the vote to take place. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I do not want to speak in favour of voting today.
Although hopeful I think the impact of the final statement is questionable. &#160;&#160; I wish all of the brave Members who have stayed until the end an excellent journey home and I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
