Coordination of social security systems - Coordination of social security systems - Extending Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 to third country nationals otherwise excluded (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Jean Lambert, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the procedure for implementing Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems - C6-0037/2006 -; the report by Emine Bozkurt, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems, and determining the content of Annex XI - C6-0029/2006 -; and the report by Jean Lambert, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation extending the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and Regulation (EC) No [...] to nationals of third countries who are not already covered by these provisions solely on the ground of their nationality - C6-0289/2007 -.
I should like to thank the Members and the rapporteurs for all the work they have done on these important texts in recent months.
The implementing regulation sets out how Regulation (EC) No 883/2004, which we call the basic Regulation, should operate.
The aim of this regulation is to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident in the European Union and who are in a cross-border situation can take advantage of the modernised and simplified coordination of social security systems.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I want to bring together my two reports in the luxurious amount of time I have for my introduction in this House.
As the Commissioner has said, the basic Regulation ((EC) No 883/2004) concerns the coordination, but not the harmonisation - and I want to make that clear - of social security systems between Member States for people who are living or working in another Member State or even simply travelling there.
The basic regulation also deals with aspects of access to benefits in kind for healthcare for people staying in another Member State - for example on holiday - or for whom scheduled treatment becomes necessary on medical grounds, not simply from choice.
The recent publication of the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare has links to this basic regulation.
It introduces no new rights and it will become even more important as the European Union develops its common immigration policy.
The European Parliament, Council and Commission have worked to simplify the proposal so that Europeans can have a better understanding of the complex rules applied in the coordination of social security.
Jean Lambert, of course, who was shadow rapporteur for my report on behalf of the Greens, as I was shadow rapporteur for her report, Ria Oomen-Ruijten of the EPP-ED Group, Bilyana Raeva of the ALDE Group, Dimitrios Papadimoulis of the GUE/NGL Group and Ewa Tomaszewska of the UEN Group, along with all those other members who made a valuable contribution to the debate.
I am especially grateful here to Hélène Michard and Rob Cornelissen of the European Commission.
Consequently we still have to clarify that the amount of reimbursement for planned care abroad should correspond, at a minimum, to the cost of similar care in the country in which the patient is insured.
We also believe that unemployed persons who have failed to fulfil obligations in their country of employment, in particular have not taken all the required steps to find a job there, should not be able to claim benefits in their country of residence as if they had always complied with the law.
They should not vary between 12 and 18 months.
Cooperation between payment agencies and improved data exchange are very important factors here.
A clear summary of the right to information, given at a central point in this legislation, would make the position substantially clearer for entitled persons.
It is a method of implementation, allowing for the existence of different social security systems in the Member States.
The people of Ireland are probably not aware of what they can expect from the EU either.
Today France and indeed all of us have a chance to show the people that their everyday problems are being solved at EU level.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, each European Union country has its own social security system that differs from those of other countries, depending on many years of tradition as well as on the country's financial capabilities.
The right of free movement to take up employment in other countries has created a need to coordinate social security systems.
There is a need to protect citizens against a reduction in their insurance rights.
Workers should have the opportunity to know which system will be used to calculate their entitlements.
Madam President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Lambert and Mrs Bozkurt, for their detailed and painstaking work, as well as for their outstanding cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs and for their efforts to make good use of our proposals and of our contribution.
I urge you not to vote in favour of any amendments that weaken the content of the reports by Mrs Lambert and Mrs Bozkurt.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, in, Amendment 4 mentioned 'mobility for the unemployed'.
Amendment 148 suggests that the taxpayer should pay for travel for a medical examination in another Member State with a reimbursement system between Member States, no doubt using a complex EU formula.
The rules will concern all EU citizens moving within the EU for any reason whatever.
All in all, these reports are a mass of conflicting statements.
A 'frontier worker' is a person working in one Member State but residing in another providing they return home once a week.
Emine Bozkurt came in a little later, but both have done a fantastically good job and, in particular, have worked exceedingly well with the shadow rapporteurs from the various parties.
It is important to have coordination of pension rights.
It is important that patients can seek treatment in other countries.
As far as third country nationals are concerned, it is important that consideration be given to that aspect, not least because the blue card is on its way.
I thank the rapporteurs again and hope that we can get a final decision in the near future. (ET) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the rapporteur and the Committee who have done a great job on simplifying and updating these complex provisions.
An 18-month period for processing benefits is not appropriate in the 21st century. (PL) Madam President, creating a coordinated social security system is a very difficult task.
It enables EU citizens to add up the periods for which they have lived or worked in another Member State, under the social security system at the time, in order to calculate their pension from the state or to establish other rights.
Emigration from one country to another because of unemployment or poor working conditions in one's country of origin is not a social need.
The rapporteurs, we in this House and the Council as well as the Commission have all combined our efforts and, because of that, today we have in front of us, at last, the long-awaited new regulation that will make it possible to implement Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 which is due to replace the cumbersome Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71.
Access to these benefits and services, granted by individual Member States through their social security systems, has so far been difficult for eligible persons in other Member States.
In the European Union, we have the single market, but there are 27 different social security systems.
The rules according to which problems are solved today are from before the Internet era, when the Union had six Member States inhabited by sedentary citizens.
A proverb says that "the devil is in the details”.
The enforcement of Regulation 883 is good news.
How effective this coordination will turn out to be will depend on the contents of the new implementing regulation and on the effectiveness of electronic data exchange as well as on good communications.
Work is continuing, and recipients of benefits are also continuing to wait, frustrated as they are by the failure to pay full benefits, by bureaucracy and by the long time one has to wait for refunds. (EL) Madam President, these are regulations that confirm the general direction of European policy and relate to solving practical problems regarding social security for European citizens, as well as all those living and working in EU Member States.
I want to congratulate the two rapporteurs on these reports.
It is important to ensure that people who do work and live in this way are covered for unforeseen unemployment, sickness and accidents and, indeed, eventual retirement.
They need security if we are to ensure free movement in the European Union.
This is why I would have wanted the Commission's proposal to include solutions as exact as possible for the way in which Member States can efficiently transfer information regarding social rights.
First, I would like to welcome the work done by the rapporteurs, Emine Bozkurt and Jean Lambert.
Mr President, in this context, it is important to make progress with aggregating deductions in different Member States, just as it is important to guarantee that the coordination of social security systems strengthens and never restricts citizens' rights.
Individual Member States have their specific social security systems.
Right now we have reached a certain stage in regard to our work on the new regulation.
The European system coordinates social security systems.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would like to thank all those Members who have contributed to the debate.
