Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B6-0491/2008).
Part one Subject: Contingency plans for SMEs In the light of the current financial and economic crisis, in the words of Jean Claude Trichet, the most serious crisis since the Second World War, I would like to ask the Commission about its contingency plans for SMEs.
The recovery framework plan, due out on 26 November, is supposed to include short-term measures to help head off a recession.
The Bank has already put together a EUR 30 billion loan package to help small businesses struggling to get financing.
The financial crisis has substantially impaired the financing channels available to businesses, particularly SMEs, in many Member States.
In addition, as you know, on 26 November, the Commission approved the recovery plan to the amount of EUR 200 billion.
As our communication states, this sum of EUR 200 billion includes EUR 30 billion from the EU budget or from the EIB's financing actions to help revitalise the economy.
On top of those agreements, the EIB has announced that it will provide SMEs with intermediate finance - technically known as mezzanine finance - through the European Investment Fund to a total value of EUR 1 billion.
As I have said before, in the plans of the various Member States, and in the framework of the recovery plan endorsed by the European Council last week, there are already several examples of major EU countries in terms of economic size, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Spain, that have put specific financing measures in place for SMEs, which we all know represent a substantial mass in terms of sales figures, employment and productive fabric in all our countries.
The figure of EUR 30 billion is a significant figure, but the Irish authorities have had to inject EUR 10 billion into the banks, and some independent experts say that EUR 30 billion is needed to recapitalise the Irish banks.
With regard to the second question, in the aid programmes for small- and medium-sized enterprises, the European Investment Bank acts through intermediaries in each Member State.
The envelope contains EUR 200 million.
Subject: Investment in energy infrastructures The economic and financial crisis is affecting many of the Member States.
In the field addressed by your question, therefore, you will see that many important decisions have been announced in recent weeks or are now being implemented. (RO) Thank you very much for your reply.
Member of the Commission. - I should like to thank Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou not only for her question but also for her commitment to better and more cooperation in education.
The European Social Fund is the main funding source for special support for the education and training of migrants and other less-privileged population groups.
A splendid conclusion and, in my view, a very sensitive and politically important one for the future of the Union, was adopted in November when the Ministers of the 27 states affirmed their determination to establish conditions under which the mobility of young people would become the rule rather than the exception.
I would therefore like to express my gratitude for your understanding and consistent support. (LT) A question from the field of education, related to migration, but this time from the new EU Member States to the old ones.
This directive actually requires Member States to provide education to these children in the language of the host country, in other words, in the official language of the country and, at the same time, to support education in the original language of birth and the culture of the country of origin, in cooperation with the country in question.
Many countries in the Union are confronting a growing shortage or deficit of teachers and it is estimated that there will be a shortfall of more than a million teachers in the coming decade since in many countries more than half of teachers are over the age of 50.
I would just like to conclude by saying that it is not possible to achieve long-term serious and reliable collaboration in the area of education without paying special attention to the issue of teachers, high-quality teacher training and support for their continuing education, not just at the beginning, but also throughout their careers.
Subject: White Paper on sport What elements of the White Paper on Sport have been implemented to date and what are the future policy priorities for the Commission in the area of sport over the coming months?
For example, 38 out of 53 actions foreseen in the so-called Action Plan named 'Pierre de Coubertin' were either started or were already being implemented, and some of them have been already achieved or concluded: two-thirds of the actions.
These satisfactory results have been possible because of commitments on the part of Member States, but also that of sports organisations.
The fight against racism and xenophobia: many actions, also in the European Parliament.
We are preparing for the next semester and the European social dialogue which, I believe, started on 1 July in Paris between partners in professional football - UEFA, FIFPro, APFL and ECA.
Last, but not least, I want to tell you that, at the end of November, we held, organised by the Commission, the first European Sport Forum in Biarritz, where people from sport - 300 participants from different associations, federations, but also the Commission and Member States - met.
This means that we can expect the results at the end of the year or in early 2010 and social, economic and legal aspects of volunteering in sport will form part of the analysis so as to assist us in preparing recommendations for the next stage of the process.
It is the first legislative action in the area of young people since this cooperation came into existence more than 20 years ago and I am delighted that it is also closely linked to volunteering in sport.
Sport is very necessary and also popular and that is why any programme in connection with Article 149 should be closely linked to the space and agenda of education and young people, for sport has been added explicitly to Article 149 for the first time.
I expect that a special budget chapter or an item approved in Parliament for next year and totalling EUR 6 million will assist with some activities or preparations for the future period of the sports programme.
At the same time, the quality of the time spent on this type of education must be improved and I am delighted that we have managed, for the first time, to draw up a so-called set of guidelines for physical education which was actually approved in Biarritz.
I understand from your services that Mr Cappato will receive a written reply, or do you envisage taking Question 38 later on?
Mr Beazley, I was about to say that Question No 38 will be answered in writing.
On the one hand, in the period up to July 2008, the euro area economies, all the other European economies and many others besides in both industrialised and emerging countries suffered a severe shock from the rise in the prices of oil and other food and non-food raw materials.
As for our price index, Eurostat published the price index for November this morning, showing that the year-on-year inflation rate in the euro area is 2.1%.
Bearing in mind the fact that prices rose considerably in the first half of this year, average inflation in the euro area will be roughly 3% in 2008.
In general terms, however, we can say right now that, for the first time since the euro area has existed as such, namely since 1999, average inflation next year in the area of the 16 euro countries will be less than 2%, which is below the inflation limit defined by the European Central Bank as being consistent with price stability.
Mr Mitchell, price stability is laid down in the Treaty as the principal mandate.
Over all these years, from 1999 until now, meeting this target of just below 2% has meant trying to keep inflation down.
If you look at the note that Eurostat circulated this morning on inflation at the end of November, you will see that most EU countries outside the euro area have a higher inflation rate than the country with the highest inflation within the euro area.
Mr França, my reply has to be brief, but your question is very interesting.
There are some additional improvements in the Treaty of Lisbon, but the core of what Economic and Monetary Union needs in terms of the Treaty has been on the books since Maastricht.
Subject: Pharmaceutical treatment - cross-border healthcare Article 14 of the proposal for a directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare refers to the recognition of prescriptions issued in another Member State.
Consequently, if a medicinal product has a marketing authorisation in the territory of one Member State in accordance with Article 6(1) of Directive 2001/83, that Member State must ensure that prescriptions signed by authorised persons in other Member States can be used within its territory.
As regards Article 14 of the proposed directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, it is designed to safeguard the recognition of prescriptions issued legally in another Member State within the limits I mentioned.
I should therefore like to finish by stating that a prescription issued by a doctor established in another Member State provides the same guarantees to patients as a prescription issued by a doctor established in the Member State in question and, according to the judgment of the Court of 7 March in the Schumacher case and in the case of the Commission versus Germany in 1990, the same applies to drugs bought from a pharmacy in another Member State. (EL) Madam President, first of all I should like to wish the Commissioner good luck in her efforts on the legislative instrument on cross-border healthcare.
In these cases, the indication of origin is compulsory.
In these cases, the indication of origin is necessary and compulsory.
You do not agree, but I think that, if we did not have good systems in place, the Irish crisis would have gone unnoticed.
Questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see Annex).
