In view of the fact that Greece has been an active, fully-fledged member of the EU for 27 years, we request that Mr Solana refrain from comments that hinder the negotiation process between a Member State and a country wishing to join NATO and the EU.
This phenomenon occurs mainly in many of the countries that have recently joined the European Union.
Nevertheless, given that consumer protection and patient rights are important objectives of the European Union, I believe that we need an approach at European level, with respect to the provision of information to patients, as well as with respect to the legislation on malpractice within the European Union space. (PL) Madam President, Written Declaration No 88/2007 on investigating the abuse of power by large supermarkets was signed by 439 Members and officially adopted by the European Parliament.
I would like you, Madam President, to draw the European Commission's attention to the flagrant contradiction between Parliament's expectations and the Commission's action in this matter. (DE) Madam President, the presidential election took place a week ago in Russia, and the result was as disappointing as we might have expected.
The same applies to relations with China, particularly as today is 10 March, the date on which, in 1959, the popular uprising in Tibet against the country's occupation by the People's Republic of China was brutally crushed. - (EL) Madam President, a short while ago we heard the discussion on Palestine.
The MRF is the only party in Europe that has erected a monument to proven terrorists who killed children.
There is serious evidence pointing to arson committed on the eve of the national day of 3 March.
The sense of impunity that the government has inspiured in the MRF instigates violence among the Turks. (The chairperson interrupts the speaker) (NL) May I draw the House's attention to next Thursday, 13 March, which is World Kidney Day.
These European documents have to be incorporated and the European Union would have the credibility with Kosovo and new Member States to ask that ... (The President cut off the speaker) (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, through the hunger and thirst strike that he is currently on, our colleague Marco Pannella has launched the first great 'World Satyagraha for Peace'.
I should also like to remind you that today is the 49th anniversary of the Tibetan people's uprising against Chinese repression and to send our best wishes to the Dalai Lama and the tens of thousands of people on the march in Dharamsala, including the Radical Party leaders, Sergio d'Elia, Matteo Mecacci and Marco Perduca.
I call on the European Parliament to take action aimed at changing the VAT Directive with respect to children's clothing and footwear. (PT) Madam President, A Voz do Operário, an educational and charitable society, was founded in Lisbon on 13 February 1883, and for 125 years has worked tirelessly in the fields of education, culture, partnership and social support, which I applaud.
And this is the same Ministry that is trampling on teachers' rights, leading to the largest demonstration of teachers in Portugal - the 'March of indignation' - with 100 000 teachers, mostly ... (The President cut off the speaker) (GA) Mr President, as regards the increase in the number of sex offenders who are convicted in the courts of various Member States; a number of countries now have a Sex Offenders Register in operation.
Therefore, in 2004 we started the Bologna reforms, and a three-year degree structure has been in use since the academic year 2005-2006.
On 10 December, human rights day, the television satellite Belsat began broadcasting in Poland, its mission is to make Belarus a community of citizens.
They have opposed every treaty since 1972; yet they claim they are pro-European.
Recently, in his speech to the Ard-Fheis, Gerry Adams never mentioned the EUR 1.65 billion that the EU has given to the peace process on the island of Ireland.
If you are pro-Europe, you prove that you are pro-Europe and you do not put out outrageous allegations on this Treaty that are not true. (HU) Thank you for the opportunity to speak, Madam President.
Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days two events have drawn our attention once again to the need for a common European energy policy.
The events over the recent weeks, in which the European Commission has discontinued the resources under the PHARE and SAPARD Programmes for Bulgaria, are a further testimony to the fact that most of the irregularities in the spending of these resources are associated also with corrupt practices.
My letter had the support of 35 MEPs from various countries and political groups.
In connection with the grant of restructuring aid, Krajowa Spółka Cukrowa intends to close the Lublin sugar plant and demolish all the buildings.
I read today that there were plans to kill 200 000 cats in Beijing by caging them, starving them, letting them die of thirst or simply poisoning them on the grounds that some guests might object to the presence of cats.
We need have no second thoughts, however, about you, Madam President, being able to express the disapproval of this House. (The President cut off the speaker.) (PT) Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to express our solidarity with the 100 000 Portuguese teachers who demonstrated in an impressive and imposing 'March of indignation' in Lisbon on 8 March last, organised by the Portuguese National Teachers' Federation.
In response to an offensive promoted by the Socialist Party Government against teachers' rights, democratic school management and state education, the teachers reaffirmed their determination to fight for dignity, employment, teachers' rights and improved conditions, and to protect high-quality teaching and state education in Portugal. (SK) In Slovakia on 25 March we will commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Candle Demonstration for religious and civil rights and freedoms.
