It will therefore be possible for this programme to enter into force in January 2009 and thus to benefit students starting from the beginning of the academic year in September.
The previous programme's figures speak for themselves: between 2004 and 2008, 103 Master's courses were selected and approved, over 6 000 students received Erasmus Mundus scholarships, over a thousand teachers from countries outside the EU came to European universities and over 400 higher education establishments from Europe and outside Europe were involved.
The new programme comprises three actions.
The information available in the universities will be clearer.
I would especially like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Mariella De Sarnez, but also the Committee on Culture and Education and other committees, specifically the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Development as the partners in enforced cooperation.
More than 7 000 scholarships to students and academics have been given.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (FI) Mr President, as rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I wish to focus on the programme's foreign policy dimension.
Many of the Committee's amendments have been taken on board, for which I would like to thank the rapporteur Mrs De Sarnez and the Committee on Culture and Education.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs De Sarnez, who has put together an excellent summary report despite circumstances in which the Commission, and above all the Council, have not always shown themselves to be open to appeals from this Parliament.
We will therefore take care to require absolute compliance with the overall legislative framework, in particular relating to the DCI.
For the moment, I would like to wish the very best of luck to the many young people from Europe and from all over the world who, in a spirit of friendship and sharing and a desire to learn and to grow, will take part in this extraordinary educational experience.
Although we wish to attract young researchers from third countries, we should not in so doing encourage a brain drain from countries which are already suffering from a lack of trained personnel for their own needs in the struggle to reduce poverty.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by supporting the Erasmus Mundus programme, the European Parliament is sending the right signal in times of crisis.
However, the budget of EUR 950 million for this period seems modest, especially in comparison with the hundreds of billions now being spent as a result of the failures of bank managers.
The new programme also seeks to promote intercultural understanding and cooperation with third countries and boost their development in the field of higher education.
Masters and doctoral programmes aim to promote the excellence of European higher education in the world.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner Figel', I would like to begin by thanking our excellent rapporteur, Mrs De Sarnez, for this Erasmus Mundus programme.
It is important that we ensure equality is preserved, and it is likewise important to ensure that the disabled can also fully participate in these programmes.
Thank you, Mr President and Mrs De Sarnez.
Since the beginning of the programme in 2004, some 4 150 students from outside the Union have taken part.
The grant for a one-year course is EUR 21 000, and EUR 42 000 for two years.
The new Erasmus Mundus programme will need to adapt to the increased demand for mobility, while at the same time maintaining its standards.
This will make for a more harmonious policy to strengthen educational mobility in the European Union. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, it is to be warmly welcomed that, after five years - the duration of the programme - we can already see an improvement and thus are able to take it a stage further in both substantive and financial terms.
I think it is very important that we promote intercultural understanding and cooperation with third countries and not, as some of our fellow Members in this House have just noted, fastidiously enumerate figures on what this or that does for us.
I want to stress that Erasmus Mundus will ensure a more structured international cooperation between higher-education institutes - thanks to greater mobility between the European Union and third countries - improving both the accessibility and the visibility of European higher education in the world.
I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs De Sarnez, and my colleagues who worked to achieve a better proposal and a good agreement.
It is a pity, therefore, that these opportunities are being lost as a result of distortions or the wrong approach by education establishments or bureaucratic problems in the various countries. (RO) In 2004, 2.5 million students studied in other countries, but 70% of them actually studied in just six countries.
I would like to give you a few more figures: 81% of the funds allocated to research and development were used in the industrial sector, but only 42% of industrial companies are involved in innovation activities.
I would like to stress the importance attached to studying foreign languages in the new Erasmus Mundus programme.
Finally, I would like to say that more funds should be allocated as well to the Erasmus section devoted to young entrepreneurs. - (SK) Commissioner, the fall of the Iron Curtain has brought enormous opportunities for young people in the Europe of 27 states, especially in the area of education.
This would give a clear signal to those countries we want to see drawing closer to the EU. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, it is particularly important for us to broaden the scope of the Erasmus Mundus programme by trying to turn it into an effective tool for improving the standard of higher education in Member States and in the other countries within its geographical scope.
The Erasmus Mundus programme also has a role to play in this context and, within this new perspective, is already included in the new regulation.
Member of the Commission. - (SK) I would like to express my thanks mainly for the very lively debate, which has served to emphasise the consensus for greater and better mobility, in other words for a Europe which, through education, specifically prepares not only its own students but also students from abroad for a more open international environment and greater responsibility.
And after a few years, the results are evident from the fact that not only does it cover the entire continent of Europe, but also countries outside Europe are getting involved in the process, and that Europe is playing a greater role in international mobility in today's world.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank all my many fellow Members who have spoken.
Many thanks also to those who have spoken from the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
We must improve participation by women in the programme and we must ensure that the funds used are used in accordance with development and external relations objectives.
The European Parliament is the only democratically-elected EU institution.
The amendments made to it for the second phase of operation are excellent, and the inclusion of third countries is a good idea.
This will then allow us to provide real, useful content for this programme, aimed at all young people from schools in Europe and third countries.
