Green Paper on better ship dismantling (debate) The next item is the report by Johannes Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Green Paper on better ship dismantling.
rapporteur. - (NL) On various shores in South Asia enormous seagoing ships for scrapping are dismantled under conditions that are environmentally damaging and humanly degrading.
Whatever we may do in the years ahead, a global solution to the problem of ship dismantling is still urgently needed.
I am pleased that there is a high level of agreement on this issue in the Committee on the Environment and both of the committees who were asked for an opinion.
It must be made clear that these people have been battling for a responsible ship dismantling industry in their country for many years, and we must not leave these people out in the cold.
A lawyer from Bangladesh, people from India: they have been dedicating themselves to this cause for years, and I feel that we must support them in this and must adopt this resolution.
Since then, there have been various developments, particularly in the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), where a draft convention on ship recycling is being prepared and is expected to be approved in May 2009.
About 90% of all large ships decommissioned around the world in 2007 were dismantled on the coasts of South Asia, mainly in India and Bangladesh.
The IMO draft Convention on ship recycling signals some progress in this area.
The European Union, which is partly responsible for these social and environmental problems, must take the right measures, in cooperation with the IMO, to put an end to social and environmental dumping due to economic incentives.
Then, without wishing to deprive South Asia of this large market, we also need to provide facilities in European naval yards so that we can recover this waste for ourselves, and then develop what we could call ecologically rational dismantling, all of which could serve as a basis for an international agreement.
Much of the dismantling of ships as presently done can rightly be characterised by many as criminal, both with reference to human health and also with reference to the environment.
The responsibility of the industrialised countries rightly comes to the fore in situations where developing countries suffer intolerable social and environmental harm because others have gone in pursuit of economic benefits.
With the greater environmental, health and safety requirements of which industrialised countries have had to take account, most of the world's seagoing vessels are dismantled in Bangladesh, Pakistan and India, often in very primitive conditions.
Dismantling yards barely comply with health and environmental standards, and toxic substances such as asbestos are handled by people wearing shorts and sandals.
In addition, in view of the fact that most ships of European origin will be broken and turned into waste outside Community waters, a binding international regime really must be enacted.
The European shipyards are not in a position to compete with the breaking yards of South Asia.
Those responsible in the shipping sector inform us that the new international Convention on ship recycling will combine with market forces to solve the shipbreaking problem.
rapporteur. - (NL) I should like first of all to thank all the speakers for their appreciative words, especially Commissioner Dimas.
We must be very quick and, therefore, it may perhaps be a good idea to enter into an agreement with the European shipowners as soon as possible, so that they will have their ships dismantled responsibly in any case.
