There was also consensus that we do not want a litigation industry to develop in Europe as it has in America, with turnover of USD 240 billion, which is ultimately of no advantage to consumers and, as we all know from simply reading the relevant books, mainly profits American law firms.
We also agreed that we were basically of the opinion that, from a point of view of principle, legislation at European level can only be an opt-in solution and that an opt-out solution would only be permissible here where the Member States already have a similar solution and national constitutional law so allows.
However, as we have known for years from the debate in this House on legal policy, that is not always the ideal way forward and, as a rule, out-of-court settlement mechanisms are often much more suitable for resolving problems.
Private legal actions may be brought by a public body and also by individual or group actions.
This second arrangement may be carried out directly by the victims or indirectly, through qualified entities, whether appointed in advance or designated ad hoc, such as consumer or business associations.
I would also like to say that I find it a little odd that we are having this debate late at night when we have a question on the same subject tabled for tomorrow morning.
I see from the debate that we are all agreed that we need a horizontal approach for all collective claims and I therefore ask the Commission not to table separate proposals by individual Directorates General for each separate area, but at best to give us a truly collective legal redress mechanism covering all areas for the European internal market and for European citizens and of course - as Mrs Wallis said - for European SMEs.
However, this evening's debate has not afforded me very much information on the most effective way of achieving this, because I believe that the potential of collective claims is often overestimated.
We want to advise as emphatically as possible against unjustified claims and we want to promote alternative settlement procedures. - (SV) Mr President, I, too, would like to thank Mr Lehne for a constructive and thorough report, which addresses important issues within competition law and increases consumer protection.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, thank you all for very interesting contributions, especially the introductory exposé of Klaus-Heiner Lehne.
On public enforcement and justice, of course, I think it is very important that we are not going towards lessening this enforcement, and, of course, Articles 81 and 82 are very important pillars of the EU single market and policies.
The Commission is in favour, but the precondition or the base for such an approach, which would be welcome, is an existing and functioning efficient litigation system on damages actions at the level of Member States.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 26 March 2009.
