The Evaluation of the PEACE Programme (debate) The next item is the report by Bairbre de Brún, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the evaluation of the PEACE Programme and strategies for the future.
EUR 333 will be allocated from the third programme, PEACE III, from now until 2013.
Last but not least we have learned that the projects in support of women are essential since the role of women in peace-building and promoting reconciliation is a key factor in bringing stability and durability to the process.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, you cannot put a price on peace, but the series of PEACE programmes in Northern Ireland since 1995 have supported the peace process in Ireland with a goal of reinforcing a peaceful and stable society and promoting reconciliation in the region.
The PEACE II programme allowed for valuable exchanges of experience between areas - including Albania, Belarus, Moldavia, Serbia, Ukraine and Bosnia.
I thank Mrs de Brún and I hope that all will support this constructive report.
In this context, it is also important that those groups are not caught out in the funding gap between PEACE II and PEACE III.
The PEACE programme was, and is, a tangible mechanism to connect Europe with the citizens.
on behalf on the UEN Group. - Mr President, I would first like to say that I welcome this report.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur Bairbre de Brún.
And I must say that it is this fact which most disappoints me this afternoon in Parliament.
Mr President, I welcome this report from Bairbre de Brún, and I would like to congratulate all the people who made a contribution to the report, in particular the shadow rapporteur, Jim Nicholson, Marian Harkin and all the people involved.
The Peace III Programme is up and running, with EUR 333 million going into an area, helping the whole infrastructure and Community development in Northern Ireland and in the border counties.
The IRA murdered 2 000 of my constituents, so no one will lecture me in this House about the deep-seated feelings that I have, and no one will contradict me with justification for pointing out that the people that put so many of my constituents in their graves are the IRA, which Miss de Brún represents in this House.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to say that this debate has clearly confirmed the importance of the peace process in Northern Ireland and that important lessons have been learned during this process.
The conference which was mentioned by Bairbre de Brún was also exactly aiming at contributing to this process of bringing more private investment - a more vibrant private sector - to life in this part of the island.
I would like especially to thank Commissioner Hübner for the personal commitment she has shown from her first day in that post and for her regular visits to Northern Ireland.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 20 May 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) ), in writing. - (RO) The PEACE Programme represents not only a means of maintaining peace, but also an instrument favouring economic development and territorial cohesion.
