That must not mean, however, that Turkey need not discharge these obligations in the long term. (Applause) rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to make five points about our report on integration capacity.
The original term which we dealt with was 'absorption capacity'.
In other words you have those types of people who are against enlargement but for the Constitution.
You have those who are against the Constitution but for enlargement.
What we want is to have a constitution before the next enlargement.
I think the conclusion of this report is that you can give a vague notion of what it actually means and you could say that it is not a condition for enlargement, but it is a criterion for us, the current Member States.
We have to put our house in order before we are able to enlarge.
In other words, enlargement in 1973 was radically different to enlargement in 2004.
Still on the definition, integration capacity is about three things: institutions, budget and policies.
My fourth point is about the public debate, and here I would like to point the finger at the European Council, which is saying that we need to link enlargement to public opinion.
If within those two to ten years you are not able to explain the benefits of enlargement to the general public I think you are miserably failing in your job, so please do your job and then come and start talking about public opinion.
This report outlines a number of issues which we desperately need to clarify before the next enlargement: qualified majority voting, legal personality, the foreign minister, common security policy, etc.
The message from this report is: let us get that house in order before 2009 and then start enlarging.
The European Council that will meet this week will discuss all aspects of future enlargements, including the Union's capacity to accept new members and ways to improve further the quality of the enlargement process on the basis of the experience gained thus far.
The European Council will have its general enlargement debate with reference to the enlargement strategy released by the Commission on 8 November.
Integration capacity is nevertheless an important factor to take into account in order to guarantee the success of enlargement.
To preserve the Union's capacity for integration it is necessary that acceding countries are prepared to accept and implement the obligations that come with membership of the European Union.
It is important that the Union keeps to the commitments which we gave to Croatia, Turkey and the Western Balkan countries in negotiations on membership.
With regard to Turkey, I would like to say here that the Presidency has done all it can to enable the negotiations process to continue.
This decision is a clear signal to Turkey that there are consequences for failing to fulfil its obligations, but at the same time the Council's decision on Monday managed to prevent a clash in relations between the European Union and Turkey.
I would also like to congratulate the Committee and all the Members for their intensive work on this important subject.
We welcome Parliament's support for the Commission's enlargement strategy and its principles, as well as the support for our efforts to enhance communication and transparency.
In the current debate in Europe in general, we often talk past one another.
Others focus only on internal problems which reduce our capacity to integrate new Member States.
If these two discourses do not meet, we run the risk of increasing confusion among our own citizens and eroding our credibility in the candidate countries.
However, when improving the quality of the accession process, we should not create something overly complicated.
Therefore, we must have clear rules, clear procedures, that are understood both by our own citizens and by the countries concerned - the candidate countries.
My answer is 'no': the EU has managed to deepen and to widen in parallel before, and that can be done again.
Therefore, a new institutional settlement should have been reached by the time the next new Member State is likely to be ready to join our Union.
The necessary steps to achieve a new institutional settlement should have been taken by the end of 2008.
Last, but not least, we need it for the current EU and its citizens today or, by the latest, tomorrow - not just because of potential future enlargement.
I trust you share these goals of a reformed and stronger Union and I look forward to working with you to achieve these objectives. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the two rapporteurs.
I therefore believe that the House will vote today in favour of these two reports on the strategy for enlargement and the capacity to integrate.
Not so long ago, two out of every three Members of this House supported the Corbett-Méndez de Vigo report.
Finally, Mr President, both reports have a clear political message.
Mr President, my group will support both reports, and with regard to Mr Stubb's report, it will vote in favour of Amendments 6, 7 and 8.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the jokes about twins have been wearing thin of late, I should just like to add that it is fortunate that you have not yet turned into evil twins, because that would of course be extremely regrettable.
As for the other elements from this discussion on integration capacity, public support is crucial.
That is why as far as Cyprus is concerned - and I will be discussing this item with Mr Brok - Turkey must deliver on its promise, but so must the European Union.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (NL) Mr President, in the early 90s, enlargement was declared as one of the EU's key objectives.
Negotiations with another candidate country, Macedonia, have not even actually got off the ground yet.
I notice a greater willingness to talk about the resolution of March 2006 on the same issue, but making enlargement conditional on the Constitutional Treaty is simply anachronistic.
A similar pretext can be found in academic debates on absorption capacity or integration ability.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, the Stubb report is disappointing for more than one reason.
Only the confirmation of support for the European Constitution and a summary of this Constitution in paragraph 9, on adoption of this report, appeared to be this House's most recent position.
Moreover, concrete recommendations to enshrine the enlargement process in the Treaty are lacking from this report on the institutional aspects of the EU's capacity to integrate new Member States.
In other words, a non-European candidate country such as Turkey is free to play fast and loose with the Copenhagen criteria.
That is why enlargement is a self-serving objective.
I repeat, and will continue to do so, that the enlargement of 2004 was a success and the enlargement at the beginning of next year to include Bulgaria and Romania will be no less of one.
With regard to integration capacity, what matters to us most of all is that the European Union does its homework.
The present institutions and the Treaty of Nice are inadequate as a basis for the accession of new Member States.
It is up to us to carry out the institutional reforms that are needed to enable new countries to be integrated at a later date.
The fact that candidate countries are, in turn, responsible for making thorough preparations for membership is nothing new.
The conditions have been enshrined in the Copenhagen criteria since 1993.
For future rounds of enlargement, it is important not only to share common values, but also to acknowledge that the demands of countries that have traditionally been smaller players in Europe must be taken seriously.
This means that no country should automatically be excluded from European Union membership.
During the debate, the leaders of the Greens, the party to which Mr Voggenhuber belongs, spoke about 2014 as a potential date for Ankara's accession to the European Union.
Finally, the European Union has significantly grown in importance by expanding, without needing a constitution.
There is an occupying army in one of the 25 countries of Europe and we pretend that we know nothing about it.
Enlargement itself requires none of this, but Europhile fanatics like our two rapporteurs, devoid of sustainable arguments to overcome popular opposition to the Constitution, have come up with this spurious spin that enlargement demands a constitution.
Integration capacity is very well defined by the three elements that appear in paragraph 8 of the Brok report.
It is true that integration capacity, as rightly defined by Mr Stubb, does not constitute an accession criterion, but a condition for moving on to accession.
For the time being, we believe, like Mr Stubb, that a further enlargement cannot take place without new decision-making mechanisms, without new resources and without new representation of the Union.
Enlargement is not an end in itself; it is a means of building Europe's political project. (ES) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Stubb on his work as shadow rapporteur for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I believe that, in particular, because we are discussing Mr Stubb's report and are going to approve it before the meeting of the European Council in a few days' time and following the success of the Second Interparliamentary Forum on the Future of Europe, which took place here last week.
It is true that we must talk about integration capacity and not absorption capacity.
That is why in this report we are committed to the European Constitution and its essential content, as Mr Swoboda said.
That is why it is essential that paragraph 9 of Mr Stubb's report should remain in its entirety.
Past enlargements were successful, but, in 2004, the EU was enlarged without prior or simultaneous deepening, thus imperilling the idea of ever closer union.
Yes, of course, some parts of the report are highly ambivalent, but if you have made the effort to read through it in draft, you will know that it achieved the form in which we are debating it today only as a result of massive amendments brought in by the Liberals, the Greens and the Social Democrats.
But I am also against the Constitution.
The concept of integration capacity is, potentially, one that will be used to sell or portray the Constitution as simply a matter of tweaking the institutions to allow for enlargement in practice.
That would not only be a misrepresentation of that text, but would represent a real failure on our part in terms of what we keep talking about: communication with the citizens of the EU.
To communicate, we must listen, and we must have that very fundamental debate on the direction of the Union.
Moreover, a further, cultural criterion should be added to the list of criteria drawn up in 1993 in Copenhagen that candidate countries have to fulfil.
Let our citizens themselves decide by referendum whether they want Turkey to become a Member State of the European Union or to simply be an associate country.
It is in this context that enlargement raises a particular problem, and one that has to be tackled.
An EU beset by a democratic deficit cannot be fully effective in extending the zone of democracy to future Member States.
That would be completely counterproductive.
Failure to do so would undermine the goal of extending Europe's zone of democracy and stability. (DE) Mr President, I would like to point out to the gentleman from UKIP that the constitutional treaty does give every country the right to secede from the EU, but no country has as yet done so, and nor will any - not even the United Kingdom - in view of the fact that there are far more advantages to staying in the European Union than to leaving it.
We all agree on the need for a deeper EU, something that we have been promised ever since Maastricht, when there were twelve Member States as against the present twenty-seven, so it is now past high time that we got it.
For potential candidate countries, there must be precise conditions for accession even in the medium term, provided they are ready to fulfil those conditions.
After the accessions of Romania and Bulgaria, we can expect to have to deal with that of Croatia, and then, in a later round, not only that of Turkey, but also that of the countries of the Western Balkans, who must not be forgotten in all this.
The first is that, after Bulgaria and Romania, there will be other accessions to the European Union; the second is that all European states that share our values and meet the Copenhagen criteria are entitled to apply to become Member States of the European Union, and the third is that the Treaty of Nice is not suitable as a basis for future enlargements.
I believe that the deepening of the EU before any more enlargements take place is an indispensable requirement, and that the constitutional treaty is the key to the European Union's future viability.
That, in my view, means above all that the creation of a social Europe must be put at the heart of European politics - and must stay there. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate needs to send the Commission a clear pointer that it must make its vast enlargement programme contingent on the need for an overall strategy regarding the European Union's political role now and in the future.
That is particularly true and imperative in relation to the highly sensitive issue of Turkey, for which privileged partnership is finally starting to look like a solution.
It is a fact that the Commission is advancing this enlargement programme with disturbing levity, without even pointing out what financial impact it might have, whereas it is absolutely essential to be fully conscious of that prior to any accession.
We are well aware of the hard work in store for us after Bulgaria and Romania join, so perhaps the time has come to make it clear to the countries waiting to join that, for now, different prospects are opening up for them, as we have pointed out in the case of Turkey.
Today, these Euro-maniacs are discovering that there is still someone behind the wall, that they still need to enlarge further, because they cannot say 'No' to anyone.
That is not exactly easy, for a constitution possesses little political sex appeal, nor, to a large degree, can it have any, for it essentially has to do with getting institutions to work better and with getting decisions taken by a majority in public view rather than by means of high diplomacy behind closed doors.
It is perfectly conceivable that it will join us in 2009 or 2010, provided that the German Presidency manages to breathe new life into the procedure for ratifying the Constitution and reviving the Constitution as an issue.
Of course it means that the European Union must adapt, especially in terms of institutional reform.
If that were the case, the last enlargement would never have happened, because the Treaty of Nice was clearly insufficient.
Perhaps even the 1973 enlargement might not have happened.
Indeed, paragraph 9 of Mr Stubb's report states that 'any enlargement requires...' - and then there is a long list of items that are all contained in the Constitutional Treaty.
There is a real danger that, on the one hand, you will have people who say that they do not want enlargement until we have institutional reform and, on the other, you will have those who say that we do not need institutional reform until we have enlargement.
That is why our group has tabled an amendment to paragraph 9 to make it clear that we do not see as a precondition having every single part of an institutional agenda accepted before any single enlargement takes place.
At the end of the day, this debate is really undermining our ability to talk about what Europe wants to be, what it wants to do.
Sadly, we may be, and in fact we are, rushing ahead in a manner that is preventing us from talking about our own problems and difficulties on the pretext of enlargement.
There are institutional reforms that cannot wait, enlargement or no enlargement.
They aim to promote the Constitutional Treaty with its anti-grassroots content by 2009.
This would send a very negative message to societies in countries which wish to join our Community.
Be that as it may, the main task right now is to strengthen and implement in-depth economic and institutional reforms, without, however, shutting the door on enlargement.
The 2004 enlargement had a positive, beneficial outcome for the old and new Member States.
However, Commissioner, I call on you to re-examine the idea of the timetable, because this would complement and improve the decision taken and would also help you to protect the credibility of the European Union.
However, it is an important policy, which must be developed.
I come from Sweden, a country that has clearly stated in every study that a continued enlargement process is one of the most important issues facing the EU.
We are in complete agreement that Turkey must meet the requirements we set out from the very beginning in respect of Cyprus, the Kurds and human rights, as well as the requirements that apply to everyone else.
As we know, they are both highly competent and gifted, but the direction in which they want to take the European Union is not necessarily the one that I am in favour of.
It is true that reforms are needed, and it is true that enlargement has in many respects proven an excellent and effective way to take the European Union forward.
We often ask questions about limits to growth in our keynote addresses, but now that we are talking about the enlargement of the European Union we forget that there are certain limits to this aspect of growth too. (PL) Mr President, the plan of enlarging the European Union further is today losing public favour.
This personal reference to history clearly proves the good that the European Union represents for all Europeans.
Relations between the European Union and Russia remain a fundamental issue and cover both trade and energy, as well as, first and foremost, issues of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. (SV) Mr President, the period of reflection has clearly shown that the great challenge now is to convince the people of Europe that they can take part in decision-making and influence the future of the EU.
This issue must be taken seriously when the EU's Basic Treaty is reviewed.
If one continues to add bedrooms on the first and second floors, one will need to reinforce the foundations, and that is why it is very important that Parliament should now speak out so emphatically in favour of introducing a new treaty before the next enlargement round.
Finally, with regard to Turkey, a clear penalty was needed, because conditions are there to be met.
We hope that next year, progress will be made as regards Cyprus and we hope, above all, that we will now once again be able to turn our attention to the necessary reforms in Turkey.
This is Europe's obligation.
Just as the Copenhagen criteria are an obligation for the other countries.
It does not exert pressure on it directly to apply its obligation concerning the protocol, it does exert pressure on it to recognise one of the 25 Member States, Cyprus; it haggles over whether one or two or three ports will open, completely ignoring the root of the problem, which is a military occupation that infringes all the European values that we maintain should be strengthened for the purpose of enlargement.
In order for Europe to be able to expand and function effectively, we need to perform a few urgent tasks: 1.
Accordingly, in the case of Croatia, presently engaged in negotiations, we can declare with confidence that we will welcome them as new members in this wave, on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria.
I am therefore delighted that the text is not limited to mentioning the institutional aspects of this issue, but that it also highlights other major reforms, without which the Union could not accommodate new members.
I am also grateful to the rapporteur for having succeeded in making sure that this report is neutral towards the candidate countries and in preventing the pitfall that would have consisted in expressing, on that occasion, a position on the entry of a given State.
Finally, this report rightly emphasises the enhanced role that should be granted to Parliament, not only in the context of the accession process, but also in that of future institutional reforms.
Rather than enumerating a long list of institutional reforms, it would have been better, in my opinion, to have concentrated solely on the reforms that constitute genuine prerequisites for any further enlargement. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, the EU enlargement process has been a great success, with the number of Member States having increased from 6 to 27.
It is true that the EU needs new forms of decision-making, but the Union must not introduce new conditions for those countries that are currently attempting to become members.
Our vision of the future must be of a complete Europe - and that includes Turkey. (DE) Mr President, in contrast to one of the earlier speakers, I regard enlargement as an instrument not of external policy, but rather of European domestic policy; that is why the process of enlarging the EU must not be allowed to burst the bounds of Europe through the accession of a large country like Turkey, which is either only partly European or not European at all.
Yes, of course we have to move the constitutional process forward in this decade; yes, of course we need the constitutional treaty in order to be able to make further strides in the next decade by welcoming into the European Union states - such as those in south-eastern Europe between Croatia and Greece - whose European nature is not in doubt, first among them Macedonia, which already has the status of a candidate state.
It is countries such as these that have an entitlement to full Member State status, and that is an entitlement we will uphold. (The President cut off the speaker) (DE) Mr President, I would like to say something about communication.
Those who think the only problems have to do with matters of fact would do better to get stuck in to these communications problems. (SL) I should like to welcome both these reports as a clear expression of the political will of the European Parliament, which strengthens the credibility of the European Union.
Our response should not be that there are not enough chairs around the European table or that we are having problems drawing up house rules.
Also, the following principle should be applied to Croatia and to all the countries following in Croatia's footsteps involved in the so-called Thessalonica process: as soon as a candidate country is ready, the European Union should be ready, too.
Article 49 of the Treaty clearly states that any European country that meets the political and economic criteria may join the European Union.
These criteria were drawn up in Copenhagen in 1993 and we should not tighten them up now.
I believe that we are bound by the principle of keeping our word, of upholding agreements and the ancient Roman principle of 'pacta servanta sum'.
The message today is that the Nice basis is no longer sufficient for a new enlargement round.
Some say that we should not see Turkey as it is today.
It is senseless for us to want to function satisfactorily with 27 members with rules which applied when there were 9, 10 or 15 members in the Union.
I wonder, though, how many of the Member States, old and new, will overcome their internal pettifogging and set as the sovereign objective the smooth functioning and efficiency of the Europe of the 27 Member States.
I think it would be a good idea to internally restructure the work of the European Commission.
If today we have twenty-seven Commissioners deciding on the scope of their portfolios, then perhaps it might be sensible to appoint two or three Commissioners who would be responsible for analysing the situation in the European Union and preparing the reform programme in such a way as to ensure that we are capable of further enlargement.
However, we cannot view this capability solely through an internal perspective.
They are prepared to wait twenty or even thirty years for the chance to join us.
This is a door of opportunity we cannot close to them.
The fifth wave, which enlarged the Union to 25 Member States two years ago, has actually been a great success, in spite of warnings that the Union would be paralysed without a constitution and that countries such as my own would suffer unsustainable immigration flows, including from the Roma population.
Regrettably, the Brok report seeks again to link further enlargement to the absolute need for an EU Constitution, whereas British Conservatives, whom I represent, would argue that this is not the case and that what we really need are Treaty adjustments, via an amended Nice Treaty, to reflect the new voting strength in the Council, the number of MEPs and Commissioners, after the expected relatively painless accession of Croatia in the next couple of years.
However, I believe we should not rotate Commissioners absolutely equally amongst all Member States, but some mathematical formula must be found to preserve, at least in a semi-permanent presence, the Commissioners of the big Member States - but I know this is controversial.
I believe that the accession of Romania and Bulgaria on 1 January 2007 will also prove to be a great success.
As rapporteur, I believe that the European Neighbourhood Policy must be split into a southern EuroMed dimension through the Barcelona Process and a new eastern concept of an enhanced free-trade and visa-facilitated EU-Black Sea community to further strengthen our ties with European countries such as Ukraine, Moldova and the three Caucus republics.
It is very clear that, for enlargement to succeed, we have to ensure that the Union develops internally and that it remains able to function in all situations.
On Monday the Council reached political consensus on the objective of enhancing economic development in North Cyprus as quickly as possible and even earlier, especially given the decisions taken in April 2004.
We all share the view that the Constitution contains plenty of elements that are important for improving the Union's integration capacity.
It is also important to remember that we cannot entrust the Union's ability to function solely to the Constitutional Treaty.
Neighbourhood policy is linked to enlargement of the Union in a certain way, but that is also an important policy area in itself, and so cannot be seen as a substitute for enlargement.
It is obvious that at least the countries interested in joining the EU will not accept a neighbourhood policy to compensate for or take the place of the prospect of EU membership.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will be discussing this week's European Council and its agenda later on this afternoon, and I am quite sure that in that debate we will also return to those topics that have already been considered this morning.
This debate is encouraging because if you were able to forge a common position starting from the first drafts of the twins - who are not quite identical twins in terms of enlargement strategy - then the European Council should certainly be able to forge a renewed consensus on enlargement that respects both the strategic value of enlargement and our capacity to integrate new members.
Indeed the Commission's report of 8 November outlines that not all European countries are engaged in the enlargement process.
Ladies and gentlemen, those are wise words that deserve to be reflected on during Christmas and the new year. (Applause) Thank you, Commissioner, for that conclusion in French.
The debate is closed.
The Treaty of Nice does not provide an adequate basis for further enlargements, whereas the constitution offers solutions to most of the reforms needed and constitutes a tangible expression of the deepening enlargement relationship.
We therefore bear a responsibility towards our neighbourhood and particularly towards candidate and potential candidate countries.
Finally, while addressing the question of the Union's "absorption capacity", we share the point of view of the rapporteur who prefers the positive concept of "integration capacity".
