The one extra right I would like this Parliament to have is the right to choose where it sits.
It is very important that equality can be implemented in Parliament's various roles, be they committees or delegations.
We are instead going down this road towards harmonisation, towards fixed prices, towards protection, towards a common negotiating position vis-à-vis Russia and other third parties.
We all know, if we look at the history of liberalisation in the EU, that telecoms liberalisation has been a great success, offering choice, lower prices and better services to consumers right across the EU.
The time for protectionism is over.
This is what we should also be aiming for in the case of tyres.
This specific report talks about transport and tyres, but it is important to remember that safety is the most important issue and something that must never be compromised.
In other words, if we want to guarantee energy efficiency and increase it, at the same time we have to ensure that safety is not undermined in the slightest, because on motorways, small roads and everywhere, safety must be the priority and main objective as we develop transport in Europe. (FI) Mr President, first of all I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Vălean, for her excellent report.
These are absolutely unspeakable practices that are bordering on daylight robbery, and these operators are responsible - they provide no transparency for consumers.
All of us involved in this vote stand to gain very substantially from the kind of regulations that we have been pushing through in this field over the last year.
I voted for this report because I think that what has been done in the sphere of mobile communications by the European Parliament is extremely important.
I think that through this directive and regulation we have made a huge advance in the defence of consumer interests, and also nowadays, now that data transmission is so very important that people receive data on their mobile phones, the fact that these tariffs have been reduced constitutes a major achievement by the European Parliament.
It has been a huge undertaking but he has really delivered on this very complex piece of legislation.
I would also like to congratulate the European institutions and Member States, who have brought us this successful conclusion of Solvency II.
It is a good example of how Europe must work together towards financial recovery.
This European approved response is a good example of a closer relationship on financial cooperation.
I think this is something that all Member States can look at, but I also think that financial institutions in Member States themselves could make it easier for people to move to interest-only mortgages if they found themselves in difficulty.
I voted for the Hökmark report for all sorts of reasons.
But, equally, I voted for this mainly because I want there to be more nuclear power provided in the future - more in the UK - because I am sick to death of seeing windmills and wind turbines pop up across beautiful parts of the European countryside, which add nothing to any of our national grids - in fact they cause extra harm to the national grids - and do not provide renewable energy: they just provide a slightly alternative energy for a short period of time.
Amendments 7 and 11 passed without opposition; Amendment 48 passed by 608 votes to 37; Amendment 49 passed by 580 votes to 54; Amendment 50 was widely supported; Amendment 2 passed as it was part of a block vote with Amendments 7 and 11; Amendment 92 fell and Amendment 93 also fell, which was what the angling community were asking for.
Let us look at the example of Iceland, where they have come up with property-based solutions and rights that can be handed down.
It is time to have faith in the market. (MT) A quick note to explain our group's vote, that of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on my report on a common immigration policy.
This is something we do not agree with, and we also voted against it at committee level.
Providing for 60 million new immigrants to come and work in Europe is in my view an outrageous measure.
In all these cases Italy has had to intervene, although our reception centre at Lampedusa is by now well beyond its capacity, as we all know.
We are asking for a substantial increase in funding for our country to enable us to address this challenge properly.
Mr President, for my country - Latvia - fisheries are extremely important, because we have 550 km of coastline.
Since Latvia is represented in Europe by eight MEPs, we cannot be on all the committees, but these issues are very important both for our economy and for traditional ways of life.
I understand that overfishing is a serious problem, but because of excessive regulation our coastal fishing is under threat, and in fact our fishermen are being driven away from our Baltic coast.
Hundreds, even thousands, of coastal residents are losing their jobs, although for centuries this has been their main livelihood.
Written explanations of vote I voted for this recommendation as accession to the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe Regulation No 61 on uniform provisions for the approval of commercial vehicles with regard to their external projections forward of the cab's rear panel (Revised Agreement) is an aim of common trade policy in accordance with Article 113 of the Treaty to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties.
The adoption of a regulation of this type actually means adaptation to technical progress.
The free movement of citizens within the Community is one of their fundamental freedoms and encourages the development of the internal economy of the Member States.
That is why the Commission seeks to intensify its efforts so that EU citizens and their families can truly enjoy the rights guaranteed under current European law.
The often ongoing breach of the fundamental rights of EU citizens to free movement on European territory is evident, above all in relation to the following situations: the right of entry and of residence for family members that are citizens of third countries, and the lack of assistance following accidents at work.
We hope that the Commission will continue its technical cooperation with the Member States, which has led to various points being identified for debate and further clarification, especially as regards abuses.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report because it sends a strong signal to the next Parliament that the issue of illegal logging and deforestation must be dealt with more effectively.
I voted for the resolution on the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market, because illegal logging is an increasingly serious problem with very worrying environmental implications, such as loss of biodiversity, deforestation and forest degradation.
in writing. - I welcome Caroline Lucas's report laying down certain obligations on operators who place timber and timber products on the market.
I chose to abstain from voting on the proposal for a regulation laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market.
in writing. - I stress that this regulation is a much awaited and needed regulation.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which sets rules for operators placing timber on the EU market for the first time.
in writing.? - (LT) Oil is the most important source of energy in the European Union and the economy is very dependent on its constant, reliable and accessible supply.
Oil demand within the EU will continue to increase until 2030, although only at a rate of 0.25% per year.
In 2030 oil will still be the main primary source of energy in the EU and will constitute approximately 35% of all energy consumed.
As a result, any kind of speculation involving these stocks must be prohibited, contrary to what has been happening.
Their ownership and administration must be in public hands, in order to protect the interests of EU Member States.
However, we do not agree with the powers that this proposal for a directive gives to the European Commission, particularly the possibility for Commission departments to carry out 'checks on emergency stocks and dedicated stocks' in Member States.
Countries must create stocks of these products, but the administration of these stocks and the definition of their minimum or maximum levels is a sovereign matter.
in writing. - Whilst we favour cooperation between Member States on these issues, we believe this matter should remain one of subsidiarity and not subject to EU action.
I voted for the proposal for a Critical Infrastructure Warning Information Network (CIWIN).
Transport systems, telecommunications and energy are sectors crucial to the development of Member States and they are also increasingly interconnected, with some Member States relying on others.
in writing. - (EL) The Commission proposal on which the report has been drafted creates an information and warning network between the Member States for their public and private infrastructures which are characterised as being 'critical'.
I think that the protection of the EU's citizens is of the highest priority in this institution and citizens must know about it.
The creation of this information network will make it possible, based on the exchange of experience and good practice between EU countries, to achieve a better understanding of and higher standards for protecting critical sites and activities which are crucially important to countries and their population.
I would like to mention that, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am pleased with the unanimous adoption by all the political groups in Parliament of the requirement stipulated for Member States' compulsory participation in the new system, which guarantees the importance of this initiative from a European perspective.
One of the most debated points of the policies discussed by the European Union is that concerning the implementation of a common policy for the protection of public figures.
Notable cases include the former member of the Dutch Parliament, Hirshi Ali, who was threatened in February 2008 following her valuable speech on the extremely topical subject of Islamic radicalisation in Europe, and the well-known British-Indian novelist, Salman Rushdie, persecuted because of his controversial views on Islam.
It is thus desirable that anyone dedicated to broadening the public debate in a positive way should have the right to be protected when visiting a state in which he or she may be subject to threats or attack; above all in cases such as Salman Rushdie's, where a death sentence has already been pronounced by a third country.
Protection of public figures remains the responsibility of the hosting state, in accordance with the legal provisions in force in that country.
The present initiative aims to extend the definition of 'public figure', as laid down in Article 2 of Council Decision 2002/956/JHA, in order to cover any person, regardless of whether or not they hold an official position, who is deemed to be under threat due to their contribution to or impact on the public debate.
This Dutch proposal arose following an incident in 2008, when a former member of the Dutch Parliament was subject to threats to her physical integrity following her speech on Islamic radicalisation during a seminar in the European Parliament.
As shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I support this initiative, which aims to extend the protection of human rights and, in particular, to promote the right to freedom of expression.
The Member States cooperate in the area of the protection of public figures within the legal provisions in force in the country concerned as well as in accordance with international agreements.
The Council Decision under discussion (2002/956/JHA) establishes protection of public figures as defined in the national legislation of a Member State or pursuant to the regulations of an international or supranational organisation or institution.
In view of threats which have been made against public figures in recent years, I fully support the decision which has been taken to amend the already existing Council Decision on a European Network for the Protection of Public Figures.
The main purpose of this is to broaden Article 2 by defining a 'public figure' as a person holding an official or non-official position who is deemed to be under threat due to his/her contribution to or impact on public debate.
I think that this decision will increase the safety of public figures and will have a beneficial effect on the development of democracy.
in writing. - (SV) Having cotton production in the European Union is not an end in itself.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour.
in writing. - (SV) This report is actually a report of the activities of the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
Those are the reasons why I oppose paragraph 17 of the McGuinness report, which is otherwise problem-free.
I voted for the motion for a resolution on gender mainstreaming in the work of committees and delegations.
This own-initiative report indicates the progress made in committees and delegations and reiterates the need to adopt and apply a gender mainstreaming strategy.
It is for society as a whole, thereby benefiting both women and men, and also families.
These new rules amount to a bill of rights for gas and electricity users.
However, I voted for the internal market gas and electricity package because: (1) consumers' interests have been placed at the heart of the revision of the legislative package; (2) we have included the concept of energy poverty and have called on the Member States to include steps to tackle energy poverty in the national energy action plans and not only to make sure that the most vulnerable customers receive the energy they need, but also to ban the disconnection of these customers at critical times; and (3) since ownership unbundling will be a reality within a few years through the anti-trust proceedings taken by the Directorate General for Competition, we have placed the emphasis on institutional architecture, strengthening the responsibilities of the new European agency and the independence of the national regulatory bodies.
in writing. - The greatest failing of the single market is the failure to establish a single market in energy.
This is another example of Parliament guaranteeing the victory of the broader European cause over national self-interest and protectionism.
The third energy package must gradually develop the energy market, which until very recently was based on a monopoly system.
The Agency will also supervise the internal markets in electricity and natural gas, thus contributing to all the efforts made to enhance energy security.
These are the reasons which led me to vote for this report.
Responsibility sharing and cooperation between Member States in both the electricity and natural gas markets form the cornerstone for the existence of a genuine European energy market, which aims to be fair, dynamic and sustainable.
in writing. - (SV) I wholeheartedly support the idea of opening up the internal market for gas to competition.
However, it is wrong to stipulate that Member States should take concrete measures to assist the wider use of biogas and gas from biomass.
We cannot forget the discrimination perpetrated against new energy suppliers or the lack of transparency in prices and choice of supplier.
The adoption of this third package, and this proposal in particular, will lead to more competitive, more sustained and securer European energy markets.
This programme facilitates effective and efficient cross-border and cross-sector electronic interaction among European administrations, thus enabling them to provide electronic public services that can help them to carry out their activities and to implement Community policies for citizens and businesses.
This will facilitate the free and unimpeded movement, establishment and employment of citizens in Member States in order to provide better, more efficient and more easily accessible services to citizens and public administrations.
The participation of candidate countries in the ISA programme is a very important step in preparing their public administration for all the tasks and working methods stemming from EU membership.
Our own experience in Ireland has shown how liberalisation and resulting privatisation have not provided solutions to any problems in the energy sector.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour.
The environmental and health implications of the use of pesticides have been the subject of debate at European level, and the European Parliament has adopted directives on the authorisation and sale of pesticides.
This measure sets out essential requirements for safety and the protection of health to which machinery for pesticide application placed on the internal market must conform in order to enjoy free circulation within the Community.
The existing tractors directive could and should therefore be replaced by a less complex regulation.
Harmonisation of the environmental protection requirements and conformity assessment procedures for machinery for pesticide application is a prerequisite to achieving the same level of environmental protection throughout the EU, but also to ensuring fair competition between manufacturers and facilitating the free movement of these products within the Community.
Assuming that a pesticide sprayer has an average service life of 12 to 15 years, it is estimated that approximately 125 000 to 250 000 new sprayers are purchased in the Community every year.
This is why I voted in favour of this report.
The Directive of the European Parliament on machinery for pesticide application, amending Directive 2006/42/EC of 17 May 2006 on machinery, introduces a very important amendment to legislation.
It is intended to harmonise standards on environmental protection and human health in the European Union.
in writing. (LT) As road transport emits almost 25% of all CO2, the EU's greatest task is to reduce the intensity of energy use by the means of transport and the amount of carbon compounds which these emit into the atmosphere.
Moreover, the possibility of choosing a tyre according to its specific performance is another tool enabling consumers to protect themselves and equip their vehicles in a manner appropriate to their style of driving and the environmental conditions where they drive.
I voted for the resolution on labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency.
With almost 25% of total CO2 emissions coming from road transport, reducing vehicles' energy intensity is a major challenge for the EU.
in writing. - (SV) There are very good reasons to strive for improved energy efficiency and lower emissions from our vehicles.
A harmonised labelling system for vehicle tyres in the EU is problematic, however.
Since the Commission and the committee responsible do not seem to share my view, I have chosen to vote against the report.
in writing. - I welcome this report as a necessary adjunct to the type approval for the general safety of motor vehicles legislation approved earlier this year, which is mainly concerned with environmental and safety standards for tyres.
in writing. (LT) I agree that the regulation of voice call prices should be continued.
I voted for this regulation not being limited solely to calls made or received, but also covering SMS and data roaming.
I voted for this regulation precisely to ensure lower charges for roaming customers, while at the same strengthening the rules on transparency of pricing.
in writing. - (EL) The EU is promoting faster capitalist restructurings in the field of mobile telecommunications services by extending the application of the regulation in question to all services provided by mobile telephone companies.
The directive strengthens the position of the European monopolies in relation to their international competitors.
in writing. - (SV) The Commission wants the current price regulation for roaming to be extended to cover not only voice calls but also SMS traffic and data roaming.
The European Parliament recommends a more restricted form of regulation and points out that the price regulation should be temporary and in the long term the market should eliminate the high roaming charges.
I have voted in favour of the European Parliament's position, as it is slightly more market-liberal than the Commission's proposal.
It is understandable that these costs are higher in a foreign network - not the operator's home network, that is - but, since the advent of international mobile telephony, we have seen excessive abuse of these roaming costs time and again.
The setting of limits for roaming voice and SMS services, the adoption of measures guaranteeing transparency and the preventive mechanism introduced for wholesale tariffs for data services still give operators a free rein to compete on the market and differentiate their offerings within the limits imposed.
The regulation must offer a sufficient level of protection to consumers, allowing them to use roaming data services in a convenient manner and without placing unreasonable burdens on telecommunication operators.
This report not only lays down the conditions for improved transparency and consumer protection, but also for competition that is fairer and clearer for all, from industry to consumers.
I therefore voted for this report.
in writing. - (SV) I have today chosen to abstain from the vote on the Roaming II Regulation, which proposes regulation of the prices for mobile telephone services abroad.
We already have price regulation in place as a result of the Roaming I Regulation.
I agree that this is not the case with regard to roaming services, but instead of Soviet-style price regulation, it would have been better to have measures promoting competition, for example a prohibition on the large operators using price discrimination against smaller operators who want access to foreign networks.
During today's vote I endorsed the draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament amending Regulation (EC) No 717/2007 and Directive 2002/21/EC, which from 1 July 2009 to 2011 will gradually reduce the maximum cost of using roaming within the EU.
The maximum price for outgoing and incoming connections will be reduced each year by 4 cents, and in 2011 will amount to EUR 0.35 and EUR 0.11 per minute respectively.
The cost of data transmission will also be reduced, to EUR 0.50 per megabyte in 2011.
The means provided for in the directives for sending information to shareholders were laid down 30 years ago, and do not take into account the technological possibilities of today.
However, a real reduction of administrative burdens will depend on the way in which these solutions are implemented by Member States, companies, and the shareholders themselves.
in writing. - British Conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 European budget, European Council section.
We note the auditors' remarks that around 80 per cent of the transactions of the EU are carried out by agencies working within the Member States under joint management agreements.
The auditors consistently report that levels of control and scrutiny of the use of EU funds within the Member States is inadequate.
In order to address this ongoing problem, the Council entered into an interinstitutional agreement in 2006, which obliged them to produce certification for those transactions for which they are responsible.
in writing. - I voted for this resolution, which examines the trading relationship between the EU and Turkmenistan.
According to very detailed reports from Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and the Open Society Institute, Turkmenistan is one of the lowest ranking countries in the world for many basic freedoms, including freedom of the press, freedom of expression and freedom of association.
in writing. - I voted against this Interim Agreement with Turkmenistan despite my admiration of the work of the rapporteur, Mr Caspary.
in writing. - I voted against this Report which wanted to give Parliament's approval (assent) to an Interim Trade Agreement between the EU and Turkmenistan.
We will further on have to take all measures to ensure that this country will play their part in this joint effort in order to facilitate its success.
in writing. - I would like to use this opportunity to explain one of the many reasons why I voted today to support closer trading links between the EU and Turkmenistan.
It is a reality that we in Ireland are not comfortable with, but we accept the right of all countries to choose their own energy mix, and the fact that our neighbours utilise nuclear power means that we cannot afford to ignore the issue.
Just last week there was a serious safety breach in Sellafield nuclear plant, and the storage facility for nuclear materials at Sellafield - the B30 pond - is arguably one of the most serious problems facing the nuclear industry in Europe.
Therefore, I support the proposal for an EU nuclear safety framework that will reinforce the independence of national regulators and ensure a high level of transparency on the safety of nuclear installations.
Although we do not have any nuclear power stations in Ireland, problems with safety in power stations in other European countries could affect the people of Ireland.
It is up to the European Union to ensure that the citizens of our countries are fully protected in relation to this issue.
in writing. - As someone who has reservations regarding the long-term safety of nuclear power stations I am not entirely happy with this report.
The future importance of nuclear energy demands excellence in the conditions for its implementation and in the conditions for the exchange of essential information, so that uniform safety conditions of the highest quality can be established.
I therefore voted for this report.
in writing. - (SV) We chose to vote against this report on a control system within the common fisheries policy.
We regret the broad rejection by a majority in Parliament of our proposed amendment, which, in accordance with the provisions enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic - in other words, those on national sovereignty - and as part of the struggle to ensure that these provisions are respected, stated that this proposal for a regulation should respect and not threaten the competence and responsibility of Member States with regard to monitoring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy.
We regret the broad rejection by a majority in Parliament of our proposed amendments, which would have prevented the European Commission from being able to independently carry out inspections without prior warning in the exclusive economic zones (EEZ) and territories of the Member States, and from being able, at its discretion, to prohibit fishing activities and suspend or cancel payments of the Community financial assistance for a Member State, and which also prevented a Member State from being able to inspect its fishing vessels in the EEZ of any other Member State, without the latter's authorisation.
The fisheries sector in France is suffering greatly because the French Government and Brussels have decided to sacrifice French fishermen for the sake of European economic and trade policy.
Thus, Norway, a country outside the European Union, but which has negotiated gas-related economic agreements with the latter, awards itself alone 80% of the cod quota, a figure amounting to 500 000 tonnes per year.
It is not the EUR 4 million envelope promised by the minister for agriculture and fisheries, intended as financial compensation linked to the stopping of boats that have reached their quota of fish, that will solve this problem.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament has today voted in favour of including sports and recreational fisheries in the common fisheries policy.
The proposal is preposterous.
You only need to look at Sweden, which has 11 500 km of coastline.
The EU is like a steam engine that has started to roll along the way towards its goal of becoming a fully-fledged federal state.
Today is a dark day for those of us who want pithy and effective European cooperation, but above all it is a very dark day for recreational fishermen in all Member States.
in writing. - (IT) The aim of this proposal for a regulation, namely to guarantee a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy through a European Agency, is certainly commendable and addresses the numerous demands made over the years by Parliament and the European Commission.
The regulation also suggests - albeit timidly - implementing and applying the aforesaid rules in a uniform manner in the 27 Member States.
in writing. - I will be supporting this report because we have accepted Amendments 48 and 49 and rejected Amendment 93 in regard to recreational fishing.
in writing. - The common fisheries policy is deeply flawed, and has been extremely detrimental to the British economy and to the environment.
in writing. - On behalf of myself and my colleague, Louis Grech, I would like to say that although we voted in favour of the report we would like to stress the following points: we support a common immigration policy; we believe that in the national interest the Immigration Pact was not satisfactory; we note disappointment because the report does not make a direct and clear reference to mandatory/compulsory burden sharing; we note that any cooperation is appreciated; but the EU cannot interfere in what type of bilateral agreements are reached between a country of origin and a transit country; we do not agree with voting rights for illegal immigrants because of Malta's demographic situation; we do not agree with a uniform Schengen Visa system instead of national systems if this increases bureaucracy and the system becomes less flexible.
I therefore support: the recognition of the need for the work of migrants within the EU; the need for increased consultation with representatives of civil society; freedom of movement within the EU following a period of five years' residence; respect for human dignity and the application of the most favourable measures in the context of the application of the Return Directive; and, finally, and most importantly, the right to vote in local elections, a point to which the European right was fiercely opposed.
in writing. - British Conservatives voted against this report on the basis that we do not accept the need for a common EU immigration policy and that the UK must retain absolute control over its national borders.
in writing. - (NL) I have voted against this report, as it contains a number of elements that are unacceptable.
For starters, it is assumed that the EU will need 60 million new immigrants by 2050.
The adoption of the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum was a huge step in this direction, resulting in an immigration policy that is more coherent, controlled and linked to the needs of the labour market in European countries, and also to the resources available in terms of housing, health and education.
I voted for the resolution on a common immigration policy for Europe, as immigration is one of the foremost challenges that Europe is currently facing.
Furthermore, it also includes measures allowing migrants to participate in the civic and political life of the society in which they live, particularly in political parties and trade unions, and giving them the opportunity to vote in local elections.
A report with 91 articles must clearly include some aspects with which we agree.
I voted for adoption of the Busuttil report.
For some countries migration is a huge social, financial and political problem.
in writing. (LT) Now is the right time for the TEN-T policy, based on fifteen years of experience, to properly reflect its goals and measures.
TEN-T priority projects and maps are largely made up of large and expensive national transport infrastructure projects, and some of the earlier 30 TEN-T projects were physically impossible to implement, whereas other projects, especially following EU enlargement, became particularly important, but did not make it on to the list.
This is the reason why I voted for option 'C' proposed by the rapporteur, Eva Lichtenberger.
