I will endeavour, with all my strength, to serve the citizens of the European Union, democracy and parliamentary government.
To the citizens of the Union, I wish to say that it is only together that our peoples stand a chance of defending our values and interests in the world at large. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to say that the President of that institution that has done so much for the cause of European values and will continue to do so, one with which we want to work well, is present with us in this House today.
I will be inviting the Presidents of all the European Union institutions and all former Presidents of this House to attend on that occasion.
Mr President, Mr Poettering, Mr President of the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and its 277 Members, I should like to congratulate you most warmly on your election to the Presidency of Parliament.
You have been Chairman of the main political force in Parliament for eight years, and we know that you have all the qualities necessary for exercising your new responsibilities with a great deal of courage, determination, conviction and, above all, humanity.
I should also very much like to congratulate Mr Bonde, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Wurtz and to tell them how much I appreciated the high standard of their campaigns.
Parliament and the European institutions in general have already benefited from what you have done to increase their powers.
We know that you will ensure that all Members of the European Parliament benefit from your experience, knowledge and conviction.
Mr President, being among those who have been privileged to get to know you rather better over recent years, I claim the right to add a personal comment to the congratulations I bring on behalf of my group.
I am thinking about the many times we have forgotten about Africa, about our silence regarding what is happening in Nigeria and about how the European Union missed the mark in Somalia by supporting the terrorists over the legitimate government.
There is one thing I would like to add: it is that I know that the debate about Strasbourg is a difficult one; it is one that divides all our groups, with majorities and minorities in favour or against every conceivable position.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, I offer you my sincere congratulations on your election to the Presidency of the European Parliament.
You are now the elected President of the European Parliament.
You are my President too, and you know of my wishes for reform: a single seat, better organised voting, better legislation, fair distribution of rapporteurships and posts, clean façades in Strasbourg, fair representation abroad, neutral staff and a fair chair. (DE) My dear Hans-Gert, I have known you for 27 years, and you have been a good colleague.
The person whose speech prompted the change was Claude Autant-Lara, France's greatest film-maker.
That is why this is a truly historic moment: the first President elected by a Parliament representing the citizens of 27 countries.
I was also moved by the enthusiasm and the dynamism that the new members of the European Union bring to our Union.
