Proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights Mr President of the European Council, José Sócrates, Mr President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to welcome you here to the heart of European democracy, to the European Parliament, today on the occasion of the formal signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The Berlin Declaration, which was adopted on 25 March of this year to mark the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, states an important fact when it says that 'We, the citizens of the European Union, have united for the better', for it is indeed our good fortune that freedom, democracy and human rights have become a reality for all of us in the European Union.
Today's solemn proclamation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights gives us a great obligation and opportunity to bring home the real essence of European unification to the people of the European Union, who number almost 500 million, and to future generations.
These common values, central to which is respect for inviolable human dignity, as enshrined in Article 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, form the foundations of European unification. (Applause) For this reason, the European Parliament has regarded legally binding recognition of the Charter of Fundamental Rights as a vital component of any agreement on the reform of the European treaties, and the European Parliament has got its way on this point.
The reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Article 6 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which the Heads of State or Government will be signing tomorrow, lends the Charter the same legally binding character that the Treaties themselves possess.
Today's solemn proclamation should also be an occasion for all European citizens who can assert their own rights on the basis of the Charter to reflect on their duty to the community of Europeans, the wider world and future generations.
Today, in a solemn sitting of the European Parliament, we are proclaiming the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and I should like to state clearly to you that this day - 12 December - will now be a fundamental date in the history of European integration.
A fundamental date in the history of Europe. (Applause) (Uproar in the NI and IND/DEM ranks) Be patient, please.
The Charter embodies, in the European context, the projection of human dignity and the rule of social rights.
The Charter of 2000 was not legally binding.
The 54 articles cover rights that until now had to be recognised by the Court of Justice on a case-by-case basis.
The Charter also confirms economic and social rights.
