The Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I should speak French today, so that is what I will do.
That has given rise to a debate on a subject that is vitally important for Europe and I would especially like to congratulate the European Parliament on its role in recent years because its interest in the Mediterranean has never waned.
In March the European Council invited the Commission to redefine the modalities of the 'Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean' and on 20 May the Commission adopted a communication underlining the central role of the Mediterranean, its historical and contemporary importance, and the considerable challenges of our common future.
Stability in that region is crucial for our security and our prosperity, not to mention the security and prosperity of our Mediterranean neighbours and friends.
The time has come to take advantage of a renewed political will to breathe new life into our cooperation to ensure that it is more balanced and more in tune with our fellow citizens.
I would recall the free trade area planned for 2010: we should like to know more about this, Commissioner, as well as about the state of play on the objectives set out in the association agreements and other ongoing projects.
The first concerns the administration and operation of the Euro-Mediterranean Assembly.
We have moved on in the meantime and have clarified these issues.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, with his proposals for a Mediterranean Union, President Sarkozy recognised what many knew yet would not admit: that the Barcelona Process - top-down and driven by European interests - was dead in the water, leading our southern partners to opt out and a widening prosperity gap to emerge on either side of the Mediterranean.
We must build on the ashes of the Barcelona Process - a true partnership based on trust, reciprocity and, above all, mutual respect.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Madam President, the European Commission has put forward a good proposal.
The mediocre results in terms of democracy and human rights were unanimously identified in 2005 as an obstacle to the Barcelona objectives.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the European Union has many so-called old neighbours to the South and many so-called new ones to the East.
In the case of our Eastern neighbours involved in the Neighbourhood Policy, membership of the Union is most certainly a possibility.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, the challenges involved in Europe's relationship with the people of the southern shore of the Mediterranean far exceed those of a simple neighbourhood relationship.
It is perhaps a peaceful future that hangs in the balance in this region of unparalleled division.
It is therefore recommended that the European Union-Israel Association Council meeting on 16 June give serious consideration to this when examining the Israeli request for the status of its partnership with the Union to be upgraded.
The Mediterranean is the hope of three monotheistic religions and the civilisation of wheat and wine, not of sauerkraut and beer or mussels in Chez Léon.
The Mediterranean is not managed by 44 senior officials in Brussels, capital of the Mediterranean.
The Mediterranean manages the affairs of the women and men of the Mediterranean: in other words prosperity, for example, of fishermen, who are asking you for it at the moment; in other words peace in the West, in the Saharan provinces of Morocco, and in the East, in Palestine.
The politics of the Mediterranean and the international situation have helped to develop our institutional framework because the region has always been an arena for international challenges and problems.
As is universally recognised, we did not reach the ambitious targets we set in Barcelona in 1995, so we set new ones in 2005.
Through the joint resolution, the European Parliament welcomes and supports these efforts.
The US as well as China and Russia have to be taken into account, so we must become more prudent and effective. (IT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament wished to react immediately to the Commission's communication.
We support the Commission's view that the European Union should be the key institutional and political player - on the European side - in building the Union for the Mediterranean.
We absolutely have to succeed this time because if we do not we would be showing ourselves to be enemies of our own interests. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about the French President's idea to equip and arm the countries of North Africa and the Middle East with a nuclear capability for civilian but also military use within the framework of the Mediterranean Union.
That is why Nicolas Sarkozy's initiative is excellent in principle: it breathes new life into a Barcelona Process that is marking time.
The Union for the Mediterranean is a major step forward and, as you said, Commissioner, it will launch - I hope - a new era with our partners, for we share a common destiny. (ES) Madam President, since there is life outside the European Parliament I imagine that some of us have the opportunity now and again to go to the cinema at the weekend.
I particularly welcome President Pöttering's initiative in forming some structure inside this Parliament to push forward the Barcelona Process, and President Sarkozy's commitment to strengthening the process as well with different aspects.
This Monday, 9 June, marks the opening of the European Union Mediterranean University.
If we want the University to succeed, we have to find a budget for the years ahead. (ES) Madam President, the Mediterranean's history is much more profound than its geography.
I want to point out, Madam President, that I do not agree with some of the criticisms that have been made during this debate.
This common project must consist of collective dialogue, based on parity and co-management.
The ideas of Barcelona are now even more pertinent than ever.
The more tangible and visible the benefits of this project, the more willing the Member States will be to provide funds. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate President Sarkozy for once, albeit reluctantly, at this juncture.
It is apparent, in other words, that go-it-alone approaches by Mr Sarkozy will not be tolerated in the European Union. (MT) We needed this new beginning; we needed this new energy for the Mediterranean policy that is so important for the Mediterranean as well as for Europe.
Perhaps the biggest flaw in the Barcelona Process was that our neighbouring countries in the central Mediterranean always felt that this was a European process that was imposed on them and there was not enough of a sense of equality and a sense of membership.
At the summit on 13 July we need to ensure that we are building this new Union for the Mediterranean project on the basis of true membership and true equality.
Europe's big success has in fact been to promote reforms in candidate countries.
The Eastern dimension also includes countries in the Caucasus, such as Georgia and Armenia.
It is right and proper that today, 13 years after Barcelona, we should be devoting so much time to the vital Mediterranean dimension of our European policy.
Our policy towards future members of the European Union should be a very important part of the latter.
When we see today the dance the French Government is having to perform to actually bring the Mediterranean heads of state together, to get them to come to Paris on 13 July, I wonder if there is really the same commitment on the other side.
The European Union was built after the war on the basis of coal and steel.
I think that that is a clear example of the contradiction that perhaps exists between the Council and the Commission. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Matsakis is quite right: I agree with much of what he said.
There have always been difficulties and problems for the states bordering the mare nostrum, as it was called 2000 years ago.
A motorway will benefit not just President Gaddafi but all the inhabitants of North Africa, so we will be showing our good will and doing something positive for the Mediterranean as a whole. (PL) Mr President, the Mediterranean Basin and the Middle East are strategically important regions from the European Union's point of view.
It is also necessary to revive and develop the Barcelona Process, so as to establish a strong partnership in the area of foreign and security policy with a view to combating terrorism.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue in French.
As regards free trade and the free trade agreements, ladies and gentlemen, I must point out that as a result of the excessively long transition periods, 2010 is the first year in which we will be able to implement these agreements.
As far as agriculture is concerned, we are in the middle of negotiations but it is very complicated, for the other side too, because it involved not just giving, but also receiving.
Free trade agreements with Tunisia and Israel will enter into force in 2010.
In principle, the institutions play a role, and that applies to the Anna Lindt Foundation, too.
The Government of Malta has issued a position paper on the said statements.
in writing. - (IT) I welcome the establishment of the Union for the Mediterranean, which will help to improve and intensify relations with our Mediterranean partners and will promote mutual awareness, growth, employment and training in the EU and the 12 non-European countries concerned.
Bettino Craxi was a pioneer in this regard.
