Formal sitting - Dalai Lama Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and pleasure to welcome His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama in the plenary of the European Parliament today.
When you, Your Holiness, gave a speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg in 1988, you spoke of a five-point peace plan for Tibet.
We will always defend this right. (Applause) What has been going on in Lhasa and other towns since 10 March is proof of the urgent need for a proper dialogue, with which an acceptable, sustainable solution for all sides will be worked towards with respect for the culture, religion and identity of Tibet.
For these reasons we are deeply concerned that the talks started in 2002 between your special envoys and the Chinese state institutions have achieved no results yet.
That is why, in spite of materially being highly developed, I have noticed there are still a lot of people - even billionaires - who are very rich but are an unhappy on a personal level.
So one of the most important factors for happiness or joyfulness is very much to do with peace of mind, a calm mind.
These inner values are not necessarily what we bring from religious teaching, but I feel they are a biological factor we are already equipped with: warm-heartedness or a sense of responsibility, a sense of community.
So this is my number one commitment, the promotion of human values.
So harmony among the different religious traditions is quite possible.
So therefore at this time we need not only smart brains and ideas but also we need warm-heartedness.
Another point I want to make clear to our supporters is that, when you are showing your support, your concern about the Tibet question, some Chinese feel this is something against China.
So I immediately responded, we are also going to fast.
In my case, as a Buddhist monk, after lunch I have no more meals.
So this morning I started my fasting after my breakfast.
As a Buddhist monk, breakfast is something very sacred because I always eat when I wake up, as I always feel hungry.
