&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15 June 2006. &#160;&#160; I have to announce the recent death of our former colleague Joaquim Miranda, who was a Member of the European Parliament for eighteen years.
As you know, Joaquim Miranda was the Chairman of his political group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left, between 1993 and 1994, and also Chairman of Parliament’s Committee on Development between 1999 and 2004.
This Presidency has opted for, and adopted at the Council, a twin-track approach, which involves, on the one hand, offering a Europe of tangible projects and, on the other, the revival of the constitutional debate, initiating public discussion on the future of Europe and breathing life into it.
It proved possible to conclude negotiations with Parliament on the Interinstitutional Agreement, and so the 2007-2013 Budget is secure.
The third topic was the improvement of protection for European citizens when abroad and how to make consular cooperation more efficient.
The report by Michel Barnier, which was delivered to me and to Mr Barroso at the beginning of May, has become the basis of a Presidency document that has enabled us to agree on a very precise programme of tasks for the next eight presidencies.
We have also made substantially better progress in our endeavours to set up a single visa centre and implement pilot projects in the transit regions of Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova that are intended to offer the most effective possible protection to asylum-seekers in their own countries.
Provided that conditions are fulfilled, it should be possible to add the new Member States to the Schengen area by the end of 2007 or early 2008.
The Council reaffirmed the importance of the European Institute for Technology, concerning which the Commission will be submitting a proposal before the end of this year, and the Institute will then be operational by 2009 at the latest.
Our enlargement of the eurozone sends a vitally important message to the effect that the zone is open to all new Member States and that it is not some sort of fortress or ‘closed shop’.
An action plan for the 2007 Spring Summit is in preparation, and is intended to ensure security of supply for the consumer, while also having a considerable effect on the environment through the saving of energy and the use of renewables.
This environmental compatibility strategy is a quite essential element in the European model for living and is therefore something that we will affirm in the long term.
Let me now turn to the subject of the citizens’ Europe and the constitutional debate itself.
I can tell your House that the German Presidency will therefore, during the first six months of 2007 – the deadline has been deliberately left open – present a report on the state that discussions have reached and on the possible further developments.
The new element – and this I say on my own personal responsibility – can be either a name, an interpretation, an annex or a matter of method.
Further decisions will be taken on the basis of the report by the German Presidency, and a timetable has been set for them, so that this stage must come to an end by the beginning of the French Presidency at the latest – the earlier the better.
Something very important – and in this we have taken up an idea and a suggestion from Mr&#160;Barroso – will be a special meeting of the European Council to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome, and this will be held in Berlin on 25 March 2007, on which occasion it is intended that the European social model should be defined in a statement that will be significant in much the same way as, for example, the Declaration of Messina 50 years ago.
During this past six months, we have been able to clarify a number of matters concerning enlargement and also to take it further.
Over this period, we have – as the Council Conclusions reiterate – underlined the accession date of 1 January 2007 for Bulgaria and Romania.
At an informal meeting specifically for foreign ministers from the Balkans, we have laid down and underlined the prospects for their accession and for that of all the Balkan states.
We asked the Commission to define, at this European Council, what is meant by ‘absorption capacity’, and I am quoting the conclusions of the October 2005 Council with regard to the commencement of negotiations with Turkey and Croatia when I describe that as a vitally important condition for the accession of new Member States.
The intention is that this special report should be presented this autumn, simultaneously with the annual progress report on enlargement.
It was difficult – and I will be quite honest in admitting that certain Member States were very hesitant about it – but we did accomplish a quite crucial forward movement, and one that your House has consistently demanded.
What always matters most to the public, of course, is what the effect is on the creation of jobs, and what I, personally, am happy about – and this is not, of course, something for which the Council can claim credit, but primarily the result of economic trends and also of the Member States’ policies – is that, in June 2006, there are over 2&#160;million more jobs in Europe than there were in June 2005.
It was very important to me that we should reinforce national ownership and political responsibility and that we should hold to account the ministers within whose remit the internal market and the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy fall.
In the course of the year, five more Member States have ratified the constitutional treaty and another is due to do so in the autumn, while two others have told this European Council that they are giving consideration to this course of action, and none of them have questioned its substance.
I would like, then, to say a big ‘thank you’ for what Team Europe has done over the past six months, firstly to the European Parliament, where members of the Austrian Government have put in an appearance on over sixty occasions, and our statisticians tell me that this amounts to the highest turnout of all presidencies bar none, but I would like most especially to thank your President, Mr&#160;Borrell, for his cooperation, his friendship and for the suggestions he has constantly been making.
I would like to thank the group chairmen for the many discussions we have had, whether in the groups themselves, here in your House or in the committees.
I would like to assure the Commission of my respect and my friend Mr&#160;Barroso of my gratitude, with the same also to Mr&#160;Solana, the General Secretary with responsibility for external policy, to the Council Secretariat and, last of all, to my own team.
Before giving the floor to Mr&#160;Barroso, I think that I should take this opportunity to thank not only yourself but also your Ministers and all of your staff for the excellent way in which you have cooperated with the European Parliament during your Presidency.
Thank you for your three debates here in the European Parliament; thank you also for the two debates that you took part in at the Forum between national parliaments and the European Parliament, and of course thank you also for the speed with which your Ministers made progress on one of the most complex issues, which you referred to, that of committee procedures.
Let me start by telling you that I think this last European Council confirmed that we are really moving forward in Europe.
Last week here in the European Parliament we discussed how this European Council offered a real opportunity.
The European Council confirmed that we are now moving from a period of reflection to a period of engagement.
I think, with the great Austrian sense of composition, the Austrian Presidency made a very important contribution to our common project.
The European Union is now pursuing the twin-track approach that was set out by the Commission in our document of 10&#160;May: first, pressing ahead with delivery of concrete action in strategic policies; and second, drawing on the lessons of the past year, moving ahead on a step-by-step approach towards an institutional settlement.
For instance, our European response for civil protection will be based, hopefully, on the very good report presented at my request and at the request of Chancellor Schüssel by Michel Barnier.
In particular, the European Council endorsed the Commission’s proposal for a fundamental review of the single market and the programme on sustainable development.
Enlargement is a profoundly important issue for our Union.
I welcome the fact that the European Council reaffirmed the common objective to welcome Bulgaria and Romania in January 2007 as members of the Union if they comply with all the conditions that were clearly set.
The Council also restates that the future of the western Balkans lies in the European Union.
It is, of course, very important for Slovenia, but it is also important for the European Union as a whole.
The enlargement of the eurozone to include one of the new Member States is an extremely important and positive step in the European Union’s economic and monetary integration.
After all, that was always the method in the European Community since it was founded almost 50 years ago.
The European Council has asked the forthcoming German Presidency to present a report to the June 2007 Council, which will contain an assessment of the state of discussions and explore possible future developments with a view to concluding the process by the second half of 2008.
The Berlin Declaration of March 2007 must be more than a commemoration of past achievements.
I believe that it is critical that we will sign this together as a collective act of will, and that the European Parliament will sign that declaration, alongside the Member States and the Commission, as proof that the European Union and its institutions are working together towards the same goals.
As I said at the start of the Austrian Presidency – when our Austrian friends chose that beautiful logo with so many colours – it was crucially important to change from the dark grey of most of the discourse in Europe to a more confident colour, not because we are irresponsible optimists, but because if we want to lead we have to lead with confidence.
I would, then, especially like to thank you, Chancellor Schüssel, for making a success of promoting this sense of trust between our institutions and also between our citizens.
As regards the Services Directive, we also take some pride in the fact that we, as a Parliament, not only succeeded in bringing about a decent compromise, but also in using this as a basis for the Council of Ministers’ decision.
Chancellor Schüssel, tomorrow, or even this evening, you will have a meeting with the American President, together with the President of the Commission.
We should also do everything possible – including through the media – to support democracy and civil society in Belarus.
I was the long-suffering leader of the parliamentary party back in 2000 when the issue was raised of how to deal with Austria.
As the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we always believed in the Austrian Government, and in its Federal Chancellor, Mr&#160;Wolfgang&#160;Schüssel, in particular.
Our parliament has amended the Services Directive.
Mr&#160;Bartenstein, our thanks have already been expressed to you and I, too, wish to thank you for the invitation accorded to members of the European Parliament – I can no longer recall where it was, Graz or somewhere else, it is impossible to remember all those beautiful places with monasteries and other things where people go skiing.
One thing is clear, the Services Directive is the first instance in the history of the European Union of a directive having been written by Parliament.
Congratulations on this social progress in Europe, which has been achieved with the help of the European Parliament.
What is not working is the Council of European Heads of State or Government which, as a rule, does not decide on anything.
I could scarcely believe it when I saw the press conference on TV when you said that they had all declared their support for the substance of this constitution.
Mr&#160;Vanhanen sets a good example, and has himself declared his support for this constitution.
I think it is tremendous that Mr&#160;Jacques&#160;Chirac too has declared behind closed doors his support for this constitution, and has now been joined in this by Mr&#160;Jan&#160;Peter&#160;Balkenende as well.
Had they done this more openly during the elections in France and the Netherlands, Europe would now be one step further along the road.
This is the less satisfactory message emanating from this Council.
In addition to the success surrounding the positive declaration of support for enlargement to include Bulgaria and Romania, which our group expressly welcomes, given that it is a positive sign of the dependability of European policy, you made a clear statement on Guantanamo, and on that we congratulate you.
However, Mr&#160;Schüssel, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from an artistic point of view your Presidency has been a complete success.
Recently some important political sagas have been brought to a conclusion: the Interinstitutional Agreement, for example, or the Services Directive.
The European Heads of State or Government must realise that the Constitutional Treaty – that you, Mr&#160;Schüssel, and your colleagues signed in 2004 – cannot enter into force like that.
This transparency is an important precondition for trust in the European institutions.
I should now like to examine this Europe of results, which you have spoken about and which Mr&#160;Barroso has also mentioned.
One more thing, Mr&#160;President, very quickly: it is not true that immigration was discussed for the first time at the last European Council.
That is the only route to take. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is at least one decision with which the last Council has obviously made history in a small way, and that is the decision to hold codecision procedure meetings in public in future.
I would very much like to remind you of the European Services Directive: in our view, it is a sell-out and it does not achieve what you claimed a short while ago.
Just as alarming is the fact that, under the further subheading ‘Promoting the European way of life in a globalised world’, an out-of-date energy policy is bound up with the common foreign and security policy and the European security and defence policy in such a way that others in the world could feel threatened by this.
The meeting of the European Council has, however, in my view made it just as clear that the period of reflection has not in any way been used to identify the reasons why the Constitution was rejected in the referendums in France and in the Netherlands, let alone to react to this in some way.
It requires a longer approach; it requires more involvement of other presidencies; it requires more involvement of other Member States.
I think one of the biggest dangers that we face for the future is that we have failed our citizens and failed our people in terms of telling them exactly how successful Europe has been, how good it has been for them not only in peace, stability and prosperity, but also in bringing about political stability, in ensuring equality between men and women, in guaranteeing minimum rights for workers, minimum rights for people who are most in need and most at risk within our societies.
I know it is an important issue for President Barroso and for others to try to move away from unanimity where it is not possible to get it, but if you do that you further alienate not only governments, but the people as well: people who see Europe as an autocratic body trying to force its own will on others. &#160;&#160; , Mr&#160;President, I would very much like to thank the President of the Commission and Chancellor&#160;Schüssel for their help in enabling Denmark and Austria to retain their bans on fluorinated greenhouse gases, and I would like to thank all my numerous fellow MEPs who, last Tuesday, voted in favour of the groundwater rules also taking the form of a minimum directive.
What we are managing to get done in public is thus still only the tip of the iceberg.
Seize the opportunity – allow COSAC to deal with the annual programme until October.
If, a year ago, we repeatedly emphasised how great a crisis we were in, and if, six months ago, we rejected the results of the Presidency by a two-thirds' majority, we now all agree that, at the end of these six months, the European Union is more successful and in a better position than at the end of 2005.
However, I should also like to say this: we have always been successful when we have put the community of Europe at the heart of our work and have not reduced the European Union to the work of government.
He has not just been a man for all seasons, but also a man for all times of the day and night – particularly for the late-night sittings here in the European Parliament.
Perhaps that is now the Council's new tactic – to set such modest, or as some would say realistic, targets and to set the benchmark so low that it is practically impossible to stumble over it.
We have heard nothing at all about other subjects: particularly in women's policy, equality policy and development policy, there has been a real lack of initiatives.
Travelling between Austria and Brussels over the past six months, one experienced two completely different worlds.
Chancellor&#160;Schüssel, you have said that the European life model should be promoted, but what we are talking about here is the European social model!
The Commission’s plan ‘D’ is just that: propaganda, agitating and wheedling from top to bottom.
The Constitution had to be adopted in all the Member States by common consent.
The EU’s political elite and eurocracy are bad losers.
As a positive aspect of the summit, we note the new transparency of the Councils and comitology.
I do not agree with all these decisions, but I am delighted that they have been taken.
This experience should be the main premise behind an entirely new reform of the Treaty system.
Instead of having its head in the clouds surrounding the Constitution, this reform should have a firm foundation of European experience and European practice, such as that demonstrated by the Presidency that is now coming to an end.
It was high time we remembered the fundamental role of the national parliaments, which represent democracy in the Member States: they are the voice of democracy.
This is a Presidency that, among other things, is concluding its term of office with a piece of good news for those of us who support autonomy and regionalism.
The characteristic of this Presidency, Chancellor Schüssel, has been that you have been essentially realistic.
I think the Services Directive has perhaps been the best example of that.
All I would say to Mr Schulz is that, when I sat round the table in Graz and heard the approach of the 25 ministers on the Services Directive, it was most certainly not because they felt that it was a triumph for socialism. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have to tell Mr&#160;Harbour that appearance and reality are often not the same.
In my first speech, Mr Federal Chancellor, I raised with you the issue of minorities in Carinthia, which is a European problem, and I am much obliged to you for coming up with a proposal that constitutes a considerable step forward.
I am, of course, also in favour of the Greek Cypriot Government, that is to say the Government of Cyprus, doing everything in its power to pave the way for the Turkish-speaking population to share in a single state and hence in the European Union.
Stability and democracy have been strengthened, and Europe is better equipped to face our common problems.
Chancellor&#160;Schüssel, have you signed the proposal? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr&#160;Federal Chancellor, I would like to follow on from Mr&#160;Swoboda’s contribution.
Austria should show the same understanding towards its own minority as for the Southern Tyroleans, the German-Italian minority in Italy.
The Financial Perspective, the final shape given to the new REACH chemicals policy, the Services Directive, new initiatives on asylum and migration - none of these was a foregone conclusion.
I was very pleased to see that the disclosure of the true social conditions in the European Union and the tasks required to move forward were presented in such a prominent place in the starting programme of the Council.
Their rights are the rights of Europe, and we need the Constitution to ensure this. &#160;&#160; For fifty years the Slovene ethnic minority in the Austrian part of Carinthia has waited for the implementation of Article&#160;7 of the Vienna State Treaty, and now that Austria holds the presidency of the European Union, the time has finally come to implement at least some of the rights secured for the Slovene minority in the Constitution, principally that of bilingual topography.
In that respect, your ministers have inspired us to take the bull by the horns.
Finally, I should like to congratulate you on the decision in favour of transparency in the Council’s decision-making.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office; it was a real joy for this House to be working with the whole of your team. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, despite the satisfaction and, in certain instances, the self-satisfaction which prevailed following the summit, it is becoming clear that the 25 endeavoured to manage the collective embarrassment which the institutional crisis and the impasse concerning the fate of the Constitutional Treaty continues to provoke.
Under the leadership of Austria, the Services Directive has provided a solution based largely on the results of voting in Parliament.
The European Union should move forward in matters of the single market and the economy, if Europe as an economic area wants to succeed in global competition and provide its citizens with jobs.
But, may I make just one careful proposal – and I am doing so under the close observation of my group chairman and of Mr Daul.
If some people want to change the name of the constitution and we finish those negotiations in 2008 during the French Presidency, why do we not call it the Treaty of Strasbourg?
With these words I would like to thank the Austrian Presidency and welcome the Finnish Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Austrian Presidency has been marked by numerous initiatives and challenges on gender issues.
Political agreement was reached on the draft regulation establishing the European Institute for Gender Equality, and conclusions on the review of the implementation by the Member States and the EU institutions of the Beijing Platform for Action and on women’s health have been adopted.
The grave situation as regards the trafficking of women has been put at the centre of attention in association with the FIFA World Cup.
The largest trade union in Denmark handed over a similar petition with 80&#160;000 signatures.
The PSE Group collected 23&#160;000 signatures calling for action by EU Member States to prevent the trafficking of women into Germany to work as prostitutes during the World Cup.
The EU should intensify the fight against trafficking in human beings.
We need to cook afresh, because if we just warm up a dish that no one can digest, indigestion will result in it being rejected even more than the first time it was served. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Federal Chancellor, the Austrian Presidency of the Council has been a complete disaster – from the point of view of the Austrian opposition parties.
With this, we have now succeeded in finding a sensible European solution to a dispute over the Transit Agreement that has lasted for 15 years.
The same applies to programmes like Marco Polo II, to the Driver’s Licence Directive and to progress on the railway package and on local traffic.
I should like to draw the House’s attention to three things.
Firstly, the Austrian Presidency has helped to maintain transatlantic relations at a high level, and indeed to deepen relations between the European Union and the United States.
I should like to express my particular thanks to the Presidency for the part it has played in ensuring the success of the dialogue between the European Parliament and the US Congress, and in the excellent organisation of the meeting between delegations from the European Union and the United States in spring 2006 in Vienna.
Above all, I have in mind the role played by the Austrian Presidency in appeasing enlargement-related sentiments and in encouraging moderation in this matter, as well as in ensuring that the enlargement of the European Union is still open to debate. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Schüssel, ladies and gentlemen, the balance sheet of the Austrian Presidency’s six-month term is positive, above all in respect of its political achievements.
It is therefore Europe’s task to confront these issues, which fortuitously are those that have been examined and, in some cases, resolved by your Presidency – which I genuinely consider to be the forerunner for subsequent presidencies called on to establish the Constitution, thanks also to the active support of the European Parliament.
On 26 July we shall hopefully be able to add the foreign policy Financial Perspective to Austria’s achievements.
Permit me to take this opportunity to offer sincere thanks in this connection to a pillar of European policy in Brussels, Ambassador&#160;Woschnagg.
The Financial Perspective has been agreed, but we can see that, even on these kinds of issue, the veto principle leads only to a victory for the lowest common denominator.
With regard, in particular, to the internal orientation of the European Union in the light of the Constitutional Treaty, issues relating to Europe’s borders, its absorption capacity and such like have also, under this Presidency, been placed at the centre of the debate.
Guantánamo is an important issue, but the United States and Europe are not bound by any treaty.
We need an institutional framework for relations between Europe and America.
I will start with this issue as it has been mentioned by several speakers.
It is a little-known fact that Hans Winkler was also one of the pioneers of this dialogue, and I agreed the proceedings with Mr&#160;Bush in December.
This must be expressed in the knowledge that at the same time - and we partly have the Americans to thank for this – we can and must do a great deal to export democracy, strengthen NGOs and strengthen civic or civil society.
The fact is, the idea of Europe originated in the coffee houses.
Moreover, Europe is still being created in the cafés of Europe, where many writers, philosophers and journalists are continuing what Coudenhove-Kalergi started.
We have also had 32 million visitors to the Presidency website.
Majority opinion in Austria was sometimes against me and my strategy.
Ten years ago, the wage and income differential between ourselves and the new Member States was 10:1.
We can export, we have a virtual Hong Kong on our doorstep and we can profit from this impetus for growth.
The Turkish issue is also part of the overall picture.
The obligations contained in the Ankara Protocol must be honoured in full, and, coming when they did, the statements of last week, which have been very disappointing for all those who have shown great commitment to the European route of binding Turkey to Europe, were an example of particularly bad timing on our part.
I turn now to my last but one point: the Constitutional Treaty.
What we have is neither a Constitution nor a Treaty, but a Constitutional Treaty.
I believe that we must try to bring this element of European life and of the European social model more into the spotlight.
It must be possible for the majority to fight for a majority view, and that is what I am doing.
Matti Vanhanen and his team and Erkki Tuomioja and all the rest will do so just as we have, as will the Germans thereafter.
The Commission welcomes the conclusions on enlargement of the European Council, skilfully presided by the Austrian Presidency.
These conclusions pave the way for a new consensus on enlargement in the European Union.
This new consensus should, above all, enhance our enlightened self-interest to extend the zone of peace, democracy and prosperity in Europe, while, at the same time, ensuring our capacity to function effectively and gradually absorb new members.
I want to draw your attention to three particular conclusions.
Firstly, the European Council rightly underlines the success of EU enlargement by stating that it has proved a historic opportunity contributing to peace, security, stability, democracy and the rule of law, as well as to growth and prosperity in the Union as a whole, to which Chancellor Schüssel rightly referred.
Secondly, I am satisfied that the European Council did not change the criteria of accession that were agreed in Copenhagen in 1993.
I shall have an opportunity to talk about Turkey and its reforms and commitments at this afternoon’s meeting of Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs.
As we know, the European Council will hold a debate in December 2006, and the Commission was invited to report on all the relevant aspects of enlargement pertaining to the Union’s absorption capacity.
The Commission will duly and gladly present a strategy document on enlargement, including absorption capacity, as part of our enlargement package in October/November 2006.
This debate should not be limited just to the EU institutions: it should also reach out to civil society, both in the Member States as well as in the candidate countries.
That is the best way to ensure that enlargement remains a success story, as has now been acknowledged by the European Council. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, firstly, please allow me to congratulate the Austrian Presidency and Mr&#160;Wolfgang&#160;Schüssel, the President, for their work and the results achieved in the past six months.
Further work is required in respect of the Constitutional Treaty before a final – and hopefully positive – decision is reached.
Still, I welcome the initiative that a solemn political statement on European values and endeavours should be made at the March 2007 European Union Summit in Berlin, which will commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome.
The new Finnish Presidency will inherit numerous unresolved problems, and it will have to focus in the future on economic reforms, social justice, safety and stability, as well as the role of Europe in the world. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
