Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal to the Council of 25 July 2001 on State aid to the coal industry has a certain number of good qualities and one slight defect.
The first of the good qualities is the fact that it is essential.
This proposal is essential because the previous arrangements will expire in July 2002, hence the need for a new regulation.
The restructuring of the coal industry in Europe has not been entirely completed, so there can be no question of not having a new regulation on these arrangements for State aid.
This proposal is also a step in the right direction insofar as it makes provision for production aid to cease in 2007.
I believe, and the experts agree with me, that the world coal market is characterised by both great dispersion of supply and great stability of prices in the medium and long-term.
In addition, there are a number of products which could claim strategic status, and therefore the replies obtained from the Commission have led me, I regret to say, to propose that this revision be stated separately in this text in order to deal with this problem.
If the translation is accurate, Mr Novelli, you twice spoke in terms of the Commission proposal envisaging the cessation of production subsidies in 2007.
Mr President, the Novelli report on the coal industry in the European Union was, as you are aware, rejected by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 23 April.
That regulation envisages maintaining aid to that sector at least until December 2007.
On the one hand it had incorporated the positions of those who wished to remove aid to this industry, which is fundamental for energy supply and for social cohesion in our countries, while on the other hand others among us would have liked to go further and have greater certainty about what is going to happen after 2010.
If we were to pursue this economic policy in other areas, I believe that that would amount to a return to nationalism and it would mean the end of world trade if each continent were to pursue policies of this kind.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, coal will continue to play an important role in energy provision for the foreseeable future.
If we - as is indeed only right - include indigenous primary energy sources and thus also coal in the European strategy for security of energy supply, this inevitably leads, in the case of coal, to the requirement that the Member States should have the right to grant aid in this sector, as Community coal production is made uncompetitive by geological conditions and environmental and social standards in the EU.
That adds up, per annum and per lorry, to a subsidy of EUR 7 000 to the benefit of freight carriers in some countries and to the detriment of those in all the others.
I think that each of us is aware that in Germany, Asturias, León (our neighbouring Autonomous Community) the same thing is happening and we know what happens when miners' families and the whole industry surrounding them are left without work.
And we need to take into account, Mr President, that the most recent agreement, for example in Spain, between the government and the unions, extended decreases in production.
I welcome the recognition of the United Kingdom coal industry's achievement in improving competitiveness and I would like to close with the thought of challenging the logic of subsidising production of coal at around EUR 140 a tonne on the one hand, while on the other hand phasing out much more economically efficient nuclear production.
The Commission's proposal is based on the discussions in the Green Paper on a European strategy for energy security and supply, and it is true that it is not a question here of whether or not we are under threat.
And I think that after 11 September we need to consider that although the risks are very remote, they do unfortunately exist and we cannot ignore them.
In recent years the European Commission has been putting forward proposals in order to increase the contribution of renewable energy sources, mainly within indigenous primary energy sources.
In this sense it is important that the Member States that have coal resources should have a Community framework that enables them to continue to maintain access to them and to maintain minimum production to guarantee that access, within the focus on supply security, to minimum indigenous primary energy sources.
We wish to stress that, when dealing with issues associated with energy and the environment, the Commission's focus is an overall one that takes into account all the issues associated with energy sources and their use.
Finally, our proposal, which I hope will be favourably viewed by the European Parliament today, takes into account the dimension of the enlargement of the European Union, as some of you have said.
Poland and the Czech Republic need to continue with the restructuring process that has been underway for more than a decade and with this proposal we are giving them a framework in which to carry out those changes.
Thank you, Commissioner De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
Ever since the publication of the TENs progress report at the Cardiff Council meeting of 1998, there has been concern that some Member States have not succeeded in bringing forward projects which are appropriate for the type of funding contained.
I am particularly happy to see the increased importance given to regional airports in this report, which will not only provide valuable flexibility in the air travel market, but also significantly reduce congestion around our principal capital airports, along with the concomitant problems which that causes to the economy and the environment.
However, it is necessary that in our efforts to promote a variety of transport modes, we do not lose sight of the different economic and social needs of Member States.
For example, in my own constituency of the West Midlands in the United Kingdom, which forms the core of my country's logistics, distribution and haulage network, we are fortunate enough to have two TENs projects running through the region: the West Coast mainline railway and the M6 motorway which links together large parts of the British motorway system.
The concept of genuine multi-modality proposed by the Commission should be encouraged, to include such projects as road and rail links to airports, but in a form which does not distort the market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the Environment Committee has produced a very fine opinion on Mr Bradbourn's report.
Yet the Environment Committee has scored one major success in that the Transport Committee now accepts that the results of the strategic environmental impact assessments should be binding on the actual processes of implementation.
A considerable number of people in Europe are exposed to levels of traffic noise which are not only a serious nuisance and a cause of disturbed sleep, but also lead to communication problems and, in children, even to genuinely serious mental disturbance.
Certainly, nothing in human affairs can be seen only in black and white, and we all know that a very great part of our freedom and our prosperity is tied up with transport - be it by air, on the roads or on rail - but we should be responsible in all that we do.
Mr President, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur, who has done very sound work, as usual.
Naturally we are pleased that the new guidelines being proposed to us for the TENs are moving towards and are in line with the policy of sustainable mobility which was proposed to us in the White Paper.
I believe that this cohesion was absolutely necessary and I consider, personally, that the new objectives which have been proposed to us are probably sustainable objectives which will go beyond the other re-focussing phases of these projects.
In his sterling report, the rapporteur once again underlines the importance of TENs.
It is therefore beyond me why the European Parliament should not be a party to deciding on this list of priority projects.
The Iron Rhine project meets all these conditions, that are listed in the report and in the Commission's White Paper.
The EU does not exist to provide things on national wishlists, but has a macro-economic responsibility, primarily to sustainable mobility and environmentally-friendly means of transport, above all railways, for the future belongs to them.
The report on transport policy by our colleague Juan de Dios Izquierdo, in 2001, pointed out that transport policy should contribute to the economic and social cohesion of the peripheral or sparsely populated regions.
If we fail to reach agreement on this, it will be more sensible to take the time to reconsider the situation and to delay the discussion on the TENs projects until the wholesale review of the list in 2004.
This is why I have tabled four amendments in order to avoid these duplications.
Let us hope that the Commission's programme for a real revision of the TENs in 2004 is kept to, and let us see it as being of great importance that Parliament be involved, fully and in good time, when the time comes.
What the Commission has submitted is a good intermediate step for the moment that is now upon us.
Madam President, I welcome the fact that the committee backed amendments to strengthen the commitment to environmentally sustainable transport by insisting on strategic environmental impact assessments of TENs projects.
The total value of these projects is a massive EUR 66.6 billion.
Indeed, most Member States have been left out.
Madam President, honourable Members, the trans-European networks policy was designed 10 years ago precisely to help establish the internal market, and it needs to be taken into account with regard to enlargement.
The need to push forward these trans-European networks is a concern shared by the Heads of State and Government, which was expressed at the Barcelona European Council only a few months ago, and it has been asked that this text be adopted both in Parliament and in the Council before December 2002.
I wish to point out that practically all of the projects in Annex III were already among the trans-European networks in 1996, or had been requested by the European Parliament, and what is happening now is that they are being given priority.
There are, however, some amendments that present problems to the Commission, and it is these that I am mainly going to discuss.
They are Amendments Nos 53 to 56 and 61 to 66 that seek to modify Annex III.
Their adoption would in fact mean considering a very wide range of projects as a priority at Community level, projects that the Commission does not have sufficient information about in terms of their added value for Europe or of their possible interest for the Member States concerned, and it should be remembered that in such matters we always need the support of the Member States.
The Commission is also unable to support amendments that again call into question the objective of re-establishing a balance between new modes of transport and Community financial instruments.
Amendments Nos 12 and 34 go further in the definition of environmentally viable transport than that established at the Gothenburg European Council.
Many amendments regarding the priorities for Community action in Article 5 present certain problems for the Commission, Amendments Nos 13, 49, 15, 21, 17, 27 and 18 are rejected by the Commission.
The trouble is that there is a small problem, because there are not, unfortunately, navigable rivers in all the countries of the European Union or in all the areas of the European Union.
Neither can we accept Amendments Nos 25 and 26 because we do not wish to alter the maps of proposed internal ports.
Finally, I would like to say that I fully understand Amendments Nos 29, 30 and 46, which seek to withdraw from the list of priority projects in Annex III those which have still not been completed after fifteen years.
I fully understand them, and they would make sense, but there is a problem, very often these projects, which are of trans-European interest, are put forward by the Commission, and the Member States accept them, but show very little interest.
I do not wish to give examples, but we can all think of them.
Then it would make sense to have a period of 15 years or even 10 years, but these are projects of Community interest, and, I stress, often the countries concerned only have a very relative interest.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 59 and 60, which eliminate or modify the maps of the trans-European network attached to the proposal for a decision, as those maps are used by both the Commission and the Member States.
It is true that some countries may have more interest in a specific project.
It is a system for providing incentives for the countries where the project is being conducted.
Ultimately, the specific project that is selected and subsidised is decided upon in the financing committee for the trans-European networks, in which all the countries are represented and in which there is no leaning towards financing a specific country but rather the process is conducted in a balanced manner, taking into account Community interests.
Thank you, Mrs De Palacio.
The vote will take place today at 11 p.m.
The EU must follow suit.
The EU itself must make a serious contribution to the implementation of the OECD guidelines on multi-national enterprise and should act as a champion of new global standards in international institutions, standards which put investor responsibility on an equal footing to investor rights.
The purpose of the Green Paper is to clarify - and we agree here - that the correlation between economic activity and success must promote social responsibility which, in turn, will contribute to the ongoing success of the company and help revive the economy and society.
Similarly, we believe that the forum being proposed by the European Parliament should give serious consideration both to these issues and to involving women in its work.
I therefore fully support the Howitt report from the committee responsible.
Certainly, in committee we have worked well together across the groups and have produced compromise amendments that some of us can live with, some more easily than others.
We have tabled and re-tabled some amendments.
Amendment No 1 is key and needs to pass if the group line will be to support the report.
I hope that many of the other amendments which failed by one vote in committee, will also secure the support of the House today.
The Commission maintains this opinion which has been confirmed during the consultation process on the Green Paper.
In Denmark, we have been working for a number of years on companies' social responsibilities, particularly with a view to keeping people in work and getting excluded groups into the labour market.
Madam President, like others I congratulate the rapporteur for the very serious and positive work on this dossier and endorse everything that he said in his introductory statement this morning.
In looking at the wider responsibilities of companies based in the European Union and the Union itself, my group has tabled amendments requesting Council to include in its remit for the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development the proposal for the negotiation of a legally binding international framework on corporate accountability and liability.
It will ultimately be a suitable instrument for establishing the European social model and it will also be good for companies, because profitability and social responsibility go hand in hand and cannot be separated from each other.
There was huge involvement in the consultations, as one speaker has already mentioned; over 250 people were involved and I should like, if I may, to comment on the substance of the agreement which has come out of this overall consultation.
Similarly, item 29 contains an important message on the need to mainstream companies' social responsibilities and I totally agree with this.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The vote will take place today at 11 p.m.
In the first reading Parliament refused to accept this situation, and tabled amendments to provide a EUR 4.5 billion boost for programmes with the highest outstanding appropriations.
The other institutions also need to emulate the sense of responsibility displayed by Parliament here today, since we cannot disguise the fact that there is now more than EUR 100 billion in outstanding commitments and that the Community budget needs to be managed more efficiently, consistently and transparently.
Madam President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work.
The additional budget under discussion contains two central issues: budgeting last year's surplus and the new system for own resources.
The new system for own resources was already in this year's budget in December but it had to be removed because some Member States had not ratified it.
May I remind you that a new regulation is also being applied to overestimates of payments by the administrative services in the Member States.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The vote will take place today at 11 p.m.
Amendment No 29 would also be acceptable but only without the words "or corporation".
I allowed our rapporteur to speak and he has given us a satisfactory warning.
Mr President, I am taking the floor simply in order to support this request, and to say quite simply that it is very dangerous to include, in legislation of the first pillar, items which are not very well-structured and which come under the third pillar.
Mr President, the rapporteur asked you a question which, in putting this amendment to the vote, you have not answered.
Mrs Frassoni, all issues of acceptability are studied with the chairmen and with the services before the vote.
In particular, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 22, 28, 30, 32, 33, 42, 45 and 46.
The Commission can partially accept Amendments Nos 7, the third part, 9, the first part, 27, the third part, and 48, the second part.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 9, the second part, 19, 27, the second part, but subject to either rewording or reordering.
The remaining amendments cannot be accepted by the Commission.
For information the amendments not accepted are Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, first and second parts, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, first part, 29, 31, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 47 and 48 except the second part.
The misunderstanding arose because I was previously of the opinion that this amendment would not be discussed but since this is not the case, I will express my support for it.
That has been noted, Mrs Peijs.
Mr President, going through the voting list again with the rapporteur a moment or two ago, we came across a problem that affects the voting procedure.
After consultation, we have decided that we want to substitute the PPE-DE's Amendment No 9 for the first part of what we decided on in committee.
We have agreed - and I think the rapporteur will confirm this, as we have just been discussing it - that we will vote down the first part of what we decided on in committee, that is, Amendment No 22, agree to the second part, and then vote for the PPE-DE's Amendment No 9 as well, in order to scrap the first part, which we have rejected.
I hope, therefore, that we can all support it. - (SV) In the European Parliament's first and second readings of the Sixth Environment Action Programme, we Swedish Conservatives voted against the introduction of EU taxes in the areas of the environment and energy.
Madam President, this is important for all our citizens, but we have also experienced difficulties in our own work in Parliament as a result of spam mail.
At first reading on 6 September 2001, I spoke in favour of an opt-in instead of an opt-out.
Madam President, access to environmental information is a fundamental right and I am glad that the rapporteur has sought to restrict the use of confidentiality.
The report explicitly mentions the Internet and that account should be taken of future development of information and communication technologies.
Now that we are in the European Union, we should therefore say: 'All roads lead to Brussels'.
Of course, there will be many more roads leading in all directions from Brussels, but I would point out the importance, Madam President, of corridors 5 and 8, particularly corridor 8 which, as you know, according to the proposals of our parliamentary committee, links southern Europe, Italy and the Adriatic with Varna in Bulgaria, on the Black Sea.
The regional government considers that including it in the European high-speed train routes and more specifically in the route for the high-speed train from Madrid to Levante, would bring it closer to the axis of the Mediterranean basin, considerably helping its development and its recovery from the shortfall that has accumulated in recent decades in terms of communications.
The 11 September is being used as another pretext for EUROPOL to take on what are strictly policing and suppressive duties alongside and over and above the equivalent national mechanisms, like the famous FBI.
As you know, Madam President, I voted for the report, in other words against this proposal, because there is a problem with regard to the size of the increase: a 5.2% increase in Europol salaries instead of 4.3% as proposed by the rapporteur.
Thus it was that, on 18 April 1951, the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC Treaty) saw the light of day.
The ECSC Treaty was concluded for a period of fifty years, starting from the date of its entry into force.
However, it is clear that, in the absence of any financial support measures, most of the European coal industry would be sentenced to disappear in the very short term.
In fact, the greater part of Community coal production remains, and would have to remain, non-competitive in relation to third-country imports.
The Green Paper on security of energy supply has taken these facts into consideration.
Although no longer a youngster, as president of the Pensioners' Party, I dream of being able to buy the car of my dreams: a Peugeot 206 CC sports car, a Spider, and I wish this dream could come true not just for me but for all pensioners.
This Commission proposal would have to apply until 2010.
The few partial successes such as the association agreement with Chile and Mexico have not made the balance sheet since the 1995 Rio Summit a convincing one; I doubt whether Madrid will, despite all its avowed intentions, achieve a breakthrough in improving the quality of relations between the EU and the Latin American and Caribbean states unless the following three issues are considered in a dispassionate and constructive way. 1.
The Porto Alegre World Social Forum constitutes an opposing force, whose influence is also being felt in Europe. (Statement of vote cut short in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Madam President, Mrs Doyle and Mr Purvis, who have the pleasure of being here to listen to me in person, why did I vote for the Fiori report?
I hope, then, dear Mr Fiori, that you can bring us seven years of fat cows!
However, all proposals referring to agricultural policy must respect Articles 32 to 38 of the Treaty and, particularly, the objectives of Article 33, namely ensuring the rational development of production and 'a fair standard of living for the agricultural community'.
Arable area payments are based on a fixed rate per tonne, which applies throughout the EU and only differentiated according to historical yields in each Member State or region in order to decouple these payments from production.
It is difficult to know what is in mind in the text of Paragraph 43.
That is why we abstained. . (NL) On the agenda, the Fiori report on the reform of the common agricultural policy and the Rodríguez Ramos report have been combined.
Mrs Rodríguez Ramos is right to want more money for rural development and small-scale initiatives.
I support her request to the European Commission to furnish proposals in this respect. - (SV) We have chosen to vote against the report.
A reformed agricultural policy must retain the European agricultural model and provide farmers with reasonable remuneration for the multifunctional nature of agricultural work.
Agenda 2000 is a failure, and the principle of its reform should be a pricing policy which combines the consumer's requirement for greater safety, quality and traceability, the public's demand for sustainable, environmentally sound farming using all the land, and the farmer's need for a decent income.
Thank you, Mrs Doyle.
In any case, it is important to stress that the increase in funds for rural development should involve appropriate amendments to take account of the specific situations in the various agricultural industries within the European Union.
There are other issues, such as the delay in dealing with dangerous substances, such as lindane, which are regrettable but I believe the rapporteur has addressed all these issues very thoroughly and I was very happy to endorse the report.
On 13 December 2001 the European Parliament voted in favour of its resolution on the Commission report on improving the production and marketing of honey.
That resolution contains a real cry for help regarding the deplorable situation of beekeepers and their hives.
This appeal by the European Parliament was heard by the Council, in particular at the Agriculture Council on 18 February 2002.
The end result will be that if the Commission continues to fail to act, bees will be extinct in a few years' time.
Nobody in Europe can or should hope to profit from this.
It has indeed disappointed some of the citizens' organisations active in this field, because amendments were not sustained by Parliament on social and environmental reports on all levels of company and supply chain, on ethical pension funds and their investment policies, on the creation of multi-stakeholder platforms which include business, trade unions, NGOs, public authorities and those from development countries.
If we citizens are mature enough to pay our taxes, if we are intelligent enough to pay our taxes, then we can be mature and intelligent enough to build up a pension on our own, or, if we want to be like the proverbial grasshopper, spend it as we please while we are still young; in any case, often we don't even live to see our pension.
It seems to me that the social and environmental practices of European companies must be subject to controls similar to those used for competition practices.
One of the suggestions is that the Commission should submit a proposal, in the context of the appropriate directive, with a view to making it compulsory for businesses to produce social and environmental reports just as they produce financial reports. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (NL) On the one hand, companies play an important role for society as a whole, because they create employment and income and provide people with the products they want.
The European Commission's Green Paper wishes to confine itself to voluntary agreements and a comparison of good practice.
