Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting ?he Minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed.
Mr President, I asked for the floor yesterday, but my request was refused due to a lack of time.
Thank you for your intervention, Mr Korakas but for the moment, as you know, we are discussing the Minutes and the order of business.
Mr Korakas, I have no wish to get involved in a detailed discussion of how speaking times are allocated.
These species are slow growing and they are particularly vulnerable to over-exploitation.
This proposal introduces elements of a system for the management of fishing effort directed at these deep-sea species.
The Council's request for urgency was received on the 3 May, while our first exchange of views on this is only scheduled for 22 May.
Thank you, Mr Rübig, for your comments, which have been noted.
It results from a hearing in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and therefore has to do with monetary policy being transparent.
The new Vice-President is the first new member of the first Executive Board, which was so successful in preparing and introducing the euro.
Such transparency is, by the way, not only in the interests of European democracy, but also in the interests of the European Central Bank, which is thereby - and as recent years have clearly demonstrated - made more credible, more legitimate and more trustworthy.
It is Parliament's view that the European Central Bank is far more transparent than previous national central banks in Europe and that, that being the case, we have undergone a kind of cultural revolution in the countries of the euro zone.
Parliament's dialogue with the European Central Bank on monetary affairs has made a real contribution to this.
This very year, it will be crucial to achieve clarity on this point, because the faltering recovery in Europe should not be halted by decisions on monetary policy.
On behalf of my group - and, I believe, on behalf of the whole House - I would like most warmly to thank the departing Vice-President for the excellent work he has done, as also exemplified by constant dialogue with Parliament and the favourable reception he gave to our arguments and proposals.
There are, of course, reasons for this; his life, with a career in academic research and teaching, as well as a role as Governor and Vice-President of the Bank of Greece foreordain Lukas Papademos for this position.
If I may refer only to his two positions in Greece, he made, as Vice-President of Greece's central bank, a substantial contribution to the complete liberalisation of capital markets.
Let me also say that the hearing established beyond doubt that the new Vice-President of the ECB sees no contradiction between price stability on the one hand and growth and employment on the other; on the contrary, price stability is for him a precondition for the creation of growth and employment.
Price stability is the task, cause and objective of the European Central Bank's policy.
Together with the Council, we have made the right decision.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0153/2002) by Mr Caudron, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the Council common position for adopting the Sixth Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, contributing to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation (2002-2006).
On 10 December 2001, the Research Council responded, in an extraordinary manner, to many of our requests and proposals.
On 23 April 2002, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy adopted 90 amendments, 30 of which will be included in the specific programmes.
We requested further clarification on the instruments for the implementation of the programme, on the aid to SMEs and on micro enterprises.
We emphasised research, sustainable development and the reduction of external environmental costs.
And on 7 May, during a lengthy and particularly productive three-way meeting, we reached agreements involving 34 compromise amendments that the Committee on Industry approved last night, almost unanimously, thus giving me the go-ahead, as rapporteur, to substitute them for the amendments adopted on 23 April.
Commissioner Busquin is expected to confirm this later.
I would like to conclude by once again thanking the Belgian Presidency which enabled us to adopt a very positive common position on 10 December 2001.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have almost come to an end, with what will no doubt be my last major European report, after 13 years as an MEP.
I left the French Socialist Party six months ago, and will be standing in the legislative elections in France, as a candidate of the 'Forum Gauche Citoyenne' [Forum of the Citizens' Left], up against a Socialist Party candidate.
Whatever happens, my life will be completely transformed and that is why I am pleased to close this chapter of my political life, having contributed to the creation of an excellent European research programme which, with a budget of EUR 17.5 billion, is the third largest European policy.
Today, 14 May 2002, I would like to express my genuine pride, and to praise Europe's scientific community with which I have worked closely and to thank once again all my colleagues and their counterparts who have helped and supported me over the last year and a half.
A number of my colleagues, for reasons of their own, will be tabling an amendment on the paragraph on ethics, the so-called 32 signatures procedure.
I am extremely pleased about that.
There is a strong correlation between research effort and economic success, and the European Union at least is giving an example and showing that it understands that connection.
We have been able to reach a very wide consensus in Parliament across political and national boundaries on the Sixth Framework Programme.
My last point concerns ethics.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that we in the liberal group are pleased with the current wording, as laid down in the common position on ethics.
We are concerned by this serious issue and we must be aware that European scientists as well as the public look to us when we take decisions in this area.
However, we must bear in mind that Parliament, at first reading, adopted an amendment whose aim was to restrict research activities in this highly sensitive area.
We have further reasons to welcome this Framework Programme: the theme of sustainable development has been included for the first time and has been given a substantial budget, more than EUR 2.2 billion; research into energy, within the framework of renewable energy, is on a par with research into nuclear energy; sustainable transport and research into urban and rural ecosystems, with, in particular, an 'ecosite' concept, are new themes which were accepted.
It is now up to us to optimise the Sixth Framework Programme through these very specific programmes which will be developed, as the Commission promised, and on which we shall report back very soon.
Having studied the outcome, I must say that it is a significant improvement on the original text and, as such, our group will support it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, of course our group broadly supports the Sixth Framework Programme and the objective that is being formalised here of more financial resources for European research policy.
We are aware of the enormous importance of this programme for scientific research in the Union and that this is a crucial step in establishing the European research area.
The reason for my speaking, however, if only for a minute, is once again to draw attention to the ethical issues that cannot be ignored.
Hence our insistence on tabling Amendment No 89, which presents a solution that is, in our opinion, correct: the principle of legislative unanimity.
This ethical question is extremely sensitive and we must trust the decisions that the various Member States take at the highest level on this issue.
To this extent, we feel that European research funds must only be used for those objectives and in accordance with those methods and means that are not deemed to be illegal in any Member State.
Diametrically opposed positions are appearing now at second reading when it comes to the definition of basic ethical principles.
We will certainly be concerning ourselves more in future with questions of bioethics.
Most of all, I cannot approve of European research funds being used to promote something which, in many of the fifteen Member States, is illegal.
A whole range of proposals made by Parliament have been taken up in the Common Position and in the Commission proposal, and there is a certain amount that we have achieved.
I see it as particularly important that priority one not only includes genetic engineering, with all the opportunities it offers us, but also medical research in general.
It is unfortunate that the Council has wriggled out of its responsibilities by not setting down any clear rules in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are times when we can feel particularly happy to belong to a particular institution and this is one of those times.
The three institutions have worked well, in a way that the European citizens would want legitimately constituted institutions to work.
They have done so both effectively and speedily, thanks to Commissioner Busquin and the Belgian Presidency, who, with difficulty, were finally able to reach an agreement on the financial package, which, as you will all remember, five years ago was the bone of contention that caused delay in the adoption of the Fifth Framework Programme.
Thanks also to the Spanish Presidency, which has been particularly sensitive to Parliament's needs, and thanks, above all, to all the rapporteurs, Mr Caudron and the shadow rapporteurs, who have worked professionally and in Europe's interests.
This is, therefore, one of those times when one can feel truly happy and content at being a representative of this institution.
In particular, I welcome the funding for sustainability and renewable energy in this programme.
With regard to ethical dilemmas in biotechnology, we need to take these, and the efforts to respond to ethical concerns in funding EU research very seriously.
In particular: the patenting of the human genome; human cloning in its various forms; the manipulation and modification of the human germ line - which is a particular concern - and the creation and use of human embryos in research.
Our citizens are very concerned and our policies and funding should match their concerns.
This position is, of course, a compromise, but I believe it is very important for our countries, for research, for the future of millions of people who now believe that stem-cell research can offer the possibility of life in reality, not just in fantasy, which has been discussed extensively in recent years and in recent months even within Parliament.
This compromise, which states, in particular, that the framework programme could finance research on 'supernumerary' early stage - that is, up to 14 days - human embryos, in order to discover stem cells capable of treating diseases that are currently incurable, is a crucial but irreversible step forward.
We must adopt the Caudron report in its current form.
Mr President, as author of last year's report on the future of the biotechnology industries, I can only welcome most warmly the high priority given to the life sciences in the Sixth Framework Research Programme and strongly supported in Mr Caudron's excellent report.
Approving the Sixth Framework Research Programme is only the beginning.
It will not be easy to manage and implement such a large programme, with not only the fifteen Member States, but also other states taking part in it.
The Commission has issued a statement which corresponds in essence to what Parliament resolved at first reading.
Playing a part in bringing forward the broadest possible public debate on the purpose, content, and finality of science and technology in Europe would be important and should become fundamental as the Sixth Framework Programme progresses.
I continue to hold a resolute position with regard to bioethical issues, on which I have to say - to you, Commissioner, and to my fellow Members - that I have nothing but doubts.
I have been working on these issues for two years and I have nothing but doubts and only one certainty, which is the sacrosanct value of human dignity.
Biochemistry is only the beginning: in a future which is becoming increasingly imminent, we will have to adopt positions on the possibility of parents being able to alter the DNA of their embryos in order to provide their offspring with increasingly good genes.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to echo the thanks that have been extended to the rapporteur and to the European Commissioner, Mr Philippe Busquin.
Thanks to the efficient work of both, we have been able to reach a decisive stage today which proves that a democratic relationship between the European Parliament and the Commission is possible and which, I hope, will send a clear message to the scientific community as to the responsibilities that the European Parliament is able to shoulder.
The Sixth Framework Programme for research and technological development activities will be one of the cornerstones of this integration.
Philosophical considerations aside, the Sixth Framework Programme also underlines Europe's clear and firm commitment to be at the forefront of technological developments, to be innovative, competitive, dynamic and to build our future.
The coordination during both the Belgian and the Spanish Presidencies, between the various bodies of the European Union, has also been remarkable.
The Europe that we want to see becoming a daily reality is a Europe of research serving its people and its researchers.
The ethics of research are an important and controversial issue and everyone's opinion must be heard.
Now at long last we must decide on the Sixth Framework Programme, an enormous funding framework providing finance for supranational and transnational European research projects.
Controversial questions such as the use of cannabis for medical purposes can play no part in this programme.
The Sixth Framework Programme must address and emphasise the importance of research developments in those areas in which real European added value can be achieved.
I would like to stress that, during this procedure, cooperation between the three institutions was particularly productive.
I would also like to pay tribute to the Spanish Presidency and to Minister Marimon Suñol for the extremely efficient way in which they handled this important and delicate stage of the adoption process.
I would also like to reiterate the importance of the swift adoption of the framework programme and its launch in January 2003 for Europe's researchers and its scientific community.
The first point is the technical amendments which were adopted en bloc by the Committee on Industry on 23 April, and which are to be incorporated in the specific programmes.
The Commission undertakes to incorporate them in the specific programmes subject to the following statement being included in the Council's Minutes: 'The Commission considers that the content of the amendments voted 'en bloc' by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 23 April 2002 in relation to the second reading of the Sixth Framework Programme, is broadly acceptable and can, subject to the appropriate editorial changes, be incorporated into the specific programme decisions implementing the Sixth Framework Programme and, as appropriate, in the Rules for Participation of Undertakings, research centres and universities for the implementation of the Framework Programme'.
The Council intends to make a statement along the same lines.
My second point relates to the issue of instruments for the implementation and participation of SMEs.
It is also clearly stated that special measures will be taken to stimulate and facilitate the participation of small- and medium-sized businesses as well as that of research bodies of the candidate countries in the measures undertaken in the priority thematic areas.
Parliament expressed its concern to see activities carried out on this theme within the framework of infrastructure support activities, which would be implemented in conjunction with those carried out in the priority thematic areas concerned.
However, significant concessions were made regarding budgetary allocation, in the direction that Parliament wanted.
As far as international cooperation is concerned and in line with Parliament's wishes, additional emphasis was placed on the specific measures to support international cooperation with the developing countries, the Mediterranean countries, Russia and the new independent states.
The various methods of support for international cooperation in the framework programme have also been clarified.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, within a very short space of time, thanks to exemplary collaboration - and I once again extend my heartfelt thanks to all those who played a part in this - we have made considerable progress.
The decision on the framework programme is only the first component of a mechanism which also comprises the rules for participation, which were also adopted under the co-decision procedure, as well as the specific programmes.
In order for Parliament and the Council to adopt the framework programme and its instruments for implementation in June, in accordance with the objectives that we have in mind, the three institutions must continue the close collaboration that was successfully engaged at the beginning of the procedure.
The Commission certainly intends to continue to do everything in its power to encourage inter-institutional dialogue.
For the first time in the history of Community research, we are in a position to adopt the framework programme in a timely fashion, rather than at the very last minute, so that it can be launched and implemented in the best possible conditions.
Parliament has played a very important role in this process, through the Caudron report at the first reading of the Framework Programme.
I believe that the positions of Parliament and the Council are now much closer, and this has been achieved through the desire to respond to scientists' and companies' request that we should implement this important instrument, and respond to the mandate we were given at the Barcelona Council that we pull out all the stops to approve the Sixth Framework Programme under our Presidency, and, also - as I said - because the concerns have been very much shared concerns.
The specific aspects relating to content have been more fully developed, such as research issues in health sciences, the question of a greater contribution by the GEANT network, scientific and social issues, research and support on environmental issues, for example.
For this reason I would say that, in terms of content, we are now offering a framework programme that is much better defined and will serve as the key element in another great initiative that goes much further than the framework programme, which is the development of the European Area of Research and Innovation.
The Barcelona Council, taking up the commitment made in Lisbon, made a very ambitious commitment which was that, in the year 2010, Europe should reach a level of spending on investment in research and development of 3% of Gross Domestic Product, with a substantial participation, of two thirds, from enterprises in the private sector and from the private sector as a whole.
However, with the satisfactory development of the Sixth Framework Programme we shall also develop other initiatives, such as better coordination of national programmes, a task we have promoted during our Presidency.
For this reason, I thank you once again for your work and I am sure that the other aspects, such as participation rules for specific programmes - will be formalised once the framework programme has been defined.
For our part, the Council has totally supported the Presidency's initiatives - which we are very pleased about - in the series of discussions we have held.
The Council takes particular note of the Commission's vision and supports the Presidency in including all the amendments that have been tabled en masse, as far as possible, finding the appropriate formulae from within the specific programmes.
The Council totally supports the entire fruitful discussion process we have held.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The next item is the Commission's presentation of the preliminary draft budget for the financial year 2003.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 April, the Commission decided on the preliminary draft of the Budget for 2003.
If we add all the agricultural policy outgoings together, they amount to a total of EUR 48.7 billion allocated to this area.
To quote a few more figures before I move on to something else, EUR 21.8 billion have been allocated to regional policy, EUR 940 million to fisheries policy, EUR 3.2 billion for external relations, EUR 1.1 billion to development policy, EUR 9.8 billion for employment and social affairs, and EUR 1 billion solely for promoting the information society.
This positive outcome results from a combination of several factors: firstly the prognosis of relatively favourable market developments in agriculture, then a situation in which stocks are relatively low, and an underlying euro/dollar exchange rate of EUR 1 to USD 0.88.
My fellow-Commissioner Fischler will then present an overview estimating how agricultural expenditure will develop in the future, and proposals for reforms.
Above all, this category includes environmental measures of relevance to agricultural policy and this makes it highly significant in terms of sustainable agricultural development.
It is proposed that funds amounting to EUR 6.7 billion be allocated, leaving a reserve of EUR 81 million, which is sure to be called on in the course of the discussions on the Budget.
The preliminary draft of the Budget already allocates over EUR 4 billion to this research programme for next year.
I believe this is another example of how the priority given to the promotion of sustainable development results in corresponding approaches to funding.
Aid for Afghanistan is also in accordance with commitments which the Commission made on behalf of the European Union in December 2001 in Tokyo.
The Commission proposes to set aside EUR 25 million for this purpose, for example, to give financial support to a risk capital programme.
In consequence, the appropriations for health measures in 2003, have, on the Commission's proposal, had around EUR 55 million added to them, EUR 35 million of which is an additional contribution to the Global Health Fund.
It is for this reason that the Commission's preliminary draft Budget exceeds the upper limit only in respect of these preparatory measures.
The Commission proposes that the resources needed for this should be made available from the flexibility instrument.
As it is, so to speak, the last draft prepared by him in his capacity as Director-General of the Budget Directorate-General, I would like to take this opportunity to thank him warmly for the work he has done.
I believe it to be a successful draft that looks to fund new requirements and is, at the same time, guided by budgetary discipline.
I look forward, of course, to the debates, and am highly optimistic that we will be able to achieve a good outcome this year as well. (Applause) . (SV) Mr President, allow me to begin by submitting apologies from the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Wynn, who was prevented from being here.
We are now finally on the way towards a system of activity-based budgeting and thus also towards a more lucid and transparent system that will make it easier to present the EU budget to people in Europe, something which I think is incredibly important if people are to have confidence in the European Union.
Through the Commission's annual political strategy and through the fact that the Council and Parliament decide upon the political guidelines for next year's budget at approximately the same time, we have brought about a political exchange, or dialogue, at an earlier stage.
I also hope that we shall be able to renew Parliament's own budget debate by holding a wider debate in July in which we do not only focus upon next year's budget but also upon the implementation of the current year's budget, as well as linking the processes together, which is something I believe is very important for the future.
If the Commission's basic priorities are compared with the guidelines adopted by Parliament, it can be seen that we are agreed on a range of points.
We are also agreed that we must tackle the issues of security and safety in the broad senses of those words, partly by having a full discussion of how we are to manage security in Europe following the terrorist attacks of last September and partly through adopting a broader perspective on the safety issues - such as food safety and transport safety - on which a range of initiatives need to be taken no later than in next year's budget.
It is possible that we shall be forced to do this, but I believe we must increase the pressure on the Secretary-Generals to produce new, radical proposals, for example concerning increased cooperation between the institutions so as to reduce the costs and thus avoid having recourse to the flexibility instrument.
We must review these aspects in depth before we continue to extend the variety of new authorities, even though the tasks as such are certainly of exceptional importance.
In conclusion, I want to say something about the longer term future.
We shall later be receiving a special report on the subject from the Committee on Budgets.
The presentation of the preliminary draft budget for the financial year 2003 is closed.
It is estimated that the enlargement-related costs for 2003 will amount to just over EUR 32 million in total.
In total, this means, in other words, a financial investment of EUR 89 million in the course of just a single budget year.
In spite of all the commitments entailed in the biggest enlargement in the EU's history, the 2003 Budget will be managed within the 20% framework that has for a long time been Parliament's portion of the common budget.
Paragraph 22 of the resolution quotes a sum of EUR 15.5 million for the buildings reserve.
If it is accurately to reflect today's decision, the amount should be adjusted somewhat so that Parliament remains under the ceiling of EUR 1 051 million.
The first refers to the Interinstitutional Recruitment Office which we as a Parliament, and indeed as a Committee on Budgets, have been calling for for many months.
Lastly, buildings: my group has discussed the needs of enlargement so far as offices and so on are concerned, and we have put in a request.
No decision has yet been taken in my group as to what buildings we need.
In conclusion, on these two items, we would like to see greater sensitivity on the part of the administration and the Bureau towards parliamentarians, because ultimately it is the Assembly that is sovereign.
In this context the need for improved provision for information is imperative and I therefore support the 15% increase outlined in this report for this area.
I heard recently some evidence from the Irish referendum on the Nice Treaty which shows that citizens who went to Parliament or Commission information offices for literature were not sufficiently convinced or motivated to go out and vote.
Surely we need proposals for the long term which look at how we can provide for the pensions by setting up a fund or alternative means,.
The area most affected by enlargement within the institution will be staff and the building costs related to languages.
Whilst I support the right of all MEPs to speak their own language, we must recognise that we need to rationalise this and we need to recognise the danger of a loss of dynamism in our meetings.
Secondly, the issue of the seat of the European Parliament requires urgent attention.
The report also serves as a good basis for later discussion of the budget in the autumn.
The 2003 budget is likely to be the last before EU enlargement.
The rapporteur is proposing that EUR 32 million is needed for enlargement immediately and a further EUR 51 million for a special reserve.
When we also take into consideration the 6 million euros reserved for observers and the extension of property reserve of 15 million euros it is my group's opinion that sufficient funds have indeed been set aside for preparations for enlargement.
The language issue is one of the hardest matters to deal with.
Nearly every new Member State will also bring its own language to the European Union.
All of us must be able to take part in the debate in our own mother tongue.
In this way Members could listen to the original speech in these languages as interpreted by just the one interpreter.
Mr President, according to its preliminary draft budget, the Commission wants 500 temporary posts to serve the needs of EU enlargement, which would be financed by means of a flexible mechanism.
It is reasonable for both the Commission and Parliament to place on view the administrative expenditure due to enlargement under Section V of the budget.
It is reasonable to exceed the upper limit for administrative expenditure recorded in the Interinstitutional Agreement partly because when the agreement was being made there was no provision for the inclusion of ten new Member States and nine new languages.
The EU's citizens will not accept higher tax burdens.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's estimates for 2003 should be viewed as a success, thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Stenmarck, who has focused on a series of fundamental issues on which it is good for Parliament to give its opinion.
On the other hand, assistance to Members also requires a balance between professional requirements and the immediacy of Members activities, which are very specific and which require punctual and immediate assistance.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
It is no coincidence that the United States Government has adopted a highly interventionist policy, and it should make the European institutions pause for thought for they still have to counteract ongoing stagnation in the investment sector, at least if they want to avoid the gap in competitiveness between Europe and the United States widening further.
This being the case, the need to respect the constraints of the Stability Pact, particularly in terms of national budget deficits and the debt reduction mechanism, cannot, as some would advocate, take the place of stronger coordination of economic and social policies and a policy mix which will impact on the economic policies of the countries of the Union, particularly the Eurogroup.
The constraint of the 3% threshold for national budget deficits must be respected.
That is why our report calls upon the Commission to propose to the Council and certain groups of States open coordination experiments precisely in the investment sectors in which the Lisbon European Council recorded the greatest delays in the European Union in the development by 2010 of a knowledge-based economy and society moving towards full employment and social cohesion.
I also feel it is important and urgent that consideration be given to the recommendations of the Green Paper on corporate social responsibility, in cases of mergers and restructuring, so as to use benchmarking and other procedures to encourage the practice of informing and consulting workers and in order to find solutions based on employability and continuous education as alternatives to structural unemployment.
Mr President, this is the path proposed by Jacques Delors yesterday and again today in the interview published in Le Monde this morning.
Mr President, Commissioner, my report on the annual assessment of implementation of stability and convergence programmes, which was approved unanimously by the European Parliament Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, concludes - in brief - that the annual stability and convergence programmes submitted by the governments of the Member States and their application in 2001 were, for the most part, in keeping with the requirements of the stability and growth pact, despite the recession caused by the decline in growth rates, what were luckily temporary setbacks in the American economy and one-off incidents such as the terrorist attacks on 11 September.
This generally positive state of affairs, a number of very serious exceptions in the case of Germany and Portugal notwithstanding, proves that having a stability pact and applying it as strictly as possible - and the policy of the European Central Bank has helped here - are vital to monetary stability.
The European Commission and ECOFIN believe that recovery is on the way and will start to bite during the last quarter of this year.
The new stability programmes for the next three years paint a similar picture.
And it has turned out to be an extremely bad move because, after the elections in Portugal, for example, the new Portuguese Government revealed that public finances were in a far worse state than the previous government had let on, with the budget deficit exceeding the gross domestic product by far more than the 3% limit.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, please let me make three introductory comments.
The first is that I am very happy that we are dealing with the Trentin and Marinos reports in a joint debate, because that again gives clear expression to the fact that there is not only no contradiction between the stability and convergence programme and the Guidelines of the Economic Policies, but also that they even complement each other.
The Lisbon objectives, which are to make the EU into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area, facilitating sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater cohesion, represent the goal to which all of us - Parliament, Council and Commission - give the highest priority and to which we have committed ourselves.
Growth and employment presuppose price stability, and social cohesion in our society presupposes growth and employment.
Stability cannot be an end in itself, it must serve growth.
Europe needs a more innovative policy for growth.
To achieve this, we must invest more in European infrastructures.
The collective profitability of infrastructures is always much higher than their direct financial profitability.
How many regions of Europe have experienced greater development due to a network of high speed trains, due to a new motorway, a more modern port or an airport?
The communication networks and energy transmission networks are also a factor in development and growth.
The European infrastructural policy serves growth, serves immediate employment but above all it serves growth and therefore employment, in the medium and long term.
I would like to finish, Mr President, by thanking the two rapporteurs, and especially my colleague Mr Bruno Trentin, for the 2002 report.
Therefore, we regret very much that the Member States, in the Ecofin Council in February, if my memory serves me correctly, did not support the Commission proposal with regard to the concern for the development of the Portuguese and German economies and the administration of their respective budgets.
We particularly agree with the difficult compromise between achieving greater competitiveness whilst not abandoning the policy of economic and social cohesion.
Clearly, this can only be achieved by putting an emphasis - as the Trentin report does, and as proposed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - on the information society and the expansion of technological research and development activities.
This will clearly give rise to the information- and knowledge-based society that will allow us to improve quality and be more competitive, which we hope for at the end of this decade.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank our esteemed fellow Member, Mr Bruno Trentin, and to congratulate him not only on his personal qualities, but also because I believe that the report adopted last night by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs contains a strong political message.
This message is conveyed by highlighting the fact that, in the triangle that economists know well, in other words that formed by the volume of public debt, the volume of public revenue and the volume of public expenditure - whether this is current expenditure or, more importantly, investment expenditure referred to in this report - we must also take into account the level of public expenditure needed to achieve the objectives defined at Lisbon and also at Gothenburg.
And one does not need to be a genius to realise that this message runs counter to widely held views.
Bearing in mind, therefore, the increasing tax competition between the Member States, I think that Amendment No 7 is an absolutely crucial amendment, because it warns against the pressure that public expenditure is under.
Besides the tax aspects which we do not think are covered sufficiently in the report, this is another reason why we feel that Amendment No 8 is an absolute minimum in terms of corporate income tax and the implementation of the conclusions of the Primarolo report.
Lastly, Commissioner, as far as the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned, my group will not vote in favour of the Marinos report, because I think that there is a contradiction, contrary to what other speakers have said, between the Trentin report and the Marinos report.
The Marinos report calls for the strict observance of the stability programmes.
I think that there is a connection to be made between the rise of extreme right groups in Europe and the fact that the States no longer know how to respond to the basic needs of their citizens, or in any case these needs are not being properly satisfied.
Mr President, we have, in the European Union, an internal market, and a unitary currency in twelve of its Member States, but we do not have a communitarised European economic and fiscal policy and nor do we have a policy on employment.
The question we have to ask ourselves - which I think Mr Karas framed in an improper way - is not to do with the Left wanting to engage in social policy as against economic policy or to oppose employment with stability.
Since the Stockholm Summit, integration of social and employment policy and environmental policy into economic policy has been an objective in order to achieve sustainable development.
Economic growth will need to go hand in hand with the responsible use of our natural resources.
As a result, cooperation by means of the method of open coordination is not sufficiently binding for the Member States.
Two - almost magic - formulae, typical of a certain type of Europeanism are constantly being proposed in this Chamber: the European social model and the social market economy.
The Council texts before us today are pervaded by the optimistic, consoling mantra of the Lisbon goal: making Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world in ten years.
The demands made upon Italy in this year's broad economic policy guidelines are the same as those which have been made throughout the past five years, but nothing effective is being done to meet the requirements relating to the labour market, pensions, the liberal professions and the liberalisation of the markets.
I will end, Mr President, with a warning: only ten years ago, Japan was still seen as an invincible economy with a social model offering a remarkable level of protection.
Mr President, I recommend the adoption of the common position without amendment.
Particular concern was expressed in relation to Article 3(4) on the information on contractual obligations to be communicated to the consumer during the pre-contractual phase.
In particular, concern was expressed as to whether this was in conformity with the e-commerce Directive, and I want to give an assurance that, in my opinion, it is.
I refer the House, in particular, to recital 56 of the e-commerce Directive.
Finally, Amendment No 50 should also be rejected, as it requires the inclusion of a specific date of 2003, which is inappropriate.
In the circumstances, the Commission recommends the adoption of this without amendment.
The intention is to modify the common text and that requires a qualified majority.
You are voting for or against deletion because the common text is already before us.
I am putting it politically and procedurally the correct way. (The President declared the common position approved, as amended) Recommendation for second reading (A5-0143/2002) by Theodorus J.J.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Producing homogenised statistics for the whole of the Union could prove to be a useful exercise, and that is why we voted in favour of the report.
We are, of course, in favour of scientific and technical cooperation between Europe and India and exchange visits by scientists within the framework of the parallel programmes.
The rapporteur states that poor countries must do without the energy sources that rich countries use because they are too expensive for them.
The rapporteur depicts as helpful the fact that the European Union is installing, in rural areas of India, alternative energy technologies, the patents of which usually belong to the above-mentioned energy giants.
The report recommends that the European Union provide farmers with technologies to process their agricultural produce, so that they can? (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The British Conservatives voted against this report due to growing concerns about the effects and implementation of such agreements.
The CFP has been an unmitigated environmental disaster.
The European Parliament has just adopted what appears to be a highly commendable report on the list of its documents that are directly accessible to the public.
For example, written explanations of vote must, in theory, be no more than 200 words, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, but this word limit has not always been strictly enforced in order to allow Members to express their opinions fully and clearly.
This tolerant attitude seems to be frowned upon in some quarters: despite the fact that the European institutions often spend money as if there is no tomorrow, Parliament has recently decided to save money on paper and ink by cutting 100 words here, 50 words there of Members' explanations of vote.
The fight goes on.
The Treaty of Amsterdam introduced the concept of openness and transparency into the Treaties, in such a way as to give any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State, a right of access to Parliament, Council and Commission documents.
It is precisely this procedure and this list that the Maij-Weggen report deals with.
This report warrants our full support, because it makes another positive contribution at European level to formalising the principle of transparency and of public access to documents, here in the specific framework of our Parliament. . (DE) I wish to emphasise at the outset that I am unreservedly in favour of Parliament working in a transparent manner and also of all its documentation being made accessible to the public.
I nonetheless voted against Mrs Maij-Weggen's report.
Official documents and working documents are quite different things.
If all the thinking set down in the working documents is made public at the outset, then we can give up politics.
The Council will be delighted to know in advance what Parliament has in mind.
There is always a connection between my explanations of vote and the reason for my vote for or against a motion, Mr President, although you need to listen very carefully to understand it.
Indeed, it would not make sense for this European schizophrenia to improve security in one area while, at the same time, exposing us to considerable risks - a fact of which I am certain - for I am sure that the fact that these 13 Palestinians were not released means that they are not honest and are, in any case, a danger and a hazard for our citizens.
We voted in favour of all the amendments which seek to strengthen safety both for the staff of airlines, airports and companies based in airports, and for air passengers.
I also welcome the move to delay the entry into force of this legislation until 31 December 2003: airlines need time to carry out the necessary retraining and to purchase additional equipment.
This totally absurd way of going about things could become a dangerous precedent and should therefore be removed from the text. (Explanations of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Mr President, I voted for the measure tabled by the Chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mr Bouwman, who is rightly concerned to protect employees in the event that their employer becomes insolvent.
There are many citizens who, after working for a great many years, receive tiny pensions which amount to starvation rations: that is bad debt on the part of States.
This protection is, however, scandalously limited.
In other words, if a general obligation is defined, the States can do what they want, and essentially place a ceiling on compensation payments paid to workers.
As regards the financing of these guarantee funds, Amendment No 6 hypocritically states that 'the employers shall contribute to the financing, unless it is fully covered by the public authorities'.
Although it is, without doubt, better, in terms of the protection of workers, for the public authorities to pay compensation in the event of bankruptcy of the employer, in any? (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) At first reading, the Council regrettably chose not to accept some of the proposals that we had tabled and that Parliament had adopted which sought to achieve better protection for employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer, amending the 1980 directive to enable it to cope with the frequent cases of insolvency in the European Union.
Although the Council position already represents an improvement on the previous situation, it was necessary to insist on the amendments designed to include, in the scope of the directive, new forms of work and new labour relations and the directive's extension to cover severance pay, as laid down in ILO Convention No 173(6).
Although we voted for the amendments tabled in the report, we are bound to regret the fact that it did not go further, and specifically that it opted for reaching a compromise solution with the Commission, which will carry out an in-depth study and hold a joint public hearing with Parliament as early as this year on the situation of workers in light of new forms of labour relations.
As a Member from Ireland, I am particularly pleased that this proposal is to dedicate 2004 to Education through Sport.
This will coincide with the Irish Presidency of the Union in the first half of 2004 and I can assure colleagues that Ireland will play a most prominent role in many of the actions envisaged.
The proposal envisages 2003 as a preparatory year, with some activities beginning to coincide with the academic year 2003-2004.
This will be a unique sporting and cultural experience for the athletes taking part, from 160 international delegations all over the world.
It is crucial that we continue to use all possible means to ensure that we make better use of sporting values to improve educational programmes, specifically of what is known as 'parallel education' and to consolidate and expand, in this framework, a close partnership between educational and sporting organisations, thereby giving full expression to educational values and to the enormous educational potential of sport.
We therefore support the initiative of organising a European Year of Education through Sport in 2004 - a year in which the European football championships will take place and in which the Olympic and Paralympic Games will be held in Athens.
We want to attach the greatest priority, however, to greater efficiency in this field and this is why we support the amendments in favour of substantially increasing the financing of local, national and transnational actions and of the initiatives of European organisations working in the educational and sports sectors.
So, the promotion of sport also bolsters and enhances other Community projects, ranging from the fight against racism and social exclusion, to the inclusion of disabled people.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the report, and did so because I believe that tourism's future lies in the development of sustainable tourism which takes account of ecological considerations and promotes them.
In Austria, which is a tourist destination, the principle of sustainable development is of primary importance to the tourist sector.
The Torres Marques report is on European tourism.
The MPF (Mouvement pour la France) Members voted against the Torres Marques report, which calls for a European tourism policy.
We believe that this area is the responsibility of the national, even regional or local, authorities, and that cooperation should not be forced.
I am fortunate to live in one of the most beautiful places in the Union, namely West Cork in Ireland.
I note that the Spanish Presidency took the initiative to organise a special Informal Council of Tourism Ministers.
The tourism industry in Europe was extremely hard hit in the past year following 11 September.
Some Member States, including Ireland, were additionally afflicted by the foot and mouth crisis.
I await the bringing forward of specific programmes and measures in which stakeholders in the tourist industry can participate. . (SV) Tourism is an important engine for the development of economic activity in many parts of Europe.
In Austria, which is a tourist destination, the principle of sustainable development is of primary importance to the tourist sector.
I therefore expressly welcome the Commission's initiative to develop and implement an Agenda 21 to promote sustainable development of tourism in Europe.
We are all aware of the major role that tourism plays in the European economy and of its huge potential for growth and for developing employment.
It is also well known that the issue of tourism has already been addressed on several occasions at ministerial summits and in European Council conclusions, and its importance as a driving force for the economic growth of the Union, particularly in the least-developed regions, underlined.
This Forum would help to increase the sector's European visibility as well as its integration into the various Community policies.
We already have reservations, however, about the proposal for an isolated revision of the Treaties in this area, thereby giving Europe competence for tourism too.
The Commission's statement contains quite a few sound proposals as to how employment and the dynamism of the sector can be promoted further.
The tourism industry has benefited from the single currency and its continued growth is directly linked to the fact that EU citizens now possess more disposable income.
However, we must not rest on our laurels but ensure that tourism remains dynamic and that this growth does not stagnate.
The tourist sector is of vital importance to the European Union, which is the world's most important tourist destination.
In proposing a planning framework and practical measures to promote tourism, the Commission is recognising its importance and tackling a number of problems facing the European tourist sector, caused, in particular by increased international competition.
I am convinced that the Commission must be guided by this imperative need for quality in the field of tourism.
An example of this is the use of the expression 'the capacity for adaptation' of young people to a complex . (PT) Our view of the White Paper presented by the European Commission on 'a new impetus for European Youth' is that we largely agree with the criticism of our colleagues in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport who condemned the Commission for having initiated the consultation process with pre-established ideas and for conducting the process in a way designed to guarantee that these ideas were accepted.
Furthermore, we also consider it crucial to ensure that, in future, greater attention is paid to the needs and interests of young people across the board in the various policies of the Union.
Lastly, we also regret the absence in the appropriate chapter of the White Paper of an explicit reference to the numerous Community programmes - from the Structural Funds to programmes such as Urban, Equal or even Meda - which have for a long time been pivotal instruments of Community policies and in which we must increasingly promote a sufficient number of projects that will benefit young people.
Whilst young people have not been entirely marginalised in the project of European integration, there has not been enough sustained emphasis on their importance for the future of Europe.
Indeed, the future of European integration depends upon the interest and support of the next generation, and since war is not at the forefront of young people's minds - and will no longer act as a catalyst for integration - it is vital that we include them now.
Finally, since all Member States face the lamentable situation of increasing voter apathy - particularly amongst the young - the call for more young political engagement is most welcome.
It is more useful to look for a pan-EU solution to this problem than for Member States to seek a solution individually.
In particular, we appear to be moving towards abandoning equality in governors' votes, a rule which was made much of originally but which, in practice, has had many negative repercussions on decisions, particularly with regard to interest rates.
If we succeed in having a single seat for the European Parliament, I would be willing to stop delivering explanations of vote in celebration of the major saving made.
We have voted for the Parliamentary budget estimate at a time when Parliament has also asked to know the cost of the three seats, in a report which we adopted last month and sent to the European Convention on the Future of Europe.
That is why a group of MEPs now want to mark this vote by delivering explanations of vote, in the hope that their message will reach the Convention, whose eminent representatives are indeed sitting right here in this venue.
The message is this: give us one workplace, a single seat in Brussels.
Mr President, I too have voted in favour of the Stenmarck report, despite the fact that next year, a large proportion of the costs will once again be spent on buildings in Luxembourg, Brussels and Strasbourg.
If the awful developments in the Netherlands over the past few weeks have taught us anything, it is that there is an enormous chasm between the citizens and their elected representatives.
The European Parliament can organise its work more cheaply and more effectively by meeting in one place.
The French Government has decided that Air France should not operate any direct flights between Amsterdam and Strasbourg, so to get here is a disaster on its own.
Mr President, I too voted in favour of Mr Stenmarck's report, which is very sound and makes clear the costs of all this taking to the road.
Mr President, I believe that, as my fellow Members, Mrs van der Laan and Mrs Malmström, have quite rightly said, this matter is, of course, eminently political.
I have been an advocate of Strasbourg for many years, along with my radical colleagues, but I feel that the deterioration in transport links and a number of services now makes it impossible to support Strasbourg.
It is a question of political dignity.
The Brussels part-sessions must be given real dignity.
These, therefore, are the reasons for our - differing but united - votes on the issue.
Mr President, I too voted in favour of the Stenmark report and would like to add that we all know that the costs of enlargement cannot at present be estimated, but that we have to take care that they do not exceed their limits, as the European public will take an unsympathetic view.
Mr President, before the Members of the European Parliament and the citizens who, in order to be able to work properly and express their opinions, are raising an issue concerning the European Parliament and the fact that a third of the budget is being used to maintain a circus which is of no use to anyone, this is being held up as an example of populism.
This is an irrational, idiotic situation, not just from the financial point of view but also in terms of the practical organisation of Parliament's work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's seat and meeting place on historic ground here in Strasbourg is certainly significant.
If only the European citizens could be familiar with the issue and decide on this problem impacting on the European Parliament's budget, I feel that not even in France would there be even a tiny minority in favour of continuing with similar expenditure and the consequences - which have already been mentioned - for Parliament's work.
We are now left stranded in Strasbourg until Parliament finds the political will to exert its own best interests and remove itself to Brussels with the odd symbolic sojourn in Strasbourg for formal occasions.
I am pleased he has taken the time to be here today for this delicate and sensitive question.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank the European Parliament for giving me this opportunity to appear here to give my assessment of the progress we have made during the four and a half months of the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the European Union in what I believe to be one of the key areas of the European Union's Justice and Home Affairs policy; immigration and asylum.
The progressive development of a common immigration and asylum policy is an essential part of the area of freedom, security and justice we Europeans have proposed creating in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This immigration and asylum policy must be based on a balanced and global approach.
This global framework, in accordance with the Conclusions of the Tampere European Council, must be founded on four fundamental premises: the adequate management of migratory flows, the quest for fair treatment of third-country nationals, cooperation with countries of origin and the establishment of a European asylum system.
Making progress on these four guidelines was the inspiration behind the Spanish programme of objectives and priorities for the Presidency of the Council of the Union.
All of this taking good account of the renewed impetus provided by the Laeken European Council of 14 and 16 December 2001, which put the emphasis on the necessary balance between the protection of refugees in accordance with the principles of the Geneva Convention of 1951, the legitimate aspiration for a better life and the Union and its Member States' capacity for receiving refugees.
Furthermore, we have tried to prioritise those instruments which the Laeken Conclusions considered most urgent to adopt, such as the Global Action plan to combat illegal immigration.
In accordance with these ideas, I am going to try to organise my comments on the progress over these months in the field of asylum and immigration by dealing with what I believe must be the two main sources of inspiration for this policy: progress towards a European asylum system and the appropriate regulation of migratory flows, in accordance with the following premises: respect for legality, the fair treatment of third-country nationals, cooperation with States of origin and the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking.
On the establishment of a common European asylum system, we have taken very important steps at these last two formal Councils of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers.
I would like to highlight the directive establishing the minimum rules for the acceptance of asylum seekers in the Member States.
This proposal intends to guarantee that asylum seekers arriving in our States enjoy a minimum level of rights essential to a dignified life, including housing, free movement, family regrouping, schooling and education for children, access to employment and professional training.
The Council, following its meeting of 25 April, has achieved a general political orientation on the text of the directive and now we must study the proposals contained in Parliament's opinion and establish the position of the fifteen States with regard to the contents of the opinion.
In this same field of asylum, I would like to concentrate on another legislative instrument, which we approved on 28 February and which seems to me to be extremely important: the Council Regulation establishing certain rules for the implementation of Regulation No 2725/2000 on the creation of the "Eurodac" system.
Having created the Eurodac system in December 2000, implementation rules became necessary to establish the procedures for identifying asylum seekers by means of an electronic comparison of their fingerprints.
In the second section of my speech on the progress made so far during the six months of our Presidency, I am going to focus on the key elements of our immigration policy, which is governed by the central idea of the appropriate management of migratory flows, which includes both the idea of legally regulating those flows in accordance with the fair treatment of third-country nationals, and combating clandestine immigration, in particular human trafficking, governed by the idea of cooperation with countries of origin.
To this end, at the General Affairs Council on 18 February, both regulations were approved, establishing a uniform model for visas and a uniform model for the form for issuing a visa granted by Member States to holders of a travel document not recognised by the Member State issuing that form.
Together with this unification, we have also achieved a general approach for the Regulation establishing a uniform model residence permit for third-country nationals.
Amongst other advantages, this regulation will help in the recognition of documents by police border control authorities, which will benefit their holders and will help with better detection of false documents.
Secondly, in order to financially support certain actions proposed by the Member States aimed at promoting cooperation and coordination between national administrations and the transparent application of Community legislation, in the fields of immigration, asylum and borders, at the last Council in April all the Member States reached a general agreement for the approval of the ARGO Programme, which will be in force for five years and will receive EUR 25 million.
Thirdly, there is no doubt that the appropriate management of flows requires the adoption of effective measures to combat clandestine immigration, in particular human trafficking.
In this respect, the Conclusions of the Laeken European Council urged the approval of a Global Plan, which we were able to discuss at the informal meeting of Ministers in Santiago de Compostela and which we formally adopted at our meeting of Ministers on 28 February.
Very much inspired by the Commission Communication of November 2001, the Plan is designed to be a programming guide, which will help with the planning of actions which we can start to implement in order to effectively combat the phenomenon of illegal immigration.
Allow me to briefly explain the main actions and measures included in this Plan.
Firstly, visa policy; secondly, the promotion of the exchange and analysis of information relating to the problem of illegal immigration; thirdly, the plan deals with a series of measures prior to the crossing of borders; fourthly, the plan focuses on improving the quality and efficiency of border controls; fifthly, another aspect dealt with by the plan are the policies of readmission and repatriation; sixthly, the operative role of Europol in the fight against human trafficking will be increased; and finally the Plan includes many repressive measures to combat these crimes.
Thus, at the Justice and Home Affairs Council following its approval, we adopted certain measures in compliance with it.
In my opinion, this is a fundamental issue which we must be very conscious of and, above all, we must act accordingly and as quickly as possible.
I repeat, migratory issues must have a prominent place in the EU's external relations.
Turning more directly to Justice and Home Affairs issues, we are going to prioritise measures such as the carrying out of a study to improve the control of sea borders, prevention, and the adoption of operative measures, in particular the exchange of information, which is already yielding very good results, and we are going to strongly urge States of origin and transit States to combat human trafficking and readmit illegal immigrants who leave their territory, amongst other things.
Secondly, as our Heads of State and Government requested in Laeken, we have gone ahead with the determination of a list of third countries with which we must negotiate new readmission agreements, setting the general criteria for that determination.
During April we have also carried out a risk assessment operation in the main airports of the European Union, known as the RÍO operation, whose results, which I presented during the Council held on 25 April, will allow us to improve the cooperation between the border control authorities of the Member States and Europol, and also to ascertain the methods, routes and other procedures employed for the clandestine introduction of immigrants into European Union territory.
Also with a view to this type of cooperation, during this six-month period, the Strategic Committee on Immigration, Borders and Asylum has met for the first time, with the participation of the Heads of the External Border Control Services.
This meeting, which is to take place periodically every six months, has established a strategy for improving the operative cooperation of Member States in relation to the control of external borders, in aspects such as risk assessment systems, the situation of our sea borders, and specific training for our agents running border controls.
Furthermore, we have improved the mechanisms to resolve the situation of foreigners who do not fulfil, or who have ceased to fulfil, the conditions for entry or residence, by means of Conclusions on the obtaining of travel documents for the implementation of repatriations.
In recent months, we have intensified the Union's external relations in this area.
As a follow-up to the meeting of the Council of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers on 28 February, we held a meeting with the candidate countries during which we dealt, amongst other things, with the control of external borders.
At this meeting, we communicated a catalogue of recommendations and best practices in relation to the control of external borders and admission and expulsion procedures within the Schengen area, which we had approved that same day.
Similarly, and for the first time within the Union, the fifteen Member States held a meeting with the Russian Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, during which we dealt, amongst other things, with the issue of migration, the management of borders and the readmission policy, and we also communicated to the Russian representatives the catalogue of recommendations I mentioned earlier.
Thirdly, at the Euro-Mediterranean Ministerial Conference in Valencia of 22 and 23 April, we dealt with cooperation in the field of the social integration of immigrants, migration and the movement of people, and to this end we approved a regional programme within the Valencia Action Plan.
So far my speech has focussed on the concrete results achieved over recent months.
I would also like to stress the significant impetus which has been given by the various working groups to the different legislative instruments, in the field of both asylum and of immigration.
I can confirm that there has been considerable progress on the work on the proposed Council Regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for an asylum application, known as Dublin II, or the directive establishing minimum rules on the status of the refugee.
In the same way and in accordance with the modified proposals on the minimum rules for the procedure for granting and withdrawing refugee status and on family regrouping, which the Commission presented on 30 April, we will promote the continuation of the work to move these issues forward.
As you will be aware, the Commission has recently presented the Green Paper on a Community policy of returning illegal residents and the communication on "Guidelines for the integrated management of external borders", and we will try to ensure that it is studied by the competent bodies of the Council.
Turning to the field of legal immigration, significant progress has been made on the discussion of a proposed directive regulating the status of non-EU long-term residents and the directive relating to the conditions for entry and residence for the purposes of employed and self-employed work.
Under our Presidency a study has begun of a proposed directive on the issuing of short-term residency permits to victims of human trafficking who cooperate with the competent authorities.
Finally, within this section on progress made, I would like to refer to the promotion of European Union action plans with third countries.
In particular, in relation to the dialogue with Morocco, there has been progress in the work of the 'Social Affairs and migrations' group, which held its second meeting on 12 March of this year in Rabat.
I would like to end my speech by very briefly explaining our work perspectives until 30 June 2002.
At the last sitting of the Council of Ministers on 13 and 14 June, the Spanish Presidency will deal with the issue of creating a Visa Database, with regard to which we have consulted the guidelines of the common system for the exchange of visa information.
We also intend to submit a proposal for a decision to the Council on the signing of the readmission agreement negotiated with Hong Kong and the draft negotiation mandate for the Commission in relation to an agreement of this type with the Ukraine.
Furthermore, if during these months sufficient progress is made on the proposed Regulation known as Dublin II, we will submit it for discussion at the final Council of our Presidency.
I would like to end by once again thanking the Commission and Commissioner Vitorino for the fundamental role they have played in these efforts, which would not have been possible without their help.
I would also like to thank Parliament for its dedication and cooperation, which have given great impetus to the European Union's policy on immigration and asylum during the almost five months of the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the Union.
I believe that the assessment of results and perspectives is positive and I can confirm that we are fulfilling many of those objectives which were contained in our working programme and which I was able to present to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on 4 February.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and, in particular, thank you very much, Mr President.
I am standing in for him this afternoon - insofar as that is possible - because he is attending an important meeting in Canada.
The Commission very much welcomed the conclusions adopted at the Laeken European Council and especially the confirmation of its commitment to the policy guidelines and objectives defined in 1999 in the second semester at Tampere.
We are delighted that the Spanish presidency has given a new dynamism to this process.
It is worthwhile recalling that the main proposals necessary for the implementation of Article 63 of the Treaty and the Tampere conclusions are already on the table.
Negotiations are under way regarding two other legislative proposals on asylum, namely a Council Regulation on criteria and a mechanism for establishing responsibility for examining asylum applications to replace the Dublin Convention, as well as a Council directive on the qualification and status of persons as refugees or as beneficiaries of subsidiary protection.
The Commission will also pursue the implementation of the Eurodac system as quickly as possible in the hope that Member States will soon make the necessary provisions to take part.
The Commission has also recently launched a communication on the integrated management of the European Union's external borders.
This issue will be considered on a Community-wide basis rather than as a set of national systems and will, I very much hope, map out the route to the longer-term objective of setting up a European corps of border guards or police.
As also requested by the Laeken Summit, the Commission will also shortly bring forward an amended proposal for a Council directive on minimum standards on procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status.
Furthermore, the Commission supported the willingness expressed in Laeken to better integrate migration policy with the external policy of the Union.
It would therefore welcome any initiative aimed at giving a new perspective to the High Level Working group on Asylum and Immigration that was created by the Council in 1999.
The Commission intends to present a proposal of programme cooperation with third countries before the end of the year.
It will be based on the experience gleaned from the implementation of the new budgetary instrument created by the European Parliament.
There is plainly an intimate connection between our success, for example, in promoting sustainable development and demographic pressures.
There is clearly an important role for us to play in helping other countries to deal with illegal trafficking in human beings, which is just as much a threat and, in some cases, a greater threat to them than it is to those richer countries which are the targets for those who traffic in human beings.
In the field of re-admission, the Commission is about to finalise an agreement with Sri Lanka.
This is the second agreement at Community level of this kind, the first one, I am delighted to say, having being concluded with Hong Kong.
The Commission will continue its efforts to achieve the other agreements for which it has the mandate to negotiate and will table the necessary proposals to extend this approach in as coherent a manner as possible.
Finally, in line with its communications concerning the introduction of open methods of coordination both for immigration and asylum, the Commission will shortly propose the implementation of a European system of information exchange on migration, asylum and countries of origin, as called for by the European Council.
The new action plan on statistics requested by the Council in May of last year, the development of the activities of a virtual European Observatory on migration and the take-over of the Council committee on exchange of information activities by the Commission will all be developed.
With regard to the extremely important question of the integration of migrants, the Commission wants to complement the instruments which have been developed in the fight against discrimination and racism with some new specific initiatives in this field.
I say, as a fellow Commissioner, that all of us in the Commission are very well aware of the enormous importance of this subject politically, and I am certainly aware of its enormous importance in the discharge of my principal responsibilities in the area of external relations.
It is also an essential instrument in combating poverty and the social imbalances in the world and, furthermore - and this must be stated clearly - it is necessary to the maintenance of growth and prosperity in our countries.
However, it is the case that migratory flows towards the European Union have increased dramatically in recent times and our capacity for reception is not unlimited.
We must therefore prioritise the fight against the illegal trafficking in human beings, that is, against organised crime and mafias, in close cooperation with the third countries of origin and transit, and we must demand greater commitments from some of them.
I would ask the Commission to produce and present a report to this House on this issue, because the desire to reach readmission agreements is essential in this field.
Both the Spanish Presidency and the Commission are promoting greater cooperation in police and diplomatic areas, including, of course, the visa policy, which I believe - and Commissioner Patten will surely agree with me - can perfectly well fall within the framework of the work to create a common European diplomatic corps.
We must also consider economic aid for specific cases such as the Canary Islands, for example, where there is a shortage of reception centres to deal properly with the flood of refugees and immigrants who find themselves in an illegal situation.
I am delighted to see that this is not the case, that you have settled for an explanation of the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, the main approach of the European Council's proposals over recent months.
I am delighted about this and I am therefore only going to speak about this field.
I believe that we also have differing points of view on this, Minister.
We are perplexed because you tell us that you are going to look at what Parliament's proposals are.
The fight against illegal immigration is a part of this immigration policy which is yet to become a common European policy, but I believe that it would be much more effective if it were part of a genuine common structure of immigration policies.
I am in favour of it, but I am also in favour of an immigration policy which is better suited to the needs of the labour market, because otherwise, Minister, this lack of suitability will lead to irregular contracts, or rather a lack of contracts, and I believe that this is the worst of the 'lamada' effects.
Mr President, the timeliness of this debate is beyond dispute.
The question therefore is: what policy should we adopt to make immigration politically acceptable?
A policy of managed legal immigration, co-ordinated among Member States, does not mean a free-for-all.
Incentives to immigrants to settle more evenly across their host countries would help.
A policy which balances rights and duties, so that those newly arriving understand that they can work in their host country and enjoy free movement in the Union and other benefits of EU citizenship, would be helpful too.
We also need to invest more in our justice systems and the enforcement of legal judgments - we can only expect immigrants to respect core values if we too ensure that these values are respected fully by existing society.
A policy of managed immigration requires tough action to control the Union's external borders and I therefore congratulate the Commission for its initiative on a common border guard corps.
As far as asylum policy is concerned, here again the Liberal Democrat Group is broadly supportive of the Commission's proposals and often sceptical of actions proposed in Council.
In conclusion, we believe that there is both a moral and an economic case for managed immigration and a humanitarian approach to asylum.
We in the ELDR Group will support the Commission in its efforts to move the Union towards the common policies foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty.
For too long, we have seen these issues purely as a question of law and order, rather than international and economic relations.
For some, it is a freely made choice - that is as it should be, and part of what it is we are trying to create with the idea of free movement within the European Union.
It is a good time to examine this in the run-up to the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development.
Before we began the debate in this House, I had just visited the UNHCR's web site to see what the situation was, and, unfortunately, it had not of course changed for the better.
I should like to thank the Spanish Presidency for its report, because things are of course happening along the way.
When, however, we ourselves are involved in criminalising anyone who helps refugees and when we also criminalise those acting from good, heartfelt Christian or other religious motives or for humanitarian reasons, then we are directly implicated in supporting the Mafia in this project of theirs.
When our response to the 21 million refugees is higher walls around ourselves, then we are stuffing poor people's money into the pockets of those who should have enough money as it is.
Moreover, we must address the situation resolutely and take political action against those countries which are guilty of allowing immigration to continue as well as those countries in which there is a type of political system which places the lives and physical health of their citizens in danger.
The European Union must review its trade agreements with countries which fail to respect human dignity.
We must all take up arms daily in a relentless political battle against international criminal groups - which raise funds by trafficking human beings. (Applause from the public galleries) I would remind our visitors in the public gallery that it is not the custom in the House to respond in that manner to speeches.
Ironically, all these measures are described as progress.
Madam President, today we are reiterating that illegal immigration must become a fundamental factor in the European Union's external relations, and we have heard many speeches in this Chamber vehemently condemning the danger represented by this phenomenon.
We can therefore say that Pim Fortuyn's sacrifice may not have been in vain.
With regard to the proposals put forward, well then, the Spanish Presidency is talking about the creation of a European corps of border police, which no one could oppose, but it must be a corps equipped with adequate resources, the necessary rules and instruments to make its action effective.
Implementing the Tampere conclusions, the Commission has indicated through a legislative programme the need to develop a proactive policy which recognises that the pressure from migration is going to continue and that ordered migration can bring benefits for Europe, for the migrants themselves and for their countries of origin.
The approach proposed by the Commission involves a comprehensive policy which addresses all the issues - economic, social, political and humanitarian - and provides for close cooperation between government actions and initiatives of the social partners, the associations and local and regional authorities.
As we know and as you, President-in-Office, have pointed out, all this means working on five policies simultaneously: defining legal immigration channels, combating illegal immigration, equal treatment in line with the principles of non-discrimination against non-Community citizens and with integration policies, partnership with the countries of origin, and the establishment of a European asylum system.
Despite this positive line taken by the Commission and the incorporation of Parliament's contributions, our progress is neither positive nor encouraging.
The Council and many governments are overlooking the fact that one of the causes of immigration is precisely our own labour shortage.
We focus purely on security issues which, although important, need to be addressed in a balanced way with a policy based on respect for the law and the rights of individuals.
As regards security and immigration, however, some of the governments in Europe, such as the Italian Government, tend to practise a combination of alarmism and utopianism.
The other pillar is an effective fight against illegal immigration.
Madam President, initially, immigration in our countries was mainly labour immigration.
Finally, in the past few years, it has really become human trafficking: clandestine workers, prostitutes and slaves, as we see in their hundreds in the streets of all our capital cities.
Madam President, I would like to end this round of speeches by making two brief comments.
The first is that it is perplexing that at its recent meeting in Seville the European Socialist Group should have accused the Spanish Presidency and the People's Party of having a frivolous attitude to immigration.
The incoherences of the Socialist Group and its complete lack of ideas and sensible proposals is therefore alarming.
Secondly, the association agreements with third countries are there for a reason, but some of these countries only see them as a source of funding and do not apply those parts which relate to cooperation and dialogue in such important areas as their taking responsibility for regulating migratory flows from their territories.
Although I should not make comments of a personal nature, the first comment I am going to make is personal, but I am making it because I believe that most of my colleagues in the Council agree with it.
It is a phenomenon which will cause much greater changes than the very creation of the EU and the progress we have seen during its construction.
It is therefore an issue on which we must work with the necessary skill, sufficient balance and wisdom in terms of what is said and - and this is much more important - what is done.
I believe that we must work to bring the positions of all the Member States closer together in this field, since, amongst other things, we are now, at the very least, an area of free movement of persons, goods etc.
The ideas I believe we have been working on in recent times are the following: firstly, Europe can be - in fact it is, has been and can continue to be in the future - a reception country, because people can without doubt earn a good living here and because furthermore - let us not deceive ourselves - there is a great amount of activity by many people which contributes to the economic growth of our countries.
In this respect, we must make an effort to act as responsibly as possible.
That integration effort must be made by the public administrations of the countries of the Union and also their societies, but we must also demand that all those people who come from outside accept the basic rules of co-existence which we have in the countries of the European Union, which are our Constitutions, our principles and our values, because this affects all of us.
There is no doubt that immigrants have rights, but they also have obligations, just as the nationals of the countries of the European Union have.
Thirdly, I would like to make a comment with regard to some speakers' insistence that we have put the emphasis on the fight against illegal immigration and not on other issues.
We have talked about the general approach in the Council with regard to the proposed directive on the reception of asylum seekers.
The action plan for combating illegal immigration contains very important preventive measures.
We have made progress with directives relating to illegal immigration which contain integration measures and we have made progress with the Union's own action plans; I do not therefore think that statements of this type are justified.
With regard to certain concrete issues raised - and this will form the fourth section of my speech - I would say the following: in relation to the directive on conditions for asylum seekers, it is true that a general approach was achieved in the Council on the same day that Parliament issued its opinion, but we are now going to work as Fifteen and we are going to take account of the suggestions made by this Parliament, as we always have.
With regard to the European police - another of the issues raised - we will present a viability study on the 30 May in Rome.
This study is headed by the Italian Government with the cooperation of three or four other EU countries, including Spain.
Finally, with regard to certain comments that have been made on racism and xenophobia, I would like to say that at the last meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in April, following a communication from various countries of the European Union and of the current Presidency, we have approved a declaration against racism and xenophobia.
The truth is that declarations against racism and xenophobia can be adopted - and they must be adopted because luckily we live in one of the most civilised regions, which are most respectful of the rights and freedoms of all the people of the world - but that that approval is perfectly compatible with compliance with the law and the fight against illegal actions which, in the field of immigration, are taking place every day.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, aware of the role played by Russia on the international stage, the European Union has attached particular importance to that country within the framework of its external relations.
In June 1999, the European Union adopted a common strategy with regard to Russia, the ultimate aim of which is to strengthen the strategic association between Russia and the European Union.
The 9th EU/Russia Summit will take place in Moscow on 29 May; during that summit we will assess the progress in our relations in various areas, on the basis of the results achieved since the last summit, which took place in Brussels last October.
We will take note of the progress made since then and establish new objectives for our relations.
There have been numerous meetings between the European Union and Russia since the last summit in Brussels.
The cooperation agreement, which is the contractual basis of our relations, has proved to be an enormously effective instrument in terms of a fluid dialogue in all its various aspects.
Furthermore, the orientations established by the Laeken European Council, have set concrete guidelines for the Union's policy on Russia.
An important contribution to the preparation of the summit, the agenda for which is being finalised at the moment, has been made by the 5th EU/Russia Cooperation Council, held in Luxemburg on 16 April.
The formal preparation of the summit has begun with various working meetings held in Brussels by the Presidency, the Commission and the Secretary-General of the Council with the Russians on 29 April and 13 May.
On that same day there will be a conference in Moscow on the integration of the European Union and Russia in the twenty-first century with the participation of various representatives of the Russian Government, the Commission and myself representing the Presidency.
It is important to point out that the Russia/EU Summit will take place soon after the Russia/US Summit, when President Bush will be in Moscow.
This meeting between Russia and the United States will take place between 24 and 26 June.
And just a day after the NATO/Russia Summit, our summit with Russia will take place, on 29 May.
There is therefore a sequence of events which will consist of Russia holding a summit with the United States on 24 to 26 May, then, on 28 May, the agreement with NATO will be signed in Rome, and this will be followed by the Russia/EU Summit in Moscow.
With regard to the contents of the summit, the European Union and Russia have so far agreed a draft agenda covering the following points: recent events in the Russian Federation and in the European Union, security issues and the fight against terrorism, Russia/EU relations and international issues relating to the different regions of the world.
I am going to expand on some of these points.
Firstly, with regard to recent events in the Russian Federation, the summit will deal fully with the reform process under way.
Secondly, in relation to the development of recent events in the European Union, the Community will report on the state of the enlargement negotiations, the development of the discussions within the framework of the European Convention and the development of the security and defence policy.
The situation in terms of cooperation in the fight against terrorism will also be examined.
You will understand perfectly that this issue is a priority for both the Union and for the Russian Federation.
A joint declaration to be issued at the end of the summit will include the conclusions by the two parties on the numerous points in the chapter on relations between Russia and the European Union.
I will comment briefly on all of these issues.
With regard to international issues of mutual interest, both parties have named the Middle East, Afghanistan and the Balkans as priority issues, for which the exchange of information is particularly useful, since both the European Union and the Russian Federation share concerns and responsibilities in these areas.
Furthermore, the European Union has particular interest in cooperating with the Russian Federation on the prevention of conflicts in areas of common interest, such as Moldavia, especially in relation to the Trans-Dniéster conflict.
The declaration must reflect the progress observed in the implementation of the new cooperation mechanisms agreed at the Brussels Summit.
Furthermore, the declaration must refer to the document which we hope will be adopted at the European Council in Seville on means of cooperation and consultation between the European Union and Russia in terms of crisis management.
This important document will involve the development and establishment of the general principles for cooperation between the European Union and Russia in this field, which were adopted at the previous Paris, Moscow and Brussels Summits, and at the European Council in Nice.
With regard to cooperation on justice and home affairs, there has already been one result which the summit will acknowledge, which was the meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers of the Russian Federation and the European Union, which took place on 25 April on the initiative of the Presidency of the Union.
This has been the first time that Ministers from the Union and the Russian Federation have met to discuss common issues which fundamentally involve the whole issue of organised crime, immigration problems and the fight against terrorism.
One of the significant results of this ministerial meeting is the approval of a joint resolution on the designation of central points of contact for the exchange of information on organised crime within the framework of the Action Plan to combat organised crime in Russia.
The ministers also dealt with the situation of Kaliningrad, which is of particular interest to Russia.
I would like to refer to this next, because the situation of the Kaliningrad enclave is an issue of particular importance in terms of relations between Russia and the European Union.
In the very near future this Russian enclave, which is currently surrounded by Lithuania and Poland, will become an enclave within Community territory, when these two countries join the Union.
This common line has been confirmed by COREPER and has been communicated to the Russians.
The European Union is naturally prepared to study other formulae along with the Russians for funding which bring the standard of living of the inhabitants of Kaliningrad into line with the general economic context of the area surrounding it, essentially the two Member States, Poland and Lithuania, which we hope will very soon be members of our Union.
In December 2001 the first informal meeting took place.
The summit will receive a provisional report on this issue, which will form the basis of the ad hoc declaration suggested by Russia.
The Union would like to achieve a declaration by Russia of their intention to adopt European levels, bringing their legislation closer to the Community acquis.
Although I should point out that the Presidency has detected, in its exchanges with the Member countries, that there are still some difficulties in terms of the internal sensitivities within the Union's industrial sectors and in terms of the negotiations with the Russians, which, as I have said, are continuing.
The Presidency at least hopes to achieve a solution in principle which is acceptable to both parties before the summit.
With regard to these two issues: the WTO and Russia's status as a market economy, one of the most important points in the relationship between the European Union and Russia is the energy dialogue.
Amongst the main Russian concerns in this field are the possible negative consequences of enlargement for its energy exports to the new Member States, as well as the attention to capital originating from the European Union necessary for the modernisation of its infrastructures.
Something else the Community has constantly demanded is the ratification by Russia of the Treaty we negotiated many years ago, the so-called energy charter and the transit protocol.
With regard to nuclear security, our interest focuses on the signing by Russia of the agreement known as the Multilateral Nuclear and Environment Program in the Russian Federation.
Furthermore, I would like to stress the importance of environmental aspects in the implementation of the northern dimension action plan.
Since the entry into force of the cooperation agreement with Russia relating to science and technology last May, cooperative relations in this field have made progress.
This instrument, together with the international ITER agreement, forms the current basis of our joint work.
It is possible that Russia will present its idea of establishing a joint research and technology centre in the Arctic.
In conclusion, the 9th Summit will be an opportunity to assess the various aspects of our relations with Russia and to establish new cooperation objectives for the future.
As the presidency has said, this Summit will mark the culmination of an intense schedule of high-level meetings between the European Union and the Russian Federation and it comes at a historic moment in relations between Russia and the West, with the Russia-Nato Summit in Rome at the end of the month.
I will not repeat all the important meetings which the presidency has referred to, but we welcomed in particular Prime Minister Kasyanov's visit to the Commission on 24 April, and the meeting of European Union Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs with their Russian counterparts was exceptionally important.
From our perspective, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is the point of departure, and Russia must, at least, go beyond the concessions already made in it.
Turning to the related issue of Russia's demand to be treated as a market economy in anti-dumping procedures, the Commission has already submitted a proposal to the Council that will improve the position of Russian companies, and we are looking at whether there is more we can do to meet their concerns.
The Summit will also examine a progress report from the High Level Group on a common European economic space.
The Summit will also look at a progress report on the energy dialogue, which moved into a more concrete phase at the Brussels Summit last October.
The presidency referred to the importance of the environment in our dialogue.
The Commission has made huge efforts to work with Russia on Kaliningrad, addressing both the impact of enlargement and future development policy as part of a comprehensive approach.
We have made clear our willingness to increase financial and technical help to deal with the challenges faced by Kaliningrad, to facilitate cooperation between customs and immigration authorities in Russia, Lithuania and Poland, and to address the movement of persons and transit issues by exploring the flexibility permitted by the Schengen acquis.
Under excellent leadership from the Spanish presidency, Member States have recently confirmed that we cannot derogate from the Schengen acquis, nor undermine the enlargement negotiations themselves.
In this context, we shall be looking for progress on a readmission agreement and improved cooperation on border management.
We also hope that Russia will make easier the establishment of consulates in Kaliningrad and in mainland Russia, and ensure that those who live in Kaliningrad are issued with passports that conform with international standards.
The Summit will provide a further opportunity to underline the benefits for Russia of improving her image in these areas and our willingness to support the development of democratic institutions through Tacis.
The situation in Chechnya remains hugely worrying and reports of human rights violations during so-called "mopping up" operations have not, unfortunately, stopped.
Our calls for a political solution which, without prejudice to the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation, satisfies the majority of the Chechen people, does not undermine our support for the fight against terrorism everywhere.
Finally, we also intend to make progress in the field of crisis management and conflict prevention.
Against the background of our efforts to establish closer political and economic relations, the European Union has made clear to Russia that it expects her to act in full accordance with the values she committed herself to respect when entering the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
Against the backdrop of Russia's accession to the World Trade Organisation and the agreement on a new format for cooperation between Russia and NATO, we are confident that the EU-Russia Summit in Moscow will bring our bilateral partnership one step forward, rendering our cooperation more concrete and effective.
This is a really significant strategic partnership - a partnership enhanced by enlargement.
This problematic, unique and positively paradoxical situation results from the fact that Kaliningrad, being Russian territory, falls within the scope of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Moscow, but is in fact rather more affected by European Union enlargement.
At the same time, I would like to echo what was said as long ago as 1994 by emphasising that any consideration of Kaliningrad's future development must start from the premise that the area will continue to belong to Russia under international law and that its legal status will be determined solely by those competent to do so in Moscow and in Kaliningrad itself.
There are two possible scenarios, one negative and the other positive.
An amicable settlement on Kaliningrad could, in short, be a model for how the partnership between the EU and Russia might become practical rather than existing in name only.
I would particularly like to thank Erika Mann, who, when I asked her if she would present my contribution here agreed to do so without hesitation.
Thank you very much, Erika! (Applause) Thank you, Mrs Hoff.
We are all aware of your tremendous commitment with regard to all the Central and Eastern European countries, particularly Kaliningrad.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, both on behalf of my group and also on a very personal note I would like to pay homage to Magdalene Hoff for her excellent work in general and for her outstanding work on Kaliningrad.
Because of the importance of this occasion, I would also like to thank you, my dear Magdalene - I have never before addressed anyone by their first name in an official speech, this is the first time - for our many years of excellent cooperation both here in this House of course, but also elsewhere, by which I mean Germany's European movement, the Europaunion.
I would like to express my sympathy for the victims of the attack in Kaspiisk in Dagestan, who were murdered on 9 May.
Our relations need to be founded on democratic principles, on the rule of law, on social and market-economy principles and above all on human rights and human dignity.
Ladies and gentlemen, Kaliningrad will prove to be either a positive or negative example of relations between the EU and Russia, one that will either take the form of cooperation or mean problems.
In any case Kaliningrad will become a barometer of our relations.
I myself am aware of quite a few children, for example Maria Sobeva and Tommi Ylönen, who have been kidnapped and taken to Russia.
Mr President, Elisabeth Schroedter, our colleague from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will be talking about Kaliningrad in a moment.
I even heard my own Prime Minister mention this when he met Mr Kasyanov.
General Lebed died in an accident, probably an assassination; officially, it was one of those mysterious helicopter crashes we have so often seen in that part of the world.
That is why we need new approaches to the instruments available, new approaches to minor border traffic, new approaches to economic cooperation, new approaches to transnational cooperation and above all - and, Commissioner, I would like to appeal you once more about this - new approaches to the use of financial instruments.
Commissioner Patten rightly stated that the substance of this report will guide and inspire us in our relations with Russia.
I wish to say that I agree with practically all the opinions that have been expressed here on all the aspects, both positive and negative, of our relationship with Russia.
Russia, with all its advantages and with all its disadvantages, is a great country, with which we share a common area: the great European plain.
Creating an area of prosperity and leaving, for example, a pocket of poverty in Kaliningrad has no place in the European Union's scale of values.
Similarly, we want to see Russia make progress in all areas, at both the economic and commercial level and at the legal and institutional level and also in relation to respect for the great humanist principles, for human rights and for the Rule of Law, that are our badge of identity.
Also, as we have already stated, within the third pillar, we have already made significant progress, by holding meetings between Russian and EU Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs and on the issue of respect for human rights.
I should like to remind her that her country of origin, Finland, held the Presidency of the Union a short while ago and I should also like to remind her that Spain was actually the first country, at Presidency level, to visit Kaliningrad.
It is true that a debate on Chechnya took place on 10 April.
Since 10 April, however, various meetings have taken place at ministerial level.
If I have my facts right, a Cooperation Council took place in Luxembourg on 16 April.
We have always stated our opinion, in all meetings, at all levels - including the political level - and we have never allowed the issue of Chechnya to be excluded from our bilateral talks but we have always discussed the matter with the respect that is due to a sovereign country.
Sometimes, it seems as if our relationship with Russia is merely a 'give' relationship on our part and a 'take' relationship on theirs.
One is the northern dimension in which, as the Commissioner also pointed out in another context, we only have a plan of action, but no action plan.
Mr President, thank you for giving me an opportunity to depart from the agenda and to address a comment to my colleague Magdalene Hoff.
We as the Group of the Party of European Socialists and as German Social Democrats in particular wish to thank Mrs Hoff for coming here today.
Thank you very much, Mr Schulz.
The next item is the Commission communication on public finances in the Economic and Monetary Union.
One aim of the report on Public finance in EMU is to help ensure that the Commission continues to play a leading role in the evolving debate on budgetary policy in the Union.
Finally, it takes a forward looking approach by presenting an analysis of some key budgetary challenges which must be tackled at EU level in coming years.
Let me turn to the main conclusions of the report and start by making some comments on recent budgetary developments and prospects. 2001 proved to be the most challenging period for fiscal policy in the three-year history of EMU.
In brief, fiscal policies have remained broadly neutral providing a balanced policy mix which was supportive to growth while guaranteeing price stability.
In particular, deficits in Portugal and Germany have risen to levels approaching the 3% of GDP reference value which prompted the Commission to activate the early-warning mechanism.
The recent economic downturn and the experience with the early-warning mechanism have underlined the importance of looking at underlying budgetary positions when assessing the budgetary positions of the Member States.
As you know, the Council decided to close the early-warning procedure as both countries reiterated their willingness to implement their stability programmes in full so as to avoid a breach of the 3% of GDP reference value and to resume the process of budgetary consolidation in order to reach their medium-term targets by 2004.
Secondly, we should recognise that the budgetary constraint affecting mainly the large euro area countries in 2001 and 2002 has its roots in the missed opportunities of the high-growth period 1998-2000.
Finally, Member States need to improve the compatibility between their national fiscal arrangements and EU budgetary commitments.
I would now like to say a few words about the quality and sustainability of public finances and how we are responding to the Lisbon strategy.
The Commission and the Council have assessed the sustainability of public finances based on the medium-term budgetary targets set down in stability and convergence programmes.
The analysis clearly shows that on the basis of current policies, there is a risk of budgetary imbalances emerging in many Member States, and these risks multiply if countries fail to reach the medium-term targets set down in their stability and convergence programmes.
This analysis suggests that most countries have been able to improve the composition of public expenditure while at the same time containing the size of the public sector during the 1990s.
It is essential when interpreting the budgetary positions of the candidate countries that adequate account is taken of their specific needs and circumstances.
Budgetary surveillance will also need to take into account that the candidate countries are undergoing tremendous structural and institutional changes.
In the run up to accession, candidate countries are not required to fulfil the Maastricht nominal convergence criteria, but rather to comply with the Copenhagen criteria.
Medium-term budgetary policy should also pursue a structure of expenditure and revenues that effectively supports economic growth.
Finally, the emphasis on structural and institutional reform should not hide the importance of sound fiscal policies.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
The question you are asking me is rather off the track of today's debate, which is of a much more general nature, but it is certainly true that debt - both private and public - is a problem that must be resolved.
We are aware of the fact that private debt is posing specific problems in some countries of the Union.
Of course, investment helps growth and, for this reason, we have always considered investment expenditure to be more useful than some types of current expenditure.
Therefore, I say yes to investment, but within the confines of the Stability Pact.
Commissioner, you mentioned the issue of population ageing and the related question of pensions.
The calls for pension reform are repeated year after year, month after month, but no action is taken in the Member States: do you not think that it is necessary for the Commission to make more specific statements, giving more specific figures and requiring more specific undertakings, not least in order to inform the public of what is happening, of the risks we are running in the area of pensions and the risks we are continuing to hand on to the new generations?
Otherwise, we will still be here in a year, two years, five years' time, saying the same things without anything having changed.
Precisely on this issue, and taking account of these factors, within our obligations under the Stability Pact for long-term sustainability in public finances, Ecofin and the European Council agreed that revisions of the stability programmes should contain specific references to future obligations with regard to the problems of the ageing of the population in our countries.
Commissioner, in your report today you referred to the difficult revenue situation in the Member States, which is partly due to the structural reforms proposed by the Commission.
If I have properly understood, your question refers to the importance we attach to the issue of structural deficits and to better control of public spending.
With regard to the structural deficit, it is true that the Stability Pact lays down nominal objectives.
We have introduced the concept of structural deficit in order to undertake this assessment and to discover the extent to which deviations are the consequence of developments in the economic cycle.
The basic difficulty consisted of finding a system that was acceptable to everyone with regard to developing this concept of structural deficit, which we are currently achieving in cooperation with the Council.
Changes in income and expenditure are entirely a national decision on which every Member State must decide for itself.
In the last part of your speech, when you were speaking about critical developments in budgetary matters that have taken place in some Member States, and about whether or not these might be subject to an early warning, you mentioned the situation of Germany in some detail and stated that some positive signs of progress have been seen since the debate on the matter was held.
Our concern at the moment - and I have already stated this publicly - is based on the fact that, apparently, the figure reached for 2002 would still leave us with a deficit of 2.8%, which is too close to 3%, with the risks inherent in this type of situation, especially since we know that the Portuguese Government has appointed a committee to carry out a study of the true state of public finances, the results of which we have not yet seen.
Mr President, Commissioner, at the recent Barcelona Summit, the Heads of State and Government undertook to fight against public debt and for improvements in the quality of public finance, in accordance with the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Commission is not in favour of changing this date because, although the stability programme stipulates that a situation of balance must be achieved in the medium term, this medium term was initially set for 2002 and has now been extended to 2004.
The second important feature of our study is that all Member States must be treated in the same way.
The debate is closed.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0017/2002).
I intended, and indeed still intend, to present the draft to the Commission without any substantive changes in the proposals.
Preparations for a broadly based rotation have already been in hand for some time, and the fact that the rotation issue and the reform package have come at the same time is pure coincidence.
I wish to inform you that various Members have asked to table supplementary questions and, of course, we shall give the floor, in addition to the Member who made the request, to the first two Members whose names appear on the list given to me by Parliament's staff.
Can we have a guarantee - and I am sure the Commission can give us this - that it retains its absolute independence in this matter and will not be subject to bullying from any individual Member State or any other source?
Perhaps the President of the Commission might be asked to make a statement on this matter.
Mr President, the issue of fisheries reform needs to be kept quite separate from the application of the rotation principle in the Commission.
This is Question Time and, in accordance with the recommendations that we ourselves approved in Parliament, there can be a maximum of two supplementary questions by two Members, preferably from different political groups and from different Member States.
I am not happy about this situation, but that is how it is.
The more points of order we raise, the more we are preventing other Members from asking their questions.
Mr President, I would just like to contribute a few words to this discussion, which might help make the peace here.
The Committee on Fisheries will be dealing with this topic in detail next week, and I have undertaken to attend.
I will then be willing to answer any questions that arise in committee.
Question No 28 by Myrsini Zorba (H-0342/02): Subject: Child athletes In recent years, ever younger athletes have been taking part in major sporting events.
In particular, she has referred to the risks involved in taking part in major sporting events for minors, who are often professionals or semi-professionals.
The subject of protection for young athletes was first approached in the declaration adopted by the European Council in Nice, which referred to the special nature of sport and its social function in Europe, and how these should be taken into account in common policies.
In addition, whilst taking account of the principle of subsidiarity, measures have also been taken at Community level.
For example, on 22 June 1994 the Council adopted Directive 94/33 on youth employment protection.
This directive prohibits child labour, regulates work by minors and generally provides for all employees to guarantee that young people have working conditions appropriate to their age.
In 1999, a report was adopted on a plan for the Community's role in combating doping.
Furthermore, in the previous year various studies were financed, including a study on the protection of young athletes.
As they deal with the same subject, the following Questions Nos 29 and 85 will be taken together.
The Commission considers such lists to be outside the public domain.
But since 16 April, provisional lists for 29 countries have been publicly accessible via an NGO website.
Question No 85 by Anne E.M.
Van Lancker (H-0350/02): Subject: Preparations for the GATS negotiations In cooperation with Committee 133, the Commission is currently preparing its mandate for the GATS negotiations.
These leaks, because that is what they are, are regrettable, as they are disrupting our own internal preparation for the negotiations; the consultation process within the Community is not yet complete; we are merely at the initial discussion stage and we have by no means reached a final position at European Union level with regard to the drafts.
The leaks are also regrettable in that they are damaging to our own negotiating position.
Lastly, they are regrettable because, for once, the European Parliament has not been informed before the other institutions, and has been informed just after the Council, in any event, which is counter to the rules we established together.
This, however, is not the case, as the broad lines of these proposals are public, having been posted on our web site at the end of the year 2000, and there have been no changes to the political principles since then.
I can assure you that, with regard to Parliament's positions on the services negotiations, in which it has repeatedly emphasised the need to ensure that public services are respected, a concern, what is more, which is also shared by the Commission and which we have incorporated into our proposals, these positions are exactly the same as those initially indicated.
Naturally, I refute any statements of this nature.
To get to the bottom of this, let us recall briefly that the WTO services agreement is the most flexible agreement imaginable, that it allows each country to draw up a list of activities for which it is willing to offer access to its market and treat foreign providers as nationals, that any country may exclude activities it considers to be politically sensitive from its commitments and that, as a result, the problems of differing economic and social situations in the participating countries are taken into consideration.
On the draft wish lists in question, in line with both the negotiation proposals we previously submitted and the objectives we have already stated, our requests concern a number of sectors, which I shall list briefly: the professions, business services, shipping, postal services, telecommunications, construction and engineering, distribution, environmental services, financial services, tourism, travel, transport and energy.
One question remains, to which Mr van den Berg has drawn our attention: the issue of water in developing countries.
We consider, following a number of international works, that, if the billion or billion and a half people on Earth who have no access to water are to have access to it in the next ten years, we will need private funding.
The volume of capital which needs to be invested in this type of infrastructure currently stands at around USD 200 billion.
On this point, the response is as follows: the services negotiations and the IMF structural adjustment programmes are not related.
This being so, the developing countries that have or are said to have made commitments under the structural adjustment programmes should, if I may say so, use this to their advantage in the international negotiations.
Until these conditions are consolidated by the WTO, they are not considered obligatory from the point of view of the WTO and, consequently, countries which, for one reason or another, have been obliged to accept or have accepted conditions of this type from the IMF may use this advantage in the WTO negotiations.
Although we think very highly of the Commissioner, it is true that we did not imagine he had developed a secret strategy of such a kind that the hidden list was of his own making.
My mandate as Commissioner is the same as that adopted by the Council, and also by Parliament, moreover, in 1999 for Seattle.
The extension of this mandate and the reservations I have therefore appear in this document, which is a public document.
With regard to services, I would remind you that the GATS negotiations take place in stages: first, requests, when everyone makes requests of everyone else, then offers, when everyone makes offers to everyone else.
It is then, probably towards the end or the middle of 2004, that we shall know exactly what we are prepared to offer and I shall make these offers, as I have done so far, in cooperation with the Council, with Parliament and with a number of other professional and other sectors of civil society that are concerned by these matters.
Mr Rübig, I have indicated which sectors take priority.
All in all, these are the sectors in which the European Union has a clear relative advantage.
Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Lamy.
Question No 31 by Göran Färm (H-0343/02): Subject: Implementation of the budget For a number of years now, the EU's budget out-turn has been a large surplus.
The surpluses in budget year 2001 were chiefly due to inadequate utilisation of Structural Fund appropriations of EUR 9.4 billion, cohesion fund monies and funds under the pre-accession instruments - ISPA, Sapard and Phare.
However, another not insignificant contribution to the 2001 budget surplus came from savings in the agricultural sector totalling some EUR 1.9 billion.
The Commission is very concerned about this trend and has already taken a variety of preventive measures to strengthen the measures adopted in 2001.
These include calling on the Member States, who are responsible for implementing the programmes, to strictly observe the implementation plan for the period 2000 to 2006, including the n+2 rule under Article 31 of Regulation 1260/1999.
This rule applies to individual programmes with effect from 31 December 2002, otherwise with effect from 31 December 2003.
Commissioner Barnier specifically drew the Member States' attention to this rule in his letter of 21 November 2001.
The Member States were given a deadline of 31 March 2003 to submit their applications for final payments for programmes in the last planning period, that is the 1994-1999 programme planning period.
This plan should enable budget implementation to be monitored over the course of the entire year, and a report will then be made to the budgetary authority in September and November 2002, as we have already promised you.
I should like to thank Commissioner Schreyer for her constructive answer to my question.
The budgetary authority makes decisions about regional and aid policy because we want to achieve something in terms of employment in poor regions and in terms of aid to the world's poor countries.
Mr Färm, I would first like to point out that implementation in the area you have mentioned, external aid, has significantly improved over the last two years.
Last year, in 2001, nearly all available payment appropriations were implemented.
This is an area where reforms and above all the measures taken by my colleagues Chris Patten and Poul Nielson are really having a positive effect.
In response to the second part of your question, the Member States are certainly interested in seeing Structural Fund monies spent as well now.
So you are quite right, on the one hand the Finance Ministers are of course pleased if money flows back into their coffers in any given budget year, but on the other hand it is those very same Finance Ministers who prepare forecasts about how much is drawn down from the structural funds in any year.
The LIFE programme, which was allocated around EUR 100 million last year, committed EUR 20 million of its funds, despite having more than enough projects, which had been carefully evaluated and classified, for the programme to have been able to commit all EUR 100 million.
Thank you very much, Mrs Schreyer.
In the case of the Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, the Commission points out that the text of the decision on the Fifth Framework Programme, which is currently underway, having been adopted by joint decision of Parliament and of the Council, stipulates that funding under this programme must be granted to projects with civil objectives.
In practical terms, this means that specific support for the arms industry is not possible through the research framework programme.
The multiannual Konver programme, which ran from 1994 to 1999, financed measures such as the acquisition of new civil qualifications by staff, the diversification of the economic structure of companies, aid for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the reallocation of military sites to new civil sectors and the rehabilitation of the environment.
With regard to the budget, the funding allocated to these Structural Funds is EUR 739 million at 1996 prices, which is an average of EUR 125 million per year.
During the 2000-2006 programme period, Konver was abolished as a separate initiative, but actions financed by Konver are still possible within the context of programmes relating to objectives 1 and 2.
First of all, with regard to the research programme, the Treaty and the texts relating to the Fifth Framework Programme are clear: the Commission has no legal competence in the field of specific military research as this field falls within the scope of intergovernmental cooperation and of the WEU.
I am talking about Article 17 of the Treaty.
The decision on the Fifth Framework Programme stipulates that the financial aid granted by the Community to research projects within the context of the Framework Programme will be used exclusively for civil purposes.
It does not, therefore, authorise specific aid for research that is both military and civil in nature.
The same is true of the proposal concerning the Sixth Framework Programme.
With regard to Konver, I have said that the actions financed by Konver are still possible within the context of programmes relating to Objectives 1 and 2, which are the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Barnier.
I have no other information so I cannot tell you the proportion of actions currently financed by Konver under Objectives 1 and 2.
Question No 33 by Bernd Posselt (H-0326/02): Subject: Member State constitutions and the Sixth Framework Programme In view of the Commission's unsatisfactory answer to my question H-0167/02 The Commission is aware that human embryo research is subject to the ethical choices and the regulations which differ from one country to another.
As far as the ethical framework of the Sixth Framework Programme is concerned, the rules proposed by the Commission are in line with Parliament's amendment made at first reading on the Sixth Framework Programme as well as with the opinion of the European Group on Ethics.
The Commission's position was reiterated in a statement made when the Council approved the common position on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research.
The local ethics committees or the appropriate national authorities must be consulted and give a favourable opinion or their agreement before research is undertaken.
As we have already stated in our previous answer, in areas in which the Community has formal competence, which is the case in the area of research, national legislation should not prevent a specific Community-level action, which would have been adopted under the co-decision procedure involving the Council and Parliament.
The Commission is also well aware that the respect of the various cultures and ethical approaches in Europe does not justify a laissez-faire attitude.
That is why I would like to put a very precise question to the Commissioner: can you guarantee that no European taxpayers could find themselves paying, through their taxes, for research that would be subject to legal penalties if it were being carried out in their own Member State?
It is obvious that, in each Member State, the legislation of that Member State must of course be respected.
This is absolutely essential.
We said that a research programme is a Community proposal which was adopted under co-decision between the Council and Parliament.
We will obviously ensure, therefore, that the ethics committees which study each proposal take into account all the specific characteristics of both the scientific community and the local legislation.
So perhaps the Commissioner could clarify, for example: if an application for embryonic stem cell research came from the UK, or from Italy, or from Germany, would there be EU funding in each of those cases?
As I said, however, each programme, each project in these areas can - and, in fact, must - be examined by an ad hoc ethics committee.
But at European level, this is the approach which seems to be most acceptable to everyone, or at least by a majority of MEPs and certainly by a majority of Council members.
What we want to do, therefore, is, of course, to respect the role of each national parliament, of each Member State, but we cannot impose a national position on the whole of Europe either, because positions throughout Europe vary considerably.
Question No 34 by Phillip Whitehead (H-0330/02): Subject: Work of the European Group on Ethics Will the Commission guarantee that in the new Action Plan on life sciences, the ethical implications of biotechnology and genetic research will remain under consideration without delaying potentially beneficial technologies such as genetic testing and pharmacogenomics and if so, how?
Mr President, Mr Whitehead, the Commission has indeed acknowledged, in the action plan on life sciences and biotechnology published on 23 January 2002, that this area requires us to take into account both ethical and economic, even industrial considerations.
The Commission is convinced that we can and must reconcile these two dimensions, including in the area of genetic and pharmacogenomic testing.
In practice, this involves, first and foremost, identifying and analysing the ethical, legal and social implications as early as possible in the development phases and before the technologies are widely applied.
It is important to encourage ethics experts, lawyers and sociologists to work closely with scientists and manufacturers, in order to encourage their mutual education and a dialogue involving the main players, including patients, political decision-makers and the public in the widest sense.
These initiatives will be included in the objectives of the Sixth Framework Programme for research, particularly under the first priority thematic area of 'Genomics and biotechnology for health'.
Secondly, we wish to continue to stimulate research into ethics in order to increase knowledge and further understanding of the various approaches at European level.
Thirdly, we want to develop a legal and regulatory framework for biotechnology, concerning, in particular, genetic tests, which is based on a broad social consensus which can only be achieved through open, two-way communication.
I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he will personally be involved in the drawing up and implementation of the work plan which is being produced by the European Group on Ethics?
We must not focus the problems on this aspect alone.
On the basis of the discussions on the last two questions and the fact we are approving the research programme tomorrow - hopefully - I would like to ask the Commissioner a direct question.
Ethical questions occupy an important place in the science/society action plan.
In the next framework programme, we must clearly increase the financial resources at European level in order to launch a dialogue that is as useful as possible on these issues.
Since you, Commissioner, will evidently be using the European Group on Ethics as an instrument for conducting the framework programme on research, can you let us know to what extent you will inform Parliament about the advice given to you by that group, about the composition of the group and indeed the discussions that you have with the group and with its Chair - when that person arrives?
The European Group on Ethics has so far produced some extremely valuable work and I hope that it will continue to do so in the future.
Thank you, Mr Busquin.
Mr President, Mr Papayannakis, there is no doubt that discrimination against Roma is still prevalent in many candidate countries and that living conditions for Roma are still very difficult.
The Commission has repeatedly mentioned this and other deficiencies in its regular reports.
However, the issue of discrimination against Roma is a long-standing one of a very complex nature and we have to accept that extensive improvements will only be possible in the medium and long term.
Various EU programmes have made an important contribution towards this.
However, I also have to make it very clear that our political message to the candidate countries is that they are responsible for improving the position of Roma.
We should not let these countries wriggle out of their responsibility for this problem.
In July 2000, the European Union adopted binding legislation banning racial and ethnic discrimination at the workplace, in education, in the social field, etc.
The Member States have to transpose these directives into national law by 2003, that is to say that the future new Member States must implement these directives before they join the European Union.
The legal framework goes hand in hand with an action programme with a budget of EUR 100 million which should increase our ability to combat racism and all other forms of discrimination.
Furthermore, in November 2001 the Commission presented a proposal for a Council framework decision with a view to creating a legal instrument in the field of criminal law.
The aim of this legal instrument is to ensure that racist and xenophobic behaviour in all Member States attracts the same sentences for the same offences.
The second objective is to ensure that judicial cooperation in this area is enhanced and promoted.
It is therefore up to the Cypriots to reach agreement on how Turkish Cypriots are in practice to obtain certificates of origin issued by the Republic of Cyprus.
Baroness Ludford, I am sure that we both agree with all the Members of this House that it will only be possible to find a solution to this incredibly difficult problem as part of the solution to the Cyprus question as a whole.
That is why it is one of our objectives to solve this problem, which is also very unfortunate for Turkish Cypriots, so that the Cyprus question can be resolved this year before we take decisions on accession.
The problem is that the Turkish Cypriots are being prevented by their own 'authorities', and please note the quotation marks, from fulfilling the necessary requirements, by which I mean the certificates of origin that cannot be issued by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus but only by the Republic of Cyprus, which is recognised under international law.
There is nothing the Commission can do to change this perfectly clear legal situation.
The Commission fully supports the direct discussions between the leaders of the two communities and their declared intention of finding a solution by the end of June 2002.
You have reiterated what was said in Helsinki and of course I have a great deal of respect for that, but what I am referring to are the negotiations taking place between the two sides.
The present situation in Cyprus in no way alters the planned timetable for expansion.
As I can safely assume that the negotiations with Cyprus will have been concluded by then, and, as you know the negotiations with Cyprus are going extremely well, the decision about Cyprus will of course also be taken at the end of this year.
One of most important political messages I had to send during my most recent visit to Cyprus and also during my most recent visits to Turkey and Greece was that the timetable for expansion would be respected regardless of the situation in Cyprus.
Censuses have been held in Czechoslovakia on the following dates since 8 May 1946: 1 March 1950, 1 March 1961, 1 December 1970, 1 November 1980 and 3 March 1991.
Commissioner, this decree seems particularly important to me, because it also touches on a non-material but vital issue, that is to say 'National Reliability', which collectively takes away the rights of entire ethnic groups that following 1929 did something perfectly legal, by which I mean identifying with a defined language group.
As the time allocated to Question Time is at an end, Questions Nos 39 to 88 will be answered in writing.
Lisbon and Barcelona have added a new dogma, a clarification of the doctrine, and point to reform as the only path to salvation, with salvation meaning closing the gap that separates us from the United States.
The task of defending the dogma is entrusted to the European Central Bank - the defender of the faith on issues of monetary policy - although, in the fields of budgetary and macroeconomic policy, where the risk of dispersal is greater, it is difficult to know exactly who should play this role.
At a time when we are tackling the reform of the Treaties, and now that the Convention is up and running, I would, therefore, say the same thing about these economic guidelines as about the employment guidelines: they should serve to share diagnoses, to establish clear codes of conduct and mechanisms for sanctions or penalties where misguided behaviour occurs.
If we are to achieve full employment and raise the employment rate to the level of other regions of the world, we need growth over and above growth in productivity.
We also need full employment to step up internal demand and to achieve gross income from the EU Member States.
This is a prerequisite if we are to achieve sustainable growth at a high level over a substantial period, and a prerequisite that needs to be expressed more clearly in the broad guidelines for economic policies and which needs to be made clearer in the guidelines for Member States.
But such reforms have only limited scope for acting as an engine for growth and employment.
I am not denying that it represents progress that all the EU Member States intend to invest 3% of their GDP in research and development, and that they also intend to invest more in human resources.
However, more needs to be invested in education and training if the knowledge-based society is to become a reality in Europe.
This applies primarily to private investment needed to create production capacity and jobs which would make this sustainable growth possible in the longer term, but which would also promote technological progress and thus contribute in turn to increased demand.
We know that companies are now critical of the fact that there is no scope for planning in the EU in relation to taxation and above all in relation to cross-border economic activity, something we would like to see.
The good doctor Duisenberg has been telling us for several months that economic recovery is underway.
Faced with this reality, the liberal ideas governing the European Union's economic policy would seem to be rather harmful.
The so-called Stability and Growth Pact and the independence of the European Central Bank are starving the authorities of the resources to cope with the crisis.
In light of this situation, the infamous Lisbon declaration has more to do with some magical formula than with politics, and the Commission recommendation for the 2002 Broad Guidelines of the Economic Policy of the Member States and the Community makes use of the same hocus-pocus.
Seventeen per cent of the population today make up this Europe: in other words, there are 60 million people who survive on less than 60% of the average income.
And what can I say about the budgetary balance for 2004?
The Trentin report, however, shows that although Parliament is elected by the people, it represents the interests of employers alone, instead of the interests of the working classes of the European Union.
The aim of the report is to achieve job flexibility.
The only social measure in this report is, therefore, that workers must be warned when they will be made redundant.
Capital transfers, migrations flows, the labour market and pension systems have been analysed with synthetic proposals for solutions.
With great skill, the rapporteur covers all the economic issues and major summits, from Lisbon to Barcelona, focusing on the major challenges represented by the ever-increasing number of elderly people and by economic refugees and their families, who represent an uncertain variable for the host State because of their tendency to work illegally.
I know paragraph 20 of the report contains a reference to the labour market, but the issue calls for greater, more thorough analysis.
The broad economic policy guidelines will only be meaningful if the national parliaments can be involved from the outset; so that, when drawing up the budgets of the Member States, they can bear the broad guidelines in mind.
They will only be meaningful if, from the outset, the governments - particularly those of the eurozone - agree to increase coordination of their economic policies, whether this is in terms of the budget, taxation or in the area of structural policies.
In the same spirit, my second point relates to the contribution that the European Parliament can make to the broad economic policy guidelines.
We hope that, through the Convention perhaps, but also by using a specific method, the amendments that Parliament has drawn up are taken into greater account when the broad economic policy guidelines are finalised.
The first is Amendment No 6 which relates to the role of social partners and macro-economic dialogue in order to promote an employment policy.
The second is Amendment No 7, and I urge some Member States to examine this closely when they come to cut taxes, as we can only contemplate reducing taxes if there is a harmonious balance involving the lowering of debt and re-balancing in favour of public investment.
Mr President, I shall try to reply and make some comments on both reports, as well as the speeches we have heard today in Parliament.
For the first time, a report has been presented that is not purely of a general nature, but which employs the technique of tabling amendments to the Commission's recommendation.
However, the broad economic policy guidelines include some more specific aspects that can be relevant from this point of view: to improve the quality of public finances, with accumulation of physical and human capital referred to in the document.
Mr Marinos focuses - and I can only thank him for this - on the importance of maintaining the Stability and Growth Pact in its present form.
A second issue raised by Mr Marinos, which was also highlighted by some other speakers, is whether the broad economic policy guidelines and the Stability and Growth Pact are complementary or, to some extent, contradictory instruments.
In our opinion, it is vital that we should maintain the Stability and Growth Pact in its current form and we believe that deficits are growth's worst enemy, as experience has taught us over the last few years.
Therefore, we must have sound macroeconomic policies to be able to increase growth and, consequently, to increase employment.
Mr Jonckheer expressed this concern this morning.
It is true that this has not been a discretionary policy, but we believe that the Pact has been as important - in relative terms and given the importance of automatic stabilisers - in Europe, as certain discretionary policies may have been in the United States.
We believe that the advantage of our proposed system is not only its automatic operation, but also its capacity to avoid potential problems in future, especially when we have to deal with new situations of economic recovery in which we start from relatively comfortable positions in terms of budgetary balance.
Some other issues were raised this morning and this afternoon.
Obviously, no one is claiming to be the guardian of any dogma, but it is clear that, as the Commission, we have the role of guardian of the Treaties, which means that we are obliged to apply the commitments as proposed.
In this regard, we think that it is vitally important that the Stability Pact continues to be applied to all countries under the same conditions it has been applied up to now.
I have two further comments on what was said this morning.
There are specific documents that deal with this issue and we are working on a system that allows us gradually to come closer to the broad guidelines so that we can apply them after enlargement has taken place.
In spite of the many rules already in place, it has to be said that there are many shortcomings in the way the Community has shaped food law up to now.
Encompassing the existing 17 directives in just four regulations will result in a sharper definition of the borders between food hygiene, animal health law, official food controls and thus user-friendly legal bases.
If we apply the 'from farm to table' principle, we would also ensure that the scope for self-regulation is also fully used in primary production.
This implies a totally new chapter in the legislation on food hygiene.
For example, if a farmer has to keep a record of measures for containing risks, that amounts in certain areas to the first step towards the application of the HACCP principle.
As a rule these will be sectoral and national guidelines which are to be drawn up by many interested parties.
That is why sectoral, national or regional guidelines should be replaced by European guidelines, because in that way we can compel food producers to apply precisely this best practice and to introduce these methods.
That is why it would be possible for there to be exceptions from the provisions of these regulations.
An arrangement of this kind would certainly not be in the spirit of good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission.
One of the main points with regard to the regulation on specific hygiene rules is the chapter on hunting.
In many places the Commission has used the procedure referred to in Article 11, that is to say the committee procedure.
Member States and the authorities of third countries shall, where so requested, submit a report to the Commission on the controls carried out, specifying in particular the frequency of controls, the nature of the failings and infringements found to exist, and the nature of the steps taken by the competent authorities to punish them.
We all know that the effectiveness of the legal framework depends to a large extent on controls carried out, and detailed control reports of this kind are essential if the effective application of controls in Member States is to be guaranteed.
The Commission should also draw up a list of categories of possible infringements of this regulation, its implementing rules or safeguard measures and should determine in each instance whether the infringements are punishable by the competent national authorities under criminal or administrative law.
If the provisions of the regulation are infringed, uniform sanctions should as far as possible be established for all Member States.
This problem, which is certainly even more urgent in other areas than in the case before us today, needs to be fundamentally addressed.
Nevertheless, I am convinced of the need for this and my fellow members of the committee supported me in this.
The opinion from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the Schnellhardt report, for which I was the draftsperson, focuses in particular on the need for consistency between food safety practices, which are deemed essential for the domestic sale or supply of foodstuffs, and those practices which cover the sale of such foodstuffs internationally.
It is quite wrong that the Commission Decision of 18 May 2000, which defines the composition of standing committees, specifically exempts consumer groups from representation on these committees.
With respect to the specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy wanted to build in greater flexibility, particularly with regard to slaughterhouses.
Strict rules in the past have caused unnecessary difficulties to slaughterhouses in the more remote areas of the EU, often because geographical restraints can lead to unfair competitive conditions which tend to favour larger enterprises.
As regards imports from third countries, we must have the same provisions as for Member States.
Additionally, the proposals that have been put forward are reasonably good and very detailed, and I believe that all sectors involved have recognised this.
These legislative requirements are based on the control of food safety from farm to table in order to provide the best possible guarantees to consumers.
One of the key points of future legislation is the mandatory application of HACCP in all food companies including those in the primary sector.
The analysis of risk and the control of critical points were formulated to be applied in the food industry and have, without doubt, represented a great step forward in the area of food hygiene.
However, in reality, many small companies have still not been able to put this into practice.
The primary sector is already obliged to respect the 'good practice guides', a set of rules with similar aims to the HACCP but better adapted to the characteristics of this particular economic sector.
The application of these standards should be considered to be an essential food safety practice, but it should never replace controls.
Economic agents must take responsibility for the safety of food products, guarantee their viability and that of their ingredients and establish product withdrawal procedures in the event of an emergency.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening, food once again occupies a prominent place on our agenda.
It is useful to create a comprehensive framework for food hygiene and for hygiene in the veterinary industry.
It is also useful to combine all the legislation in one package.
These emotions are often there for a good reason.
My sixth comment concerns the detailed nature of the legislation.
The Commission's proposal was in danger of having an extremely negative effect upon hunting and the sale of game in shops.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to reform Community legislation on food hygiene rules - which involves 17 directives - the Commission is applying the principle of the liability of food operators.
This seems utterly unrealistic.
The first article, or the 'Scope', of the regulation specifies that these provisions shall not apply to the primary production of food for private domestic use or the domestic preparation of foodstuffs for private consumption.
We must extend this measure to include the supply of local markets and to the sale of natural products from primary production.
We believe that Amendment No 92 relating to Spiralis goes too far, since freezing or cooking at temperatures of above 65° will destroy any parasites.
Yes, the requirements are considerable, but these requirements can only help to improve the image of their products.
Consumers must also shoulder some responsibility: they must be able to have the freedom of choice, hence the important role of information and consumers' associations in this respect.
Lastly, we have had numerous discussions concerning game meat.
We must, of course, ensure the quality of this product and we know that procedures vary from one Member State to another.
Mr President, I want to deal briefly with a number of amendments about which concern has been raised.
Amendment No 31 deals with products using traditional methods or sited in remote locations.
Similarly the references to HACCP in Amendment No 9 are permissive and not mandatory, and the small business sector can live with that.
We accept this for the individual hunter consuming or passing on the game he has shot or caught.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to briefly address the issue of hunting.
I am also wholeheartedly in favour of accepting Amendment No 82 in this report by Mr Schnellhardt.
Mr President, I believe that the proposal we have before us for a Council regulation in which animal-health rules are to be made more transparent and the existing directives brought together in a single text represents a further step towards simplifying agriculture policy in this area and above all towards creating a legal basis for controls on various activities.
At the same time - and I am just finishing now - we need to provide sufficiently serious support for the many consumer protection organisations.
Mr President, though a flabby pinstriped businessman who enjoys shooting driven game, I want to concentrate on the aspect that we have 17 hygiene directives here being deregulated into one.
In particular, it extends Article 3 of Directive 93/43 which introduces what are know as the HACCP principles.
The hazard analysis and critical control points were developed in the 1960s for NASA to guarantee high purity food for astronauts.
Something that has been developed for a sophisticated technology-based organisation is not appropriate for Joe's Cafe in Lewisham High Street or Jean Dupont's bistro in the rue de la Révolution in Marseilles.
They have gone into orbit and landed on another planet like the astronauts for which the HACCP system was devised.
I therefore agree that there is a need for harmonisation, but we must remember to exercise caution.
The situation is different for the primary sector, particularly where small and medium-sized businesses are concerned.
At this point I would like to make a particular point about SMEs in the meat processing business.
It is these small workshops that ensure local supplies and maintain a variety of products in rural areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament will deliver its opinion tomorrow on a package of regulations that aim to guarantee the hygiene of foodstuffs in general and to establish specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin in particular.
This new legislation is based on the fundamental need to guarantee food safety from farm to table, along the lines of the initiatives that have been adopted over the past months in order to provide the consumer with the best possible guarantees.
The HACCP system cannot be extended, for the moment, to the primary sector, given that this system has been designed exclusively for industry.
The primary sector is already obliged to respect the 'good practice guides', a set of rules with similar aims to the HACCP but better adapted to the characteristics of this particular economic sector, and which we should not aim to duplicate.
Codes of good practice should be established by the various food sectors in order to give guidance to food business operators on food safety.
To get to where we are today has required a massive input from Members of this House.
The majority of the proposed amendments seek to improve the proposals from an editorial and technical point of view.
I therefore cannot accept Amendments Nos 28, 29, 58 and 59.
This is overly ambitious - and I must therefore reject Amendment No 8, the first part of Amendment No 9, and Amendments Nos 35, 37, 38 and 67.
The second part of Amendment Nos 36 and 104 would require food businesses to keep documentation on the HACCP system for an extensive period of time.
Still on HACCP, this system is the full responsibility of the food business operators.
Amendment No 108 is therefore not acceptable.
Flexibility in the context of food hygiene is an issue with which I am greatly concerned.
The Commission's proposal therefore contains a procedure to ensure sufficient flexibility to ensure that these traditions are preserved.
I must also reject Amendments Nos 69, 71, 76, 77, 83, 89, 92, 93, 95, 101 and 105 because these may have a negative impact on small businesses.
Similarly, Amendments Nos 5 and 14, the second part of 16, 53, 55, and 107 since these are already adequately covered in other parts of Community law, and Amendment No 39 since this is already dealt with by Amendment No 6.
Amendment No 55 is not in line with that objective and must therefore be rejected.
I can assure this house that our objective in making the proposal was to design pragmatic rules and to preserve traditions in the Member States, such as the delivery of small quantities of game meat by the hunter to the consumer or local retail trade.
It was certainly not our intention to interfere with private consumption.
In brief, I am ready to accept the following amendments on game: they are Amendments Nos 90, 92, 94 to 97, 129, 13 and the first part of 130.
Amendment No 91, however, overlaps with Regulation 178/2002 and must therefore be rejected.
I must also reject Amendment No 8 because it mixes obligations to be respected by food business operators with those of the competent authorities; Amendment No 10 in part because it widens too much the scope of the proposal with regard to special guarantees for salmonella in meat, as well as the last part of Amendment No 13 since this would compromise the right of initiative of the Commission.
The other amendments are either wholly or partly acceptable, subject to editorial amendment.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9 concern infringements and publication of results.
If rules are stricter than those laid down by the OIE, then these must be to ensure that the Community animal health situation is not jeopardised.
In such cases, the Commission would usually propose a draft decision to Member States to suspend importation of the relevant animal products.
Apart from these six amendments, there are two amendments that I can only accept in part.
As far as the Schnellhardt report on the hygiene of foodstuffs is concerned, the Commission can wholly or partly accept the following amendments subject to editorial changes: Nos 1 to 4, 6, 7, 9 to 12, 15 to 27, 31 to 34, 36, 40 to 46, 49 to 52, 54, 56, 57, 60 to 66, 68, 70, 72 to 75, 78 to 82, 84 to 88, 90, 91, 94, 96 to 100, 102, 103 and 106.
I also hope that Members will understand the reasoning behind the decisions to reject or amend some of the amendments put forward by the committees.
The food hygiene package marks another important step in our overhaul of food legislation in pursuit of our objective to ensure that European consumers have access to the safest possible food supply in the world.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Paul, Hadar or some other form?
We know, for example, that a very great source of infection with salmonella aruba is Brazilian soya.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commission on their balanced proposal, both in the directive and in the regulation on the monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents, which we will be voting on in Parliament tomorrow.
These are matters of great importance for all EU States.
For some EU States these are not only matters of great importance, but of the utmost importance.
I would like to express my great concern at the result of the vote on the report presented in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, given that, in my opinion, it takes our concern for consumers' health to irrational extremes.
However, I do not understand that, on the pretext of protecting consumers' interests, some EU countries support the extension of control and surveillance measures to agents that cannot be transmitted to humans, in other words, non-zoonotic agents that do not fall within the scope of these regulations.
Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to support the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which includes the sentiments of many countries that have expressed their concern in this regard in all the debates that have been held, both in Council of Ministers and Commission's working groups.
I regret that the report approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Heath and Consumer Policy has not taken the main countries affected into consideration and I hope that this situation will be resolved, if not in tomorrow's plenary, then in the negotiations in the next Progress Council and in the negotiations that will have to be undertaken as part of the codecision procedure, given that these measures will be hard to achieve.
I also regret that there are a series of gaps that have not been sufficiently analysed in Parliament, such as, for example, the loophole mentioned in Article 9 of the Regulation, which anticipates the paralysis of trade in those countries whose national control programmes are not approved.
This initiative could give rise to a situation of clear commercial discrimination.
The report approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in my opinion, has not been sufficiently tailored to the needs of each country and also falls into this trap. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, first of all, I would like to address my thanks to our rapporteur and congratulate her on the significance and the high quality of her work.
The two proposals take up some of the commitments given in the White Paper on Food Safety.
We must strengthen the monitoring and control system of zoonotic agents of animal origin in order to reduce their prevalence, whilst stressing that the effectiveness of the texts that are currently in force has been restricted by the fact that some Member States are failing to apply these texts properly.
Overall, the Commission's proposals are balanced.
I also wish to stress the need for strict coordination between the work of the European Food Authority and the work of the national authorities so that the early warning system functions effectively.
My group also supports the amendment seeking to allow the Member States that have achieved a high level of protection to prevent, for a limited period, the placing on the market of products imported from Member States which do not yet have an approved control programme within the stipulated timeframe.
I welcome the fact that the applicable control measures are based on objectives that are set every three years.
The Commission has, in this area, striven to achieve a balance.
My group also supports the principle of including vegetables within the scope of the directive.
There are still 15,000 or 16,000 cases per year of salmonella food poisoning in the UK, half the previous levels.
Of course, this is not just a problem in Europe.
It is certainly true that Member States need to make progress to establish more effective national control programmes and at the same time, we need to ensure that imported products meet our own high standards.
Our proposals are much more ambitious than the current directive.
To ensure their successful implementation we need to allow sufficient time for Member States to meet these objectives.
Public interest in food safety is immense, as we know.
Protection against zoonoses, disease transmission between animals and humans, is a growing concern not only in the European Union, but throughout the world.
The first proposal, on the monitoring of zoonotic agents, is the basis for improving knowledge of the sources and trends of these pathogens, supporting microbiological risk assessments, and adopting risk management measures.
The second proposal, on the control of salmonella, aims to reduce the public health burden caused by this agent.
The regulation will apply to primary production - a major source of contamination.
While some Member States have seen a reduction in human cases following stringent control measures, the situation varies considerably.
The Commission therefore favoured a progressive approach to reducing salmonella occurrence.
However, I do not accept that systematic prior consultation with the European Food Safety Authority is required for any transitional measure or before amending the annexes.
Shortening the deadline for Member States to report on their monitoring activities from five months to three months is overly ambitious, considering the time needed to collect and compile data.
I therefore reject the relevant part of Amendment No 20.
I cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 18.
I can support Amendments Nos 28 to 33, which enlarge the scope of the monitoring of anti-microbial resistance, and supersede Amendments Nos 15 and 21.
For the same reasons as on the proposed directive, I reject Amendment No 10 that shortens the deadline for Member States to report on the implementation of their control programmes.
I also reject Amendment No 27 that requires consultation of the European Food Safety Authority systematically before taking transitional or implementing measures or amending the annexes.
I therefore reject Amendment Nos 1 and 16.
I would note that as I can accept Amendments Nos 1, 6 and 12 on the proposed directive the monitoring of zoonoses in products of plant origin would be covered.
Amendments Nos 2 and 22 provide for additional guarantees not only for salmonella, but possibly for other zoonotic agents.
Although additional guarantees may constitute an incentive for Member States, extending them to zoonotic agents other than salmonella would create additional barriers to trade.
I therefore reject Amendments Nos 2 and 22.
The Commission is finalising a draft regulation on official feed and food controls, in which the issue of sanctions will be tackled.
An amendment to Article 8 on the prohibition on the use of antibiotics for preventive or growth promotion purposes was rejected in the Committee on the Environment, but not the recital to the same effect.
Amendment No 37 would restrict the use of antibiotics to therapeutic purposes only.
The Commission will ask for a scientific opinion on the risks and benefits of the use of antibiotics in medicines to control salmonella.
For these reasons, and for consistency, I reject Amendments Nos 3 and 37.
Amendments Nos 36 and 38 and the relevant parts of Amendments Nos 29 and 32, on the targets and measures for laying hens and slaughter pigs are acceptable, subject to review of the sampling for pigs and, possibly, setting a different timetable for breeding pigs and for slaughter pigs.
We need a scientific opinion before setting additional targets for calves, other cattle and sheep.
Moreover, adding targets should be considered on the basis of the experience with the implementation of the new regulation.
I therefore reject the relevant parts of Amendments Nos 29 and 32.
I therefore reject the relevant part of Amendment No 35.
I cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 33.
I therefore reject that part of Amendment No 26.
Amendment No 25 requires the European Food Safety Authority and the Food and Veterinary Office to be closely involved in monitoring that equivalent control programmes exist in third countries.
I therefore reject that part of Amendment No 25.
I hope that Parliament understands the reasoning behind the decisions to reject or accept in part some of the amendments put forward.
Along with the food hygiene package, the zoonoses proposals mark another important step in our review of food legislation, in pursuit of our objective to ensure that European consumers have access to the safest possible food supply in the world.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
They were very constructive and have finished where the Belgian Presidency left off.
However, experience, has taught us that this must be approached in a much more structured way.
The only pledge Parliament has now made, and the Council has fortunately seconded this, is that the Commission will be proposing this daughter directive by no later than 2006, in other words eleven years later than it had announced itself.
Noise is an important environmental problem which we know concerns millions of EU citizens.
Thus the Commission is glad that this new legislation will soon enter into force and allow better protection of people exposed to environmental noise in Europe.
In particular, the Commission takes due note of the strong interest expressed by your institution for legislation relating to sources of noise.
However, while the Commission welcomes the agreement on a joint text, which was reached on 8 April 2002 by the Conciliation Committee, we have serious concerns with regard to the provisions of modified Article 1 of this directive.
For this reason the Commission has decided to make the following declaration: The Commission takes note of the text agreed for Article 1 of the Environmental Noise Directive by the Members of the Conciliation Committee for the European Parliament and the Council.
The Commission considers that legislative proposals to reduce noise emissions from all major sources should be made on the basis of robust evidence supporting such proposals.
The provision of such data across the Community will allow the impact and benefits of possible measures to be properly assessed prior to presenting Community legislative proposals.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
