Opening of the session I declare resumed the 2000-2001 session of the European Parliament.
Agenda Mr President, the second item on this morning' s agenda is the recommendation for second reading on cocoa and chocolate products, for which I am the rapporteur.
I have been a Member of this Parliament for ten years and I have always been given notice, in my capacity as rapporteur, of any changes to the order of voting.
Mr Blokland, the officials of the competent services have informed me that your report will automatically be put to the vote tomorrow.
I now ask the House whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the Lannoye report until tomorrow.
Annual legislative programme (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Commission' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000.
In our debate on the five-year plan, we established that this year would mark the dawn of the "decade of Europe" , and it will therefore be a decisive year for the Commission.
The explanation of the five-year plan provided us with the general reference framework and we have already set out the Commission' s Work Programme for the five-year term.
Of course, and I am not saying this because I am here, in the presence of Parliament, but because it seems particularly important, we have placed particular emphasis on Parliament' s responsibilities in the codecision procedure.
Let us now look at the major points of this plan.
Basically, the European citizens want justice in order to be able to live their daily lives in safety.
The Commission will put forward practical security proposals for increased coordination between Europe' s police forces and for a common action to fight crime, because we have major problems to deal with, including some new ones.
We must re-establish this balance and protect the environment, while, at the same time, we have a binding obligation towards those whose livelihood depends on fishing, and they are concentrated in some of the least industrialised areas in Europe.
In fact, these matters are of close relevance to all of our lives, and this is why Parliament' s role is absolutely crucial.
The other day, we closed the debate with the statement that the measure of our success will be the number of European citizens who vote in the next European elections.
I feel that the tangible measures I have touched on today are building up the citizens' confidence in their government and fostering our relationship with them.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we should use the Commission' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 as an opportunity to reflect on the basic functions and tasks performed by the Commission, as well as those performed by the European institutions as a whole.
In two months - on 9 May that is - we will have occasion to remember Robert Schumann, who on 9 May 1950, made the splendid proposal for a European Coal and Steel Community.
The boundaries between fairness, equal treatment, and the law of the European Union - of the European Community - are sometimes blurred.
When the President-in-Office makes a tour of the European capitals in preparation for a summit meeting - which has been standard practice for many years - but leaves one capital out and asks the representative of this country to come to Brussels, then I do not consider that to be consistent with the principles of the European Union and the concepts underlying the Community of law. (Applause from the right) That is why I would like to make the following point to the Commission: Mr President of the Commission, so far we have had no cause to criticise you.
Many people understand the concept of subsidiarity to be the lever used to lower the European tasks to local authority, regional or national level.
This may be appropriate in individual cases and indeed we must assess, in the case of every legislative procedure, whether the task in question would be best managed at national, regional or local level.
But the concept of subsidiarity also means that the European Union must take on these tasks if they cannot reasonably be undertaken at national, regional or local level.
Mr President, you have the right of initiative.
There is the agreement reached with the Commission on 15 September last year, in which the Commission committed itself in broad terms to delivering the goods by and large when Parliament asks it for legislative initiatives.
On this basis, and speaking on behalf of our group, I can tell you that we will do our bit - where we can - not just for a strong Europe, but also for a strong Commission, whose powers we are prepared to defend against the Council of Ministers.
Accordingly, we are dependent, in the interests of Europe, on there being sound cooperation and dialogue between the Commission and the European Parliament, and that is why we intend to do what we can to support your policies for the Year 2000.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, if the citizens of Europe are looking for this kind of Europe, then Brussels, and especially the Commission, is where they will look.
In the light of this responsibility, Mr President of the Commission, when you made your last speech here in this House, you proposed concentrating more heavily on core tasks.
This could also be described in terms of carrying out or implementing the subsidiarity principle.
We want to reinforce Europe' s role on the international stage in a clear and unequivocal manner, just as we want to increase its competitiveness.
Above all, we must aim to make Europe more socially aware, to create a Europe of equal opportunities, and to increase security and quality of life within Europe.
If you make these your goals, Mr President of the Commission, then we will be behind you every step of the way.
We decided, in our wisdom, to draft a resolution which may not be quite as long but which provides you with a whole host of proposals and some counter-proposals.
Mr President of the Commission, I would just like to pick up again on your expression "decisive year" .
You are in the process of drafting a communication strategy for the enlargement of the European Union.
There has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of European legislation rather than more quantity.
It is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the ELDR intends not to sign the current eight-page list - not because we object to the contents, but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning.
The programme submitted to us for this year is generous, to say the least.
According to the terms of Chapter I of Title 11 of the Treaty, in particular, I am thinking specifically of problems to do with working conditions and improving the working environment.
This shows a general decline in working conditions in a number of important sectors.
For example, in the environmental field, we have a White Paper on civil liability in environmental matters.
This is an important step forwards, but let me remind you all the same that this White Paper is the follow-up to a Parliament resolution adopted in 1994, that is to say, six years ago.
And after the White Paper we shall probably have to wait a long time before we have the directive.
This shows just how slow the procedure is and, in order to give reasons for this slowness, I feel it would be important to have an interim report.
Today, a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste has been announced.
President Prodi, allow me to express my apprehension and alarm at the line taken in the Work Programme for 2000, a year which you described as a decisive year, and not only because of the lack of genuinely innovative proposals contained therein.
Mr President, I welcome the broad thrust of the proposals published by the Commission in its annual legislative programme for the year 2000.
The most important issues that will be addressed this year will be the reform of the EU decision-making procedures, so that the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner.
As a Member of the Parliament from the constituency of Connaught Ulster in Ireland, a peripheral part of this Union, I strongly believe in real and tangible representation for smaller Member States within the EU structures.
At present, the five larger Member States have two posts within the European Commission and there is one each for the smaller Member States.
Whatever the reform, it is vitally important that smaller Member States retain their right to nominate a Member of the Commission.
From an Irish perspective, I strongly believe that Member State governments must have a veto over tax changes at EU level.
No changes at present can be agreed at EU level concerning tax policies without the unanimous support of all EU Member States.
I believe this is an important right, which should be left in the domain of national Member States.
In my own country, the tax regime is quite innovative in many ways.
This cannot be said of many of the other Member States.
Any proposal to give the European Council the power of qualified majority voting on justice and home affairs would be, I believe, very unwise.
Of course we want to ensure by the year 2002 that the countries that suffered most when the common fisheries policy was put in place in 1983 will in future receive a fair and equitable share of the resources.
The Commission must support educational and training programmes, to ensure that business structures take account of the opportunities which can be secured from the Internet and e-commerce in general.
However, in refusing to talk - albeit only bilaterally - and thereby causing a breakdown in communication, the 14 EU partner States are putting this self-same "ability to function" at great risk.
The Commission must not stand idly by in a situation of this kind.
With this in mind, I would ask you, President Prodi, to get personally involved in setting up a crisis meeting between the Heads of Government of Austria and the 14 EU partner States, so as to bring about détente and normalisation of relations.
Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, for his work programme.
The first chapter of the work programme is entitled: "Europe, its neighbours and the world" and rightly so.
We know that there are funds available in TACIS and ECHO within the European Union.
I should now like to make a few comments on economic and social matters.
Yesterday we discussed the Lisbon Summit for the economic and social revival of Europe.
Shared objectives for growth in order to enable us to move towards full employment are something I have hoped and prayed for.
In this connection, I should also like to applaud Commissioner Philippe Busquin' s initiative to create a European research area.
But, in a world where 1.5 billion people are still living without electricity, providing every citizen in the world with access to the Internet society is not going to be achieved in the immediate future.
The most significant challenge for the human race is to avoid the separation between information-rich countries and information-poor countries, to prevent the advent of societies where, in the felicitous phrase coined by my friend, Claude Desama, the digital divide will be the new social divide.
The annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the European Commission's key constitutional and political power, namely the exclusive right of initiative.
A 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex.
In future, the ELDR will therefore insist that there is clear justification for, and specialised parliamentary debate on, all measures announced in the work programme.
In particular, we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector-specific debates in the European Parliament's own specialised committees.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours.
Last night he clearly pointed out that we have the prospect of a successful European economy ahead of us for the next two or three years and quite clearly, if we have unexpectedly higher-than-normal growth, then that will help us in the endeavours of this annual legislative programme.
On behalf of my group I would like to caution the Commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4.
This is what bedevilled the relationship between our Parliament and the previous Commission: the fact that we, under the Treaties, have access and the right of access to all information in principle.
You say, for example, that you wish to take account of environmental policy in all the other policy areas.
You must not neglect to mention this in your other papers.
We will gauge how successful you have been, Mr Prodi, on a weekly, monthly and annual basis.
You see, Mr Prodi, it is a lot more simple than you might fear.
Where, in that case, do you find a legal basis for this view, and do you believe that such a principle can suppress the ombudsman' s right to express himself freely in the press?
Working in the European Parliament, we can see that harmonisation of the existing legislation on civil law is essential.
It is creating freedom of movement and freedom to settle, and an economic area which affords opportunities for unlimited economic activity - and thus also for unlimited illegal economic activity incidentally.
In order to combat this, the EU aims, in turn, to create a European police force.
If the Commission has the courage to say that it is prepared to enter into a confrontation with the Council, as the guardian of the Treaties and the future integration of Europe, then I would hope that a majority of this Parliament would support you in this.
However, I would like to hear a clear commitment from the Commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into Community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations.
Delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the Commission.
For example, we have been waiting since 1996 for the incorporation into Community legislation of the ban on landings from Honduras and Belize, or, for example, since 1998 for the control of the fishing capacity for albacore tuna in Community waters.
The Commission is always accusing Member States of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation, while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level.
It is clear that the proposal presented by the Commission on the communication on the reform of international organisations, with a view to speeding up the process, tries to separate the legislative processes both of Parliament and of the Council.
From the point of view of this institution, there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem.
I hope that President Prodi will now commit himself to resolving this problem once and for all, and that, in any event, Parliament will always be connected with the legislative procedure for incorporating the recommendations of international fishing organisations into Community legislation.
While the Delors Commission took us from the Single European Act to the Union Treaty and an extensive enlargement of the European Community, I hope that the Prodi Commission will be the Commission of a social Europe, the Commission which ensures that economic development does not go hand in hand with social discrimination, but rather with social progress.
To this end, I hope that the Commission will bear in mind the points of view being expressed in the European Parliament.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you of a text which is mentioned in the Commission communication.
Today the Commission is to speak of the first document in this field, and I hope that, in doing so, it will take account of the requirements of these outermost regions of the Community.
The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties.
But the unwritten rights of the Member States are there in the background of the Treaties and I believe it is high time that the Commission came to see itself more as the guardian of the rights of the Member States in the course of its work.
I would urge you, Mr President of the Commission, to also become the advocate for the rights of the Member States, for what frustrates us on occasions about the way the Commission works, is its attempt, under the pressure of getting things done, to lay claim to certain rights.
Therefore, Mr President, please cast yourself in the role of advocate for the rights of the Member States.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, you spoke of a detailed programme in your introduction.
Mr President of the Commission, I am in favour of creating a European defence identity, including the military dimension thereof, and I welcome with open arms the outcome of the unofficial meeting of the Defence Ministers in Sintra.
The Commission must take responsibility, launch initiatives, and submit projects in this sphere, which needs to be developed from scratch.
Following the Helsinki decisions, we in the European Parliament demanded a catalogue of measures and a detailed schedule, which would enable Turkey to be prepared for fulfilment of the Copenhagen Criteria - in particular the political criteria - in a concrete and structured manner.
Mr President of the Commission, on reading your White Paper on the reform of the Commission, it is clearly apparent that the guiding principle, the philosophy behind this reform, is something very vague which we cannot accept in this Parliament.
Allow me to give you an example, since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea.
From the point of view of this Parliament, this type of arrangement cannot be allowed.
Thank you, Mr Prodi, for your presentation and your documentation.
Seattle failed because the United States, in particular, appeared unable to grasp the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection, the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy, animal welfare, health concerns and social rights.
We had a White Paper on innovation some years ago - what has happened since?
I welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise, but I hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more.
The reform of the Commission, Mr Prodi, should not only protect the financial interests of the Community.
Go for it, Mr Prodi.
We need to modernise and strengthen that legislation, not in order to stop globalisation or the deepening of the internal market - of course not - but in order to make sure that we manage the changes these things bring, through a spirit of partnership in all of our workplaces, large and small, within the European Union.
That means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work.
We have outstanding promises for legislation on homeworking, on teleworking; we have the yawning gap of social security in atypical work that has been outstanding for almost a decade now; we have the promise of a specific directive on muscular-skeletal injuries outstanding from the last medium-term Social Action Programme.
You have our full backing on this as well, for money laundering is partly what motivates organised crime.
Here, I am sorry to say, we are lagging behind police cooperation by some 10 to 20 years, and we urgently need a catching-up programme.
You have our support in matters of transparency and when it comes to the momentum created at Tampere, which we want to keep going, and you have our support because there is a possibility of bringing pressure to bear on the Council.
We, along with other groups in this Parliament, are still waiting for the Commission to present a proposal laying down the practical arrangements for the implementation of the code of conduct that would facilitate cooperation and proper scrutiny.
When, Mr President, will the Commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal Council meetings, notably at Potsdam and Tampere?
Regarding transport and tourism, I and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular, the issue of blood-alcohol levels and speed limits.
We also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive, as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in Europe at this moment.
I regret that transport issues do not appear to have been taken seriously into account in the enlargement chapter and would encourage the Commission to present proposals to ensure better coordination between structural actions and instruments and the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
I also want to insist that Parliament' s views and wishes on postal services, often stated in this chamber, are taken fully into account in any new proposals.
Be that as it may; today, Mr Prodi, you mentioned fisheries.
Mr President, I should like to address the Commission in order to express my wish that the year 2000 should enable us to make progress in the general direction of coherence, particularly in the field of agriculture.
So why, after so often declaring that the WTO must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms, and that the European Union intends to guarantee advantages for LDCs, does the Commission still adhere exclusively to the prospect of market liberalisation in this sector?
You will be aware that, as a result of this crisis, which has now lasted for more than two years, many independent producers find that they have been relegated to being mere casual workers for firms or other large-scale producers.
In December, she succeeded in great style, working together with the Finnish Presidency, in opening the railway system.
She is also working very hard on something you, Mr President, brought up back in July last year, namely the issue of an effective European air traffic control system.
Mr Barnier' s proposals are equally impressive, for there has been excellent cooperation between Mr Barnier and Parliament on INTERREG and URBAN.
I particularly wanted to congratulate President Prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process.
The outbursts in Seattle and Davos for instance were not just about the issues - they were very much about a populace and a citizenry trying to engage with a new set of institutions and being not quite sure of how to do so.
We cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on, for instance, small businesses or health on-line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies.
Can I just, in finishing, say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year - Media, Culture 2000, Youth and Socrates.
I hope that we will evaluate the work that was done in the previous programmes to ensure that these are not just another new layer but are actually a new beginning for the programmes that can present us with an educated European citizenry.
Mr President, I must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal, within this legislative programme, to reduce the agricultural budget by EUR 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding Kosovo.
When farmers are going bankrupt every day in the UK, when the level of suicides amongst farmers and farm-workers has reached unprecedented levels, when the economy of rural Britain is in spiral decline, how can I explain to them that EUR 300 million would be better off spent in Kosovo?
I urge honourable Members, when we come to vote on this issue, to vote against this proposal.
Mr President, I should like to return to the subject of the annual legislative programme, after that digression on the European budget.
That is a very good example, but what happened to the other five?
There is no obligation on the Commission to respond, but we would expect the Commission, in a spirit of cooperation with Parliament, to look at these proposals carefully and to respond in most cases.
We were happy with the compromise that Article 192 represented, but if this compromise is felt not to be working, and if it is not seen to be satisfactory from Parliament's point of view, there will inevitably be pressure for the Treaty to be amended to give Parliament a full right of initiative, something the Commission does not want because it sets great store by its monopoly of the right of initiative.
The only thing I would ask is that you view my speech as just part of an overall debate which is taking shape day by day.
Many of you have rightly expressed the opinion that tourism is a subject which is missing, which, as has been said, is a larger employer than agriculture.
However, we also have a major opportunity, which was welcomed by a great many of you today, in that our economy looks set to be sound for at least two or three years.
The White Paper on governability, on the one hand, and the difficulties of balancing the budget, on the other, are the two pillars upon which we must base a joint political action for the short term.
We cannot stifle these countries at such a decisive moment as this.
Thank you very much, Mrs Thors.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Mr President, I think it useful to remind you that we voted on this proposed directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products at first reading in October 1997.
In fact, therefore, the Council of Ministers has taken a great deal of time to reach an agreement on its common position, since it was not until October 1999 that this common position was available.
To tell the truth, I feel that this is not an acceptable compromise and that the use of vegetable fats has been made an acceptable commonplace while not giving consumers sufficient information, ignoring the problem of the analysis method' s lack of reliability, removing subsidiarity and complying with the requirements of multinational chocolate manufacturers, while ignoring the concerns of small specialist chocolate-makers and SMEs, consumer rights and the future of the millions of farmers involved in cocoa production.
It is true that there is an annex restricting the list of permitted vegetable fats to six substances, which include shea nut butter, which is a product gathered in some poor countries of Africa, such as Mali and Burkina Faso.
Let me cite, in particular, the compulsory identification of any vegetable fat content on the front of the product; the requirement for preliminary validation of a reliable analysis method; the principle of subsidiarity, which was removed by the Council even though it had been proposed by the Commission from the outset, the rejection of methods of genetic engineering and chemical methods - I would point out that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is in favour of rejecting the use of genetic engineering - and, finally, last but not least, a proposal for a serious impact study, which will not be carried out long after the directive comes into force but rather as soon as it comes into force, on the socio-economic situation of the cocoa-producing countries who are likely to be the first victims of this legislation.
Admittedly, it conflicts with the Council' s common position, but I believe that Parliament' s role is to play a full part in the codecision process and not to bow down before the decisions of the Council, even if they are the product of a very long gestation period of two years.
We are getting one, two and a half years after the directive has entered into force.
Mr President, as shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group, I am proud of the fact that virtually all amendments from first reading, which have impacted so heavily on the common position, are the product of our own hands.
Mr President, it has taken us twenty-five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise.
If I came from Burkina Faso or Mali or one of the countries that produced beurre de karité and I was told that the women' s cooperatives who collect the shea nuts that are a substantial part of their exports to Europe, will be banned or put at risk because they are seen to be stooges of the multinationals, I would be very angry indeed.
For example, we need to be aware of the precarious situation of the countries where the ingredients for chocolate originate.
The Council' s common position as it is now before us attempts to accommodate all these interests.
Mr President, Commissioner, since we cannot reject the directive on chocolate which is, as it stands, unacceptable, Parliament is duty bound, at the very least, to improve it.
In the first place, we must ask ourselves what is the relevance of this directive which is going to change the definition of chocolate.
The European Parliament must be aware that the Codex Alimentarius, which dictates the composition of chocolate internationally, stipulates that it is made from cocoa butter.
What right, then, has the European Union, with regard to the food traditions of some Member States who incorrectly describe products including vegetable fats other than cocoa butter as 'chocolate' , to enforce a change in the very definition of what chocolate is?
In order to avoid chaos in producing countries, the European Parliament must demand an impact study on the export situation.
Mr President, Commissioner, as all chocolate-lovers know, proper chocolate is made from cocoa butter.
The addition of any other fats spoils the flavour.
Indeed the 1973 directive, which prohibited the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, was intended to safeguard this quality.
At first reading, Parliament got involved in a dangerous procedure of accepting the directive subject to certain conditions.
The Council leapt into the breach, adopting its common position, which recognises the designation 'chocolate' even for products with other vegetable fats added.
At second reading, however, the European Parliament can thwart this directive which would have serious implications if it were applied.
ACP cocoa-producing countries would experience a considerable reduction in their market and their income.
This would involve more than USD 300 million for the Ivory Coast alone.
We have therefore tabled a motion to reject the Council' s common position.
Mr President, consumer protection is our prime concern.
The issue of the directive on the production and sale of chocolate is thus just as important.
The European Union must lead the way in simplification, confidence, authenticity and respect for differences.
Since 1973, European legislation has stipulated that the designation 'chocolate' must be given to products containing only cocoa and cocoa butter.
Some Member States have enjoyed a derogation from this law since acceding to the Union.
In a shop in my own home town, in Reims, I wish to be able to purchase a bar of chocolate produced according to the gastronomic traditions of my own country, without having to inspect the product on all sides and to put my glasses on in order to check its quality.
Then, a few years ago, Great Britain, which gave the world meat served with jam, hooligans and Adam Smith, started to feed cows on cadavers and to manufacture chocolate without cocoa.
Just as in the case of port we are not told 'South African counterfeit' , for cocoa we are not told 'counterfeit' .
It is a legal obligation with regard to the Ivory Coast and African farmers.
In the light of these principles, we are unable to endorse the aims of this directive.
To reinforce the point again: there is already chocolate containing the disputed 5% of other vegetable fats, and there are countries where it is prohibited to add these fats, with the exception of cocoa butter.
The same could apply to chocolate as I see it.
There is an open letter that expresses the thought that the chocolate directive is the last nail in the coffin of 11 million people in western Africa.
Rightly or wrongly, it is said that this Parliament should not accept any amendments at the risk of jeopardising this delicate compromise.
Each common position always strikes a delicate balance between national interests, environmental conditions and social considerations.
It is wonderful, but millions of people in Europe also enjoy the British product.
The harsh fact is that none of us, Belgians, French or British, are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful.
It means proper information for consumers and, because a number of countries have so far only been familiar with chocolate in which cocoa butter is used as vegetable fat, it may be relevant for consumers in these countries to learn that another vegetable fat has been used.
On the other hand, I do not think that it can, or ought to be, implied that chocolate in which, for example, shea nuts are used as vegetable fat is necessarily of poorer quality than chocolate in which the vegetable fat used is cocoa butter.
A ban of this kind is the only means through which we can give developing countries a guarantee that they can go on at all exporting the goods which they produce by natural means.
Indeed there would be a great deal to say about the attitude of some delegations within the Council.
The consumer will not be able to make an informed choice.
This is what we achieved in the European Parliament at first reading.
That is why big industry is so much in favour of them.
Thank you very much, Mrs Grossetête.
Cocoa and chocolate products (continuation) Mr President, Mr De Croo, after debating for 25 years, we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate, such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject.
Moreover, if we must have harmonisation, for a consumer that is ever more demanding about the quality of what he eats and who, incidentally, has asked for nothing and has absolutely nothing to gain in this matter, in my view, the absolute minimum would be to limit the quality label or any other label of excellence to 100% cacao chocolate, real chocolate.
If the European Union lays down rules governing the production of chocolate, then these should be geared to protecting the cocoa farmers in the third world, especially in Africa.
If I could share one brief historical fact with the House concerning my own country: the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the UK was in 1657 when a Frenchman opened a shop in London.
So if it was legal in 1657 for a Frenchman to sell his chocolate in London, can I suggest to the House that, some 350 years later, it should at long last be legal for an Englishman, or indeed any other EU national, to sell his chocolate throughout the EU including the country of the rapporteur.
If we direct developments in such a way as to create a situation in which there is only the one tradition of chocolate manufacture within the EU, cocoa-producing countries will be in danger of losing out since there would be a great risk of total chocolate consumption within the EU appreciably decreasing.
Let us not, therefore, make the same mistake as Dom Mintoff.
The proposal that information about the contents of certain forms of chocolate should be provided on the front of the packaging is discriminatory and completely unjustified.
We now have the opportunity to bring the 25 year-old European chocolate war to an honourable end for all the parties concerned.
Mr President, I am Belgian and I am not opposed to the common position.
The producers of cocoa beans, namely the small farmers in the poor third-world countries, are vulnerable.
We need to keep a close eye on them and this is why I am in favour of a study being carried out by the Commission on the effects of the directive, no more than two years after the introduction of this directive.
Through the common position, the free movement of cocoa and chocolate products was introduced, but with strict conditions governing production and consumer information.
They are all of tropical origin and produced in ACP countries.
The presence of these substances must be indicated separately but in the same area of the packaging as the product name and list of ingredients.
The common position involves a real compromise and is a clear advance on the legislation currently applicable.
As you will all remember, during the last part-session here in Strasbourg, the European Parliament debated and adopted a resolution in which it condemned and stated its concern at the difficult conditions under which journalists work in Angola.
Following consultation with other members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I appeal to you to postpone the voting on this regulation until tomorrow.
Hence, I would ask you, as rapporteur, to follow my recommendation for postponement. (The vote was postponed until the following day) Recommendation for second reading (A5-0048/2000), on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries [12487/1/1999 - C5-0014/2000 - 1999/0015(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Fernández Martín).
Just to repeat what my colleague, Poul Nielson, stated yesterday, the Commission's position on the amendments is as follows.
The Commission supports Amendment No 11, in principle, and supports the following amendments: Amendments Nos 4, 7, 9, 10, 13, 14 and 15.
The European Union and its Member States in fact have some responsibility for the conservation of an ecosystem which is essential to the environmental balance of the entire planet.
Our responsibility also stems from our status as consumers: many consumer products in Europe come from these regions and generally have an adverse impact on the forest.
Finally, the European Union actually includes large areas of tropical forest within the territory of its Member States, particularly France.
The department of French Guyana, in particular, is almost entirely covered by this type of vegetation.
In particular, the important thing is to enable real development in these areas, while respecting the culture and traditions of the inhabitants, without setting them in stone in a purely passive ecological conservation mode.
The European Union can make a contribution in this field if it can manage to coordinate efforts and know-how without seeking to control or foist a single strategy on Member States.
Recommendation for second reading of the Bouwman report (A5-0043/2000) The recent wreck of the Erika oil tanker off the coast of Brittany increased the awareness among the general public of the problem, among others, of 'degassing' , the illegal discharge of waste oils, detritus or other waste associated with vessel cargoes, which some unscrupulous ship' s captains undertake while at sea.
Just today, in fact, the European Parliament is examining, at second reading, a proposed directive which has been under discussion for two years, which draws the implications of the 1973 Marpol International Convention, ratified by all Member States, to the Community level.
We know only too well the pressure of competition in maritime transport.
It forms part of the overall Community strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities, adequate for the needs of vessels.
The system generally applied is the one governed by the 'polluter pays' principle, a principle which is outstanding in terms of its inefficiency!
Such an alternative is offered to us in an amendment which I supported.
This system would inevitably encourage vessels to dispose of their operational waste and cargo residues in port rather than degassing at sea, a deplorable practice which is commonplace nowadays.
Everyone knows that some vessels even took advantage of the pollution caused by the wreck of the Erika to discharge their waste at sea.
There are, however, examples of good practice, because the countries around the Baltic Sea have already been operating in this way since 1998.
This is why the European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, confirming the outcome of the first reading in the previous legislative period, have proposed that every vessel entering a Member State port should bear 90% of the costs of waste disposal and management, regardless of the actual use made of the facilities.
If the port facilities were in fact financed (at a high level) only by the vessels actually using them, then there would be grounds for fearing that many vessels would avoid these charges, since dumping waste at sea would prove less costly.
In the last week of February, 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the Erika alone.
For all these reasons the UEN Group, recalling its agreement with the Council' s common position, is now opposing the text of this report which has twisted the principles of the common position.
Recommendation for second reading of the Piecyk report (A5-0040/2000) - (FR) The European Parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles.
It is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles, the volume of which is constantly increasing.
The Convention has already started the process of drafting the Charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding.
A strong vote for this resolution will assist the Convention to complete its task and set criteria for this Parliament' s final appraisal of the results.
The drafting of the Charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle, but it is crucial that the Charter reflects modern European society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity.
There is also a controversy over the relationship between the new European Union Charter and the existing European Convention of Human Rights.
Dubious though some of the things emanating from this continent may have been, in terms of democracy and human rights this continent has sent out a message of indisputable global resonance.
That is why we cannot rest content with the fact that all Member States have signed up to the European Convention on Human Rights when the European Union has not.
That is why it should no longer be deemed appropriate for EU law to infringe national law, the constitutional law of the Member States that is, when the Union itself does not have a clear and comprehensive system of fundamental rights.
It should therefore disturb us that fresh fundamental rights conflicts are breaking out in the spheres of information and communication science and biotechnology, but Europe does not have a consensus on fundamental rights with which to provide answers.
The European Parliament has a long, unbroken tradition when it comes to defending fundamental and human rights.
These demands are in keeping with this tradition and they are in the nature of things, in the nature of fundamental rights; in other words, no rights are to be promised unless they are to be made law for the citizens.
All the policies, institutions and bodies of the European Union must be subject to this Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We cannot do without this Charter of Fundamental Rights if we are to construct a European democracy in this supranational area.
Human dignity is sacrosanct! . (IT) Madam President, the European Parliament is at last about to vote on the report, which has taken a great deal of time to prepare, on the drafting of the European Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights, and I hope that the patient work of the rapporteurs will be rewarded in this Chamber.
A catalogue of fundamental rights which are recognised as binding by the European institutions also sets out the duty of the citizens to respect them.
The European Union is a civil, legal area of freedom, which is not just economic freedom but also freedom of security and justice, in a huge territory which, in the past, has been the site of repeated bloodshed.
I hope that we are to have a modernised version of the wording of Article 6 of the Council of Europe' s convention in which our already existing rights are listed in a summarised and concentrated form, with modern biotechnology and data protection added.
Madam President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I will mainly focus on the issue of social fundamental rights.
These rights should therefore be included in the first part of the charter.
In the case of other social fundamental rights, there should be a link between the way fundamental rights are worded and the effects thereof on the individual.
No more so, in actual fact, than is the guarantee of freedom of expression or a fair hearing.
I would also like to comment on international treaties with regard to social fundamental rights.
In Amendment No 22 to the Duff/Voggenhuber report, I argued that a reference to the ECHR should be placed in Article 6 of the Treaty of the Union, and that a reference to the to the ESC should be placed in the ILO' s and the United Nations' core Conventions.
Another amendment, regarding a more far-reaching alternative, Amendment No 23, stipulates that the ECHR, as well these social international standards should be acceded to.
These legally binding instruments have proven to be a shot in the arm in the equal treatment of men and women in the Member States.
An explicit recognition in the forthcoming European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights of a wholesale ban on gender-based discrimination and with it, inclusion in the treaties themselves, would then also create the necessary scope for a new EU policy to promote the position of women in all relevant social fields.
Madam President, in many discussions on fundamental rights, the rights of women are often relegated to a specific rights' category.
The aim of this report is to give our fellow Members, who are members of the Convention, a clear and specific mandate detailing the expectations of the European Parliament and to give our fellow citizens clear evidence of our commitment to ensuring that their fundamental rights are properly respected by the institutions of the Union.
The area of competence of the Committee on Petitions justifies its interest in the framing of the charter.
So our opinion stresses two key points which the rapporteurs, moreover, seem to share.
Firstly, the necessary visibility of the charter as a point of reference for the citizens.
This necessitates clear and concise drafting within a single, comprehensible text.
The natural outcome of this determination is the inclusion of the future charter among the Treaties.
In conclusion, let me say that it is necessary to make a qualitative leap in the protection of fundamental rights.
Madam President, no doubt the Council would like to hear the opinion of the political Groups, which seems to me to be very healthy.
Madam President, we are holding this debate at exactly the right time.
The convention which is drafting the Charter on Fundamental Rights has begun its work and I believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed.
It is therefore important for this Parliament to establish a mandate for the members of the delegation representing it and also to establish - and this seems to me to be essential - which political objectives this Parliament will pursue by means of this Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I believe that Parliament should send a very clear message: the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions.
The report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this Parliament are.
However, it seems to me essential that Parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the Charter.
It is also important to state, as this report does, that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions.
I repeat that what we want is to provide the European citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of Community law.
I believe that, by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights, as this resolution does, or affirming their innovative nature, we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the European citizens.
I therefore hope, Madam President, that tomorrow' s vote will support the rapporteurs' good work with a massive vote in favour of this report.
The resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is certainly not intended to give a binding mandate to our fellow Members, myself included, in the context of the convention, since we have already commenced work.
In the first place, what do we expect to obtain from this exercise?
Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, if the objective were to assemble a convention, original in form and composition, as we have today, in order merely to come up with an announcement of a text bearing the signatures of the presidents of the three institutions, then I think we would be on the wrong track.
My second point is to do with its content.
Our resolution does not say much with regard to content, but Parliament has already had, on at least three occasions, the opportunity to state what it expected from a charter on fundamental rights.
Secondly, if the convention must confine itself to regurgitating all or part of the European Convention on Human Rights in order to void the question of whether or not the Union should adhere to it of all meaning, then I believe once again that we would be on the wrong track.
But, these specifically are the issues involved in the work which will be carried out within the convention and, on behalf of my Group, I wish to state the importance we shall accord the charter' s content in terms of such questions.
In this spirit, I fully support the proposal which Ieke van den Burg has just made: if the Union is questioning its adherence to the European Convention on Human Rights, then it must also question its adherence to the European Social Charter.
It would enable fundamental rights to be recognised in due form, and given the place they deserve in our internal legal system, a system which today is observed with a great deal of attention by citizens within the European Union, certainly, but also by the countries who wish to join the Union.
Fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days.
Finally, Madam President, it is essential for the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, for Strasbourg must become stronger, not weaker.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be an essential stage in the construction of Europe.
France, the self-proclaimed home of human rights, must absolutely take advantage of its presidency during the second half of 2000 in order to table this amendment of the Treaties.
For example, how acceptable is it that an Algerian who has worked and paid taxes in France for thirty years may not vote in local elections whilst a European resident for six months in another European country can take part?
It is high time that we tackled these shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights.
Firstly, because after many years we are at last getting down to a project that many committed citizens, non-governmental organisations, and various political forces, not to mention this House, have long been calling for.
Firstly: in terms of standards, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must not fall behind the fundamental rights in existence in our countries, as it must not fall behind those enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights.
Secondly, it is only natural that the Charter should encompass all the policies of the Union; Community law as well as the second and third pillars, and, as such, make it incumbent on all bodies and institutions to preserve fundamental rights in the course of their decision-making and in the development and implementation of policies.
Thirdly - and I cannot do other than support Mrs Boumediene-Thiery from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in this - the Charter of Fundamental Rights must establish rights for all those who live in the Union, and not, for example, create first and second-class rights for first and second-class citizens respectively.
We already have some concerns in this respect, particularly in view of the fact that practically all the amendments relating to this were rejected following the votes in committee.
We also hope that this Parliament will set down a clear political marker in this matter during tomorrow' s vote in plenary sitting.
Madam President, my speech is going to be rather different to that of the previous speakers, since I should like to demonstrate that the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the Citizens of the European Union, as outlined in the European Parliament report by Duff and Voggenhuber, would in fact be a charter that restricted fundamental rights even more.
This report in fact proposes including the citizens' rights which have until now been determined at national level in a standard, detailed and binding European charter, whose application would be monitored and hence interpreted by the European Court of Justice.
I should point out, before going on, that I am not sure that all the other participants representing the Heads of State or Government and the national parliaments within the body established by the Cologne Council to prepare a preliminary draft charter are in fact in agreement with this position of the European Parliament.
And how right they are, for this detailed, mandatory charter, which would give standardised definitions of citizens' rights for the whole of Europe, would impose a rigid legal framework enclosing each nation in regulations which were not entirely its own.
It would end in a situation where a nation could no longer amend the rights of its own citizens without obtaining the agreement of fourteen other nations, a suffocating formula, ill-suited to the nature and the interests of Europe, as I explained in the minority opinion appended to the report.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group therefore considers that the charter, if it must exist, should be extremely brief and should present only the essential values, the fundamental principles of the countries of Europe, in the form of a political declaration.
Every country must continue to be able to choose its regulations freely in accordance with its own culture and development.
I like to remember that, right here, in France, a couple of centuries ago, the first moves were made to define these rights, and only in North America, during the same period, were these rights actually given expression, apart from in the works of philosophers and academics, in legal documents such as the State Constitutions.
This Charter is important because, although we do have other conventions and treaties, human rights are always under threat, even within the Union.
In particular, certain rules of some of the penal codes should be altered, such as article 141 of the Italian Penal Code, which goes so far as to punish acts of secession with life imprisonment.
Fundamental rights must be secured where they can be protected as effectively as possible and where they can be embedded in the social fabric, that is to say within the Member States.
A legally binding charter will inevitably affect fundamental rights provisions in Member States and will undermine the role and the authority of the ECHR and the Court in Strasbourg.
Mr President, dismayed as I am by the fact that 14 Member States have prejudged Austria, I regard the proposed Charter of Fundamental Rights as an opportunity to bring the European Union closer to the people.
At the same time, however, the impression has been created in the public arena that the European Union does not even respect the fundamental right - as it were - of an individual State to form a government with sovereign power.
Likewise, the impression has been created that 14 Member States have failed to play by the rules they themselves adopted, and have violated their obligations towards solidarity.
Mr President, for years now, the European Parliament and our group have been asking for a proper description of fundamental rights of the European citizens in the European treaties.
The request was made at the time of the Treaty of Maastricht and the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The charter should at least deal with the citizens' fundamental rights, the political rights, the social rights and, in my opinion, the rights of minorities too, and it should form a supplement to what we already have.
I will probably submit a text on this matter myself.
The European Parliament declared itself fully in favour of this move, convinced that this is the way to guarantee the legal status of the Charter and to consolidate the protection of rights at a legal level as well, awarding jurisdiction to the Court of Justice of the European Union.
As we are all aware, from the European Parliament' s perspective, this should represent a step towards the constitutionalisation of the Union.
The incorporation of the Charter of Rights into the Treaties is the logical result of the decision taken in Cologne, which was taken for the benefit of the citizens, that they might have a part in the construction of Europe and fully identify with the plans for the Union, its principles, its values and its institutions.
In our eagerness to make things right, we are, however, in danger of doing a lot of damage.
The EU must not start competing with the existing authorities for resolving disputes, such as the Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg.
In my view, the EU' s Court of Justice should therefore be kept away from the project concerning fundamental rights.
In the brief time that I have, I would like to concentrate on one specific point which the previous speaker has mentioned, as indeed have other speakers.
That is the potential conflict which could arise between this Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights.
Let us not forget that each Member State has ratified the European Convention on Human Rights, has incorporated it into its own national law and is bound by the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
Also, in case Members do not know it, under a strict legal interpretation any EU legislation supersedes any constitutional provision or any other national legislative provision in any one of the Member States.
Therefore, if this Charter were to be incorporated into the Treaties, it would supersede the European Convention on Human Rights, it would supersede any national constitutional provisions and would also supersede any national legislative provisions.
Therefore, whilst it is important that each of us must stand up for the inalienable freedoms and rights enjoyed by each individual citizen, as well as by groups of citizens, I think there is a better way to deal with this problem than through a Charter, namely through the incorporation of the Convention into European Union law and its enforcement at national Member State level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposed charter and some other reports which this House will be debating tomorrow morning, we have now entered a new period of European construction, the 'Dadaist' period of European construction, which scorns reality and perpetually seeks moral justification for itself.
It is a pretext, when the very title of the proposed charter speaks of the fundamental rights 'of' the European Union instead of fundamental rights 'within' the European Union.
Mr President, the question we have heard several times in the course of this debate is this: what exactly is the point of this Charter of Human Rights, when there is already one, and even several universal conventions on human rights and a European Convention on Human Rights, and human rights are included in the constitutions of all the Member States, those of the candidate countries and, generally, in the constitutions of all countries, even those who do not respect human rights?
Of course, the Charter of Human Rights is the first step in this direction, but, as with everything which characterises the construction of Europe, the approach is indirect, concealed, tortuous and, I might even say, 'Jesuitical' .
I feel that this is a problem which as yet we can only see the premises of, but, in my view, it is absolutely essential to see the premises in order to be able subsequently to follow the thread.
Some have argued that the Charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the European Union.
Many citizens do not know the rights that exist today.
I believe we have a team of 60 politicians working on the Convention because it is our duty to identify gaps in existing rights, to identify weaknesses in existing structures and to show the political will to correct those weaknesses.
So the Charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights, and it must be binding on the institutions of the European Union.
There needs to be a list of rights which will be directly upheld by the courts, but there also needs to be another list of general rights which the Community institutions and others will have to take into account when drafting policies; some in the Court, some simply as background forming a valuable basis when we are taking other decisions.
What is clear, and what unites most people in this Chamber who want such a Charter, is that it must be in the Treaties.
If it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the Treaties of the European Union.
Citizens can mainly stand as candidates in elections and vote in another EU country.
During this past century, Europe has experienced two terrible wars, immeasurable tragedies, but, at the same time, it has witnessed unrestrainable civil, cultural and social progress.
It is a bitter surprise to find that there is no specific, explicit reference in this document to those social rights which are, in actual fact, the most important part of the immense democratic process which became established in Europe during the course of the century.
First and foremost, a document such as this cannot fail to include a specific, indisputable reference to the right to work.
Yes, social rights are mentioned, but they should be clearly and practically defined: the right to work, the right to health, the right to education, the right to housing, to a pension, the right, that is, to life, to a life where all have equal opportunities, according to those principles of liberté [freedom] and égalité [equality] which have played such a major part in our extensive history.
We oppose the charter, however, because in the idea behind it, we detect a kind of Trojan horse for federalism, a political trap which would entail other serious political and legal consequences for the Member States and peoples of Europe.
There is a very simple reason why the European Union does not need a Charter of Fundamental Rights: it does not have a fundamental rights problem.
The Europe to which we belong is even, to a certain extent, the cradle of the culture of fundamental rights.
The appropriate setting in which to enshrine fundamental rights is the constitutional law of each nation state.
The appropriate setting for achieving international legal harmonisation and solid advances in the international protection of human rights is the agreements and conventions ratified by the Member States in as wide a geographical area as possible.
However, the report by Duff and Voggenhuber has given us cause for this today.
The second danger is that it may give the European Union an excuse to continue not being legally bound by basic decisions or regulations of international bodies, such as the European Convention on Human Rights or the various decisions of the International Labour Organisation.
Fundamental rights of the modern age have their origins in the Magna Carta Libertatum of 1215, the Petition of Rights of 1628, the Habeas Corpus Act of 1679, the Bill of Rights of 1689 and, lastly, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen during the French Revolution.
Applied to Europe this means that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights must protect the citizens of the European Union against the interference and intervention of European institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens.
Furthermore, our group hopes that a written European catalogue of fundamental rights will put European integration on a firmer legal-ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens.
At the same time, however, this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights, which are not legally enforceable at European level.
Mr President, the rapporteurs Duff and Voggenhuber, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have done some sterling work.
It concerns the question, raised repeatedly today, as to whether the European Union should sign up to the European Convention on Human Rights.
The European Convention on Human Rights does not fulfil this task.
We call upon the Convention on Fundamental Rights, the 62 politicians that David Martin mentioned, to take up this task.
For example, I was speaking recently with some very senior judges in Germany who were clear, on the basis of the history and traditions of their country, that these matters should be contained in a justiciable charter.
But my own country has a very different tradition in this respect, as our own Prime Minister has made clear, and it is not part of the United Kingdom' s tradition to safeguard the citizen in this way.
Family rights and protection that have been provided for in legislation elsewhere in this respect should be reproduced in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
It is clear that there is a great fear among many people, particularly the people who elected me, that this Charter will override national constitutions, in particular as regards the support and protection of fundamental institutions such as family, marriage and the protection of life, born and unborn.
It is good to remember that Europe has shared a common position throughout its history regarding the importance of supporting and protecting family and marriage.
This is enshrined in all our constitutions as well as the constitutions of those accession countries joining the European Union in enlargement.
I welcome the reference in our Charter to family life.
Part 1 of Article 9 states: "Everyone shall have the right to found a family".
It says it is inspired by Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights which states "men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and found a family according to national laws".
Society recognises marriage not on moral grounds but because it recognises on a rational basis the stability it affords society socially and economically as well as securing future generations.
In the interests of best practice - and whilst it is increasingly difficult to define family and we need great sensitivity and compassion in this area - we should not throw away the traditional family unit as the fundamental unit we strive towards, indeed we should uphold it.
Point 3 of Article 9 states, "the Union shall ensure the protection of children".
I support this, but I would strongly suggest that we incorporate into the wording of point 3 that first and foremost, the Union will support the family as the primary and natural educator and protector of the child as is their duty.
As it states in the Convention, "the family as the fundamental group of society and natural environment for the growth and wellbeing of its members, particularly children, should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance to fully assume its responsibility within the Community".
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current presidency of the European Union believes that the plan to establish a Charter of Fundamental Rights is an extremely important step in creating a Community of values which will act as a focus for taking the process of political union further.
Many people are wondering how far we can go in this process of establishing a standard set of values and principles in this way, which would guarantee every citizen within the Union a set of rights that would strengthen their sense of belonging to an area with a shared civilisation.
The enlargement of the European Union to cover new countries, which is an ethical imperative and an essential strategy for stability and peace in our continent, will unite us with states which have very diverse political cultures and which, in many cases, have young and untried institutions and structures.
Do not think, however, that this idea of a charter or a body of principles is merely a type of safeguard mechanism in the face of new Member States, that is to say a kind of defence against other countries.
This is a real problem and one of which we should all be aware.
We cannot run the risk that when this charter comes into force a new area of legal uncertainty will be created.
This also brings us to the issue, which has surfaced once again following Amsterdam, of the Union possibly signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights.
We will have to accept the consequences whichever answer we opt for, and all the more so given that many of us genuinely feel that the institutions and the institutions alone are the real object of this new Charter.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is, in this context, and this is how we shall view it until the end of our Presidency, a vital element in producing a more balanced result at this conference, which will in fact also cover other issues, notably the issue of defence and security.
I am convinced that the Union will accordingly accept its responsibilities towards the citizens of Europe, and will take a political initiative with a view to addressing the future political and moral legitimacy of the European Union itself.
The goal just outlined both by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber and by the representative of the Council Presidency will require us to make every effort to ensure that work in the Convention drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights is concluded in time to be taken into consideration, both by the Intergovernmental Conference and by the Summit of Heads of State and Government at the end of this year.
Once again, the Commission would like to make four key points quite clear to Parliament.
The first is that in broad terms, the Commission agrees with and shares the European Parliament' s objectives with regard to the legal force of the charter, as regards calling for it to be incorporated into the Treaties and as regards the full range of laws to be incorporated into the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The truth is that the Commission, as stated in Paragraph 14 of the resolution tabled by the European Parliament, takes the view that the legal force of the charter should be determined by the Nice European Council.
However, the Commission believes that the process of drafting the charter must yield a clear and concise text perfectly accessible to the European public, but which is also drafted in rigorous legal terms that can be accepted as legally binding.
Although the Court of Justice of the European Communities ruled in 1996 that the Community could not sign the European Convention on Human Rights, I must emphasise that it made such a ruling because there was no legal basis in the Treaties for the Community to do so.
There is no inherent contradiction between the Union having a Charter of Fundamental Rights and, at the same time, signing the European Convention on Human Rights.
Furthermore, I recommend that you carefully read the contribution of the observer representing the European Court of Human Rights in the Convention responsible for drafting the Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In the statement by the Court of Human Rights itself, the Court' s representative expresses his support for the idea that the Union should have a Charter of Fundamental Rights and, secondly, that the Union should sign the European Convention on Human Rights.
With regard to the issue of a conflict between the rulings of the Court in Strasbourg and rulings in Luxembourg, it is worth noting that today, under Community law, the Court of Justice of the European Communities always refers to the European Convention on Human Rights, to actual decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, as the source of inspiration for decisions by the Court of Justice of the European Communities on fundamental rights issues.
This means that we are not talking about a revolution, but merely about enshrining in law what is today already practised in the Court of Justice of the European Communities in its relations with the European Convention on Human Rights itself and the Strasbourg Court.
Lastly, I would like to say that in our opinion, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights is not intended to replace either national constitutions or the European Convention on Human Rights.
I am sure that under this action plan, with closer collaboration between the Commission and the European Parliament, we will have a legal instrument that will banish the spectre created by the fear of contradictions and the spectre of the European superstate, but which will above all ensure that there is a legal system, based on fundamental rights, for the benefit of those on whose behalf we are all here - the citizens of our Union.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Additional Commission contribution to the IGC The next item is the Commission communication "Additional Commission contribution to the IGC on institutional reform: qualified majority for taxation and social security aspects of the internal market".
Moreover, Mr President, if I wish to do my job properly, I shall have to return to the committee at 5.45 p.m., as scheduled, in order to present another matter which I am responsible for, to do with the Community support framework for Portugal, while at the same time I must also answer another question in the following debate.
I would like to offer a word of thanks to two of my fellow Commissioners, Frits Bolkestein and Anna Diamantopoulou, for the support they have given me in drawing up this text.
I did mention before this House our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date.
We had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved, according to which, within the Union, decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote.
We had also excluded decisions incompatible with the objectives of the internal market or which may give rise to distortions of competition.
This is the point we have discussed today in order to complete our opinion.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to remind you that the proposals which you are to receive in a few moments, or in a few hours, do not include any transfer of jurisdiction, nor do they constitute an action programme in essence.
These proposals concern the methods for decision making in matters of taxation and social security.
Ever since the Treaty of Rome, the Treaties have provided for Community action in both these areas.
in this matter, we are confronted with an important part of Community legislation which has been developed since the 1970s.
The fact that the Council may henceforth update this legislation by qualified majority, in order to take account of the development of, for example, e-commerce, can certainly not be considered a transfer of jurisdiction.
This is the first point that I wished to make clear.
The second point I would like to make is that the Commission does not wish to impose the levelling of national tax systems or social security systems.
The matter we wish to deal with is how to maintain what already exists and share it with all the new Member States.
Let us not forget that in the exercise we are currently involved in, in these negotiations, it is a matter of knowing how the European Union will operate with 18, 20, 25, 27 or even 28 Member States, in order to ensure that each of these states, the ones who are already members and the ones about to join us, may get the most out of the single market, a market whose treaties have made a driving force of the economic and social development of Europe.
Finally, the Commission wishes to make it clear that this additional presentation does not encompass its entire programme for years to come in all areas.
The Commission opinion issued on 26 January considered that, because they reflect the fundamental orientations of the national legislator in matters of economic and social policy and solidarity, taxation and social security are largely decisive in the national political choices of citizens.
The Commission therefore considers it justifiable to retain unanimity in these areas as a basic principle.
But this first principle gives rise to a second, which is as follows: qualified majority to enable measures to be adopted which are more directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market.
We know, and you know, that some national legislation in the field of taxation and social security may, by virtue of its content or nature, have repercussions for the operation of the internal market.
The Commission considers that the Community must be able to adopt, by qualified majority, those measures which are most directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market.
That is the second principle.
Finally, my third principle, we must in future select the best instrument to respect subsidiarity.
But this selection of the best instrument must be limited to that which is strictly necessary.
This is in any case, ladies and gentlemen, what has been going on for almost forty years in the field of social security.
Still, before answering your questions, I would like briefly to mention the content of the proposals as you will read them.
Regarding direct taxation, we propose the qualified majority in order to coordinate the campaign against fraud and tax evasion and in order to ensure proper handling of situations involving the legislations of several Member States.
Regarding indirect taxation, in order to combat fraud, and modernise and simplify the acquis in the light of economic developments, in order to take account of the objectives of the Treaty in environmental matters, we propose to act by qualified majority decisions.
We further propose to retain unanimity for decisions on tax rates and the points of taxation.
My fourth point, this time, regarding the coordination of legislation in matters of social security, we propose qualified majority voting in order to update and adapt the conditions intended to avoid penalising people, not just workers.
Finally, with regard to the minimum requirements for social security, there is one possibility that we propose to extend to social security, which already exists for other areas of social policy, which involves adopting minimum requirements by qualified majority vote.
Mr President, let me just say one final word to explain the state of mind I have continued to work in, as we had done under President Prodi in adopting our opinion on 26 January.
Let me confirm, finally, that, in addition to this extra presentation, I shall be returning to this House to give further presentations of the Commission opinion on the whole of the reform of the European institutions prior to enlargement, as we did on 26 January.
Mr President, firstly I would like to welcome the Commission's approach in general to the IGC.
It is something that affects Member States and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the Community moves into these fields.
Similarly, the issue of harmonisation against coordination: one man's coordination can be another's harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work.
I wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough.
Just now, ladies and gentlemen, I expressed my concern in this document, and in the discussions we will be having, to avoid ideology, to keep to a precise approach.
So let me repeat that our watchword was to say that qualified majority should be extended to everything that directly affected the operation of the internal market and which might compromise its proper operation in an enlarged Europe.
Further to this general answer, with thanks for your remarks, I shall be attentive to your criticisms or your proposals when you have had time to peruse this document.
We all know of course that the European Parliament takes the clear view that qualified majority voting must apply as the rule and unanimity as the exception.
Nonetheless, you have asked me, broadly speaking, whether the great VAT modernisation project might be adopted with your proposals by qualified majority?
Finally, I would like to thank Professor Tsatsos for having mentioned the connection between these proposals and the role of the European Parliament.
Since I have been given the opportunity, let me confirm that one of the Commission proposals is to associate codecision directly to all measures decided by qualified majority as soon as legislative measures are involved.
It is evident that in these matters affecting the internal market and its proper operation - social security or taxation - there are legitimate grounds for the European Parliament to express its opinion and adopt a position.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, I am extremely pleased that the Commission has produced this initiative.
Commissioner, you are proceeding with the utmost caution, and that is an approach which I support.
With reference to the argument of subsidiarity, I should simply like to tell you that, in my opinion, it is also important to put forward the argument of citizenship in fiscal matters.
The concept of citizenship is common property, on behalf of which we must move beyond failures such as Helsinki.
My second question is: does the instrument that you are proposing in the area of environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting?
My third question is: would the instrument you are proposing enable the Council to put an end, by qualified majority decision, to the tax havens which exist within the European Union?
I am sure that none of us here will object to fraud and tax evasion being tackled but I must say that it is necessary to maintain the confidence of citizens in the Union, and I think that many Member State governments will be wishing to look very carefully at any extension of QMV before agreeing to it.
We are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation, but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the Member States to follow.
Mr President, I can imagine that according to some Members, the citizens are sensitive to European intervention in tax and social matters.
I can tell you that in my country, many citizens lie awake at night, worrying about the fact that Europe leaves social and tax matters well alone on account of this unanimity.
In order to facilitate the task of reforming the institutions, we wish to distinguish the everyday administration of policies (the normal work of the Commission, and we have regular meetings on the subject) from the reform in the context of the accession of thirteen new Member States.
Obviously, the Monti package is related to the proper operation of the internal market.
We do wish to include them as beneficiaries of social policy (Articles 42 and 137, which are to be subject to qualified majority voting).
Once again, regardless of ideological considerations, we have reordered the paragraphs of the new Article 137 in order to subject to qualified majority voting everything which affects, from our objective point of view, the proper operation of the internal market: social security and protection of workers, worker protection in the event of cancellation of the work contract, collective representation and defence of the interests of workers, including codetermination, working conditions for third country nationals legally resident on Community territory, and financial contributions for the promotion of employment and job creation without prejudice to the terms of the Social Fund.
We should form a Community, and I do not feel that we can subsequently come back to this sensitive issue if we do not resolve it now.
We therefore propose that it should be possible to adopt these minimum requirements by qualified majority vote, and not by unanimity, in all the areas I have mentioned.
We wish to initiate this debate, and to fuel and feed it on the basis of these proposals, as I undertook, in order to facilitate to some extent, the difficult negotiations within the Intergovernmental Conference.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0201/2000).
That position recalled that the fisheries agreement which expired in November 1999 applied to Morocco's fishing zone which is defined as waters over which Morocco has sovereignty or jurisdiction.
This definition does not in any way affect the status of Western Sahara and its coastal waters.
This is a matter which falls under international law, and in particular various UN resolutions, and the responsibility of the UN Secretary-General, whose efforts to find a just, equitable and durable solution have been consistently supported by the European Union.
However, according to international law, it should be considered that Morocco has control over that territory, although it in no way has sovereignty over it.
I agree absolutely that we should reach a fisheries agreement with Morocco which is favourable to the interests of the European Union fishing fleet, in particular the Spanish fishing industry.
As I am sure the honourable gentleman knows, we strongly support that initiative and if there is any way that we can assist the UN Secretary-General, then we would certainly want to do so.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 40 and 113 will be taken together, at the request of the Commission.
Question No 40 by (H-0241/00): Subject: Landmines In a recent statement in the UN General Assembly the Council Presidency stated that the EU remains the main contributor to de-mining programmes worldwide.
Over the past eight years, European Community support for mine action has exceeded EUR 180 million.
The funding of mine action from the geographic programmes and their budget lines will continue.
Mine clearance and other forms of mine action are often a preliminary step to any sensible development programme.
Therefore they should form part of national or regional reconstruction and rehabilitation plans.
The new regulation and the special budget line will support and complement the geographic line by providing the overall policy framework and by functioning as a general reserve and a source for funding for international programmes.
The resources available for EU mine actions should remain at least at the same level in real terms as we have achieved over the last few years, that is about EUR 30 million a year.
Finally, the European Union is recognised as one of the leading contributors to mine action within the international community.
The entry into force of the Ottawa Convention a year ago provided us with a forceful new instrument and a set of ambitious targets for the years to come.
With the funding and coordinating mechanism under the new regulation and communication, we are well placed to take on that challenge.
I only have one additional question, which is whether the Commissioner would submit to us an annual report on the Commission' s actions in this field? - The new regulation provides for the Commission to submit an annual report to the Council and to Parliament on its actions the previous year by 30 April of the following year.
A breakdown of the mine-action funding per country by the European Union from 1992 to 1999, as well as for projects in the last year, is attached to the communication and we will continue to provide that sort of financial information as well.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this comprehensive answer.
We intend establishing a multi-annual work plan.
I should like to mention one other area which is of concern to them, even though they are not always so directly involved in it, namely the whole area of research, on which we spent EUR 17 million out of more than EUR 40 million in the last full year in 1998.
They have a great deal to contribute to this important work.
Question No 41 by (H-0212/00): Subject: 'Dialogue on Europe' initiative The President of the Commission intends to launch this initiative on 8 March 2000.
The Commission considers that all the institutional matters liable to have a connection with the work of the Intergovernmental Conference should in fact come within the scope of the debate which has been initiated.
This dialogue on Europe will be developed with all national and regional institutions, but also with opinion formers, the media and organisations in civil society.
As on other occasions, such as the Intergovernmental Conference of 1996, this Parliament must offer the Commission its support in order to monitor information activities.
Last Wednesday we had a very successful launch of the European information campaign involving Commissioners and Members of the European Parliament.
I would like the Commissioner to reassure me that, when the campaign is decentralised, information offices in the Member States will involve Members of the European Parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course.
The Commission does intend to involve Members of the European Parliament at grass roots level in the Dialogue on Europe initiative.
Indeed, no later than this evening there is to be a coordination meeting between the Commission administration and that of the European Parliament in order to determine the practicalities of the approach to be adopted.
The simple answer, Mr President, is 'yes' .
This report formed the basis for the overall assessment of the fifth environmental action programme.
This is largely due to the fact that rapid growth in a number of economic sectors is ruining our endeavours to reduce the impact on the environment.
The Commission awaits the European Parliament' s opinion on its overall assessment and will put forward its proposals for the sixth environmental action programme - to be drawn up on the basis of the positions adopted - by the end of this year.
Of course, the European Parliament appreciates the Commission' s efforts to promote Community policy on environmental protection and, especially, its efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension into all policies, i.e.
Second Part Mr Trakatellis, the agreement between the Commission and the government of Bulgaria that was signed on 29 November 1999 is in line with the policy that the Commission tends to pursue.
The agreement concluded between the Bulgarian Government and the Commission provides for units 1 and 2 of the nuclear power station at Kozloduy to be conclusively shut down before 2003.
In addition, provision is made for the government of Bulgaria to reach agreement with the Commission in the year 2002 on deadlines for shutting down units 3 and 4 of the same power station.
All four units will be shut down earlier than the dates that the Bulgarian Government originally had in mind, which were 2004 and 2005 for Kozloduy 1 and 2, and between 2008 and 2010 for units 3 and 4.
The Commission is working on the assumption that the final shut down of the two reactors 3 and 4 will take place in 2006 at the latest.
The Commission is offering to provide Bulgaria with several years of extensive aid, so as to help the country overcome any problems arising from the shutdown.
The various components of the aforementioned agreement form an integrated whole.
In order to ensure full implementation of the agreement, we will not confirm our undertaking to provide the second tranche of the grants until we have reached conclusive agreement on shutdown dates for units 3 and 4.
On 4 February 2000, the joint working group on Kozloduy comprising representatives from the Commission and from Bulgaria, met in Sofia.
This joint working group agreed to draft a work schedule for the shutdown of units 1 and 2, by May or June 2000, and to put forward a political framework and potential projects in the energy sector that are to be financed by the aid package.
The Commission will continue to work together with the Bulgarian Government to implement the agreement of last November.
Mr Trakatellis, opinion is extremely divided as to how unsafe the reactors 3 and 4 actually are.
As a matter of fact, I believe we achieved a particularly positive outcome in Bulgaria, in view of the extremely difficult situation there.
As far as the shutdown dates for blocks 3and 4 are concerned, it says in the text that this will be decided on in 2002.
The fact that the Bulgarian government signed this text without questioning this, has a certain political significance.
The European Community initiative intended to offer free access to the markets of industrialised countries, and the most advanced developing countries, to essentially all products of the least developed countries, was launched as part of the process which led to the Seattle Conference.
The initiative was drawn up immediately after the Singapore Conference, when the Council invited the Commission to make proposals in favour of the least developed countries, both for immediate action and additional medium-term action.
In 1999, as part of the post-Lomé negotiations, the Council, among other things, specified what it intended to do regarding market access for LLDCs and decided that the Community should, in the year 2000, commence a process which, by the end of the multilateral trade negotiations and by the year 2005 at the latest, will enable free access for essentially all LLDC products, based on the trade system existing under the Lomé Convention.
The difference between all and essentially all products affects, as we well know, a number of specific agricultural products.
At the same time, the Community, in its 'least developed countries' initiative within the framework of the WTO, seeks to associate other commercial partners to this market opening policy of ours, which would consist of exempting essentially all the products of LLDCs from duties and quotas.
At the moment I am making great efforts to move forward this initiative which we have included in the rescue package which we are working on in Geneva.
As the questioner indicates, we should ask whether the restriction associated with the expression 'essentially all products' may be retained for very much longer as soon as we consider granting these countries total access to our markets.
As far as the Community is concerned, following the signature of a new agreement with the ACP countries which no longer includes the obligation to offer equal access for all ACP countries, we could in fact start thinking about more extensive liberalisation of access to our markets in favour of the least developed countries.
I should not, however, wish to start thinking about this until our present initiative regarding essentially all products has reached a sufficiently advanced and credible stage, following talks with our commercial partners, to be able to move on to the next stage.
I should specify, finally, that access to the market is not the only requirement for countries that, occasionally, do not have a sufficient export capacity for internal reasons, be they distribution, logistical or transportation capacities.
I certainly agree with what he said in the last part of his answer about the need for capacity-building in the least developed countries as well as, perhaps the need for asymmetrical measures, resulting in a certain level of protection for their markets that we do not seek to enjoy in return.
Firstly, I think I gave a clear answer to your question when I said that the difference between 'all' and 'essentially all' affected only a really very limited number of agricultural products.
Regarding the more comprehensive initiative that we have undertaken, I would like to try to convince you that at this stage it is more important, as far as these least developed countries are concerned, that the Community should persuade the United States, Japan and a number of developed countries to follow our initiative because, in terms of real export capacity, this initiative opens up a market to them which is, roughly, twice or three times larger than our own.
In terms of our priorities, then, Mr Howitt, and in terms of efficiency, I feel that, given the choice of either eliminating the difference between 'essentially all' and 'all' , a problem which I acknowledge must be solved one day, and considerably increasing the size of the market opened for 'essentially all' products, duty free and quota free, we are on the right track if we work, in the first place, on expanding the market.
Thereafter we will be able to start to think, as you wish, on the approach we might adopt with the Member States, who sometimes show some reluctance, and a European Parliament which will also have to be convinced, when the time comes, that we should go on to the second stage.
The fact remains, however, that at this stage they are no more than proposals and the Commission cannot contravene the regulations in force under the Treaty establishing the Communities, nor can it anticipate the decisions which the Member States will take at the Intergovernmental Conference.
This would mean that Parliament should have the opportunity, pursuant to Article 300, to declare its opinion on this agreement.
This is the legal and institutional answer to your question, Mr Clegg.
I have said this on several occasions, and I feel it is important in terms of relations between the Commission and Parliament and also in terms of the effectiveness and capacity of the negotiator in this type of case.
I am therefore perfectly willing, as always, to discuss this matter in somewhat greater depth with the relevant parliamentary committee.
Let me reiterate my appreciation that the Commission and Parliament are, for the first time, speaking with one voice on changes to Parliament's role in important trade agreements.
My own view is that the accession of China to the WTO, whilst perhaps not quite as eye-catching as a multilateral agreement, is just as important to the future global trade regime, and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both Parliament and the Commission.
As regards China, legally speaking this is the procedure for the accession of a country to the WTO, and it is proceeding according to a relatively appropriate and familiar route, one which, for the time being, has not given rise to any disputes.
I suppose, then, that the Council will be reluctant to require assent because the Council is not in the habit of going much further than is required by the Treaties in terms of consultation with Parliament.
The important thing, from our mutual point of view, is that, when the time comes, we can, either in committee or in plenary session, have a debate on the conditions which, I hope, will be those we have agreed with the People' s Republic of China, and that this will be completely transparent.
There is another, more technical reason, involving some subtle points.
These are more technical considerations, but they show that all these aspects must be looked into and negotiated in detail.
Thank you very much, Mr Lamy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is unable to give a concrete answer to Mrs Izquierdo Rojo' s question, at the current stage of negotiations.
Although I have signed this question, as an elected representative, I must say that I am not really its author.
The Commissioner has not been explicit.
Since state and local administrations are preparing their proposals for the 2000-2006 period, will the Commission say what has been the take-up rate of the first two programmes by Greece, and how does it rate the success of the two previous LEADER programmes in the case of Greece?
Mr President, the LEADER I programme in Greece, which ran from 1993 to 1996, was fully implemented and the funding earmarked for this - EUR 104 million in total, EUR 52 million of which was contributed by the Community - was paid out in full.
The success rate of LEADER I in Greece also proved satisfactory, in view of the programme' s innovative and even-handed approach.
Question No 50 by (H-0190/00): Subject: Balance between fisheries agreements in the North and South The Fisheries Council of October 1997 analysed the imbalance between fisheries agreements in the North and South, given that shipowners fishing under agreements with countries of the South are increasingly required to co-finance the agreements, which are free of charge for shipowners in the case of the North.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in principle, the Commission takes the view that the fishing opportunities granted by a third country under the terms of a fisheries agreement should be utilised in full, and that appropriate mechanisms for transferring under-utilised or non-utilised quotas should be established without jeopardising the principle of relative stability.
That is why, despite all our efforts, the legal mechanisms that come under Community law and that make it possible, in principle, for quotas to be transferred in this way, could not be brought into force yet.
When you talk in terms of an imbalance between the agreements with third countries in the northern hemisphere and those in the southern hemisphere, I feel I must make you aware of the following situation: the Community and the Member States do not pay a licence fee in the case of agreements with third countries in the north because said countries do not ask for one, rather these agreements - with the exception of the agreement with Greenland - are reciprocal, in other words, a fish for a fish, and have no effect whatsoever on the Community budget.
Incidentally, licence fees of this kind were a feature of the bilateral agreements between Spain and third countries even before Spain joined the Community.
Under these, our opportunities are expressed directly in terms of the number of fishing vessels or even licences.
I have asked a question because I previously consulted a series of decisions taken by the Council of Ministers in 1997 on certain guidelines for fisheries agreements and, as far as I can see, they have not yet been complied with in the European Union.
In response to the urgent need for stocks of fallen timber to be disposed of, the French Government has, amongst other measures, decided to grant 50 French francs per tonne in order to subsidise the transportation of timber intended for export to other EU Member States.
However, the notifications make no reference whatsoever to where the wood is destined for, in particular, they do not indicate whether it is to be exported to other Member States or to third countries.
Obviously such aid is already officially provided for in the countries of the Community.
Instead, the question concerns countries outside the territory of the Community, and may be expressed thus: will we, or will we not, have the possibility of obtaining a derogation in terms of the tonnage, costs or time limits with regard to wood exports, in consideration of the quite exceptional nature of this storm?
My question clearly concerned exports outside the common market, outside the Union.
The only exception in this respect is Spain, where, in view of the high number of applications, the take-up rate, if I can put it this way, was 98% rather than 100%.
The amended regulation on preventive distillation will be published in the Official Journal in the near future and will be made retrospective to 24 February.
Commissioner, in view of the enormous wine harvest, which yielded 140 million hectolitres, and in view of the wine market regulations that are to enter into force this year, has the Commission had any more thoughts - this being the last year when we will have this option - about using obligatory distillation as a means of relieving pressure on the market, or does the Commission not take the view that this would be the subject of a further instrument?
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
Questions Nos 53 to 60 will be replied to in writing.
The Commission has also confirmed that if the two countries in question agree, it will support the inclusion of the line in the trans-European rail network when the guidelines for that network are next revised.
In fact, these two extremes of the Pyrenees are suffering from saturation since they are the only real land links of any capacity between the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of the European continent.
We in the Commission have expressed our support for the analysis of a new rail crossing in the central part of the Pyrenees and we have supported various initiatives in the region through the granting of subsidies for different studies analysing the possibilities.
Furthermore, as you know very well, Spain and France have set up a monitoring centre for traffic in the Pyrenees in order to seek the most suitable solution to the problem facing them.
In any event, the final decision in this respect is the responsibility of the Member States.
With regard to the Trans-European Networks we cannot include anything which is not supported by the Member States.
Meanwhile, I would like to tell you that the Commission will take account of the results of the work of the monitoring centre for traffic in the Pyrenees when reviewing the Trans-European Network and we hope that this review will be ready before August.
The conclusions of this study that we are carrying out will also be taken into account in the revision of the guidelines on the Trans-European Networks and, furthermore, the INTERREG II programme has also financed general studies on the suitability and viability of a future central crossing in the Pyrenees, adapted to heavy goods transport.
Having said all this, and as I have made very clear in some of my appearances, I believe that we must make an enormous effort to develop goods transport by rail.
We face a level of demand which is clearly not going to be resolved by means of an increase in roads and we need to study a better use of the rail infrastructures, which is an alternative which is not only much more appropriate from an environmental point of view, but furthermore, they are an alternative which allow us to use some existing infrastructures.
In other cases, such as the specific case we are talking about, we must put the infrastructures in order, but of course we are prepared to speak to the Member States - and we are doing so - to see if we can persuade the two countries involved to finally accept a project of this type which will allow for a central crossing in the Pyrenees.
I would also like to know, since you have mentioned it, when the Commission communication on the report on the Alps and the Pyrenees will be made available?
This does not only affect Spain, as the bordering country, but it also affects road traffic to Portugal, given that the Pyrenees pose such an obstacle.
The communication on sensitive areas basically tackles the issue of how to combine two elements: the environmental demands of the Pyrenees and the Alps and the need to facilitate the movement of goods and people.
As I have already said, we intend to present the communication before the end of the year, and we also intend to analyse, not only the particular issues affecting the sensitive areas, but also the possible concrete solutions in the field of more suitable infrastructures, funding, use and safety.
Safety aspects are also important, given the use of extensive tunnels.
Question No 62 by (H-0163/00): Subject: Blood/alcohol limits for drivers Since 1988, the Commission has been advocating Community legislation concerning maximum blood alcohol limits for drivers.
I must point out however that, although the Commission intends to express this type of guideline, it will do so by means of a recommendation.
Alcohol constitutes the second greatest danger to health in the EU according to a report on health produced by a high-level working party.
The 0.8 mg limit is only in force in Ireland, Luxembourg, Italy and the United Kingdom, and only Sweden has a limit below 0.5 mg.
We are going to present a communication on road safety, which you in this Parliament will receive shortly, and recommend a maximum limit of 0.5 mg.
We consider that legislation should be reserved for cases where it is absolutely necessary to legislate.
We believe that subsidiarity and the recommendation will be sufficient for the alcohol level in the various states to be set at 0.5 mg or less than 0.5 mg.
As we are talking about blood-alcohol levels I wonder if the Commissioner, in her recommendation is also going to be looking at the broader issue of drugs?
The problem is obviously that drugs produce states which clearly limit drivers' response capacities.
The problem with drugs is that, while in some countries their consumption is subject to criminal prosecution, in others it is not and, therefore, given this differing treatment, we cannot, at least for the moment, make any progress in this field.
Lastly, I must add that, in the case of drugs, control is more difficult, since the control systems are not so automatic nor so immediate as they are in the case of alcohol levels.
Question No 63 by (H-0164/00): Subject: Verona-Munich railway link The project for a new Verona-Munich through railway line has been under discussion for years.
The project for a railway line between Munich and Verona, agreed by the Italian, Austrian and German Governments in 1994, is included in the Trans-European Transport Network and foresees the construction of a high speed network with combined goods transport.
The proposal of the ATT 3 project, which is well known to the Commission, deviates from the route established in the guidelines of the Trans-European Network.
Mr President, I would expressly like to thank the Commissioner for the great sensitivity she has shown so far in her handling of the Brenner traffic and Brenner base tunnel issues, and I particularly appreciate the fact that mention has repeatedly been made of the need to give special consideration to the environmental implications.
I would point out that the alternative project ATT3 - and I would like to thank Commissioner Kinnock and the chairman, Mr Coleman, for their efforts here - has been examined closely and in great detail by the Commission over the past two years, and I have also received a written report on this.
This is all about people living in a sensitive area who must be protected.
The Brenner project is one of 14 projects involving trans-European transport connections and, of course, the Commission will continue to support this project, although, at the end of the day, it is the Member States which must develop it.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 64 to 114 will be replied to in writing.
The European eco-label is, it has to be said, a product of the internal market.
In addition to a reduction in costs for certain enterprises, the report also envisages a maximum fee.
In this we are following the example of almost all the national labelling systems, which also have this ceiling.
The purpose of this approach is to make the labelling system equally attractive to large consumer goods manufacturers and service providers.
Another important point in this second reading is the regulation of the relationship between the national eco-label and the European equivalent.
In some States national labels are well established and enjoy public recognition.
Mr President, Commissioner, a speaker in this House yesterday expressed the view that economic globalisation is not an incontrovertible necessity but the evil outworking of a few multinationals.
Take the failed WTO negotiations in Seattle, which have opened our eyes as to the difficulty Europe faces in making itself heard by third countries when it comes to its progressive social and environmental standards.
It would have afforded the opportunity to disseminate the European label even more quickly and effectively.
Overall, we must succeed in establishing the European label in Member States which do not have their own label.
I am totally convinced that, wherever there are well-functioning eco-labelling systems, it will be possible also to introduce the EU flower that much more easily and more quickly.
It is therefore especially important that the idea of prohibiting national eco-labels has been abandoned.
Moreover, this system functions excellently where it has been introduced.
With regard to Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 8, which propose active participation on the part of environmental and consumer organisations, the Commission shares the view that their support and participation is crucial if eco-labelling is to be balanced and credible.
We are therefore able to accept these amendments.
With regard to Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 7, which relate to certain aspects of cooperation and coordination with national eco-labelling programmes, the Commission is convinced that common supporting activities are important, particularly with a view to making the Community' s eco-labelling better known.
This applies, for example, to Amendments 7 and 8.
The services are looking at this and I hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow.
We cannot allow the debate to continue because we are running out of time.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Incineration of waste The next item is the recommendation for a second reading on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the incineration of waste (C5-0274/1999 - 1998/0289(COD)).
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, I would like to thank the Members for their fruitful cooperation.
As a result of this, we have been able to table various amendments in a joint effort and reach agreement on a number of issues.
Once we have reached a point where, in order to counter the adverse effects on the environment, dangerous and organic waste, in particular, is no longer dumped, incineration should then inevitably deliver environmental benefits.
By tightening up emission standards, a balance was struck at first reading between what is viable over a period of about five to seven years and what is necessary from an environmental point of view.
Compliance requires adequate control which, in turn, requires proper monitoring.
In addition, we also need to avoid a situation where it becomes clear there are long-term health risks for a reason which may not be immediately obvious, namely that the emission of harmful substances is not measured.
Regarding the definition of coincineration plant, it is unfortunate that we were unable to reach agreement on this beforehand.
If waste were used as a replacement raw material, such as in the recycling of glass, the relevant process would fall outside the scope of the directive.
If, on the other hand, only part of the waste were to be used as a replacement raw material, then this process would fall within the directive' s scope.
As for the recycling of energy, I would like to point out that, in November of last year, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of environmental concerns into energy policy, in which it was requested that special attention be given to the application and development of the best methods for energy recycling.
Consequently, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has made a recommendation that energy recycling by means of combined electricity/heat production should also apply to the incineration of waste.
It is wrong, however, that the standards for ammonia should not apply to all installations.
A consistent approach taken by the European Parliament will benefit our credibility amongst the citizens, especially those citizens living in the vicinity of plants which incinerate or co-incinerate waste.
Mr President, Commissioner, we feel that this directive is far from satisfactory because it involves a combination of two texts, one on the incineration of dangerous waste and the other on the incineration of non-dangerous waste.
The practices of each Member State must be taken into consideration, while maintaining the existing industrial balance and investigating how the environment can be better protected.
What the industry needs is legal certainty and reasonable time periods.
Commissioner, waste management in Europe must undergo complete reform as a matter of urgency.
We know that waste incineration is a very difficult and highly technical area, but I think that a creditable piece of work has been done in connection with this report.
I shall certainly support the demand that proper waste planning be carried out, with waste being duly sorted, so that we have a situation in which waste incineration is linked to the EU' s combined waste legislation, with the incineration problem correctly placed in the waste hierarchy.
I also think it is good that we should now be told very precisely which plants are covered by these rules and also which types of waste are thus exempt from them.
I think that defensible levels have been identified in this connection, and a reasonable balance has been struck between incineration plants proper and the combined plants.
It is a balance that I hope will be maintained, including during the vote tomorrow here in the plenary sitting.
I hope therefore that, by means of the vote tomorrow, we can make our contribution to solving the health and environmental problems involved in waste incineration so that the enormous quantities of waste which we produce every single day do not cause more serious health problems or greater damage to the environment than is absolutely necessary.
Obviously, the EU must create a sustainable system for protecting air, land and water.
With the predicted increase in incineration, it is vital that overall EU legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive.
Building new incinerators is a costly and long-term venture which in turn has to have a long-term return for the investors, so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned.
This Parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent.
There is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of micro-particles on human health and the environment.
It is a fact that left and right do not often see eye to eye on many issues - rightly and understandably so - both within and outside this Parliament, as they represent opposing interests and visions of groups in our society.
Regrettably, our consumer society is contributing to an increasing volume of domestic waste and there is also growing concern in relation to industrial waste.
Thankfully there is now an awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting the natural environment, and in my view the social and economic climate is conducive to achieving this objective.
In previous debates I referred to the need to reduce waste: here the manufacturers of food and consumer goods have an important role to play, particularly in relation to packaging in its various forms and the importance of using products compatible with recycling, which is of course my preferred option.
While incineration is getting a lot of adverse publicity, and recent planning decisions in Ireland have certainly raised the crucial question of the location of incinerators, it is difficult to envisage a complete programme of waste disposal without incineration, particularly in relation to toxic waste, and in this regard consideration must be given to finding locations where the facility will not impact badly on the natural environment.
Finally, Mr President, it is obvious we need further informed debates in helping to allay the citizens' concern on the health aspect of incineration, a matter which has been addressed through extensive research carried out in various Member States and through the experience gained in the many state-of-the-art facilities now in operation throughout Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
The recommendation for second reading before us is an extremely important legislative resolution, not just for the environment but also for the economy of the European Union.
I think this can be seen from some of the amendments which were put forward in committee with regard to coincineration and which now reappear as amendments in plenary.
However, I think that there are still some amendments decided on in committee which we can support in good conscience in order to improve the common position.
For example, I tabled a motion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy relating to NOx emitted during coincineration which, at least for new installations, is somewhat more ambitious than the Council' s proposals.
Parliament's objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant, it is to change the role of waste management, to change the type of waste management that we do.
We would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling, re-use and other methods of reducing the waste heap.
Mr President, I certainly agree with Mr Bowe's final summary.
Many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives.
It is very important that we get our act right, that we look first and foremost at waste management.
We have to look at the root causes of why the waste is there in the first place.
Mr President, the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy underline generally the high levels of environmental protection, and for that reason many of these amendments are acceptable.
In Finland and some other countries the sorting of waste in close proximity to where it originates is very advanced.
Thus, we do not incinerate mixed waste, as they do in certain countries.
Sorted waste can be incinerated effectively together with other fuels in a so-called coincineration process.
For that reason, Amendments Nos 14, 17, 18 and 27 should not be adopted.
Mr President, the treatment of waste and the whole policy on waste is becoming an ever more important part of EU environmental policy.
The Commission' s proposal is not a total response to this idea, and is rather based on the notion that everything must and can be burnt.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy added the necessary amendments to promote the waste hierarchy to its common position in its second reading, and I hope that these points of view will also be adopted in tomorrow' s vote.
If more stringent requirements regarding emissions are being illogically imposed on the use of waste as fuel than for other fuels, fuels classified as waste will cease to be used.
It is important that Parliament amends the proposal for the directive in this respect in accordance with the Committee' s amendment.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy adopted some proposals that, if realised, would make it harder to practise ecologically justified coincineration.
I therefore approve of the European Union' s approach which is to adopt an overall strategy in relation to this major environmental and health issue.
Nonetheless, personally speaking, I have always been rather worried to see the incineration of dangerous and non-dangerous waste dealt with in the same legislation, and I expressed my opinion on this point at first reading.
The volume of waste to be incinerated is going to be significantly increased.
The debate has focused on coincineration.
In conclusion, while mentioning that penalties must be applied in cases of non-compliance and perhaps also that support should be provided for the authorities modifying their household waste incinerators to comply with the standards, it is still essential to stress that our top priority is, and must continue to be, avoiding the creation of this type of waste and recycling as much as possible.
Mr President, we all know that disposing of waste in an environmentally friendly manner and utilising its energy by means of the latest technology is a requirement of our time and wholly appropriate.
The aim of the directive is to establish emission levels which ensure harmless and environmentally friendly incineration of both dangerous and non-dangerous waste in incineration and coincineration plants without presenting any risk to human health.
In practice, Amendment No 11 would also mean that many halogenated substances, for example PVC, which frequently occurs in mixed domestic waste, would be excluded from incineration in waste incineration plants.
Millions have already been spent on measures to reduce energy consumption.
The first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry.
These incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants.
The proposed directive on waste incineration goes to the heart of environmental legislation: the protection of public health.
I should like to remind you that there already exists a directive on a waste hierarchy.
Articles 12 and 15 of the proposal concern access to information and reporting.
Infectious animal waste is not covered by the scope of this directive in its common position form because it is covered by Directive 90/667.
The adoption of Amendment No 4 to Article 2(2) might give the Commission the chance to revise the text so as to include a specific exclusion for infectious animal waste.
As things stand all other animal waste is covered by Article 2(2)(a)(v) of the directive and Directive 90/667.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
This report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance.
To save time I am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood, and that every Member of this House will want to reduce them.
In particular, representatives of the Mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy.
But the Commission's 120 mg target is in line with World Health Organisation proposals, and who am I to suggest that they should be challenged?
The number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted, but that is something to negotiate only when necessary.
It is a good target and, if it is at all possible, then it should be retained.
There is absolutely no doubt that in tightening up or adopting the ozone directive we must find a reasonable compromise between the justifiable demand for improved air quality and the possibility for European economy and society to reasonably adapt in particularly polluted regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, I agree that the most important difficulty with this directive is the diversity of criteria with regard to the establishment of target levels and time-scales for the reduction of the ozone concentrations in the atmosphere: the famous items 2 and 3 of annex 1.
We in the Group of the European People' s Party consider it necessary to support the main lines set in the Commission' s proposal, especially with regard to target levels, which coincide with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation on air quality and which establish the permissible concentrations of ozone at 120 µg/m3.
Nevertheless, it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit, the only one in the short term, and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives.
Our Group therefore vigorously defends Amendments Nos 26 and 28, which establish a progressive and realistic achievement of the proposed objectives, by means of a progressive scale according to the number of days in a year the target levels can be exceeded.
I believe that a vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the European People' s Party is a vote for progress in the control and monitoring of one of the most serious pollutants to date, initiating, in a decisive and homogenous way, in all the Member States, actions for its elimination as a threat to the health of persons and ecosystems, without deluding ourselves as to the real possibilities of completely eradicating it in the short term.
I think there are two crucial points here.
The second thing I think is very important is that specific dates should be set, both for when in 2010 we are to achieve the provisional targets and for when in 2020 we are to attain the long-term objectives.
The European Commission' s proposal has made a lot of headway in this direction.
I am convinced that these two reports together provide a sound basis for positive developments in Europe in the fields of health and the environment.
The climate in southern Europe is often used as a reason for, or explanation of, the high levels of ozone which are often to be found in the summertime.
The directive on national emission ceilings, which is the next point on the agenda, will lead to improvements in ozone levels so that the target values in question might for the most part be attained.
We cannot, however, accept that short-term measures should only be taken at local level.
Nor do we believe that the Member States should be enjoined to analyse whether short-term measures are an effective tool in each individual case and in each individual place where the threshold value has been exceeded.
Amendment No 12 can be approved in principle.
The principle in Amendment No 16 is also acceptable.
Amendment No 2 advocates coordination between Member States and Applicant States.
Even if the Commission agrees that it is important to involve the Applicant States, there is no reason for reiterating this in a directive aimed at the Member States.
These programmes stated as their aim the protection of people and nature from the adverse effects of air pollution, meaning that critical ceilings in respect of nature and people would not be exceeded.
The Commission' s proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings is an important step in achieving the aims the Union set itself: to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of air pollutants.
Owing to this, I have recommended in my report a long-term goal, in addition to the interim one, and a final target for 2020.
The UN Economic Commission for Europe has also examined the objectives for reductions in the same sources of emissions as in the proposal for a directive now under discussion, and, as a result of these talks, the so-called Gothenburg Protocol was signed.
Comparing the differences between the Gothenburg Protocol and the Commission' s proposal with regard to the effects on health, the annual reduction levels proposed by the Commission would save the lives of as many as four thousand people a year in Europe.
Mr President, the industry committee, after much discussion and serious consideration, is overwhelmingly opposed to the Commission's proposed ceilings, and this is across all groups and nationalities.
The UN ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time.
The Commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs, on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits.
Support the Purvis amendments and the United Nations Gothenburg table of national emission ceilings.
The present draft directive on national emission ceilings tackles the key culprits where atmospheric pollution is concerned.
These goals must be met by 2010, with an interim assessment of the national programmes in 2006.
Indeed, UN agreements are always less ambitious due to the fact that it is difficult for the situation in rich, prosperous and hence often more polluting countries to be lumped together with the situation in the developing world.
Add this to the fact that the environmental effects of SO2, NOx and the volatile organic substances, in particular, directly affect our own continent, I - and the majority in our group, I think - can go along with the Commission proposal regarding these substances.
In addition, the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and, as such, a lower threshold seems acceptable.
On behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats, I have tabled an amendment which, where ammonia is concerned, is based on the lower Gothenburg standard and defers definitively setting the ceiling until the year 2006.
The reason for this is that I hope that, by then, the effects of the implementation and the pending European legislation on nitrate will be able to give us better indications.
I would like to conclude by making the following comment: legislation on ceilings is, in actual fact, the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces, for which I also happen to be rapporteur.
I do not know how much more the Commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them.
We should support this report and give her our backing.
In all probability, drafting this directive was like a national auction, and the end result is very modest when we think what the real challenges are.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposes that even stricter goals should be set for 2010 than the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has recommended.
Mr President, in order to meet the objectives for air emission levels prescribed in the Fifth Environmental Action Programme, we need this directive on emission ceilings more than anything.
We all know by now that six months ago, higher emission levels were agreed at Gothenburg within a UN context.
The first step towards achieving the emission ceilings is undoubtedly a dynamic implementation and enforcement of existing directives, such as the Auto-oil programme.
Now to the issues: it is obvious that there are differing opinions in this House on whether the proposal of the European Commission is too ambitious.
Mr President, I certainly welcome this report and I gave it a lot of support in the Environment Committee.
The vast majority of the amendments I can support.
It seems to me that the Commission figures are aspirational.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have, of course, nothing against the principle of the directive.
It is an important instrument for future environmental policy.
I note that, for example, my country, Belgium, has to meet the maximum possible level, rather than the economically viable level, but that, at the same time, areas in its vicinity which are just as polluted as my country can pursue a much laxer policy.
That is because a large country can use its better regions to offset its bad practices.
I would therefore ask you to give me your backing for Amendments Nos 16 and 17, in which I request that the Belgian Government be given the chance to re-evaluate the situation based on the annual reports.
The countryside in the Nordic countries is particularly vulnerable to acidification because these countries are largely lacking in means to protect themselves against it.
However, more than 80 per cent of the acid rain over our country comes from air pollution not in our own countries but in other West European countries.
I am convinced that the EU can be better than the UN at solving the environmental problems in Europe.
Indeed, by virtue of an unusually fortunate coincidence, directives on waste incineration, on limit values for national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, and ozone in ambient air all feature on today' s agenda.
In its proposal for a directive, the European Commission proposes quantified national emission ceilings, which must be met by 2010 for the four pollutants I have just mentioned.
In particular, the committee approved a compulsory review of the directive by 2004, which will enable there to be a review of the limit values stipulated and measures adopted to ensure that these limit values are respected.
EU environmental policy is becoming more and more the environmental policy of each Member State, with obvious advantages for all Europe' s citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, the emission ceilings in the Commission' s proposal are very ambitious, more so than those agreed in the UN Economic Commission for Europe under the so-called Gothenburg Protocol, and so they should be.
For my own part, I am ready to endorse the compromise prepared by the PPE-DE Group in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, according to which we shall comply with the Commission' s proposal except with regard to the area of ammonia emissions, as the proposal will not cause great problems for my own country, Finland, or our neighbour, Sweden, as has become evident on many occasions in this discussion.
Mr President, honourable Members of Parliament, we have made great strides in tackling acidification and also pollution in recent years.
The Gothenburg Protocol is a step forward.
The protocol goes only halfway towards the goal for acidification already agreed by Parliament and the Council.
A substantial number of people will die early if we do not adopt the measures proposed by the Commission.
The protocol is the result of a process in which there is too little pressure on the reluctant to do what they should.
They amount to only 0.08% of Community GDP in the year 2010.
The Commission can accept fully Amendments Nos 3, 8, 9, 13, 19 and 21.
The Commission can accept in part the principle underlying Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
We will also include a reference in Article 9 of the directive in order to make the new recital operational.
The aim of the Commission's proposal is to leave as much flexibility as possible to Member States, but we cannot rule out further Community action if this would help Member States to meet emission ceilings more cost-effectively.
The Commission can also accept in part Amendment No 11 which would make further changes to Article 9.
The Commission will not know in 2011 whether or not ceilings were met in 2010 because of the time that must be allowed for Member States to compile inventories.
We accept in part the principles underlying Amendment No 12.
The Commission accepts the principles of Amendment No 23.
The Commission accepts Amendments Nos 24, 25 and 26 in principle, and will also take them into account when it redrafts Article 9 as part of its amended proposal.
The Commission has a great deal of sympathy with the concerns underlying Amendments Nos 16 and 17.
We will therefore propose a new recital and changes to Article 9, which will ensure that effects on smaller Member States are properly taken into account on review.
The Commission can accept that part of Amendment No 20 that would insert "an appropriate" into Recital 9.
We do not accept the remainder of Amendment No 20.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 15, 28, 29 and 32.
They seek to replace emission ceilings that are designed to meet the agreed Community target for acidification, and to protect our citizens' health, with the emission ceilings in the Gothenburg Protocol.
Gothenburg ceilings fall far short of what is needed as has already been said.
The Commission considers that, if Member States take seriously the Kyoto commitments, the emission ceilings that it has proposed will not be difficult to implement.
We cannot therefore accept Amendment No 31.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments No 4 and 14: under the principle of subsidiarity it is for Member States, not the Commission, to determine penalties for breaches of national legislation.
Amendments Nos 5, 18 and 30 are also unacceptable.
The Commission is committed to pursuing long-term objectives for protection of the environment and human health, but we simply do not have enough information today to predict when long-term objectives might be reached.
The Commission must reject Amendment No 6.
The Commission will examine whether further such proposals should be made to the IMO, and whether international action is also needed on aircraft emissions.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 7.
Non-volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of "volatile organic compound" in these proposals since they are not found in the air in ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation.
The proposed definition is identical in the Gothenburg Protocol.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10.
Finally, Mr President, we do not accept Amendment No 22.
The Commission's proposed wording on the key issue of public information is in line with agreements on the first two air quality daughter directives.
The answer is that the Council failed to reach a common position in December and the Commission is supporting the Portuguese presidency in its effort to make progress in parallel with the progress on this proposal.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Environmental legislation The next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the Commission on structural fund programmes in the Member States and national implementation of EU environmental laws (B5 - 0014/2000 and B5 0208/2000).
Mr President, I would like, on behalf of the committee, to move at least one of the oral questions.
I want to quote from an article in the United Kingdom Sunday Telegraph this last Sunday.
The Environment Committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies.
That is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the German Members here tonight but also in some of my British colleagues.
We need to ask to what extent the European Commission is prepared to use the provisions of Articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay granting money where there is inadequate information on the impact of the projects which have applied for the money on the environment.
At its worst, we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the European Union's concern to protect its natural habitats may collide.
Future generations will not forgive us if we allow irreplaceable habitats to be destroyed, whose preservation we actually voted for eight years ago when we adopted our report on the habitats directive and then again in 1997 with the changes to the annex of the directive.
That doubt has now fallen over the position of the United Kingdom and its entitlement to Structural Funds because the United Kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive.
It is in the power of the United Kingdom government, the German government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive.
In the United Kingdom, structural funding for counties such as Cornwall, which I represent and which has recently been granted Objective 1 status, faces a twin threat from government indolence on this directive and from government incompetence and meanness.
However, to begin let me say the following: the FFH directive is an important directive and creates a new climate in Europe for the protection of nature, the environment and birds.
Our question to you, Commissioner, has another purpose.
The European Union list of the relevant nature conservation sites should have been ready in 1998 - it is now the year 2000.
Germany, for example, implemented the legislation in 1998 instead of 1994 - only four years late.
But we do have this unfortunate system in the European Union - what you call legal certainty.
Mr President, it is a pleasure to face the Commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour.
I congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented.
I have heard that some in the Commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of Member States in the past six months than they had in the previous six years.
The main principle is clear: the actions cofinanced under the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment in the European Union.
This is confirmed in the new regulatory framework for the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund and in the Commission's related guidelines.
We should remember that both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds finance important investments into environmental infrastructure such as waste water treatment facilities or waste management systems.
Let me make one thing clear first to avoid misunderstandings.
Contrary to the suggestion in one of the oral questions, this does not represent a new obligation on the Member States.
The Structural Funds Regulation has been approved by the Member States and the Council.
With regard to protection of sites under the habitats and birds directives, it is important that we do not give money to measures which adversely affect sites deserving protection - paying out money with one hand and maybe fining a Member State with the other hand.
In following up the letter sent to Member States by Commissioners Wulf-Mathies and Bjerregaard on June 23 1999, the Commission will insist that, in the programming documents for the period 2000-2006, there must be a firm and irrevocable commitment guaranteeing that the programmes are consistent with the protection of sites under Natura 2000.
The Commission will then use all the means at its disposal to ensure that commitments entered into the programming documents are fully respected.
The Commission's representative in the monitoring committee for each programme will also seek to ensure that Member States' obligations with regard to Natura 2000 are fully respected.
In addition, should a Member State not honour its commitment to provide the lists under the habitats and birds directives within the timeframe set in the programming documents, the Commission will take immediate action.
Without the lists neither the Member States nor the Commission can ensure that we protect important nature sites when carrying out Structural Fund operations, for the simple reason that we do not know where these sites are.
The directive is intended to establish a frame of reference which, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, leaves the detailed implementation to the Member States.
While the Commission has no plans to revise the directive, its services are ready to provide guidance to the Member States on its implementation and we are finally starting to move on this.
The only sites which the Commission takes into account under the habitats directive are those put forward by the authorities in the Member States.
As a result, I can see the Member States laughing their socks off at this new position because, in the final analysis, once again they have gained a little more time and it is nature conservation which is going to suffer.
Mr President, my first report as an MEP was on precisely the same topic as that which we are discussing here today: the environment and the Structural Funds.
Therefore, Parliament should take this line and call on the Commission, in its vote, to implement the Structural Fund programmes in a way which takes account of Community environmental legislation, particularly with regard to directives on the preservation of natural habitats and wild birds.
It is important to remember that very important measures and projects are financed under the Structural Funds in the most problematic countries and regions of the Union, countries and regions which desperately need help in their endeavours to develop and converge with the more developed Member States.
We should also bear in mind, Mr President, that measures promoting the environment are often financed by the Structural Funds.
In Paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in July with another moderation in October 2000.
This process is ongoing and I have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the EU habitats and wild bird directives at this stage.
Any refusal by the Commission to approve the programme - for example, in Merseyside - thus undermining £2 billion worth of investment, or any other Objective I area, including Cornwall, involving 5 million people in the UK, would actually breach - you said this Commissioner - the well-established Commission principle of proportionality, namely the obligation to pursue the least restrictive way of ensuring compliance with EU legislation - in this case the habitats and wild bird directive.
In the final analysis any breach of EU legislation must actually go the European Court of Justice.
Commissioner Barnier probably said to you today, Commissioner Wallström, that all European programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on.
That is your responsibility as a member of the college.
If this affects my own country, then so be it.
Former commissioners wrote to the Irish Government saying: "If you do not have on your list habitat areas to be protected then when you put in your national plan how are we going to assess whether it is in compliance with European directives?" You must stick to that.
In Portugal there is not only no definitive list of protected sites of Community importance for inclusion in the Natura 2000 network, but even though it is compulsory, there are no plans, rules or mechanisms for the management and protection of sites that have already been selected.
In other words, the Portuguese sites that already form part of the Natura 2000 network are completely at the mercy of unscrupulous groups of financiers and construction companies, because of the lack of instruments to protect them.
I therefore hope that the Commission will bring its legal authority to bear and refuse to approve any funding for the third Community support framework until Member States send in their lists for the Natura 2000 network.
Mr President, what is at stake in this debate is whether the EU's commitment to sustainable development in theory, actually means something in practice, whether when push comes to shove, we are prepared to make some very difficult decisions.
Sustainable development is supposed to be about integrating economic development with environmental concerns.
That is what Article 6 of our own EC Treaty obliges us to do - to integrate those policies.
At the heart of this debate is the issue of economic development coming right up against environmental constraints.
It will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means.
That is why the Greens are supporting very strongly this resolution from the Environment Committee.
The problem is in fact much worse; in addition to the fact that environmental legislation is being contravened in projects and programmes which have received Community approval and funding, it is also being contravened during the implementation of projects and programmes in receipt of private or national funding.
It is absurd for EU environmental legislation not to be applied or respected for all projects in the Member States, irrespective of whether they require Community or some other type of funding.
And the truth is that the directives for the Natura 2000 network have been inadequately implemented both in my country and in other Member States.
For example, despite the fact that the Maliakos Gulf and the wetlands of the Sperkhios river have been designated as conservation areas under the Natura 2000 network, there are proposals to bridge the Maliakos Gulf, in violation of Community law, despite the fact that an alternative solution could be found.
I therefore insist and we call on the Commission to ensure that EU environmental legislation is properly implemented and respected in all projects and, if need be, to take recourse to the European Court, as another speaker has suggested, and propose huge fines and take a strict line.
Mr President, I cannot resist starting by saying it is well-known that my Irish colleague across the way lives in the capital city of Dublin where these sites will not be troubling her too much.
Having said that I support the thrust of what is before us here today and the ability of the Commission to use as a carrot-and-stick approach the Structural Funds to encourage in perhaps the most effective way recalcitrant Member States such as Ireland, to get their house in order in relation to the Natura 2000 sites.
No Member State has fully met the requirements of the habitats directive, for example, let alone met them within the legally-binding timetable.
Commission procedures are under way against nearly every Member State - 12 Member States in fact - under the habitats directive at the moment.
It looks as if there are six countries currently at risk for delays or rejections of proposals for the use of Structural Funds, including my own, the UK, certain German Länder, France, Sweden and Belgium.
Constitutional challenge is often quoted in Ireland as one of our reasons.
Mr President, Commissioner, implementation of the flora-fauna-habitats directive is causing quite a stir in many regions and also running into major difficulties.
It would be sensible to re-examine and revise Directive 9243 to provide more certainty and clarity.
This is about meeting our obligations under the Structural Funds regulation and without these lists we cannot ensure that we protect important natural sites during Structural Funds operations.
If for example in a country which we have discussed today there are 40 projects currently under way that would affect sites to be protected, how can we check that if we have not got the lists?
We do not want to delay the process of approving the operational programmes under the Structural Funds but the programmes must include a firm commitment by the Member State that they will send us their list by a certain point in time.
We have to understand that this is an opportunity for us to live up to our obligations under the regulations for the Structural Funds.
The debate is closed.
