On the basis of section 301 of the Turkish Penal Code, the publisher, translator and publishing house are accused of causing public outcry and inciting hatred against Turks and of degrading democracy and the Turkish parliament.
I would therefore like to thank the President in his own language: gracias, Señor Presidente. (DE) Mr President, I wish to inform the House that the Ethiopian authorities, last Thursday, expelled two diplomats belonging to the EU delegation.
The troika should also travel from Addis Ababa to Moyale, assure themselves that Mrs Bekele is physically unharmed, and demand of the Ethiopian authorities that they clarify the accusations they are levelling against her.
This is not solely a Hungarian celebration, but an international one: 56 Heads of State or Government have travelled to Hungary to celebrate this day with us.
The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 is unique, however, for none of the other opposition movements involved armed battle against the Soviet army, and in no other instance did a country withdraw from the Warsaw Pact and declare its neutrality.
The heroes of 1956 were united in the belief that a small nation could defeat a totalitarian superpower.
One of these cases involves the disappearance of Jorge Julio López, who is crucial to the case against a Buenos Aires policeman, Miguel Etchecolatz, who was a torturer during the period of the dictatorship, the blackest period in the history of Argentina.
I would therefore call upon the European Union to raise this specific case with the Argentinean authorities.
However, there is another obstacle in relation to the ownership of airlines, which is causing major problems in the United States and has been objected to in Congress.
It is for this reason that my fellow Members and I have launched an initiative to make 4 November, the anniversary of the defeat of the Hungarian Revolution, a day of remembrance for the victims of communism in Europe. (EL) Mr President, on 29 August UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan tabled a study on violence against children by the independent expert Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro before the General Assembly.
I demand that action be taken to deal with this. (EL) Mr President, a report by a US strategic analysis and study company states that Greek Cypriots and Greek soldiers missing since the invasion by the Turkish army of northern Cyprus were used as guinea pigs in industrial laboratories belonging to the Turkish army between 1984 and 1988.
I wish to express my acute displeasure about the establishment in Holland of the paedophile party, a party whose basic objectives are to legalise sexual intercourse between adults and children over 12 years of age and to legalise possession of child pornography for personal use.
In a Europe which is growing old, in a Europe in which the institution of the family is growing weaker by the day, in a Europe in which morals and customs and traditions are disappearing, the establishment of this party looks like a bomb in the foundations of the European construct.
The application of Resolution 1701 does not appear to be in danger, although the balance is fragile and we should protect it for the sake of peace in the area as a whole, just as we must support the Lebanese Government so that it can introduce suitable reforms of the economy, society and the political system.
Apart from the defence of citizens' rights, I should like also to highlight the need for us to protect cultural treasures ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ES) Mr President, via the Presidency of this House I would like to send a message of condolence and solidarity to various municipalities in Galicia, particularly in the province of Pontevedra, in view of the grave situation they are suffering as a result of serious floods since the weekend.
The Soviet Union no longer exists, but the spirit of Yalta lives on in our fear of standing up in defence of Moldova, Georgia and other countries that Russia considers to be part of its sphere of influence.
Mr President, Mr Behiç Aşçi is a Turkish lawyer who has been on hunger strike for 202 days and is now very close to death.
It is with deep reverence that we recall the victims, the heroic freedom fighters, whose struggle was not in vain. 34 years later, the inhuman system fell, and today we belong to a European Community which is based on democracy, the rule of law and human and civil rights.
