Hygiene of foodstuffs (debate) The next item is the report by Horst Schnellhardt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation No 11 concerning the abolition of discrimination in transport rates and conditions, in implementation of Article 79(3) of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 of the European Parliament and the Council on the hygiene of foodstuffs - C6-0211/2007 -.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a project which serves as a pilot for one of the largest and most important policy programmes initiated by this Commission, namely freeing small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe from unnecessary administrative burdens.
The Commission is fully aware that cutting administrative costs must never result in less safety for our citizens, so this is not about lowering standards.
We will be very strict on enforcing this fundamental principle in this case as well.
This will not entail greater complexity for the relevant authorities in the Member States, for already the responsibility for compliance with the regulations lies with the food producers, not with the authorities.
For the formal application of the HACCP system, food producers must undertake a hazard analysis.
If, during the first stage of the HACCP process, a food business operator can prove that either there are no hazards that must be prevented, eliminated or reduced to acceptable levels, or that identified hazards are sufficiently and regularly controlled through the implementation of general and specific food hygiene requirements, then the operator should be exempt from all the other requirements of the HACCP Directive.
These Member States do not appear to attach as much importance to reducing administrative burdens and cutting the costs of red tape - especially for their SMEs - as the Commission and the European Parliament do.
The impression which we have gained, however, is that this debate has so far been conducted only between civil servants in the Member States; it would seem that their politicians have not yet addressed the issue.
I am very grateful to Mr Schnellhardt for his report and his active support.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with this report, we are making a contribution to cutting red tape.
However, we have noted that following this paradigm shift in the area of hygiene, difficulties have arisen in the context of implementation.
However, the information that we have received from various countries is that in some regions, some small companies are finding economic survival increasingly difficult.
The report also emphasises that the food business operator is responsible for furnishing the proof that either there are no hazards that must be prevented, eliminated or reduced to acceptable levels, or that identified hazards are sufficiently and regularly controlled through the implementation of general and specific food hygiene requirements.
This would create new subsidiarity scenarios, which was actually what we were trying to avoid with the Regulation; in other words, we do not want any distortions of competition.
It is very important, therefore, for the European Parliament to send out a clear signal about the intention established in the relevant Regulation.
The European Parliament has a strong track record in cutting red tape, and should do so again now, by giving its seal of approval to these regulatory provisions.
I merely wish to point out that the Committee on Legal Affairs, on examining the legal principles, considered Article 95 to be the legal basis for the first part, and Articles 95 and 175 for the second part.
Our companies have suffered from this, many have abandoned their traditions and practices that are hundreds of years old, but this cannot be our goal, so we need to make changes.
The essence of the general food law is that the responsibility for food safety rests with the producer.
The small businesses in the European Member States have already put their houses in order and they are working with practical workable hygiene codes.
That is perfectly in accordance with the Regulation, Mr Schnellhardt, and what is more, it is very pragmatic and also very simple.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I also wish to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur for the hard work he has put into this report.
This was deemed necessary as companies with less than 10 employees, whose activities consist predominantly of the sale of food directly to the final consumer, are suffering severely under the heavy bureaucratic necessities of HACCP to the extent that, in many cases, bankruptcy becomes an inevitability.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, the report by Mr Schnellhardt contains a number of important amendments to the Commission's proposal.
Consequently, we must do everything possible to prevent unhealthy foodstuffs from damaging our health.
I must point out, however, that Slovakia has much stricter food standards than the 15 old Member States. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank our rapporteur for his excellent cooperation: at first sight it seems to be a straightforward matter, but when we listen to our fellow Members, we can hear that it certainly is not.
I think it is crucial that the competent authorities in the different Member States do actually make use of the flexibility that is already provided for in the present Regulation, and exempt certain food companies from what is after all a very complicated HACCP procedure, on condition, of course, that the same standards of hygiene safety can be demonstrated and guaranteed.
Regulation No 11 on eliminating discrimination in terms of tariffs and transport conditions requires carriers to hold a transport document which should contain, among others, the distances, routes and borders passage points.
With regard to Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 on the hygiene of foodstuffs, I would like to support the amendment submitted by the European Socialist Group, in which the competent bodies are allowed to exempt economic agents in the foods sector from the implementation of one or several of the imposed measures, provided that these bodies are capable of proving that there is no risk that must be avoided, or that all identified risks are sufficiently and regularly controlled by means of application of the general and special requirements of hygiene of foodstuffs.
That is why I am completely in favour of easing the administrative burden on companies, especially micro-enterprises, which find it more difficult to cope with this burden than the major corporations.
I would like to see this greater awareness of the impacts on micro-enterprises being carried over into other areas of legislation that we discuss in this House as well, especially environmental and consumer protection. (DE) Mr President, we have opted for a system in which every enterprise which produces, processes or sells food must continuously and consistently monitor and document every step in its operations.
We cannot demand compliance with more stringent provisions from our own producers while allowing imports of foods which are not produced in accordance with the same rigorous standards, given that this after all offers advantages in terms of price and competitiveness.
Unfortunately, while I am very sympathetic to the idea of reducing administrative burdens on small businesses, I find this proposal was initially ill-defined (Mr Schnellhardt has amended it extremely well), as it allowed some businesses, such as mobile food outlets and garage forecourt retailers - two categories of businesses that do need to be considered under hygiene rules - to derogate from applying all the hygiene rules.
The problem appears to be that administrations in some Member States are not using their discretionary powers, and in some regions of the EU small sweetshops and even church halls are being asked to apply full HACCP rules.
It is my view that it is the application of the original legislation and not the legislation itself that is the problem. (HU) I feel that Mr Verheugen's efforts to help SMEs should be supported fully, and I would also like to thank Mr Schnellhardt.
Unfortunately, this report will no longer support the small village abattoirs and bakeries that have been forced to abandon production as a consequence of the incomprehensible over-regulation, but I feel this report should be supported unreservedly. (PL) Mr President, I support the Commission's proposal.
It is therefore in the interest of small entrepreneurs, their workers and consumers.
We are talking about easing burdens and cutting red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises.
In answer to my question: the proposal only concerns those businesses which can demonstrate in the very first stage that there are no risks to food hygiene, or that such risks are sufficiently controlled.
The proposal will not result in an additional burden on the authorities, unless Mr Corbett's additional amendment is adopted, which would mean that at every stage of the procedure, the authorities would have to take action.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful indeed for the various contributions to this debate.
In this way, we can proceed in a very straightforward manner, building on the Regulations adopted in 2006.
We want to roll back bureaucracy and we want to maintain hygiene standards.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) Inspections by the authorities in Hungary, which fall due in the summer, show that there are often certain hygiene problems with casual traders, fast-food outlets and market stalls.
For this reason, we can only grant exemption from the HACCP and hygiene monitoring by the Union in cases where we can be completely sure that we are not causing any harm by doing so.
