I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs on behalf of the major political groups who, in a spirit of cooperation, have made this report what it is today.
But in the interim it looks like we will have negotiations with Korea, where my colleague David Martin was Parliament's rapporteur, with ASEAN and with India for bilateral or EU free-trade agreements.
We welcome the signing of the ASEAN Charter on 20 November last year at the 13th ASEAN Summit in Singapore and look forward to its swift ratification.
And of course we have agreed that Burma should participate in, or at least sit in on, negotiations, though it is absolutely clear from our point of view that until the current regime has gone, there can be no prospect of signing any agreement with Burma.
Our idea is to have a framework agreement for all that allows individual countries within ASEAN to act on the basis of their own current situation and to open up particular sectors at an appropriate speed for them.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am very grateful to Glyn Ford for his report and for the general support it expresses for the Commission's line in its free-trade agreement negotiations with ASEAN countries.
I do not want to give up the regional approach at this stage, but we are in the process of introducing some flexibility in this regional framework - a dose of variable geometry that takes into account the different levels of development within ASEAN and that could allow us to go faster with individual ASEAN countries.
In fact, our negotiating guidelines provide for a conclusion with fewer than 10 members as the LDCs within ASEAN - Laos, Cambodia and Burma/Myanmar - are not required to take on commitments in the FTA but will be following the negotiating process.
On Burma, the report reflects the position of the EU that, although part of ASEAN, we are not negotiating FTA commitments as such with Burma.
We hope to include environmental and social aspects in our negotiations with ASEAN, and we will do that in a cooperative spirit.
This study should accompany the negotiating process during the next 18 months.
Last week we also invited civil society to contribute to our reflections regarding our three ASEAN FTA negotiations.
By building these concerns into the agreements from the start, we can ensure that problems are addressed early, if not before they arise.
I look forward to working with Parliament as we go forward in these negotiations.
It brings together more than 500 million inhabitants of ten countries, which are very diverse - as Mr Ford has said - and in general have great potential for growth.
Of course we support the step taken in 2007 in the integration process, the 'ASEAN Charter'.
We want the commitments in this Charter on human rights and democracy to become a reality, especially in Burma and also in other countries in the region.
We emphasise that future industrial growth in the European Union is dependent on our openness to foreign trade and investment governed by fair rules, but that our competitiveness with the ASEAN countries is up to us, by improving our own levels of education, training, research, enterprise and innovation.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, firstly, let me add my congratulations to my friend and colleague, Glyn Ford, on what I think is an excellent report.
Finally, let me just conclude by saying that, while I know we will not sign an FTA with Burma, I hope that Burma will not indirectly benefit from this agreement, because any expanded trade with the other ASEAN countries leads to the potential that Burma could expand its trade within the group and indirectly benefit from an EU free-trade agreement.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are talking a lot about Asia because of China and the problems we are aware of there, as well as the deadly disaster in Burma, on another level, the report we are discussing this evening essentially constitutes the response of EU citizens represented by Parliament to the Commission communication on the new strategy for the EU's bilateral and interregional trade negotiations.
The trade agreement currently under discussion is looking at a market worth EUR 57 billion with 4.9% annual growth, which represents a very important potential for development.
However, although the globalisation of the economy should be seized as an opportunity, our fellow citizens are often very concerned about the economy of our continent, as others are about theirs.
One example among many is that our negotiations must, in particular, find solutions in the fight against counterfeit pharmaceuticals, for example, while guaranteeing access to healthcare for all citizens in strict compliance with the spirit and procedures of the Doha agreement.
Thirdly and finally, of course it is also very important to point out, as has been done this evening in the various speeches, that any trade agreement must include the necessary requirements as regards the economy and sustainable development.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Mr Ford's report stresses the importance of cooperation between the European Union and the South East Asian Nations as regards trade and economic relations.
These countries have a variety of political structures and economic potential, as witnessed by GDP figures per head, which in Burma are USD 211, and in Singapore USD 31 400.
The question is, therefore, whether the EU should continue with these multilateral negotiations or would be better switching to bilateral negotiations.
This suggestion is already implied to some degree in Amendment 5 by Mr Ford and Mrs Mann.
I am thinking here of the important role that ASEAN and ASEAN+3 can play in further integrating Myanmar into the region.
I would firstly like to say that the report highlights the major opportunity to deepen our trade and economic relations in this area of potential economic development and population growth, and I would also like to say that it takes into account the enormous disparities between the Member States of the ASEAN block.
We therefore genuinely fail to understand socialist Amendments 11 and 12, which dilute and reduce what was already adopted in committee, removing from current paragraphs 16 and 17 the specific mention of the tuna sector, which is really affected, of the resulting unfair competition and of the report by the European Parliament itself on this industry, that was and is supported by the European Commission.
ASEAN is a region with great economic potential and a similar number of inhabitants to the European Union.
It includes 10 very different countries, but this diversity, despite making the negotiations for a free trade agreement more complicated, should not prevent us from achieving instruments that will provide mutual benefits and complement the WTO multilateral system, including from the point of view of a satisfactory conclusion to the Doha Development Agenda, that both parties consider to be a priority.
Secondly, a free-trade agreement with ASEAN countries will certainly bring these countries greater benefits than it brings the EU.
This will happen this year in Poznań and next year in Copenhagen.
This is also becoming an EU responsibility.
This is why it is important for us to make use of all EU negotiations with third countries in order to stress this aspect - a joint agreement on combating climate change on a global scale. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, I want to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Ford, firstly for his ... (text inaudible) on two aspects that I think should be emphasised.
We need to bear in mind that the European Union needs to avoid penalising companies by imposing on them the proper and logical provisions of new environmental standards as part of the climate plan, without demanding the adoption of similar rules by other countries in return.
However, I was rushed from the office when I heard comments made about standards, and I think paragraph 10 is particularly important in this resolution and should be read and perhaps added to.
The European Union should share its experience and achievements in connection with the process of regional integration.
Let us not forget, though, that the EU should go beyond economic matters and should continue to demand observance of human rights and democracy. (EL) Mr President, trade agreements can help to stabilise relations between both sides.
Allow me to suggest the following: respect for human rights, the economic capabilities of each country, the protection of intellectual property rights and of geographical definition; the harmonisation of product safety standards; and cooperation in the fight against diseases and epidemics, and in environmental matters. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, the first thing I would like to say is that I would like to add my voice to the compliments for my excellent fellow Member, Mr Ford, and I will make the most of this speaking time to welcome Mr Hartmut Nassauer, who is the chairman of our delegation for relations with the countries of Southeast Asia.
I remember that trip to Kidapawan in Cotabato Province on the island of Mindanao, where we saw nearly 500 farmers with approximately 1.5 hectares of land who, thanks to European Union intervention, could survive on what they produced under subsistence farming conditions.
rapporteur. - Mr President, can I thank all the Members who participated in this evening's debate.
I thank Mr Mandelson for his comments and I would make the point that in a spirit of cooperation and consensus I have just had a conversation with Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna and I have agreed to withdraw Amendment 11 - we will deal with this tomorrow - in exchange for him supporting, as an addition, the new parts of my Amendment 12.
Meanwhile, Asia is subduing us economically, just as Europe subdued Asia militarily and politically in the past.
